[{"Title":"Sweet and gentle comedy","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"35 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can understand why this movie received such a low rating from the overall IMDB audience. There is probably a large segment of voters who expect certain things from an Eddie Murphy movie who were disappointed. Murphy is best known for action comedies in the vein of 48 Hrs. and Beverly Hills Cop. He also did some fine work in Trading Places, a straight up, but darkly cynical comedy.Holy Man is a gentle, feel-good comedy. It provides some laugh-out-loud moments, but for the most part, weaves a compassionate story in an appropriately low-key style. Its message is clear and timely Stop and smell the roses, people. You are losing sight of what's important.Eddie Murphy is letter perfect as G, the holy man who encounters Jeff Goldblum while Jeff is changing the tire on his Jaguar. With Goldblum is Kelly Preston, his colleague at the Good Buy Home Shopping Network. `G' appears mysteriously in flowing white robes, and talks of being on a spiritual pilgrimage. Goldblum, ever cynical, dismisses `G' as a wacko, and tries his best to get rid of him. Preston, on the other hand, sees something different in `G.' She is more open to his charisma, his humor, and his apparent lack of guile.The three end up working together. `G' is given his own TV show where his blend of honesty, spirituality, and humor helps the station move a lot of products, and turns `G' into an overnight media sensation. I won't give away much more than that.Not to be overlooked, Robert Loggia turns in a chilling performance as the venomous TV station owner--it's as if he was channeling Barry Diller all the way. His crass, mercenary tactics trigger a crisis of conscience that brings the movie to its resolution.Holy Man tells a simple tale that echoes an ancient proverb When the pupil is ready, the teacher arises. I have watched Holy Man about three or four times. There are nuances here that I have discovered only after repeated viewings. The film's acting, music, location, and subtle direction all hang together well, providing a much-needed palliative to Hollywood's desperate output of increasingly frenetic and assaulting films   "},{"Title":"Makes you Think","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"30 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think that most people are misinterpreting the main purpose of the movie. The whole purpose of the movie is to make people think, especially about their current lives and materialism. However, rather than taking a rather somber approach throughout the movie, the movie tries to take an Al Franken approach, and inform through humor. Perhaps this may be because I personally identified with the message, but still, the nonmaterialistic message definitely strikes home, with comedy sprinkled in. If a light hearted comedy is what you are looking for, then this is probably not the best movie to watch simply because the movie isn't that funny. It isn't entirely deep either, but it does manage to get the point across, and makes you think.  "},{"Title":"Better than it gets credit for...","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just saw this movie again for the first time since 1998, and I gotta admit, it's a lot better than I remembered it. I think back then people just had way too high expectations for it; that and the fact that it wasn't an all Eddie Murphy film--as the reviewer before me put it-- led to its limited success.Jeff Goldblum can get on my nerves sometimes, but the stark contrast between the personality of his and Murphy's characters in this movie makes for some pretty funny scenes. As for Eddie, his performance as G is one of the best I've ever seen him do you really do Believe he is a Holy Man. "},{"Title":"I'm shocked that this movie is rated so poorly...","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first caught Holy Man a few years ago and was highly impressed. I didn't go into it knowing much about it, so I wasn't disappointed to find out it wasn't a comedy -- and it's not, despite some funny moments.It's just a very light hearted charming movie that will make you think about life's more important aspects. Give it a chance, you'll probably enjoy it more than you expect!The movie can be a little sappy at times and casting Eric McCormack was probably a mistake. All I could think of when he was on screen was his character from 'Will & Grace'. I guess that's what they call typecasting, eh? Either way, this movie is worth the two hours. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  a feel-good comedy w/ deep thoughts","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" On the face of it, this romantic comedy is nothing special.But for some reason, I'm just really pleased by this film. There is a thematic cleverness tying together all the humor, and the inevitable and obvious conclusion ends up being sweet and engaging anyhow.I hate films that get melodramatic and sappy -- Holy Man skirted the edges but didn't fall into that trap. There aren't snappy comebacks and put downs like in Beverly Hills Cop, but there is some deep thinking. I wouldn't be surprised if for the right people this movie really meant something to their lives. Sort of like, but not as good as Groundhog Day.Who should see this film-- romantic comedy lovers (and drag your spouse along)-- generic comedy likers who can live without high action if there's a little philosophy-- if you're not in with the young crowd and think Eddy Murphy flicks are too silly and hip, this one is differentI'll give this one a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Love the idea of a mysterious, intelligent, well-intentioned man captivating millions of people.  Wouldn't it be funny if some obscure shop-at-home channel managed to pull something like this off?  Well this seems like a pretty original scenario, and I give it some credit for that.  Murphy plays the part of G quite well.  One of the few great comedies he's done in the recent past.  I love the beginning and ending scenes in which G is walking along the side of the road.  It's just some beautiful scenery.  When I see it, I wish I'm there.  The music in this movie is really enjoyable too.  Good to see Ducky in the studio.  Really couldn't have cared less about the little relationship that developed.  Funny movie.  Worth a view or two.  I would love to see a sequel. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, if you're up for it","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of those why don't they make 'em like that any more movies. If it starred, say, Jimmie Stewart and Jean Arthur, everyone would look upon it fondly, as a treasured masterpiece. But no, it's the often-abrasive Eddie Murphy, and the frequently hard-to-take Jeff Goldblum. If you can handle the casting, though, this is a marvelous movie, transcending its formula to deliver moments of hilarity as well as a thoughtful message.Jeff Goldblum is, to me, impeccably cast as an ambitious but unsuccessful salesman. The explanation, later in the movie, of how he traveled with his father on sales trips, sets the character up beautifully. We come to understand that his lack of success really stems from a lack of commitment to the no-holds-barred ethos of the salesman. And, of course, that's a good thing.Murphy plays G, who may or may not be divine, but certainly is other-worldly. He's the opposite of Goldblum's character totally centered, with no attachment to anything, least of all the crass commercialism of the shopping network where Goldblum works. Naturally, he disrupts Goldblum's life, but the kicker comes when Goldblum desperately puts G on the air, and finds that sincerity sells better than salesmanship.A number of reviewers have complained that there's not enough of Murphy. Maybe so, if you're expecting a full-on Eddie Murphy vehicle. But Holy Man is more than just an Eddie Murphy movie, and G the sort of showcase role that no actor could resist. It really lets Murphy shine, displaying more subtlety than usual... yet spinning nicely off his usual sarcastic persona.The plot, to be sure, is formulaic. You can see the twists coming a mile away. So what? This type of cinema is as ritualistic as Greek tragedy, or Kabuki theater. The point isn't in where it's going, but in how it gets there. And get there it does, making its little Zen point about materialism versus spirituality in a unique and compelling way.And, at times, a hilariously funny way. The 'magic trick' G performs with a Rolex watch is side-splitting. But it's easily topped by the gut-wrenchingly funny antics of G as he roams from one set to another in the TV studio. What he does to Morgan Fairchild is one of the great moments of sadistic slapstick. (I admire her for appearing in this unflattering scene; she must have an amazing sense of humor.)I'll admit that the two stars will limit this film's appeal. But even if you're not a fan of Murphy or Goldblum, it's worth taking a chance. Personally, I tend to find Goldblum overpowering; I was definitely rooting for the Tyranosaurus to catch up with his asinine chaotician in Jurassic Park (1 and 2). But in some roles he just works, and this is one of them. (Another is Beyond Suspicion, a.k.a. Auggie Rose.)This is not only a good movie, it's one that I actually pull down off the shelf and watch, far more frequently than many of the better-known 'classics.' I've seen it at least four times, and intend to see it many more. "},{"Title":"Wrong Impression","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just recently saw this movie on television. quite frankly i think everyone who gave it a low rating had the wrong impression. this was NOT meant to be a Hollywood movie. hence the theme behind it and the title being Holy man. why would you think that something with a message of love and not exploiting people and products would be made out as exactly that? And thats why its so beautiful, because they didn't make it popular. the message however is that of true love and peace to all the earth. i think Eddie Murphy did a great job filling the role, and i think his humor and love by all races and religions makes the casting brilliant. The rest of the actors/ actresses are not of my appeal, however i believe i have a new appreciation for them. I think the whole world could benefit from a simplistic but meaningful movie like this. thats all i have to say about that. "},{"Title":"Holy Man!","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this great movie yesterday evening. My mom + I hired it out, along with other DVDs and I'm so glad I chose this one! I believe this movie has a few messages they are meaningful + things to consider and really think about. First off, Kate is a very kind and compassionate character. As the viewer of the movie, we are positioned to like her. This I totally agree with because I think everyone should be like Kate - she has lovely qualities. When she stands up for her rights as a human and says I'm not going to sell my soul I really like that. That's how everybody should think. Why should individuals give in to money (and business) and simultaneously sell their soul, their integrity, their self as a whole? Well, they should not. But it happens so it's ultimately up to the individual to make their own choices, right or wrong. Kate is empathetic towards G and she feels that G should not be made to do the shows purely to save someone else's ass. She also feels that the business is just using him as a way for their success to be fruitful again. Although, G doesn't mind doing the shows because he says he wants to do them for Ricky. So Kate walks away from the whole business and I think it's great that she does this cos she shows us what it's like to have integrity. But this movie teaches one that when you're in trouble and you pray for help, God is always there to help you - G is in trouble at work so he prays sincerely and G turns up! There are other beautiful messages too. You can work them out. In the end, Ricky listens to Kate's benevolent example and lets G go. Kate falls in love with Ricky once again and here we have a wonderful happy ending. I just love movies with happy endings. I recommend this movie to anyone that believes in integrity. "},{"Title":"What a smile, Eddie is the man..","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie had everything in it. From laughter, to deep thoughts. I thought it was an excellent movie and I absolutely loved that story with the starfish on the beach on a stormy day. It kinda makes you look at life a little different..9* out of 10... Extremely funny movie, go see it.. "}{"Title":"A Drama, Not a Comedy, about The Truthfulness in The Contemporary Materialistic World !","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Now here's a movie where the problem is in the wrong way people look at it and receive it.It's about the condition of truthfulness in our contemporary materialistic world, showing that the truthful man isn't the one who doesn't lie at all (because that's impossible to happen!), but he's the one who lies less than the others.I liked selecting the field of advertisement to make the whole movie in. This world of unceasing commercials was an epitome of the world we live of shiny seductive fibs, where everything is a commodity that had to be sold anyway anyhow, with or without credibility; which can be sold also accompanied by any bad commodity. This environment created the perfect irony with the main issue.But I liked more and more the confidential talk between the lead/the manager of the advertising channel and god in the bathroom. It became the only place where he can be alone with his conscience away from all the people's dirt; or the bigger bathroom; which can't have a way to empty all of its uncountable lies. It's one sharp, so sarcastic, paradox that introduces the toilet as less filthy than that huge liar world around. So when toilets become the only holy place in our world then what kind of shitty world we live indeed?! This summarizes the serious character of this movie which was wrongly understood as yet another comedy for (Eddie Murphy) while it's wholly not.It's a movie that asks what's holy nowadays. And according to its nice story; there is surely no 100 % holy men at all. Only holy thoughts. The greatest of them all is being truthful. That's holy enough...just if you can do it. "},{"Title":"Subtle and deeply meaningful...one of my favorite movies","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think the last two posters described very well, two facets of this beautiful gem. It's sad this movie got such bad reviews, as I think it was misrepresented in the press since Eddie was in it.I'm very selective of the movies I watch...I'm one of the international cinema crowd also, so I tend toward deeper, more intense movies. This is a movie I've watched countless times, and I've never tired of it...and I've always cried at the end. This is one of the few movies that, to this day, still causes me to cry at the self-sacrifice and parting of the friends.This is probably because for me I see another facet of it as a modern parable...very subtle, but powerful, and poignant. This is not a movie about comedy, and funny situations with a guru...in my opinion that is simply the stage being set, and the backdrop raised, for a parable about the value of true friendship and relationships...when we move beyond simply 'using' each other in the normal progression of our daily lives, into the realm of true friends. The two high-points are 1. Ricky (Jeff) finding the better part of himself, that he never knew he had and was against much of who he thought he should be, to tell G to go, to leave the show. The virtue of self-sacrifice for the betterment of a friend. The build-up, timing, music, and dialog were well-edited and synchronized for a very poignant moment.2. And this happens again, in a wonderful way...another poignant moment as Ricky, G, and Kate meet once more on the highway to say goodbye to each other...for the last time. It's bittersweet but incredibly moving, and once again Ricky gets a glimpse of the much better part of himself, that he didn't know he had, and that has the potential to emerge. It's very beautiful and touching. And we sense that they are all on a better road for the journey for the experience.What touches me most deeply is the strong sense of true friends made, how they touch and effect our lives, and then move apart. We'll probably never see each other again, but we will never forget each other and what we did for each other to make our lives a little brighter and better. I've had several true friends like that, and that chord strikes beautifully here.I strongly recommend this film. It is a great parable of the coming of true friendship. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really had very low expectations of this movie the night I rented it.  Yet, I couldn't have been more pleasantly surprised.  This is a fun-loving inspiring movie that manages to come to a conclusion without employing one murder scene, sex scene, or expletive.  My wife and I both found ourselves truly inspired after watching it. "},{"Title":"Sappy, sentimental, overlong, and mostly uninteresting","Date":"3 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Watching this picture makes you appreciate The Nutty Professor (and even the sequel) even more. While those weren't masterpieces, at least his characters and voices were reasonably funny. Until G. comes along, the film is in fine form. When G. shows up, that's when you'll start questioning things. And when G. comes to live with Goldblum, that's when the film goes downhill. And it only goes downhill from there. There are about three worthy moments, like when he tortures poor Morgan Fairchild with that shock button (or whatever), a trick he does at a party, and a woman, on live TV, who confesses for lying about being related to G. Other than those three moments, this is a sorry excuse for a motion picture. And don't even get me started on his annoying voice, which gets really old as the film goes on. And, while not quite two hours, did the movie need to be so damn long? I think not. Or, if at the very least, the film were a reasonable running time, its flaws might be forgivable. But with a comedy this long, how can they be?*1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"utterly unfunny","Date":"9 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sales have been flat for 27 months at the Good Buy Shopping Network under the arrogant Ricky Hayman (Jeff Goldblum). John McBainbridge (Robert Loggia) brings in Kate Newell (Kelly Preston) and gives Ricky 2 weeks to raise sales 8%. Ricky and Kate get a flat tire and encounter spiritual almost-supernatural guru G (Eddie Murphy).It's a comedy spoof of the Home Shopping Network. Quite frankly, they don't need to be spoofed. It would be more compelling to be more realistic. There are plenty of fun weird stories without going over the top. The idiocy simply makes the movie stupid, ugly and annoying. As for the three main actors, Kelly Preston contributes very little. Jeff Goldblum is wrong as the leading man. Eddie Murphy is not funny and lacks the likability for this guru character. His entry walking across that highway is terrific but it's a long downward slide from that point. This is unfunny and actually off-putting for the most part. "},{"Title":"Unholy.","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Holy Man (1998) Dir Stephen Herek / Cast Eddie Murphy, Jeff Goldblum, Kelly Preston, Robert Loggia, Jon Cryer Although it doesn't appear to be a religious mockery, there is nothing holy about this travesty, and those of any particular religion are not likely to like it either. Eddie Murphy plays G who encounters Jeff Goldblum and Kelly Preston when they have car trouble. After G suffers from heat stroke Goldblum reluctantly pays his hospital bill. They are struggling advertisers and they hire G to sell products on T.V. but he is more interested in selling human nature. We do not know where he came from and his story is repetitious and never funny. Director Stephen Herek seems confused and that is a sad testimony for someone who made Mr. Holland's Opus. This is easily one of the worst films of his career, if not his worst film. Murphy is likable but G is too much of a mystery. Goldblum and Preston labor through cardboard roles. They befriend G then go through guilt as G begins to make their lives more worthwhile. Perhaps he should have led them to the set of a better film. It toys with consumer and self help talk show elements but these themes hardly elevate as a reason for this mess to exit. It is just a confusing dreck drained of any humour as if the inclusion of humour would make it offensive. That is just one of the many things not to like in this film, which belongs in a bonfire. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"The Good Samaritan of Shopping","Date":"9 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" His job security is tenuous because program manager Jeff Goldblum (as Ricky Hayman) has failed to get viewers to tune in and order merchandise from the Miami-based Good Buy Shopping Network (GBSN). Attractive blonde Kelly Preston (as Kate Newell) is hired to help make the station turn a profit. At first, Ms. Preston clashes with Mr. Goldblum. Later, they have trouble deciding whether to kiss or quarrel. While driving, the couple has a flat tire and winds up almost hitting an apparently homeless Eddie Murphy (as G.). After fainting, Mr. Murphy is brought to a hospital...Murphy is dismissed from the hospital and moves in with Goldblum. Physically fit, Murphy makes a health drink for his host which may include urine. Goldblum is preoccupied with work. Murphy acts like a happy guru, promoting the power of positive thinking. While obviously non-materialistic, Murphy innocently joins GBSN hosts, helping pitch their products. This winds up helping Goldblum. Murphy's winning personality makes the home shopping network a sales sensation, but at a cost...Murphy receives over the title star-billing, but Goldblum is arguably the leading man. Editing may have resulted in Murphy getting less screen time; it's difficult to tell. More probably, the actors were paid more millions than film realized at the box office. Murphy is acting out of his comfort zone and Goldblum always seems to work best opposite special effects. The overall film fails, but there are effective scenes. For example, Murphy crashing Goldblum's party is fun, with Eric McCormack (as Scott Hawkes) contributing well (throughout). As GBSN co-workers, Jon Cryer and Robert Loggia lend good support...There are several celebrity cameos. Worst may be Betty White advertising an aphrodisiac that make women smell like clams (apparently). Best is Morgan Fairchild promoting a non-surgical face-lift which distorts her visage. Moreover, director Stephen Herek and Murphy should have worked together to improve the latter's participation in the GBSN skits - perhaps adding a little of the spontaneous happenstance Lucille Ball delivered so well. This might have also helped Murphy's chainsaw segment, which seems out-of-character and doesn't pull all the potential comedy from the situation.**** Holy Man (10/9/98) Stephen Herek ~ Jeff Goldblum, Eddie Murphy, Kelly Preston, Eric McCormack "},{"Title":"A Thought provoking movie about materialism","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a really surprising movie to come out of Disneyland (or Touchstone Pictures, which is Disney's non-children specific film house). I say this because in a way it is very anti-capitalist, and has people come to the understanding that using people to get to where they want to be is not a good thing. In fact, this movie seems to spit in the face of what is typical about American Culture - that is that the individual is most important and the success of the individual, over and above the welfare of others, is what counts the most.The movie focuses around an executive in a home shopping network. The problem is that this network is failing due to lack of sales, and he is given the blame. He thinks himself to be a pretty good salesperson, but the reality is that he is the same as all the others. Then one day they find themselves broken down on the freeway and sees a weird man walking along the medium strip. He tries to hide from him but his partner sees him and waves. This man, G (Eddie Murphy) responds and approaches them. Even though the executive does not want G around, he comes to see that G has a lot of charisma and simply attracts people. Upon seeing this, he begins to use G for everything that he has.The movie is thus about how this executive comes to terms with himself and how he is treating G. G will do anything for him and asks for nothing in return. Though G spouts a lot of wisdom, he will use his charisma and the things that he talks about to sell products. He really doesn't care what G has to say, nor is he interested in what he has to say to others. Rather he wants to increase his sales quota so that he can remain in his job.It is interesting to note that the movie begins appearing to be one way with an antagonist, but this guy vanishes quickly and we realise that the antagonist is the executive himself. He doesn't crash and burn though, but rather realises the gift that he has been given, and upon seeing that, releases G. What G has showed him that it is not the money or material goods that count, but the relationships that we have with others. When we lose something, then we know that it is gone. In a way, we take things foregranted until they are gone. This is not the key to the movie, but one of the minor things that comes out of it.It is not a movie about redemption, nor is it a tragedy, but rather it is about a man who comes to understand himself and how he has completely missed the point of things. Personally, I think it is very good. "},{"Title":"Connecting.....","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ricky Hayman, right hand of Good Buy Shopping Network's owner John McBainbridge, is responsible for over two years of very bad sales numbers. He gets a last chance. Accidentally, he and Kate Newell nearly run over G with his car and decide to take him with them. What they never could guess was that G really is the one good man around. Being on the search for enlightenment, G offers his help generously to save Ricky's job. His natural, uncontrollable behaviour soon gets Ricky into really big trouble, but the sales numbers now go up for the first time in months...So officially this is the first movie starring Murphy that didn't go into profit, but it's a strange thing, because with this, Life and Bowfinger, it made 1999 one of the best years for Murphy at the cinema, material wise.I'm not surprised that the film has such a low rating on here, there is so much hate for the man, I doubt he will ever make a comeback, but this is such a lovely little movie, it does have to be seen.If you are expecting the star to be on maniacal form, think again, this is him at his most calmest, after all, he is playing some sort of bohemian, and he plays G really really well.Goldblum is good as the slimy exec come good, and Preston is always easy on the eye.At the end of the day, this is basically a family friendly Network, lots of preaching about life being too short, and although it can get a little too sugary at times, it warms the heart and never outstays it's welcome.It's worth seeing, just for the feel good factor. "},{"Title":"It's a feel-good movie","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My wife watches lots of movies, and I usually read instead. But when I stopped in the bedroom tonight I noticed some very funny stuff on the screen, and she told me she was watching a great movie with Jeff Goldblum and Eddie Murphy. I lay down to watch a little--and I was hooked.'G' (Murphy) is totally off the wall. Sucked in to the world of selling, you'd think he'd just have to be a total fake. He is a total flake perhaps, but not a fake, although he's surrounded by plenty of those. In a confrontation of values, who will win? You ought to watch this movie to find out. "}{"Title":"Mediocre Murphy Movie,","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Holy Man is not a terrible movie,it's definitely not as bad as critics mad it out to be,but it isn't brilliant.Eddie Murphy has done some brilliant movies and some terrible movies,this isn't either of those,it's not Beverly Hills Cop but it's also not Norbit.There are a good few parts that made me laugh,but nothing had me laughing out loud,but there's also just as much jokes that didn't work out.I found Eddie Murphy's character very likable,but I really didn't like Jeff Goldblum in this movie,I found his character and his overall performance very irritating,and I think this movie could have done much better with a more comedic actor,like Ben Stiller or Jim Carrey,they would have done a much better job.There were a few parts of Holy Man that made me laugh,but I wouldn't recommend this movie,it isn't Eddie Murphy's worst,but it's certainly not his best.Ricky Hayman (Jeff Goldblum) is the head of a failing shopping cable channel and only has two weeks to save it,he finds the answer in G (Eddie Murphy),an enigmatic holy man. "},{"Title":"Forget everything you know... it's not a comedy. And that's good!","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I must admit that I am at a loss. Who said that this film was supposed to be a comedy? And in some sense, who really cares, because who gets the right to determine any of that for us? Oh I get it. The previews, the trailers. Well, fortunately, I didn't see any of those. I was lucky enough to see the movie on cable, unannounced. I remember something about it back in the day when it came out, but I didn't pay it much attention. Just seeing it, unexpected, thinking in fact that I was ~not~ going to watch it because I was not in the mood for an Eddie Murphy comedy, but sticking with it because it was nothing of the sort. A nice feeling.So, what about the movie? Well, it walks the line between movie and film. It's by no means a comedy. I can't think of any part of it that was a comedy movie. That's not to say it was depressing or anything. It was really great, I laughed at some parts, and felt a quiver at other parts. I think it's exactly the kind of message film that only someone like Eddie Murphy, with his seemingly limitless appeal, could bring to the big screen. It was a gamble, and it seems not to have paid off in the short term, but I think the film has staying power. I don't see any reason why this movie won't survive the test of time. I don't even particularly like Jeff Goldblum, but you see it wasn't a Jeff Goldblum movie either. In fact, when it was over, I was asking, who made this film? Who are these people? So now I'm going to sign off here and go look those people up. There's really something here. "},{"Title":"A feel good movie","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a really good feel good movie, nothing much happens, it all works out ok in the end, the male lead is attractive, the female lead gorgeous AND cute and smart... its just an easy listening movie out of the top draw. Everyone plays their part well, and the twist in the tail - although it isnt exactly a shock - is handled really really well and subtley.  If you want a really meaningful film or something really out there, this isnt it.  If you want to cuddle up with your honey and watch 90 mins of well acted, slick, intelligent and unchallenged TV, with a quiet and understated message of hope and all round niceness, this is your movie.There ARE criticisms one could make, for a start, first of all that like many movies about movies or TV (see EDTV, Truman Show etc etc) it vastly overplays the importance and direct effect of TV on ordinary people, but to dwell on such things is to ignore this movies appeal.  It is not trying to be a classic, or a work of genius, just a good movie with a message of hope and an ideal of the universe that - however small it appears to be - is startling in its own way. "},{"Title":"Lightweight romcom with pseudo-philosophical fluffy bits","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sentimentalism rules, but doesn't ruin, this gentle romcom dealing with Goldblum's workaholic TV producer, his pretty new coworker and Eddie Murphy's mysterious guru type G, who comes into their lives at random and causes all manner of upset. A reasonably interesting storyline and quite a few funny moments and ideas raise this from the pit of feelgood slush to the dizzy heights of the quite passable romantic comedy. Goldblum is as reliable as ever and Murphy's return to form has clearly begun, with a good, restrained performance as the wacky nomadic philosopher-yogi. Not much can be said for the other characters, remaining as they usually do in this genre pretty lifeless backdrop for the main stars, though anyone who remembers Pretty in Pink with fondness will be happy to see Jon Cryer still working, putting in a quiet performance as Goldblum's assistant. Fans of the stars should like it, and the TV shopping channel angle is an interesting, original setting for a movie, providing numerous opportunities for easy laughs. Not bad at all. "},{"Title":"I can watch this film over and over again and still laugh","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A brilliant film with loads of excellent one liners  to titillate.  Eddie Murphy plays a fab part as G, you're never quite sure if he is as innocent as he makes out! Is he a fraud or not?  Jeff Goldblum is also excellent as Robert Ricky the cynical shopping channel executive. Watching how conformists react to an alternative lifestyle provides many laughs - watch out for the urineade scene. Every time this film is on, I find myself settling down to watch just a few minutes, then of course I end up watching it all.  I have a feeling it has already joined Wayne's World as one of of those films where you lie in wait for your favourite scenes, then recite them!  Definitely well worth watching especially if you have a quirky sense of humour. Fab. "},{"Title":"Pleasant, amusing, with a streak of satyrical comment","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Jeff Goldblum is a shopping TV advertising producer whose sales have been falling. Kate Newell is a new hire who poses a threat. Together by chance they meet a Eddie Murphy, a drifter, who shakes up their lives and becomes a hero to the TV audience.Some very funny moments, taking a good few sideways hits at the TV shopping phenomena and audiences, the film also has a romantic interest and a happy ending.I enjoyed it, but it's only worth watching once, maybe twice for fans of Murphy or Goldblum. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why no one likes this film is beyond me. its funny and poignant. Eddie has his best role since  Hills Cop 3. This is also very close to real life and how people are pressured into buying things they don't need. See it and enjoy it, don't and your missing out. "},{"Title":"Very Positive/Uplifting and Great Humour","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great feel good movie. Not a typical Eddie Murphy type character.  I would not have cast him if I was doing it myself, and that would have been a mistake because he was fabulous as the charismatic modern day prophet.  And Jeff Goldblum is at his best.  Fast paced humour and a lovely romance to boot with darling Kelly Preston a real delight. I've watched this movie many times and will enjoy it many more I'm sure.  One of my all time favorites. "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a good movie that was mostly about the relationship between a man and a woman. It gets interesting when a man who calls himself just G enters their lives. It's a good movie about love and the importance of spirituality. Go see it. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful, inspiring comedy about the meaning of life and consumerism","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Very good, thoughtful comedy, where you can reflect on what your priorities are in life and what TV and consumerism are all about. I found none of the actors to be amazing, but they are o.k. and the story is worth watching. Looking for low-level, gross comedy? Won't like this one. Looking for an amusing and inspiring plot? Go for it.  "}{"Title":"Good, solid movie...though misunderstood by many.","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best films I've seen in a long time. I actually passed on it in the theatres because it was promoted at an Eddie Murphy Movie. I finally saw it on video and was totally charmed.  Holy Man was hard for critics and viewers to get a handle on. It's a good movie with heart and a message. Not many people expect or want that. Eddie is great as the holy man in the title. Kelly Preston is good and Jeff Goldblum actually seems less annoying than usual.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie!","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was one of the most inspiring I have seen in a long time. Going into the film, I had fairly modest expectations, and merely hoped for a few good laughs.  In fact, the movie was very well written, and had a very spiritual message that I found to be both inspiring and refreshing.  Bravo Eddie! "},{"Title":"Not The Finest Moment Of Its Leads Actors Careers","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sometimes you can just tell when actors are appearing for the pay check. Holy Man is one such example.Plot in A Paragraph Ricky Hayman (Jeff Goldblum) the head of an index line TV shopping channel, is given two weeks to save it, he finds answer in G (Eddie Murphy) an enigmatic holy man.All the leads fail to bring their A-Game, which is disappointing, as there is not many funnier than Murphy on his A-Game and Goldblum can steal the scene off any actor. Kelly Preston still looks great, but she seems a little off too and Robert Loggia just seems to shout all his lines.Of the cast only Jon Cryer is a lot of fun, and Betty White who is a joy as always, are the only ones who are free from criticism. And Its fun to see the delightful Jennifer Bini Taylor (Chelsea in Two & A Half Men) in one of her first roles, appearing as 'Hot Tub Girl' in a blink and you'll miss it moment.The Morgan Fairchild scene did raise a laugh, whilst James Brown and Don Marino have cameos as themselves too and like the leads, the clearly needed or wanted the quick pay check. "},{"Title":"Sappy","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a good movie if you like shallow, somewhat sentimental, over-the-top sappy movies. Good for a long rainy day or if you need a good nap. Since I need to make my review longer, here goes Jeff Goldblum, Robert Loggia, and Eddie Murphy are wonderfully talented actors who are wasted in this movie. They must have had some down time between gigs. Eddie is kind of like Axel Foley on downers, I don't think he laughed once. He was charming, but the camera was never on him long enough to be entertained for long. I'm not in the business, but even I got dizzy with all the cutting away from shots. As far as the religious aspects, not sure what they were going for. I know that was probably the point ... all religions are the same, it's all about feeling good about yourself, and following the golden rule of being good to your fellow man. If you do more good than bad, maybe you'll meet God in the end ... but that's antithetical to biblical Christianity; even one sin is enough to condemn in God's perfect holiness. Only Christ can pay our penalty through his death ... so in that sense, all religions are not the same. Those of us who accept Christ would probably find this move inadequate to be called 'Holy Man'. "},{"Title":"Everything that's bad about Hollywood","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First the positives... I agree with some reviewers who thought that the film contained an important message about the distorted values of 21st century society. It also had some laugh out loud moments, and I definitely felt that there was a good story trying to get out. I loved the idea that the major religions were all trying to claim Eddy Murphy's 'G' character, the eponymous 'Holy Man', as their own. Indeed, there were several good metaphors for the ills of modern society.As always, Eddy Murphy did his best with a poor script, but sadly, the two romantic lead characters were totally unbelievable.And in common with a lot of Hollywood's recent output, the whole thing was handled with the subtlety of a bull in a china shop, and felt like it was directed by a committee.Overall... very poor. Avoid! "},{"Title":"More of a right Holy Mess than anything else, Herek's film is limp and predictable despite some decent enough ground-zero ideas.","Date":"26 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Where Holy Man might have been a rather scabrous attack on the shallowness surrounding those both working within the television shopping channel industry and the industry itself, it ends up being a pretty meek love story; where it might have been a quite gripping story of one man being put through a proverbial wringer as his life and job threaten to fall apart, it ends up a damp squib of flat laughs and uninvolving drama; where it might have had its two lead male players bounce off of one another as they effectively 'body swap' their respective film star demeanours, it ends up an uninteresting and gloomy tale about the exploration of one's soul with additional life-lecturing content which drags. Stephen Herek's Holy Man is a disjointed and loose item, a film whose central tract appears to be about faux-public idolisation with a television star quite literally brought in off the street combined with the fatuity behind a shopping network, but in actual fact is about a rather dull love story between two people we don't like with one of them eventually coming to suffer a moral crisis we don't care about. Its politics and basic roots are there, but coming from the director of such films as 1988's Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure and 1996's 101 Dalmatians, it just doesn't quite gel.It's Jeff Goldblum's character at the core of Holy Man; here playing rather-a high flying television executive, a manager at a local television network station named Ricky Hayman whose life it is established during the opening exchanges usually begins with the cruising to work in a sports car across the sun drenched roads of Miami against some pumping techno music in order to start a new day. After waltzing into his workplace, the super smooth manager glides from one locale within the television studio to another, finding time for small talk to any women within the vicinity as well as dealing with the odd cell phone call. What comes into his little world to upset this balance of perfection is in the form of his boss, and the owner of the entire station, John McBainbridge (Loggia); whom calls him into his office and outlines, in what is a guilty example of agonising exposition for both Hayman's and the audience's benefit, what it is that's on the line. That is, that times are not good. The network is loosing more money than it is making and Hayman has two weeks to make 'x' amount of money, or face redundancy at a cost of the network's flailing sales. With Kelly Preston's Kate Newell looming ominously in the background and supposedly pining for Hayman's job, Hayman notes what's on the line and sets to work on his task of rectifying the situation so as to preserve what he's got running already.Central to these proceedings is Eddie Murphy's spiritual figure named 'G'; a man whose name is what it is so that the writers can crack dopey 'G' jokes such as G Whizz or G Spot later on; a linen cloth-clad man whom parades down the central reservation of a main road kissing the grass and smelling the air, an eternal pacifist, even ignoring impacting litter thrown specifically at him by youths riding along in an open top vehicle. Hayman is initially as reluctant to have anything to do with G where he is calculating, G goes with the flow; where he is a ruthless businessman, G is a free-and-easy spirit and where Hayman is stiff and reactionary G is relaxed and greets everything with a grin - it is only through Kate's intrigue of the man that they are all brought together, before having to come to form a bond throughout the rest of the film. As it becomes obvious that G might just be the thing the network needs to boost sales, a crucial question arises which determines both the path and respective framework both the film and Hayman will go down; something attentive viewers will work out relatively quickly will Hayman merely exploit the guru? Or, will he have an overall change of heart before coming to realise that those of a polar opposition, whom might initially be shunned, do in fact have their place in life and aren't all that bad once you get involved with them.Dull framework eventually comes to win out over crass political incorrectness, the aforementioned body swapping seeing Goldblum play the eccentric; loud; frenetic; all-over-the-place protagonist to Murphy's calmer; more reserved and reigned in supporting act, something both actors are perhaps more commonly associated with doing the other way round. They don't bounce off of one another particularly well, sharing little chemistry and flat exchanges while it is very difficult to get behind a character of Hayman's stature given his goal is to, ultimately, get people out there in the world to begin buying stuff again in this brutal world of consumerism and materialism. The film doesn't quite explore the fatuity of the world in which its set; limp celebrity cameos-come-pay cheques effectively defeating the purpose of what it is ought to be explored, while G's eventual status as a God-like television personality does little but highlight idolisation through TV as a phenomenon without much else. The film will build to a moral crescendo you do not care for; the fate of a love affair hanging delicately on the precipice you do not feel for and a limp attack on shopping networks as well as materialism you oddly cannot root for, Holy Man fizzling out with some nice ideas and bizarrely would-be theological content into a bit of a mess which does not particularly resonate. "},{"Title":"Does Philosophy sell?","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just saw Holy Man, called Guru on this side of the ocean, and I had a good time watching it. Well, I liked the cast, I liked the message the film delivers and it`s funny. I am one of those guys, who likes watching the shopping channels, maybe that is necessary to like this film, but if you like films with humour and love, then why not rent this one. "},{"Title":"A comedy? I doubt it, but this isn't a bad film","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Eddie Murphy playing the role of a mystery man. Who is G? From where he comes? Where he goes? Nobody knows, but what Jeff Goldblum playing Ricky Hayman will discover is that there are one thing more important that job success or big money...This film try to be a comedy about a man who is in charge of a shopping TV channel. He is failing at his work and on the verge of being fired, until he and his girlfriend knows by accident a strange man called only G.G found the way to stay besides Ricky and change forever his way to see the life. When at first look seems that G has come to improve the aspects of life that Ricky sees as important, then slowly he begin to realize that there are other things more important, that all the people sometimes -most times- neglected to see.The film tries to be a comedy, but despite some very humorous moments, I can tell you that isn't one. But the film is nice to see and the moral of the story is a good one.The cast of main players was well acted, but sometimes Goldblum acts too much and sometimes not enough, but his overall acting is a good one. I like to see Robert Loggia, he is one of my favorite actors, and he always plays well the bad guy.After all, all we need is...  a non stop shopping channel?  "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy in a Role Charlton Heston Could Have Had.","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  HOLY MAN is a definite change of pace for Eddie Murphy...and another disappointment for him, too.  Here, he plays a religious guru who is approached by two television execs (Jeff Goldblum and Kelly Preston), who decide to put him on their failing home shopping network.  You can just guess what happens next.  This movie doesn't have the humor of Eddie's other movies, and it doesn't rate high on my list.  Goldblum and Preston provide the movie's only attraction.2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"I'm seeing more than is there.","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I want to be clear, this is not a good picture.So why do I keep looking at it when it comes on?I don't know. Something about this film keeps me interested in certain parts, a little. I guess its ONE of the stories that I pay attention to...the story of a guy on a pilgrimage gets into the lives of two mismatched people and have them magically end up together.Is this guy a Genie? A Saint? A Guardian Angel? A Holy Man? Hmmm.But then the story goes wacky. All sorts of unnecessary crap is thrown in to make this film even more awful. The home shopping, the Eddie Murphy, I'm always on kinda thing, Jeff Goldblum being Jeff...Although with a more sharper story, sharper writing and direction, evening out Murphy and developing his character, this could have been a delightful film.Notice, I still didn't say, good. I said, Delightful.I would love to see someone take this film, re-write it with sharper writing, more character development, and with Eddie still, but we need to know WHY he does what he does, no teasing... just tell us and let him work his magic throughout the lives of these over-achievers and network scum for the network dollar. Home shopping, Nah. But Reality Programming would have been a blast, more interesting!So much potential with good actors that just ends up awful instead of delightful.And please notice I never said, good. "}{"Title":"the path to hell is paved with good intentions","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I actually rated this movie higher than others because at least it was trying to deliver a good message, as botched as the execution may have been.The script is pretty dry, the comedy isn't very funny, and overall the movie is predictable.  Especially annoying was listening to Jeff Goldblum babble non-stop(ie be himself) everytime Holy Man Murphy was on the air.  I know it wasn't supposed to be realistic, but some parts are illogical enough to turn off the viewer.  For example, when G is rampaging through the sets, during this emergency, was it really impossible for anyone on the set to do anything besides point and say, Oh my god, what's he doing now?Nevertheless, I like what the movie was trying awkwardly to say that everything pure and true is exploited nowadays, and that people will shamelessly use anything, even spiritualism, for commercial gain.  I like it because, well, I think it's more true than ever today. "},{"Title":"Misjudged but worth while","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't see why this film was so poorly reviewed by the critics. The movie was funny, but it's humor is not what made it a great movie. It took a relatively predictable plot and kept it alive, made it mildly humorous and very watchable. It had a beautifully crafted subplot of religious salvation. This was not just a comedy and the true excellence of this movie is lost if it is reviewed as one. Critics of this movie must also get away from type-casting certain actors, such as Eddie Murphy. This was not a Eddie Murphy Movie just as The Truman Show was not a Jim Carrey Movie. Sometimes actors can play roles that are different than those they normally play, and we must keep this in mind when evaluating Murphy in this movie. Overall, however, I found the writing to be very well done, the humor solid, and the execution almost flawless. I applaud this movie and think that it has deserved far too much undue scorn from critics who do not truly understand what the movie was about. You must keep your eyes open and your mind, but if you do, I promise you this movie will not disappoint, and I would be surprised if you were not changed by it. "},{"Title":"This is great Eddie Murphy!","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I went to see Dr. Dolittle in theatres and I was very upset with the lack of good solid laughs. There was only one or two good scenes in the entire film. A little while afterwards I rented Metro and absolutely hated it. I had lost respect for Murphy. So when this movie came to theatres I decided to skip it. I had made a grave mistake. Holy Man is without a doubt one of Eddie Murphy's funniest movies. It ranks right up there with Beverly Hills Cop 1 and 3, the 48 hours series, the Golden Child, Mulan, and Nutty Professor. It had several scenes of absolute non-stop laughs that had me rolling over and it had a message! This is a film that should not be missed. I gave it 10/10 "},{"Title":"Murphy (New Age style)","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The career of Eddie Murphy is getting sadder and sadder. After the horrible movie Dr. Dolittle I had some hope that Murphy would take some revenge. However, with this kind of crap he's not doing his career a favor. Where is the Eddie from Trading Places, Beverly Hills cop and even Best Defence?  "},{"Title":"A divine comedy","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a surprise for me. I'll tell you why it was incredibly funny, but had a serious side I bet just a few noticed. The story about a pilgrim which turns to be a famous shopping-channel celebrity is a good idea, but not the real quality of the movie. The fast dialogues, great interpretations and vivacious direction are excellent, too. But the message, what is unsaid, that is important. While we are laughing without rest, we get to learn a few things. I won't list them this is your mission... In short, go see this movie and look for the hidden message. You won't get disappointed. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy Illuminates again!","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just hope we all have the continued privilege to enjoy watching the great actor Eddie Murphy in more great movies like Holy Man. "},{"Title":"A struggling ad-exec encounters a wandering spiritual man and is forced to assess his own lifestyle.","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I expected the run-of-the mill Eddie Murphy film, a half-funny attempt at an original concept.  What I got was a movie with depth, and a subtle Eddie Murphy fitting perfectly into his role as the holy man G. It had its funny moments to be sure, but in the end the impression left is deeper than a comedy normally goes.  "},{"Title":"A very funny movie...","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Maybe it's because I'm partial to Jeff Goldblum, but I absolutely loved the Holy Man.  Goldblum was very funny, as was Eddie Murphy.  I read bad reviews, but everyone I've talked to who saw it (who aren't critics) liked the movie.  What's with the critics? "},{"Title":"If you missed Holy Man is missed wholly nothing!","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Cast as 'G,' an enigmatic messiah who saves a TV shopping network from disaster, Trading Places comedian Eddie Murphy looks like a Buddhist monk in his white robe with a clean-shaven head. A serene smile on his face, Murphy spouts platitudes such as You need to find ultimate and complete happiness. Not only does Holy Man register as a lukewarm New Age romantic comedy, but it also neglects to exploit Murphy for maximum mirth. Although billed as the title character, Murphy spends more time off screen. Sadly, Holy Man waits far too long to integrate the Eddie Murphy character into the action. Worst, Mr. Holland's Opus director Stephen Herek's film crackles with pretense more often than humor.Holy Man focuses on self-absorbed TV executive Ricky Hayman (Jeff Goldblum of Jurassic Park) whose career at the Miami-based Good Buy Shopping Network is in the crapper. When his new boss, Mr. Bainbridge (a deeply tanned Robert Loggia), delivers an ultimatum, Ricky finds his work cut out for him. If network profits don't pick up in 14 days, Ricky is history. Adding insult to injury, Bainbridge hires sassy media analyst Kate Newell (Kelly Preston of Twins) to help Ricky devise a distinctive network image. At first, Ricky and Kate hate each other. Eventually, they wind up in each other's arms. Breezing down the freeway one day, Ricky's Jaguar blows a tire. Accident and coincidence serve to bring Ricky, Kate, and G together. On a footloose pilgrimage through Miami, G takes the time to kneel and smell the grass. Crossing the rush hour freeway with no thought for his own safety, G offers to help Ricky and Kate. G captivates Kate with his cordiality. As Ricky is about to drive off, he puts his Jaguar in reverse and nearly backs over the pilgrim. G faints, and Ricky and Kate rush him to the hospital.Kate invites G to her home to recover. Ricky insists that G bunk with him. G turns Ricky onto herbal teas and meditation. Ricky's low opinion of G does a 180 when G crashes one of Ricky's parties. G uses hypnosis to cure a wealthy party guest who fears flying. Ricky makes a deal with G that sends him before the cameras. G pokes fund at the crass hucksterism of Ricky's cheapskate products. GBSN's ratings soar, and G becomes an overnight sensation. Eventually, a guilt-ridden Kate convinces Ricky that they have no right to ruin G's life with fame and fortune. Driving back to where they met him on the freeway, Ricky and Kate bid G adieu. Nothing miraculous or hilarious enlivens Oscar winning Dead Poets Society scenarist Tom Schulman's sluggish, pseudo-inspirational screenplay. The premise is that (1) shopping and (2) watching TV are the two key experiences that Americans pursue with religious fanaticism. Herek and Schulman obsess over plot logistics instead of forging funny situations.As a comedy, Holy Man springs jokes and gags that garnish rather than galvanize the plot. Murphy doesn't appear until nearly twenty minutes or more have elapsed. When G should be front and center for laughs, the filmmakers cut back to Ricky and Kate's banal love story and leaves little time for Murphy. Basically, Holy Man doesn't have a prayer, but Eddie Murphy deserves credit for trying something new. The magnetism that G displays comes primarily from Murphy's smirking but subdued performance as a neutered but nice guy. Aside from his on-camera antics during a 'live' taping session in the GBSN studio, Murphy never breaks character to share in the laughter. Lanky Jeff Goldblum milks soulless Ricky Hayman for everything that he can. Goldblum is one of those rare thespians who can make gabby stretches of expository dialogue sound fascinating when it is clear that all he is doing is juggling literary baloney. Kelly Preston furnishes the obligatory sex appeal. Several real-life star, such as Soupy Sales, Betty White, Florence Henderson, and James Brown, show up in celebrity cameos as sponsors for phony products. None of these fake wares elicits more than half-of-a-grin. The best scene in Holy Man has G zapping Morgan Fairchild while she is hooked up to a portable electronic, instant face-lifting contraption. Although Eddie Murphy saves a TV shopping network, he loses Holy Man. Imitating the Home Shopping Network, Holy Man sets its satirical sights high in lambasting the bogus lords of television and consumerism. Boasting few insights and even fewer jokes, Holy Man lacks the conviction to entertain much less eviscerate. Nowhere as side-splitting as The Nutty Professor, Holy Man makes watching QVC a real option. If you missed Holy Man is missed wholly nothing! "},{"Title":"Just not funny","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" So yeah, this movie is supposedly a comedy. It takes a completely unrealistic premise to start with, goes for a couple laughs early on--hey let's hook Morgan Fairchild up to a car battery and make her face bug out with really bad CGI!--then turns into a stupid sappy romance movie where two people are brought together by some random common element (in this case, Eddie Murphy's character). It's like the movie forgot it was supposed to be a comedy and then we have these two people who are supposed to like each other, because the script said so. Eddie Murphy's character is brought into the picture to provide comic relief, but after that first montage of him messing up the sets, all he does is put on the faux guru act. He smiles, and forgives assorted other characters assorted other faults, and generally behaves benevolently. Kelly Preston and Jeff Goldblum fall for each other because they work in the same office. Predictably, one of them does something to lose the other one, and I wonder what happens after then? The jokes stopped coming long ago, so why should we care about these two characters that have no reason to like each other? What's the point? "}{"Title":"Tries to be too much","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  TV shopping executives Ricky and Kate stumble upon a homeless spiritual man, G, and discover that his charisma and his honesty are great sales tool. They put him on the air and he soon is a phenomenon. However his message seems to go against the very values of materialism of the shopping channel. While Kate realises what's she's doing, Ricky can only see the chances of promotion via G's success. As ratings rise so do conflicts.This film is a strange mix. Is it a romantic comedy between Ricky and Kate? Is it a comedy with G? Is it a condemnation of our shopping, materialistic society? Is it a spiritual message film? Who knows - it tries to be all thing and none of them work because it doesn't know which one it wants to be. The comedy is funny in patches, the romance only comes in towards the end, G's spirituality is pure what-people-want-to-hear-ism and the satire on materialism is too diluted and muddled to be fully effective. That said it's really the only bit that works halfway well.Murphy is quite good here but is a little hampered - not being able to let loose and get straight laughs (Nutty Professor). Goldblum, looks, sounds and acts the same as he does in everything else. Kelly Preston is good and has to carry the moral weight of the film. Solid support is put in by Robert Loggia, John Cryer and Eric McCormack.Overall a film that tries to be too much and fails on most of them "},{"Title":"1.5 stars","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Pointless story of a home shopping network general manager (Goldblum) and his encounter with title character G, (Murphy).  Goldblum uses G to help raise sales at the station, and G miraculously changes Goldblum from a self-centered man to a softie ready to fall in love with his co-worker (Preston).  We are meant to assume Murphy's character is somehow divine, but his true identity is never revealed.  Film focuses entirely too much on Goldblum and ignores the more likable, and funny, Murphy character. "},{"Title":"Pass on this one","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You must really like Jeff Goldblum to sit through this film.  I don't. Eddie Murphy underplays his role and is excellent as usual.  Overall there was too much Jeff Goldblum and too little Eddie Murphy and Kelly Preston. "},{"Title":"Poor","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a complete waste of time. This flick must have been thrown together because somebody was broke and needed some fast jake. Eddie Murphy looks pathetic and almost seems to be laughing internally at how low he has stooped in this role. He looks about as comfortable in the role of G as a three pound sausage in a one pound sausage skin. Even more irritating is Jeff Goldblum. His character may be the all time worse role for anybody anywhere. (He is worse than that clown in Weekend at Bernie's Part 2). The only saving grace in this movie is the beautiful Kelly Preston. Scientology aside, this lady is the bomb. Unfortunately, she took a role in this dud. I might have to go rent Jerry MaGuire to reinstate my faith in her. Do yourself a big favor and save your $$$ on this one. 2 out of 10 on a charitable day. "},{"Title":"Unholy waste of time...","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Edie Murphy decides to go nice and it is mildly amusing for the first three or four minutes.  Homeless, friendless G hooks up with a tv shopping network producer played by Jeff Goldbaum and suddenly sales skyrocket. Predictable script but no middle; only a beginning and an end.  SO WHAT?? Goldbaum has all the good lines and plays them to the hilt.  In fact, Murphy's G is truly only a supporting role.  However, it is still a waste of time.  "},{"Title":"Overly long movie with small amounts of humour.","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film was billed as a tv evangelist goes onto a tv home shopping network & takes america by storm. This is not a true statement of this movie. Eddie Murphy's character is a wandering do-gooder who's identity is not explained at all. The subplot of Jeff Goldblum meeting his new producer ( a female played by Kelly Preston )& going to fall in love with is just another example of the typical american feel-good film. This film is billed as a comedy. It is only funny in very small doses with long gaps in between. It has more funny moments that I think would work well in America & not at all in Britain. The most glaring example is the combined toilet & bidet product on the shopping channel. A fanny is not an ass or bottom in the UK. This got more nervous laughs than actual I-thought-that-was-funny laughs. If you like Eddie Murphy or Jeff Goldblum & are feeling a bit down, go see it, or even better, rent it out. If you are looking for something a little more funny, I suggest looking elsewhere. "},{"Title":"A renter (get it in video..)","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Somewhat cute - Eddie is growing up..  Compared to Eddie in his prime the language is actually acceptable. The tag-line summarizes the movie quite adequately. If you have nothing else left to see, go see it it is reasonably good lightweight entertainment. Otherwise wait for it in video at your neighbourhood rental outlet.      "},{"Title":"Home Shopping version of Network","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Network I want you to get up, I want you to go to the window and yell, I'm as mad as hell and I'm not going to take this anymore!A similar scene takes place in Holy Man where Eddie Murphy asks his viewers to go outside and kiss the grass.  Also like Network the choice between the stars health and the future of the Network depend on a executives morals. And many other Network similarities are obvious.P.S. The movie is not even funny, even though its advertised as a comedy. "},{"Title":"One of the year's WORST","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Good god what a bad movie!  What were Stephen Herek (Director of Mr. Holland's Opus), Eddie Murphy, Jeff Goldblum, and Kelly Preston thinking?!?!?!  This movie is completely unfunny, the situations are ridiculous, and I can find no way to give it any compliment.  I survived the endurance test of watching the entire movie, which is the only good I can get out of it.  Do NOT see this movie if you are an Eddie Murphy fan.  I'm not even going to go into the specifics as to why this movie was so bad, because it's not worth my time typing them. "},{"Title":"Standard, undemanding romcom but watch for Goldblum","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Eddie Murphy tops the bill, but this is a film about Jeff Goldblum's character. Playing Ricky Hayman, a TV exec teetering on a thin fence between moral salvation (the love of his colleague played by Kelly Preston) and the promises of great material reward from his boss.The film basically plays out like an easy, over earnest studio romcom. Murphy fights his subversive instinct hard and successfully, but is dull if watchable. The supporting cast are right on the money as are the considerable number of important extras. But Goldblum gives a disproportionately good performance, struggling throughout to dovetail the demands of burgeoning love with his Machiavellian job. His final piece to camera is surprisingly gripping.Jeff Goldblum strikes me as one for whom THE role has never quite hit the agent's desk (Igby Goes Down and possibly The Life Aquatic etc. were knocking on the right doors though). If you're a fan, endure the candy floss of much of this film to reap what he has to offer. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Eddie, man, what were you thinking???","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well first of all, this movie was billed as Eddie Murphey movie, but it's not.  Holy Man actually stars Jeff Goldblum, with Murphy in a supporting role. So don't go in thinking it's an Eddie Murphy comedy, because it's not, for two reasons. It's not an Eddie Murphy film, and it's not all that funny.   Goldblum stars as Ricky Hayman, a producer at the Good Buy Shopping Network. Ratings are down, and the boss tells him to either pick them up, or he's out. So Ricky gets teamed with Kate Newell (Kelly Preston) and together they're going to try and boost the ratings. Out of nowhere comes their savior, G (Eddie Murphy). He's this guru-looking figure in flowing robes who seems to have this connection with people. So Ricky gets G to go on the Shopping Network, ratings soar, but as always there's a problem.   G is on a spiritual journey. The only reason he's on the Shopping Network is because doctors told him he needed to stay out of the sun for a while. But the ratings are so good, Ricky lies to G to get him to stay, even when G is better. Moral dilemma time. And I think you can guess how it resolves itself. So let's get to the movie. First, like I said, this isn't an Eddie Murphy comedy. It's a movie about Jeff Goldblum trying to come to grips with his spiritual side with the help of G. Ricky has money problems, women problems, job problems, all sorts of problems that he can't fix because he isn't centered enough. G comes along to help him find himself. From reading those last couple of sentences, do you think it sounds like a comedy? The only thing remotely funny about the movie, were the mock-infomercials they had. Ones for laundry balls, or cooking while driving, or the chainsaw. Those send-ups of home shopping were well done and funny, but the rest of the movie wasn't. It tried to be at times, but the movie got bogged down in it's quest to try and incorporate a love story and a spiritual story. I'm not against spiritual stories (well maybe), or love stories for that matter, but don't package them in a movie and call it a comedy, because it doesn't work.  Besides, most `spiritual' movies belong in the FANTASY genre.   I just read that the director and producer initially approached Murphy to play Ricky instead of G, but Eddie wanted to play G. I think the movie had the potential to be better if he had played Ricky, because it would have allowed them to use Eddie's comedic talents a little better. Goldblum has always been a little stiff to me, and sadly he falls into that category that many actors and actresses fall into; he will always be remembered for one roll, and that roll happens to be Ian Malcom from Jurassic Park, and not the kind of guy you would think could hold a comedy together. So overall I wouldn't bother seeing Holy Man. It's a movie that tries to make you laugh, but eventually leaves you unfulfilled.  "},{"Title":"This is by far the worse movie ever made","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I dozed off several times during this movie (if you can say that about it). The movie was not funny at all.  The star of the movie is not Eddie Murphy; it is Jeff Goldblum.  I never learned the point of the movie and never felt good at anytime during the movie.  Don't waste 99 cents or any amount on this movie. "},{"Title":"I'd rather watch 2 hours of the real home shopping network!","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie sets a new precedent of badness for filmmakers to follow.  If you see it, you'll say to yourself, This can't possibly get any worse -- I mean, I gotta keep watching this because there's nowhere to go but up... Right?  Wrong.  I don't think that you, the reader, could set out INTENTIONALLY to make a movie this bad and manage to succeed at failure as well as this film did.  If you think that there is a hidden message in this movie, then you've probably missed the real hidden message  don't waste energy trying to make a good movie, when you can make films like this that will still reap profits on video. "},{"Title":"Aborted roller coaster ride!","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I sat through the entire movie thinking the very next line was going to be the comedy line that gets the ball rolling and magically transforms the film into the comedy genre it was billed as.  In the end I had the feeling that I had ridden a roller coaster to the top of the big drop only to be backed down the hill without having ever taken off.  I was expecting a hilariously funny film as are most of Eddie Murphy's.  Even Jeff Goldblum let me down as he wasn't able to pull off any of his famous one-liners that stick in your head for a week after you walk out of the theater.  The editors even missed their mark with a very noticeable stain on a white robe that changed sizes and shapes several times in one scene.  Maybe next time people. "},{"Title":"About time too....a good Eddie Murphy film!","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is a long long time since we have seen an Eddie Murphy film that you can say was good, the last ones being 48 Hours and Trading Places which must be 15 years ago now. Let me start by saying i'm not sure why this film is called Holy Man because at no point does he say he is religous or he spreading the word, what he does say is he is on a spititual journey , which is different in my opinion. while on his journey he meets two producers of a flagging tv shopping channel who by accident , realise that the holy man could be the answer to their prayers and revive the TV channels fortunes. I would not say this film is a rib tickler but i dont think it sets out to be, it is more of a feel good film that is acted out very well and is highly watchable.Far better than i expected. 7 out of 10 ( nearly an 8 ).   "},{"Title":"Starts out funny but turns into a drama, **1/2 out of ****.","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you're like me, and you have seen the trailer to Holy Man, you probably thought to yourself that the movie looks pretty funny. Guess what, it's not. Eddie Murphy is usually quite comical. I wish I could give you a film in comparison to this&#133;wait, what  about My Giant. Billy Crystals comic touch was wasted as Murphy's was, the movie started out as a slightly entertaining comedy then turned into a melodrama that is emotionally touching, but is absent of all laughs. That is a perfect example.This movie has some funny moments, which all happen at the movie's opening in which a struggling home shopping agent meets a new partner, that just so happens to be female, an instantly obvious set-up for a romantic sub-plot. So when they are forced to travel across town together in a car that pops a tire, they meet a seemingly mental man who sniffs the grass and waves to every car that passes.Who he is we never find out, and at this point in the movie the last laugh is long gone. All we know is that this is a friendly guy, friendly enough to hypnotize a man so that he fever loses his fear of flying and even uses his miracles to help the agent, played by Goldblum. The way he helps isn't really funny, but entertaining. I won't recite anymore for the plot to you, mostly because it all goes downhill from here, but I don't want to spoil anything either.Now, I want to say up front that I am recommending Holy Man if 1) You liked My Giant, 2) aren't expecting more than approximately  2 minutes of laughs in 114 minutes. This is not a comedy, it is a touching and emotional drama. On that note it works well. Judging the film on that concept I would give this movie three stars.For a comedy, well, here I go; The Eddie Murphy character was easily the poorest written character of the year. Nothing about is explained. Yes, I know he is supposed to be a mystery to the audience, but I am talking about his entire existence. The filmmakers clearly depended&#133; no used Murphy as a crutch to hold back their bad ideas. As a comic production, this movie absolutely stinks! (I would give the comedy part two stars, as you can see, I decided to split the difference between the two ratings)I felt the actors did what they could to try and save the film, but couldn't succeed. Jeff Goldblum is well written and performed, but his character never meets its maximum potential until the finale. Kelly Preston from Nothing To Lose was the best thing in the film and defiantly was the most developed. She succeeds in making her character fun and intriguing. And unlike the others, we relate to her.In Holy Man there is something to be made from the clever ideas and few funny moments from it&#133;another movie. "},{"Title":"Ladies and Gentlemen..I give u THEE worst Eddie Murphy film ( so far)","Date":"12 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Woow...really? ...really? Why? ..I'm not that hard of a critic. Honestly I'd rather watch Ernest goes to jail than this turkey. ( sorry Ernest) I just didn't get this movie at all. That's fine. I don't have to  get a movie to find it entertaining at the very least. I don't expect life altering religious-like enlightenment from every movie I watch. Holy man should be called Holy %#&@, Man! it just wasn't funny or amusing or even worth sitting through. I just wanted to see HOW bad it really was. That's the only reason i sat through this. You know how bad this is? I think if u took Metro, Showtime, AND Pluto Nash , and just made it into one  cop movie. The story would be a cop from space who diffuses bombs but really wants to be an actor. Makes zero sense right? That made up movie would STILL be better than this mess ;) "},{"Title":"A Hollywood Cheesecake","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie has the potential to be a classic. But like most Hollywood production, this turned out to be a piece of their usual cheesecake - a tasty snack but really deficient in substance. The subject of hero worship had been better handled by Peter Sellers in his 1979 classic Being There. The director, Stephen Herek, had a hard time trying to make up his mind whether to deliver a critique on excessive consumerism or to celebrate free market capitalism. Its sugar loaded happy ending felt just like having one cheesecake too many. Holy Man is entertaining in part. Its cast did a pretty good job making the cardboard stereotypes somewhat believable. Jeff Goldblum showed why he can still get top billing without the glamour boy look. Eddie Murphy, while still showing the over the top comic hold over from his TV days, also demonstrates his considerable talent. By restraining his urge to steal every scene, his ability is in fact better showcased as in his more recent performance in Dreamgirls. "},{"Title":"Funny at times","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Though funny at times, this movie misuses Murphy's innate comic talent. As G, he does provide some comic moments, but not enough to hold up the film, since the movie centers more on Goldblum and his relationships. I liked the Scrooge-spoof though near the end though. "},{"Title":"Hmmmm,different.","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable.****Very Good.***Okay.**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead.*Avoid At All Costs.When I was desperate to rent a movie,I had to forgive whatever part it was about myself that was'nt crazy about spending hard earned  cash on this,the only thing left in the store.A movie which had bombed in America within 3 days of opening,which was only distributed in 2 local cinemas,then shafted after a week,and which my other video store ,which was closed,had decided not to stack any copies of.Still,you have to take risks in life.Was Holy Man meant to be a comedy?Yes,of course it was.But it was told throughout,especially at the beginning,in a unique,strangely cold sort of way.The movie seemed really grim in it's theme and location.There was a strange seriousness to each scene.But then,part of the problem was that I thought this movie could'nt decide what it wanted to be.Was it meant to be a regular hollywood screwball Eddie Murphy comedy like the atrocious Nutty Professor,or a satire on how commercials,the media and TV endorcement has changed our lives for the worst,and how,in that ever growing attempt to make a quick buck,many of us have lost our souls in the process?This movie seemed to think everyone who was watching was an American salesman.That,and it was really overlong.109 minutes to tell a story that could have been done in 90.Still,to it's credit,the time does fly by watching it,it dos'nt feel like this length of time as you do.Jeff Goldblum,whom I hav'nt seen in anything for ages,still shows hollywood credabilaty and leading man potential.Kelly Preston looked pretty sexy,and turned in a really nice performance as Shelly?,a talented saleswoman who never lets her desires get in front of her sweet nature.And Eddie Murphy turned in a sympathetic performance as G,a lonely,thought occupied guru on his quest in life.Again,not a waste of time.Worth seeing.*** "}{"Title":"eddie murphy fans might like it, but his critics certainly won't","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  after making a nice comeback with the nutty professor a couple of years ago i thought the real eddie was back along with jeff goldblum, and kelly preston this could have been a hit. the plot is weak and the three main characters are really undeveloped. goldblum isn't convincing as a salesman, and kelly preston is a  joke as a tough analyst that can make the tough axeman decisions needed to save the network. this is a waste of  2  good actors and an actress. "},{"Title":"A thoroughly enjoyable movie for the simple, sensitive person","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although this movie was advertised as a comedy, and subsequently panned because it was not chock-full-o-laughs, I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, being that I did not initial expect it to be a yuk-yuk fest. The enigmatic character of G held my interest throughout the entire movie, not because he was so holy, godlike or special, but because in his presence the true nature and intentions of those around him, by comparison, was laid instantly transparent & clear. I enjoyed this movie more because of what it said, than because of what it showed, which is a VASTLY DIFFERENT role for Eddie Murphy, and one which the general public, as well as the critics, were not ready for.  I would welcome a Holy Man II (he walks off at the end of the movie, to continue his journey) but I realize this will never happen, due to the movie's lack luster response.  "},{"Title":"A refreshing change from the usual violence.","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I laughed so hard that I had to use my asthma inhaler.  This was a wonderful feel good movie about a simple, spiritual wanderer named G (Eddie Murphy) who is thrust into the dog-eat-dog rat race of home shopping network television. Great supporting roles by Jeff Goldblum (Ricky Hayman), a TV network executive torn between what's good for his career and what's good for G and Kelly Preston (Kate Newell) who sees the light and tries to make it right. A spiritual performance only Eddie Murphy could make this funny. "},{"Title":"Holy Man is good, clean fun.","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Holy Man, starring Eddie Murphy, Jeff, Goldblum, and Kelly Preston, is an early holiday treat for film-goers like me who enjoy a feel-good movie that supplies hearty laughter and a warm feeling.  I went to see Eddie Murphy, and his performance was every bit as good as, perhaps better than I expected. "},{"Title":"Stupid Man","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really expected this movie to be funny, and it wasn't. I had just wasted my money on it, and regreted even seeing it. Eddie Murphy is not funny in this movie. This is absolutely plain trash. Whoever came up with the movie idea ought to have his/her head examined! Infact, I didn't really see it straight through. I fast-forwarded a lot of it, and was waiting for the end to come. This isn't entertainment. It's just an excuse for another dumb Eddie Murphy character. Perhaps from SNL. Stupid Man, or Childish Man are better titles. Murphy deserves better than this. "},{"Title":"A Huge Disappointment","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am a big Eddie Murphy fan and went into this movie expecting to love it. Wrong!  All throughout the film my friends and I kept saying to each other YOU picked this movie, I'll KILL you!  I don't remember too much of it because I think I fell asleep several times.  If you have insomnia, check out Holy Man. "},{"Title":"Odd but pleasantly funny","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is an odd film but it grew on me. Murphy is enigmatic as a seemingly all-knowing, charismatic mystery man named G. Is he God? Is he just a good soul, a fairy godfather, or a con man? Hard to tell, but I was intrigued by the story. The film is not a wild comic vehicle, yet it is pleasantly funny. "},{"Title":"Walk-out","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If I was the walk-out type - this film I would have walked out after 15 minutes.  I kept thinking it has to get better but it didn't. So I sat there and suffered. Funny it wasn't. A waste of Eddie Murphy, Jeff Goldblum, and Robert Loggia and admission costs.  "},{"Title":"a very unfunny inconsistent comedy","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I really like Eddie Murphy, which is why I rented this film, but I was very disappointed. The film is very boring, the plot doesn't ever seem to take off and the characters lack, well, character. The film storyline could have perhaps brought in many more comical situations, but one had the impression that the filmmakers were afraid of making their guru or their other heroes look bad. So the film drags on and on, with some weirdo who is neither too good nor too bad, some hero who is also neither heroic nor anti-heroic and a romantic interest, who never gets interesting... Strangely enough, although this is supposed to be a comedy, one rarely has the impression the movie is even trying to be funny. At the same time, it is not serious or dramatic enough to be something other than a comedy. Well, maybe you get the point, the film is bah. I wouldn't watch it again or recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy and Jeff Goldblum","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Apart from the fact that Murphy was acting with Goldblum who quite rightly thought his character was just a nutcase, there was absolutely nothing going for this film. Murphy is now no longer a crowd puller, and with projects like this, he will be relegated to a video collection in a hire store. The way forward for him is the power of association. He needs to engage with up and coming talent in order to bring them up, and for his own sustainability. If new actors and directors were able to enlist his talents, then maybe he will be able to take himself successfully into the 21st century. "}{"Title":"Pretty good movie","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really don't know why everyone hated this movie, I found it pleasant and diverting. Murphy actually didn't annoy for once, I kept going to films expecting a hilarious side to him like Beverly Hills Cop, but he kept disappointing me with crap like Golden Child, Boomerang and even The Nutty Professor. But finally a nice, funny, subtle role as G. All the others were great too, except for Jeff Goldblum, he's starting to really come off the screen as a one-note actor. Go see it, especially for Murphy's sake! "},{"Title":"Holy Man started out in a coma, and barely comes out of it at the end","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Eddie Murphy saved this movie from total disaster. At the beginning, Holy Man was so dry that I almost stopped watching it. Then, Eddie Murphy came on and made his entrance on the highway. Murphy single-handidly got me interested in seeing this movie through until the end. Jeff Goldblum surely couldn't have carried this film by himself even with the help of co-stars Kelly Preston, Jon Cryer, and Robert Loggia. Holy Man was the story of a man who called himself G who came to save a Home Shopping Network from financial ruins. G had a lot of great one-liners in this film that made me laugh hysterically. What disappointed me the most about Holy Man was the fact that G didn't come across as a messenger from god. I think if that were added toward the end I would have found Holy Man it bit more believable. I enjoyed the blossoming romance between Goldblum and Preston. Believe it or not, Holy Man actually had a lot of interesting messages; everyone who watches this should listen to and think about. Even though it was a mediocre film, it delivered a heart-felt, and inspirational message to all audiences; which is, never take for granted what is right in front of you. Eddie Murphy, Jeff Goldblum, and Kelly Preston give it their best shot to save this film and they barely make it for their efforts.  "},{"Title":"bright idea fizzles out as it goes along","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the second on the Harry Truman series that Hollywood has planned for the next ten year season. This time the naive Harry turned holy. walks out the studio throught a double door, instead of a single door.In the third of th harry series, coming out soon, Harry walks under the Triumphal Arch in Paris, just as the Bastile day parade, this time on his honor, is about to start. End of movie.The title role this time will probably go to the ubiquitous Robin Williams (in the movie  called robinette (french for 'faucet')Thus the story of holy man complements the clever first version of behind-the-scenes TV dramas. It's one hell of an acting tour de force for Mr. Murphy et alia. with less and less and less humor to the end.The best ground kissing I've seen since Pope Paul came to Colorado.I give it generous 4Antonio C. Gonzalez  "},{"Title":"Completely Worthless.","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A bald Eddie Murphy has to be funny, right?  WRONG!  Holy Man presents us with the worst scripted, worst edited movie in decades.  Eddie Murphy is not the star of the movie, and he plays second fiddle to a boring Jeff Goldblum. It seems Home Shopping Network and a evangelist prophet could set up numerous funny situations.  Too bad this movie didn't find one.  If you fail to rent one movie this year, make it Holy Man.Rating 0.1 out of 10.  Quite possibly the worst film of all time. "},{"Title":"NETWORK","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This tried to copy off of Network.This tried to copy off of Network.This tried to copy off of Network.This tried to copy off of Network.This tried to copy off of Network.This tried to copy off of Network.This tried to copy off of Network.This tried to copy off of Network.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever.","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I will have to say that Jeff Goldblum should not be the main star in anything comedic. OK, maybe the show wasn't trying to be 100% comedy, but where it wasn't funny, it just tried too hard to make you think. But when Jeff tries too hard, he gets annoying. He has one monologue during the movie that just put me to sleep.I will have to say that if they had a different actor than Jeff working with Eddie, it would have been a bit better. But Eddie's part wasn't very well done either. Yes there were some funny parts, but all two of them were shown in the preview, and were unfunny by the time you saw them in the movieIt just felt like a cheap movie that wasn't put together very well. "},{"Title":"weak & stupid","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so bad!! One of Eddie Murphy's worst ever. He's totally unconvincing as a lunatic whose beliefs raise the sells on a shopping tv network. The story is simply dumb, some scenes are awful and I don't think there's any reason for anyone to watch this movie.  "}]