[{"Title":"Quaid will make you cry.","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"82 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I suspect that for most Western Europeans and Americans the name 'Bosnia' is now no longer simply the name of a country, but also carries a subliminal implication of atrocity and ethnic viciousness.  I doubt, then, that many people would approach this film with any false expectations of what it will contain.That said, viewers should not come to this film for a political explanation of why and how the war happened - for that, it's probably best to read a few books.  This film does attempt to give a human explanation of how and why wars like this one happen and continue to happen, though.Inevitably, some have accused Savior of bias; though an American film, the director is a Serb, and it was filmed on location in Montenegro; with such emotive subject matter partiality would hardly be surprising.  Indeed, the film does not flinch from discussing atrocities committed by Bosnian Muslims.  Those who accuse this film of being pro-Serb, however, should consider that one of the most hateful caracters in the whole film, whom we witness carrying out pointlessly vicious acts of cruelty and mysogyny, and who happily admits to being a serial rapist, is himself a Serb.Viewers should instead look to the human heart of this film.  Dennis Quaid gives us a superb performance, rendering a character of some complexity (look at his expression when one character tells him 'You are a good man'). He is ably matched by Natasja Nincovic's complicated, battered portrayal of a Serb woman - and not merely a 'rape victim' stereotype that we know from other films.There is a religious subtext for those who like looking for such things - plenty of Christ imagery, chiming nicely with the title.  There is a special irony in the cross Joshua carries; apparently a Catholic, he has come to Bosnia specifically to kill Muslims in revenge for the loss of his family in a terrorist bombing - yet by joining the Serbs he is also aligned against the Catholic Croats.  Perhaps this says something about the self-destructive nature of his revenge, and about his own internal conflict.  This is a film about a man divided against himself, in a country divided against itself.It is particularly effective that the main character in this film is an American.  We are tempted to comfortably see him as 'one of us', a decent man in the midst of a barbaric war - but we are not allowed such passive comforts.  Eaten by revenge and pain, little seperates Joshua from his barbaric 'sidekick' Goran, whose mindless cruelty he meets with contempt but also inaction.  His own conduct is difficult to stomach, but nonetheless presented as the actions of a human, not a monster.What Antonijevic's film does, then, is look at the line between those who have, and those who have not, become indifferent to the suffering of others - it is in this way that the perpetuation of war is explored.  There are no politics, no discussion of religion, or of 'age old ethnic hatreds'.  The focus of this strong film is the simple human cost both in lives extinguished and lives mutilated by war.  Indeed, for those not very familiar with the details of the war in Bosnia, the practical anonymity of the different soldiers throughout the film will heighten the sense of War as something soldiers do to Civilians.People who respect and appreciate this film should steer clear of the recent Behind Enemy Lines however - it reuses fragments of the Lake scene in Savior to simplistically anti-Serb effect, completely bastardising the intent of the people who originally created those images.Nonetheless, despite what has been done to it Savior remains beautifully acted, tragic, mature film-making. "},{"Title":"True document about war","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"67 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I know that many people consider this movie 'Politically incorrect'. Probably it is in some way. I'm not from the Balkans, but I live very near and I remember very well that war in front of my door and I was against the Serbs. This movie was made by a Serb director and show his point of view. Anyway I think that in this movie you can see what was that war for civilian people, any side they were. I found it a true document about the war, and, in the end, I was not disturbed by the fact that it was a movie from a Serb director. I think that this demonstrates that it's a good movie. After watching this movie, you don't hate the Serbs, the Croatians or the Bosnians, you hate the war for the consequences on civilian people. "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"57 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Great movie and easily Dennis Quaid's best work.  Very tough to watch at times but in the end extremely rewarding and cathartic.Its so appreciated that some artists in the world have something to say and do a timely, thoughtful movie to tell the world what they are missing or ignoring.  You can either see what they have to say, or see the next assembly line CGI garbage. I suggest that any mature moviegoer give this a look.  There is some unexpected humor, a lot of horror and carnage and heartache, and I do suggest you keep the tissues close by for a some incredibly emotional scenes. There is not a whole lot of dialogue which is also much appreciated. Most of the time actors are better when they have nothing to say but alot to express.  The actors in this movie are all very natural and real.  Not the least of which was the baby!  One of the best performances by a new born I've ever seen..this child is beautiful. Thanks to Dennis Quaid who probably made the equivalent of cab fare for this one..you did a great job in an invaluable movie. "},{"Title":"Unrelentingly bleak anti-war movie","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"49 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  1993, Bosnia.  Having seen his wife and son murdered by Muslim terrorists, Guy has become bitter and hard and is fighting as a mercenary for the Serbs.  When a prisoner exchange sees his partner take a girl he knows and try to kill her and her unborn mixed child, Guy is forced to kill him to protect them.  However he then finds himself in a bitter war with a woman and child that no one wants.I have seen this movie twice now and can find little to dislike about it, but also realise that it is not for a fun evening in with friends.  The film is unrelentingly bleak and depressing as it is a look at the bitter and cruel war fought in Bosnia.  The subject matter is framed around Guy, as a man who has been turned hard by the horror he has seen and it works well for this reason.  We see it through the eyes of a man who has seen it all and has no more hurt left to feel.  The film doesn't simply act out atrocities for us to watch but frames them within this story &#150; however we know that nothing is made up or exaggerated in terms of the bigger picture.The film lacks any sort of traditional American cop-out (it's no spoiler to say that Guys wife and child don't turn out to be alive after all!), only the opening `this is why he's like this' 10 minutes are a little too neat and could have been dispensed with &#150; I didn't need it to explain why he was dead inside, only that he had become it due to war &#150; which was partly true.  However this doesn't really take away from the film, only slightly weaken the character.The cast are pretty good but the film is 99% Quaid's.  He gives a great performance which is subtle and very downbeat.  His eyes are where most of the acting occurs and he does it very well &#150; his character is very unsympathetic and has only a marginal redemption to look forward to but yet Quaid mixes it very well.  Kinski is out of the film before her name has even appeared on screen, while Ninkovic does a good job, again despite a unsympathetic character.  The rest of the cast are OK but hard to judge as much of the dialogue is in Serbo-Croatian and their performances are hard to judge.  Faces such as Skarsgård add interest, but I did wonder why he had bothered for such a short time on screen.Overall this is not a fun film to rent on Friday night but a bleak anti-war film that will leave you in no doubt that the conflict in Bosnia (and perhaps everywhere else) is of no value when compared to the enormous cost in terms of human life and suffering. "},{"Title":"shock to the system","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"45 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I noticed this had been produced by Oliver Stone when I saw it for sale, thus my reasoning for snapping it up. Usually what Stone touches turns to gold and this is no exceptionThis film will move you to tears; mark my words. I wasn't ready for it, or at least wasn't expecting it. Realism is the key to its power.While some viewers may focus on which ethnic groups are committing what crimes, for the wider audience I think it has a commentary on the human race in general and what it is capable of. Quaid performs his part from top to bottom, which drains the viewer of emotion, making one actually process information that has previously just been news broadcast.A good mix of local and international filmaking skills also present what I would consider an accurate picture of the racial and religious groups depicted in the movie. I'm sure insiders will disagree, but from my time spent in the region, there was not a scene or individual character where I was skeptical of objectivity - from the bus driver to father.There is so much to be said about Savior, and it is a must see for any international audience. It may unearth a conflict of opinions among serbs, croats and bosnians, but perhaps they would be reading too much into it...  "},{"Title":"1942 or 1992  a word of warning on the human condition","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"34 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" At first on hearing Dennis Quaid I thought this would be usual Hollywood Hero saves the world offering from the Hollywood Studios. How wrong I was,Dennis Quaid gives a stunning performance of a good man struggling to understand a world of brutality and inhumanity. Against all odds he does what he thinks his right and realizes the baby represents the only hope he and the human race have? There will probably be critics from those who were involved the conflict who will say this is an inaccurate Hollywood Version of events.This may or may not be true, but what Quaid has done here is made a bridge from the world depicted here and the rest of the world not involved in the conflict, enabling us to understand it more. This film is not mainstream enough to have become a blockbuster,with lots of honours, but I would like to think Quaid and Kinski will remain justifiably proud of their involvement in this film for all time. "},{"Title":"Anti-War Classic - Must See","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I watched this movie with skepticism but I have to admit I was wrong. This is a powerful movie and it left me drained out by the time it got over. The last 15 to 20 minutes are sure to move even the cold hearted so,I am surprised and saddened that there are still some folks here at the forum fighting over its anti/pro Muslim/Serbian credentials.There is no winner in any war - only despair & death and at times, a faint glimmer of hope. Saviour depicts this with astonishing realism and at times,is difficult to watch but I guess that what war is all about. Dennis Quaid gives an Oscar winning performance and considering, the fact that Oliver Stone produced this, it has a antiwar platoonesque feel to it. "},{"Title":"A serious look at war...","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Savior came to me as a movie half-seen on HBO. What I saw was enough to intrigue me to search for the DVD. The DVD is currently out-of-print. Luckily I was able to find one on an online auction site and I am pleased to say that I am quite happy with my purchase. This movie takes a serious look at war and it's effects on a soldier who has joined the foreign legion, a woman he meets, and an infant who enters their life. The setting is Bosnia and war is brutal. The hero finds himself surrounded by death and destruction. He chose his life as a soldier in the Foreign legion as an act of revenge to purge his anger from losing his family. Soon, war and anger overcomes and all that is left is the Savior. Who is the savior? I'll leave that up to you the viewer to discover for yourself. Excellent film overall. This is my favorite performance by Dennis Quaid.  "},{"Title":"A fantastic film is Savior.","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" RatedR    Runtime104mins    Release Date1997In a time of darkness and despair, Joshua Rose is a man in search of redemption and hope. His only chance to find it is the last place he intended it to be. Within himself.Savior tells the incredible true story of Joshua Rose (an always brilliant Denis Quade), a man, who after seeing his wife (played by the stunning Nastassija Kinski who unfortunately doesn't have a lot of camera time) and child  brutally murdered by an extremist group, goes on a murderous rampage to avenge their deaths and fill the emptiness that they have created within him. But instead of making the wrong things right and alleviating the emptiness, Joshua too is now an extremist killer who must flee the country and assume a new identity as Guy, a member of the French foreign legion. Here he takes refuge and joins a cause in hopes that he can redeem the wrongs that he has committed. But as the war progresses for this sniper, he just gets deeper in to the darkness. Until, however, he is called in to do a refugee escort mission and meets Verra a beautiful surbian woman who is pregnant with her Muslom rapist's child. After having a scuffle with his partner over the woman and then subsequently murdering him, Joshua, Verra and her infant son embark on a powerful journey of hope and redemption through the war torn plains of Serbia.Remarkable is the only way I can start off my review of this movie. This In my opinion is the most underrated drama of all time. The characters are so beautifully created by the great actors playing the roles that you actually believe these experiences are happening to these people. Quade who I mentioned earlier is an amazing talent who is truly one of hollywoods best shines, like the north star. Next is the ultra talented and little known actress Natasa Ninkovic who turns in a performance so brilliant I would have nominated her for an academy award had I been on the committee. Director Peter Antonijevic creates a movie so powerful that scenes seem to actually come out of the television and literally pull on your emotions. I must admit that I really hope hollywood uses this virtually unknown director much, much more in the future.Writer Robert Orr knows how to put together a movie, his script is first rate and just glows with realism. He also boasts great ideas and shows how brutal war can be. For instance a scene where Quade must sit and watch a bus load of people either get clubbed over the head with a choice blunt weapon from a golf bag or get moad down in firing squad fashion. The journey that he takes the characters on delves so far in to the black, take for instance the scene I recalled earlier wich happens to occur within the first five or ten minutes in which Rose get's the appalling opportunity to see what his family looks like after they've been charred to a crisp by a devastating explosion, that you can't even begin to think that Quade has any chance of finding the good in the world or even in himself for that matter. But through twists of fate and a little compassion Rose start's seeing a chance and so does the viewer.To Finalize this without giving this movie the exact credit that it deserves would be an absoloute sin. This is the most powerful Drama I have ever had the pleasure of viewing, and had it had a couple of more scenes in wich the viewer was able to witness a little more of the war aspect of that torn country I would have given this piece of artistry a perfect ten (and I almost and I stress almost never give out that mark). I would personally like to thank everyone involved in this movie especially co-producer Oliver Stone and the great cinematographers who captured the feel and landscape of the country beautifully, for allowing me the pleasure of enjoying this priceless gem. Now drama's are actually at the bottom of my film category list just due to the fact that they are all seemingly soap opera's that run in the same direction, but to all of those reading, for the drama genre and movies in general this dynamic film truly is a Savior.Overall Rating 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Man - I wish I never saw this movie","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I was stumped at the video store - had basically narrowed the DVD search down to 2 - Sphere (yeah, I know..) and Savior, this interesting looking title on the bottom shelf.Thank goodness I chose this one.What a brilliant, gut-wrenching, agonising movie...Other comments have said it was a low budget job, but the DVD version I just saw didn't even make you think about the mechanics of the movie - just the characters and events that this film portrayed.The cinematics - beautiful scenery etc (to show that man really has no sense at all - he can be surrounded by some of the most amazingly beautiful surroundings and still turn the place to hell) and sound (the gunshots / ambient stuff etc were very well done) were all spot on..For the actual plot, the other comments posted are a lot more lucid than mine, so I won't bother trying to explain the premise of this flick.I really don't know what else to say - some of the scenes containing brutality were brilliant (in a really horrible way) - none of the usual hollywood (tm) bad guy finally gets it in the end type stuff - cliche - it really just showed how pointless these kinds of conflicts are. clicheOh man - this film is going to stick with me for quite some time. And I kind of wish it didn't. I was after a throw away movie (should have rented sphere) and instead got this thing that I just cannot stop thinking about.Dennis Quaid was amazing in it, and the rest of the cast were excellent, too.And yes, I cryed like baby Vera..PS I actually registered just so I could vote & comment on this movie.. "}{"Title":"Getting Past The First 45 Minutes Is The Hardest Part","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"27 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Wow, this a grim film. Don't look for a lot of laughs in this one! It's not bad if - and that's a big if - you can get past the first 45 minutes.I got past it on the first viewing but not on the second. It was just too much. Seeing youngsters assassinated, families blown up and then a pregnant woman kicked several times in the stomach was too much for meDennis Quaid plays an American soldier overseas whose family dies at the hands of a Muslim bomber. He gets revenge by heading to a local mosque and begins shooting everyone inside. Quaid is then sent away to a foreign legion and winds up in the middle of the Bosnia War between Muslims and Serbs, and along the way caring for that pregnant woman who was treated so brutally.This is a very somber film, very depressing in spots, but worth one look. I don't know if you'd want to see it more than that. "},{"Title":"best movie about on the subject so far","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I think I have pretty much seen all of the movies associated with the civil war in Yugoslavia. Unlike many that take sides and immediately turn off one segment of the viewers this is one I could recommend to my friends who no nothing about the war. No one here is a good guy, in fact everyone is bad to a degree, especially when you understand who everyone is (a fact not readily understandable to the casual viewer).Like most films that deal with real human tragedy, it is hard to watch at times. But in the end it is worth it. I'm glad nothing good comes out of this film because nothing good came out of a war that destroyed a beautiful nation and turned brother against brother all in the name of fighting an ethnic war left over from ancient history. Think about it. The Turkish, the Byzantine and the Hapsbugh empires have all disappeared into the sands of time and these poor fools were convinced that this was still a war worth fighting? How ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Respectful Film But True ?","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  !!!! SPOILERS !!!!First things first , I doubt very much there`s any truth in this  True story  Producer of SAVIOR Oliver Stone also wrote the screenplay of MIDNIGHT EXPRESS and unlike the account of Billy Hayes book the film version is a work of complete fiction . Let`s see Joshua Rose wife and child are murdered by Islamic terrorists so he shoots up a mosque . Can any tell me when this incident happened ? because I don`t recall any news reports about it . And why did Peter join the legion ? Surely he acted in self defence ? It also seems strange that the Croat defence council ( HVO ) decided to drive their Serb and Muslim victims right beside Joshua`s hiding place to be massacared .Despite this criticism SAVIOR is a good film . I remember disliking it first time I saw it because I`d written an unproduced screenplay set during the Balkans conflict called SOLITUDE which plays out totally different from SAVIOR even though my screenplay also involves western mercs and also having a subtext that there`s no good guys in the Bosnian conflict . Jealousy aside ( I had my heart on SOLITUDE winning the best original screenplay Oscar ) I do admire SAVIOR for being an intelligent , sad and haunting film . Despite having Oliver Stone as producer and an American star this is a totally European film in both feel and execution  I had a son . He`s dead . He had a son . He`s dead too . Both died fighting - For what ?  a Croat tells Joshua . What indeedI wouldn`t say this is the best Bosnian conflict movie ( That accolade goes to PRETTY VILLAGE PRETTY FLAME ) but it`s probably the most accesible to a western audience . War is obscene and when you compare this movie to BEHIND ENEMY LINES you can`t help thinking that Hollywood is even more of an obscenity the way it portrays the Balkans conflictPeace out "},{"Title":"Gritty, bleak, war.","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I first saw this film when it was screened on the small screen by the BBC here in the UK a couple of years ago.When I saw it in the company of my then girlfriend, I wasn't aware of Oliver Stone's involvement and, frankly, I think that's for the good as I could quite easily have flipped channels having pre-judged it as YAHWF (Yet Another Hollywood War Film).Fortunately, I stuck with it and it opened my eyes to a war that was, by and large, merely seen as an inconvenience to many would-be holidaymakers here in Britain.Whilst reported ad-infinitum by the mass media here, making the phrase ethnic-cleansing into an everyday term, it wasn't until I saw this film that I fully appreciated what this meant.It's a hard film that brought me a sense of remoteness, helplessness, futility and anger.There have been few other films I've seen that made caused me to weep (big, macho guy that I am ;-)), particularly those that are often mis-labelled as war movies -- The Killing Fields being another of this ilk -- when, in fact, they're really (if we're labelling things) human interest films that come about because of a war or conflict.Dennis Quaid is, to me, one of those actors who isn't hugely prolific in the projects he gets involved in and I actually found it difficult to think of other titles of his that I'd seen. A quick skim through IMDb and a couple of them stand out for me, films I've thoroughly enjoyed and would happily see again; The Right Stuff and Enemy Mine. This is, without doubt, the best I've seen him in. "},{"Title":"words cant full describe what feeling i have","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" i have seen many many movie in my life about war and human atrocities but i have never before seen anything like this it was a memorable experience and i have already recommended lots of my friends to watch the movie. the good thing about this movie is that it show both sides of the story and really tells that is not religion, ethnicity but our own will which makes and destroys.this movie is a real eye opener, its one of those movies that really should be distributed for free just for the sake of humanity and i have personally already donated 2 copies of this to my nearest libraries, i highly recommend you watch it. i hope there were more movies like these so at least we could give some education to the coming generations "},{"Title":"Deeply grim stuff - very effective","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  One of the most painful depictions of war I've ever seen, this shows the effect of a civil war on ordinary people in a very powerful way. Stony-faced Dennis Quaid is excellent as ever as the emotionally-shut-off mercenary tiring of the pointless and unresolvable fighting in Bosnia, slowly allowing himself to feel again some years after the horrific death of his family when a woman and child inveigle themselves into his life. Some of the scenes in here are beyond horrific, particularly near the end where a massacre of civilians is made to seem quite dull and everyday to the killers. The pointlessness of such tribal warfare is emphasised by the shadowy depiction of the combatants, the almost total absence of 'good guys' and 'baddies' - I for one could rarely tell which side the soldiers on screen were supposed to represent. Certainly not for the fainthearted, this is war in all its foulness and degredation, fully exposing the evil mankind can inflict on itself. Not pleasant viewing, but a moving, powerful experience.  "},{"Title":"Reality bites","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Savior is one of the most intriguing movies that I have ever seen.The story deals with a man's journey in a foreign land where he meets a woman and plays a bigger role in her life than he'd expected. He joins the foreign legion to overcome the grief caused by the loss of his family.Under special circumstances he meets Vera, a victim of the war who is pregnant at the time.He saves her and her baby from the hands of a cruel mercenary.The main character is surrounded by death and the atrocities of the war. He seeks hope in the eyes of Vera's child.The seemingly hard-hearted guy shares a unique bond with the child.It is one movie that you should not miss. The horrible face of war is vividly displayed. This movie will leave you thinking about the lives of those living in the war-torn areas. "},{"Title":"An ode to evil","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Excellent movie, very well acted, conceived, photographed. No cheap sentimentality here. It grabs you and hits you hard, leaves you serious and depressed. No sides taken really-all the deeds and people it shows are murderers and victims. This is a movie for thought, not entertainment! Even though it's impossible for a movie to come close to the real horrors that took place in that land, as in so many other lands, it makes one think about the enormous scale of man's inhumanity to man throughout history. If I ever had any doubts that the world is ruled by Evil, thinking about the wars, blood, lives, lies, and horror going on for centuries reminds me that it is so. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I agree with other reviewers. This really is an extraordinary movie. I worried about the apparent American slant at the beginning. Also I wasn't convinced that Quaid would be believable. In fact all of this was totally wrong. He was great, and the movie a sensation. I saw it with a Bosnian Muslim friend (and even though he was the bad guys in the movie) he was also deeply moved. Clearly the horror and cruelty was on both sides..... "},{"Title":"Amazing and heartbreaking movie.","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I first remember watching this movie back when I was 8 as my dads was a really big fan of war movies. The movie has stuck with me ever since. The end scene was the one that really stayed in mind but as a kid I did not really understand the movie but whenever I heard that song I could not handle it. I've always tried to find the movie but I did not know the name, I finally found it today and watched again and I am completely amazed at how great this movie is. I now understand what its truly about and also don't recommend for kids to watch this as it sort of traumatized me a bit back in the day. Now I'm 20 and I still admit it affected me, but it sure does make you realize things and open your eyes a bit more. Very powerful, heart breaking but worth watching. "}{"Title":"The power of the war !","Date":"26 July 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" For me, one of the best war movies.Shows a harsh reality that at the beginning war.Man loses his family, and understands the impact of the war, go in the hope that it will justify a lot of things ... Shows the full real picture of family relationships, and how then women were treated in cases of rape by the enemy.. they were rejected, worse than worst enemy.The man which would justify the coolness, it helps her, and could not leave her.Saddest scene i've ever seen,her in the river,waiting to be murder by Croatian solider,singing to her child,and the laugh of child,that pretty smile,when it heard the voice of mother..I cried like a little baby...I love that scene,i love the et-no sound from movie... Film shows the worst side of war, all the worst that man can do.In every sense, and they forget the most important in hatred and destruction that had the impact of the war ... A sad story that could have been avoided, only that we tried.Exelente film, a harsh reality! "},{"Title":"One of the most powerful war films I've ever seen","Date":"23 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Arguably flawed, but boy did this knock me on my butt.A film about the horror and brutality of war, but this one got to me in a way very few have. Dennis Quaid is simply great, and while there are a few clichés, and a little forced symbolism, the tension and emotions run very high throughout, and there are a number of scenes I will simply never forget. An American whose wife and child are killed by terrorists joins the foreign legion after going on his own killing spree in revenge, only to re find his humanity in the midst of the Serb Croat war, rescuing a woman and her child. The first and last thirds are flat out brilliant. "},{"Title":"Moving war drama (Bosnia).","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Once in a while one is just moved. Moved into the picture, as though right alongside the characters, the action, the sound and the fury (of the war in Bosnia.) The dark odyssey of the soldier (Dennis Quaid) begins in tragedy--the death of his wife and son, whom he has been neglecting because of his military duties) in an alleged Muslim extremist cafe bombing--and leads him on a rocky, suspenseful chase to redemption. On the way he works as an assassin/sniper for the Foreign Legion, and as a mercenary-sniper for the Serbs. He commits cold blooded murder regularly, hard-heartedly, until he shoots a peasant teenage boy. This is his turning point. His conscience seems to reinvent itself. He intervenes in the savage beating of a pregnant woman, delivers her child, and thus begins the redelivery of himself into renewed morality and humanity. An important part of the journey of the baby girl, the mother, and the wounded savior is the effective and affecting portrayals of these characters by Quaid and the (I think Serbian actress) young woman. She has been cast out by her family and is very reluctant to accept the child or Quaid. The story moves along a perilous road with many painfully tense--and unpredictable event (not a cliche in the picture, unless one thinks beautiful babies and weeping rescuers is maudlin--moments and tragic scenes. I don't think this film is well know in the states; what a pity. I don't think Quaid (and many fine European actors) garned awards and recognition for this film, I do think Mr. Quaid created one of the finest characters/performances I have seen in the movies. Of course it also turns out that this picture has revived (and unfortunate) significance today--since 9/11. Recommended at an 8 level from. . . jaime "},{"Title":"gloomy, but outstanding","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I can't add a lot to the other reviews, but I too thought it was an excellent movie. I missed the beginning (on a television movie channel), so I had no idea who was murdering who, except that the atrocities were happening in the former Yugoslavia. But that actually strengthened the message, that the primary victims of the war were civilians, not the armed combatants, who were often much more murderers of civilians than soldiers. I also didn't know the reason for Dennis Quaid's alienation, just that he was angry and miserable. My initial impression was that he was the baby's savior (and had tried to be Natasa Ninkovic's savior also). But other comments here point out that the baby was his savior as well -- from his own misery and alienation. He and the baby saved each otherThe acting and directing were first-rate. The scenic photography was excellent too, but sometimes the tight budget showed, particularly in the sound quality. Still, the technical quality was generally quite good. The mix of English, subtitled local languages, and untranslated local languages was quite effective -- subtitles were used where they helped tell the story, but left out where the American's non-comprehension was the main point.In spite of the mildly optimistic ending (which I found appropriate), it was a very gloomy movie. But it's such a good movie that you should see it, when you're in the mood for a very sad story. "},{"Title":"War is bad... but something survives the horror... to live a better life","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Considering that my country is a neighbor of the former Yugoslavian Federation, I guess I know a lot more about that conflict than the other western-world viewers... When I saw it, I simply could not take sides... was it the muslims or the serbs to blame? I guess neither... Yugoslavia was of no use anymore... communism was down in Eastern Europe, there was no need for an western-oriented outpost behind the Iron Curtain... so NATO decided it must be somewhat erased, diminished... I am ashamed to admit that at a certain point during this war, the leaders of my country sold out to NATO like prostitutes and allowed Alliance planes to cross Romanian territory en-route to the conflict zone... OUR NEIGHBOURS.So, the main character should be viewed as a basic person who lost his family and is loosing more and more of his soul as time goes by and he pursues his vengeance... as soon as you attach a Citizenship (American) and a Name (Guy) to his personna he becomes the representative of a nation that has been policing the World for its own dirty purposes for the better part of the 20th century... and then it becomes much harder to root for him... too bad ... Why is it that in every movie, the main characters have to be Americans? There are some moments during this movie that made my heart stop, like the massacre near the bus... such pain, such rage, such unrelenting hatred against the humanity itself...Either way, the film is very powerful and it depicts only a small amount of the atrocities that took place during that war... We should have learned a lesson back there... but we are at it again... I guess this is the tagline of the movie War is bad... war is in our nature... WE ARE BAD! "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is a film everybody should see. It is a truly mind opener for anybody who does not know what ethnic conflicts and war does with peoples minds. I did not think that this film would be that good when I rented it, but this is a film that stays in your mind forever and makes you think in a different way for the rest of your life. A must see masterpiece for short. "},{"Title":"A Truly Phenomenal Film","Date":"4 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Disturbing and gut-wrenching are frequent adjectives used to describe SAVIOR. I agree without hesitation, but it's important to remember that, particularly in its conclusion, SAVIOR is also both heart-warming and gratifying. I have seen very few films that juxtapose these various qualities so well.This is one of Quaid's finest performances as Joshua Guy Rose, a former U.S. Army officer who joins the Bosnian Serb Army for the simple reason that they are fighting against Moslems, a religion that, for reasons the film reveals, he's come to hate. He soon finds himself the unwitting savior of Vera, a Serbian woman played with utter conviction by Natasa Ninkovic, and her child conceived through rape by former Bosnian captors. The symbolism of the half-Serb, half-Bosnian child shines through very well. Settings are also worthy of note The Bosnian sequences were filmed right next door in Montenegro, and the whole sense-of-place adds as much immediate realism to this film as the superb acting.There are some rather heated debates on IMDb's Discussion Board regarding what SAVIOR supposedly says about the war in Bosnia and how it portrays Serbs, Croats, and Moslems. Obviously, way too much has been read into the fact that the director is Serbian-born. Certain events and portrayals will inevitably upset citizens of the former Yugoslav republics who were victimized during the wars in the 1990s. However, the basic focus of this film is as nonpartisan as it can possibly be. If anything, SAVIOR overdoes the point that Bosnian Serbs, Croats, and Moslems all committed acts of both horrific cruelty and extreme compassion. In the words of one character, I am Croat, my wife, Serb. Before the war, no difference. Now, stupid! "},{"Title":"There Are Anti-War Films and Then There Are Anti-War Films.","Date":"23 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" In war movies of the more thoughtful sort, like Saving Private Ryan, the protagonist and his friends have a goal. They rush toward it, enduring one conflict after another along the way, losing friends and sometimes the hero himself. In commercial pap, Rambo races towards the goal, is captured and tortured, escapes, and wreaks revenge. And Errol Flynn, no matter the tribulations, will wipe out the Japanese radio station and take the airfield.This movie, about the tribal warfare in the former Yugoslavia between the Serbs, the Croats, and the Muslims, doesn't adhere to the usual conventions. Dennis Quaid, older and lumpier, escapes American justice and finds himself a mercenary for the Serbs while in the French Foreign Legion. The ethnic cleansing that goes on is so general that at times it's hard to keep track of who's expelling or executing whom.One of his assignments is to pick up a Serbian woman who has been held captive by the Muslims and was deliberately made pregnant by them. Her pregnancy is intended as an insult to the Serbs and especially to the woman's family. Quaid's Serbian companion receives the insult exactly as intended. They stop the car in a tunnel and the companion kicks the woman brutally in the stomach, bringing on labor, and is about to shoot and kill both her and her baby before being shot by Quaid.Quaid drives her to her family's humble farm. The father, finding her with a Muslim baby, throws her out. The goal has been achieved. As in a typical action movie, Quaid has escorted his ward and her baby from Point A -- the prisoner exchange bridge -- to Point B -- her home. But the movie isn't nearly over. It's barely begun.Quaid drives her and the baby away, not quite knowing what to do with them, and they're both a big problem for him. The mother -- an entirely ordinary-looking woman -- hates the baby and refuses to breast feed it. She doesn't speak at all. And the baby girl herself isn't the cute kind that is likely to milk sympathy from Quaid even if not from the mother. It's a nuisance. She cries constantly because she's not fed, until Quaid improvises an instrument out of a milk bottle and a condom. She soils her wrap and Quaid curses while he washes the garment in an icy river.I don't think I'll go on with the plot. There's very little gore but an abundance of savagery and murder. And it all takes place on gravel roads, wet streets, and skies the color of dirty wool, whipped by an frigid mid-winter wind. It was mostly shot in Montenegro, near the Albanian border.I was in Albania once -- for about thirty seconds -- but it was summer, the skies were blue and the sun was warm. Nothing looked as dreary and unpromising as this. I was in Yugoslavia too, when it was one nation and Tito was in power. There wasn't this sort of insanity going on because Tito would never have permitted it. All the rules seemed to be observed. When a wedding party and its band marched through the streets of Skopje, nobody stepped off the sidewalk because a police officer would dash over and bang the miscreant's shins with his baton. Yugoslavia was a socialist dictatorship. Yet, watching this, one wonders which political arrangement is better. Maybe Thomas Hobbes was right. In some countries anyway, a strong leader is required to keep the public from each others' throats. Maybe a certain level of political evolution is necessary before ethnic or regional allegiances can be subjugated to those of the nation itself. There is, of course, no guarantee. America had its own Civil War.At any rate, I've never seen such a powerful anti-war statement before, or any movie within the genre that's quite so original in so many ways. There SHOULD be a developing romance between Quaid and the woman he's trying to save -- and there isn't. The woman herself should at least be saved -- but that doesn't happen either.It's a film made for adults and you're likely to forget in a hurry, or at least try to. Anti-war movies are supposed to end with the good guys winning. The audience should never have to leave the theater confused, as they do here and, rarely, in movies like The Bridge on the River Kwai. "},{"Title":"very good film.","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Bel film, is clearly much more spectacular of others. The trouble is that there is the category of nostalgia, still anchored to the past that can not see the newer versions and then criticize harshly. Then there are just horrible comments under my own, if reject this movie should automatically reject the other 3 is a mechanism. What is the standard series. Violent scenes and events that unfortunately show the terrible ethnic cleansing in yugoslavia married with a desire for revenge of the viewer and the Quaid. Dennis quaid is a grat actor. beautiful film. As to the usual one, the usual negative comments which talk about a classical film some years 80 which everyone does not like it to the nostalgic ones are met.Sure Heros that this film had to have a judgment in this site. In fact reviewers' good part has put a high vote to the previous episodes. Because this contrast? I know the reason. Since assumptive reviewers' good part favorably sees the past and as the past is better than the present they have given several credit to the preceding episodes being still the last episode more explosive and spectacular. At this point should reject also the old episodes but there are here two weights and two measure.In fact also cinema masterpieces have been criticized and denigrated. Good part some reviewers of this site belong to the very bad reviewers. Better think separately with its head. "},{"Title":"powerful, terrible and madly beautiful film","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" It is a pity that such powerful, terrible and madly beautiful film has not received any Oscar. Personally I them would give the whole 4. For the best script to American Robert Orru, for the best female role of the foreground to Natasha Ninkovich (Belief), for the best man's role of second plan Dennis Quaid (Josh) and for the best soundtrack. Considered Earlier, that  Schindler's List  - the heaviest film about war. But after Savior I in general any time was in a stupor. I consider from the best as film and add to the collection. Film is ideally sustained. And in the end will not begin to cry at all only heartless. Film not only about war, it also about paternity. Bravo !!! I too advise all more often to look the European cinema! 10 from 10 "}{"Title":"Great movie, but depressing","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I just have seen this movie and i have to confess i was crying at the end. The first 10 minutes decide the protagonist future, his fate depends on what he does after that. It's a war movie, it's a human condition movie, I couldn't decide, but If you want to know was it the war real stuff you should watch this film. The war scenes really gave my the creeps, they feel so real. This movie make you anger, love, hate, happy and finally understand. If you ask for some similar movie I should say the child's of the man(2006), so you know what to expect. It's not a movie you want to see with your entire family because the cruelty. I recommend it for everybody who likes the war, cruel movies but with a final human feeling lesson. "},{"Title":"A man,dehumanized by death of young wife and daughter, travels a difficult path back to regain his ability to love again.","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I am astounded by those who see this mainly as some sort of pro or con statement on the Balkan wars. It seems clearly about loss of a man's soul to sorrow and his road back to redemption. The violence, although frighteningly real, exists in the film as both the problem and solution for the main character. Indiscriminate hatred and violent atrocities against all humanity provide the locomotion, propelling this gripping drama to a bitter-sweet ending. There is alway a bias from those who have actually lived the history of these times and they feel it is incumbent on them to point out the factual errors--and perhaps they should. I know a few people from New Orleans who hated the exaggerations and misinformation in the movie The Big Easy. I am not from New Orleans and enjoyed the film. Movies are not documentaries unless they state they are documentaries--and even then you can never be sure of unbiased facts (Michael Moore). Savior may have used the Balkan violence as an environment to place his story about Guy. It could have been Korea, Germany, Iraq and been just as effective. The big picture was certainly not about Croasian or Serbian morality. It was about one very troubled man's trek to find peace within himself. "},{"Title":"Undoubtly Good one","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I should have seen it at least 3 times on my cable. Something attracted me that kept glued to the film till the end. The human value with its high and low at the war time is well depicted. The performance by the cast is excellent. u will find yourself involved into the story much as the story goes ahead. The baby is so cute, and they have made it to act so nicely. Not a fun time film. but a film to be spend when u feel like watching a good one. A film sure to be not missed out. u will like it for sure. special mention the actor deserves. u could find his eyes speak the most. the fear for the child's life, and the last scenes were really shot nicely. the song the mother sings towards the end of the film when the terrorists keep killing the travelers does not only make the child to put into sleep, but am sure your viewers throats would have become harder.~mothish babu~ "},{"Title":"Second Showing","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I just saw this film again. It's not what a lot of bigots believe, about religion and supposed excesses of religion. It's more broad based covering all the negative aspects of the human psyche that stop us from focusing on ourselves as human rather than chunks of meat to the slaughter. It's not Quaid, the mercenary, who's the Savior. It's the small baby he can't abandon, left to his care by the woman who sacrificed herself for both of them, man and child. To hell with which side or psyche one belongs - the future is in the innocence hope represents. "},{"Title":"Horrifying, yet wonderfully made!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The great Oliver Stone has done it again! Savior is one of the most horrifying, yet wonderfully made movie I have ever seen! With it's realism it captures you in a world of war with a feeling that you are really standing right in the middle of it. In my opinion this movies is a must see, but it is not a movie for a date, a romantic moment or the family get-together. It is a movie that will bring you moments of extreme horror, sadness and tears with a realism that is rarely seen in movies today, and it is a movie that will leave you with open eyes and your head spinning. "},{"Title":"Three-way hatred","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The hatred between Serbs and Muslims in wartorn Bosnia was shown.It also shows the Croats involvement in a massacre of muslims, which sadly was only too common during this war. This was further compounded by Vera's execution when she sang a Serb folk tune in order to keep her baby from crying, being discovered and suffering a similar fate.The Balkans are a hotpot with the orthodox Serbs, catholic Croats and muslims all struggling to live together. "},{"Title":"A great movie A savage, moving exploration of one man's soul.","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This movie, set in wartime Bosnia, examines the soul of one man, an American who twisted by an act of terrorism in his own country joins the Foreign Legion.  With a hatred for Muslims he joins the Serbs in their ethnic cleansing.  The film takes a twist when decides he must redeem himself by saving the half Muslim baby of a Serbian refugee.  The haunting music in the massacre on the shore scene will stick in my mind for a long time; this movie is a must see and provides a stark look at the realities of modern Europe. "},{"Title":"William Moser is right about releasing it in America","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Right now, in California at the time of this review, it is 955 pm. Savior ended about 15 minutes ago. It's probably Dennis Quaid's best performance yet and it made me wonder why he doesn't do more movies. I never gave much thought to the war in Bosnia. I saw this on HBO and I wished it was released in theaters. (sigh) Oh well. In conclusion, Savior is a poignant story of the atrocities suffered in Bosnia and of the sacrifices people have to make in dire circumstances. I give it an A-. "},{"Title":"The best non-Yugoslav movie about the Yugoslav civil war","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  ``Savior`` is the best Antonijevic`s movie to date.It gives the audience a true and honest view of the Yugoslav civil war. The guilt is rightfully divided between involved sides and the authors avoid the mistake of defending only one side.The compelling subject is shaped in the form of America cinema`s rudimentary genres of western and road-movie with a light touch of simple old school storytelling. The script is great,well-plotted and with effective dialogues. Photography is done with lots of knowledge and the feeling for both the genre and the lovely natural scenery. Roles by Quaid,Trifunovic and the leading lady Ninkovic are appealing and they make the whole effort worthwhile. Antonijevic`s direction is masterful and built not only around knowledge but also around the sheer love for cinema. A ***1/2 out of **** experience... "},{"Title":"An excellent start, but room for improvement","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Savior is the first western film of its kind.  The movie shows that war in the former Yugoslavia was not black and white, i.e., the conflict was not one of good versus evil but rather that all sides - including Croats and Muslims - shared in the atrocities committed.The film lacks in fully understanding the ethnic peoples of the region, however it still is groundbreaking in its non-simplistic 'gray' portrayal of the war rather than other films that depict the combatants as 'good' or 'evil.'It is unfortunate that Savior was not made before 1995, while the Bosnian War was still being fought, it would have definitely helped to open viewers' eyes to the reality of the war. "}{"Title":"A fantastic movie.  It should be shown in the states.","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I saw this movie in Beograd with Serbian friends.  This is a must movie!!   It should be seen by those in the states who have not given much thought to  the problems in the Former Yugoslavia.  The best movie I've seen!  "},{"Title":"A must see....","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I've watched this film several times, the first time being in the late 90's, and then again just recently. It's truly an outstanding film that depicts the horrors faced by civilians in all wars, and how conflict and human suffering brings out both the best and worst in us.My wife is a Croatian citizen, and her family fled the country in the early 90's when the region first began to break apart, just hours away from being swept up into the war themselves. She was a teenager at the time, and she once told me that no one believed that the war would actually escalate so far, until before they realized it, a battle was being fought in the neighboring town a few miles away. Her parents made a wise decision to drop everything, grab the kids, and head for the border... Someone told them that just hours after they left, the roads out were blocked, and men were being conscripted into the army to fight. Fight for what? Her mother is a catholic Croatian and her father is an orthodox Serbian. Now all of a sudden, they are supposed to be enemies? A tale played out over and over in human history, yet we still have not learned our lesson.I also had the chance to visit the region, specifically Croatia, in 1999. Most of the parts that I visited were still in shambles, with almost every structure in ruins. Go outside and take a good look at the neighborhood that you live in. Now imagine 99% of the homes either completely leveled, or so damaged that they are uninhabitable. Anyone who thinks that war is glamorous, like Hollywood almost always portrays it, should visit a war torn country sometime. WHAT A WASTE!!! That's the Croatia that I saw in the 90's.Last month, I went back for my second visit, 7 years later. Wow, what a difference. The people of Croatia, along with the United Nations, have been busy rebuilding. Croatia is truly a beautiful country. The coast is extremely beautiful, and the National parks Plitvitce and Krka are beyond words. I see hope returning to the area.... "},{"Title":"Great, dark movie showing the tragedies of the balkan war","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Since I'm fed up with most of the movies that are presented today(mostly Hollywood trash) I really got caught on how raw and unique this movie was. A true and very scary movie showing the tragedies of the Balkan war, in a very realistic and surprising way. Not only having a different style to the movie, but also making it so realistic made me impressed. As I said, a very dark movie, but a true masterpiece. "},{"Title":"The most realistic movie I have seen set in the former Yugoslavia","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I have visited Sarajevo and other cities near-by several times in the last two years. This movie was extremely realistic in portraying the people and the cultural tension that still exists. I saw it on HBO but never saw it listed in theaters. It should be shown publicly here. Best thing that Dennis Quaid has done to date. "},{"Title":"For once a war movie without heroes","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is a movie which manages to portray the consequences of modern day war on people's lives with a degree of realism that I have yet to see in most other films of the genre - one possible exception being Kubrick's Apocalypse Now.The most tangible aspect of this realism is found in the fact that no character in the movie can claim to be a 'hero'. The concept of a 'war hero' I consider to be a dangerous pitfall, which many movies of the genre are only too happy to fall into. Probably because it makes the horrors of war slightly more meaningful - and thus bearable - if they are construed as 'obstacles', which the 'hero' must overcome in order to achieve his ultimate aim.In 'Savior', there are only victims.The movie explains this by describing war as a state of society where the ones most likely to survive are those who have let go of all values. Notice how neither Guy nor Vera - the main characters - ever fully manage to reach this state of total cynicism even though they both try. This is why a quest to regain their humanity is sure to end up victimising both of them.In summary, the main achievement of 'Savior' is in making tangible the viewpoint of Thomas Hobbes, who said that war must generally be avoided, because in war, human life is 'brutish, nasty and short'.Natasa Ninkovic deserves praise for her frighteningly believable performance as Vera.  "},{"Title":"Savior A brutal, powerful and ultimately uplifting film.","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Savior is one of the finest movies made anywhere on the planet in the past decade, and it should be required viewing by anyone interested in the Balkan crisis.  Some parts will make you shudder in horror, and others will bring you to tears.   This tale of the Bosnian civil war brings the whole, strange (for Americans), savage and sordid truths about ethnic cleansing straight into your living room via the VCR.Dennis Quaid delivers the role of a lifetime as a former U.S. government agent driven mad by grief to attack innocent Muslim worshippers at a mosque, which leads to a 6-year stint in the French Foreign Legion. Once free of his commitment to the Legion, he becomes a mercenary in Bosnia, where he continues his vengeance campaign against Muslims.But as Quaid finds out, his allies can be scummier than his foes; this is the setup of Savior, wherein Quaid redeems his humanity to save a helpless baby, yet another victim of the nameless war.One thing that Roger Ebert doesn't mention The guys with the hammers are Croats, not Serbs or Bosniaks (Muslims).  You will understand this reference once you see the film -- and you should.  It is a brutal scene; I have experienced nothing like it in the cinematic vein since Sophie's Choice. "},{"Title":"Stunning","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is so far the third movie based from the Bosnian/Serb war, that I've seen.  It is so far also the best.  Dennis Quaid did so well a job, I'd almost think this is the best movie of his career.  It does seem a little confusing though towards the end, but overall I give it sadly a 10 out of 10.  Saying sadly cause I wish it never happened at all.  The way the serb/albanian war is going on as well.  This movie gives a whole new perspective on the war.  "},{"Title":"Not for fainthearted","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is a film with a strong and universal message. You learn that the state will change if the trait is there, no matter how hard one is affected. Kudos for Oliver Stone and non-Yugoslav (Serbian?) cast who were brave enough to participate in this pre - 9/11 project (things seem to change diametrically after this date), and performed masterfully at that. One could argue that there is some artificial even-handiness in this film, but without this, the film could have been labelled as 'propaganda'. Now, this is a well-balanced story that takes you for an emotional roller-coaster ride and leaves you shaken at the end. "},{"Title":"Won't forget this movie","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Not what I expected to see and so much better for it. This movie drops you into a life that I've read about and thought I had a grasp of until I saw the pictures. The acting is supreme - you never question that each scene has been lived through by many. All involved deserve much credit for making this picture.  "},{"Title":"Not for the faint-hearted","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  A very good presentation of the ambiguities of the conflicts in the former Yugoslavia.  No one comes out a hero. The attitudes of the Serbs in this movie make it easy to understand how the whole mess started.  The sadism of the Croatians at the end of the movie make you wonder if it will ever end. "}{"Title":"You will never forget this movie","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Haunting, powerful, extremely well directed and acted, a real sleeper that should have been nominated for awards seeing the crap that mostly is nominated now days. Forget Kinski; she's a throwaway part and is the only jarring note to this movie; crass commercialism where they fool you by paying some well-known name-brand has been to pop up and do basically a cameo. The music is perfect, and haunting, the location sets perfect, the subject, the Bosnia-Herzogovina-Serbia war fascinating and the effort by the director not to take too obvious a side makes the film perfect. Grown men will cry, women will weep copiously and little children have nightmares for life.  "},{"Title":"A Message of Hope, in One of the Saddest and Very Violent Anti-War Movie","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Minor SpoilersJoshua Rose (Dennis Quaid) is an American military living outside USA with his wife Maria (Nastassia Kinski) and his young son Christian. In an criminal assault, a bomb explodes in the bar where he left his family a moment ago. After seeing their dead bodies, Joshua gets crazy, goes to a Muslim temple and kills the prayers with his pistol. Some time later, Joshua is a mercenary in the Foreign Legion, having a new identity (Guy), and is being  trained as a sniper. He goes to the Balkans and fights in the Serbian side, shooting Muslims as a kind of payback. Guy goes with the Serb Goran (Sergei Trifunovic) in a mission of exchange of prisoners-of-war, and they bring the pregnant Serb Vera (Natasa Ninkovic) with them. Vera was raped by the Muslims and got pregnant, and Goran, who knew her family and her before the war, does not accept her pregnancy and decides to kill her, kicking her belly. Guy shoots Goran and saves Vera and she immediately delivers a baby girl. Vera does not accept the baby and her family expels Vera and the baby from their home and Guy decides to get them to an UN camp. In their journey, Guy recovers his humanity through the contact with that rejected baby girl. Yesterday I saw this spectacular movie for the third time. Although having maybe two of the most impressive and violent scenes I have ever seen, when Goran kicks the pregnant belly of Vera and the massacre in the bus, it has a wonderful message of love. The redemption of Guy as a human being is not corny and is remarkable. It is impossible not to cry after watching such a story. I am a great fan of Dennis Quaid, and his performance in this movie is really outstanding. Along the last days, I decided to review my movies about the Balkans war, and I realized that all of them are excellent and highly recommended `Harrison Flowers', `Vukovar', `Pretty Village, Pretty Flame', `Shot Through the Heart' and `Welcome to Sarajevo' on VHS, and `Savior' on DVD. They have different approaches of this sad war. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) `Savior &#150; A Última Guerra' (`Savior &#150; The Last War')  "},{"Title":"AWESOME Movie","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" As others have said,EASILY Quaids BEST work. During this period it was tough due to the DNA Stainer's position on the Serbs to get anything that showed the Muslim's atrocities. It was ALL anti Serb All the time and basically negative PR Crap. Many of us were there and we have 2400 troops still there. A friend of mine was Commanding General of all US Forces in Yugo, first name David, look it up. The Serbs were our ALLIES all through WW2 and the others as seen in the Movie Force 10 From Navarone were all Nazi loving death camp makers. LOOK IT UP, there were many massive death camps in Yugo, ALL run by the Muslims. I love it when a movie or documentary, or docu drama comes out from the OTHER point of view. Too bad it didn't get more awards or money. "},{"Title":"if you are into war movies this is a unique MUST","Date":"20 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" It is a very moving yet hollow looking tale of humanity that will have you feel for other people around this world. The topic is awesome as the Serbian conflict is the most vicious disturbance since ww2. The director being Serbian adds to the factor that this flick goes beyond classes and sides it is a sheer reality of us all as one, putting this place on the map for many people, as it puts Dennis on the map for me. I particularly think that it IS the best film of his so END of story, Cinematography added with beautiful scenery creates a nice contrast.If you are into war movies such as (without any order)...apocalypse now, platoon, saving private Ryan, FMJ, thin red line, enemy at the gates, etc...then this is a definite go-go and will show a side none of the above show with this tint. "},{"Title":"Simply Awesome !","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Of the best of movies I've ever watched. The only movie thats ever made me cry... Must watch, though not a Hollywood movie ! Needs a bit of patience too, though, trust me its simply worth it. Starts with a demoted soldier, doing sorta soul searching. And then he's involved with this baby and woman in the Bosnian civil war. To start with, the baby's just a nuisance to them, then he's influenced and finally greatly moved. He fights odds to get the baby and the mother out alive. Towards the end, the mother sacrifices her life for the baby. This one scene is worth a hundred Pianists ! ....................................... "},{"Title":"Savior","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I was surprised amidst all of the praise for Quaid's acting, all of it richly deserved, to see at the same time so little for that of Natasa Ninkovic, equally brilliant, disciplined, and deeply moving. The bitterness, pain, and grief that she communicates wordlessly, the utterly credible movement of the heart as she begins to relinquish it, her heroism in the end, I found so devastating that it would be very hard indeed to find anything comparable in the films of the past few years. (It seems worth adding that she is also incredibly beautiful, one of the most haunted and haunting faces I've ever seen.) The tension between Quaid's character, for whose emergent humanity she feels as an intrusion on her grief, and this ravaged soul who struggles against her own decency, strength, and capacity for hope, are striking for the sparenesss of the way it's enacted, and are sufficiently memorable that even in the midst of the carnage, hate, and cruelty of a war that seems to originate in a collective pathology, the goodness of the these two people are what I will remember from this tragic, beautiful, honest movie. "},{"Title":"not only the movie, but also this soundtrack","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  After I saw the VHS with my brother, I had a good first impression. But what I remembered above all else was the very nice music soundtrack. So I searched for the soundtrack CD everywhere only to find that it didn't exist. My only choice was to buy the DVD. Since then I watched the movie many times and I have to say that it does not only deserve a good impression, it's one of the best movie ever! "},{"Title":"Good films that don't set out to entertain.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  A powerful use of film dedicated to conveying the cruelty, stupidity  and ultimately the unchanging character of violence. I had no prior knowledge and therefore no expectation. Upon viewing I discovered a film that although containing scenes of a very graphic nature was compelling. For me the essential take from this movie was that there is still a place for film to convey a strong message rather than simply to entertain. Personally I found the contents far too shattering to find this film entertaining in the conventional way. It is a pity that this important film seems to have slipped rather effortlessly beneath the water and plunged to a great depth where only movie fans wearing diving suits and oxygen will be able to raise it for the occasional airing. Performances are even and Dennis Quaid manages to put across a man who having  abandoned the human race finds it again amongst the sheer mindless horror of war. It is also appealing to find actors willing to to understate their performance so that the essential message isn't over powered. Saviour is a move that sets out to reveal the blackest side of the human experience and never flinches from the responsibility of taking on such a task. "},{"Title":"Saving Grace  Superb Acting, heart wrenching storyline","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Overall, a well made movie.  Newcomer Natasa Ninkovic was superb and believeable as the 'Fallen Serb Woman who finds her own redemption and Dennis Quaid was great as the mercenary who also finds his own redemption in saving the baby from a life of war, death and destruction.  Great Movie =)) "},{"Title":"A must to see","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Anyone who is interested in war films should go out and rent / buy this movie. The bosnian war at its worst in this one. The beginning is a bit unlikely - but it is probably there to give some background for the main character. Other than that, the movie is very realistic in its presentation of the hatred between moslims & serbs in the Bosnian war. There is no reason, just hatred. Anyone breeding hate against another race should be made to watch this movie a few times over.  "}{"Title":"Numbing but rewarding","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This movie was the last thing I ever expected Channel 5 (UK) to show.  It would be more at home on BBC2 or Channel 4.  For that reason, I expect it didn't get the TV audience it deserves.I couldn't really fault it -- except to say that it is a depressing depiction of man's inhumanity to man.  Dennis Quaid is just perfect as the damaged mercenary, running on automatic pilot until his encounter with the pregnant Vera.The ending is a small ray of hope in an otherwise emotionless landscape of killing and hate.  I would recommend this film to anyone with a shred of intelligence and compassion, though I doubt if those that need to see it will stay the course.  "},{"Title":"A cool change of pace for war films.","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Focusing on the human aspect of war really does work for this film. Although it doesn't have much going for it commercially it is a winner. Dennis Quaid is unexpectedly good and anchors the film as it's center. He alone makes this film watchable in an otherwise unknown group of actors.Why this film didn't get a wider release in New Zealand is beyond me! ***1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"An impressive film","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This film is very good. It resonates much like the Dance of the Wolves. Even though it doesn't have a big budget, it succeeds extremely well in illustrating the Bosnian war, the brutality and the blind hatred, and one man's journey from the death of his loved ones to his redemption at the end. The plot is not very complex, but the story is very complicated. There are many symbolisms and messages that you will need to pay attention to; there is a lot more to the movie than what meets the eyes. Every scene has a special message that you will really need to analyze in order to understand why they are showing you what they are showing you. There are also a lot of conflicts on ideology and ethics in this film. I also thought that Dennis Quaid is superb in this film. He succeeds in brining a subtle emotional depth to a person who is supposedly numbed by his experience with deaths. However, if you just sit there passively, this movie will really try your patience. If I want to make a criticism, it will be the budget. This film was probably (surely...?) made on a limited budget and it showed. Other than that, this is a great film! "},{"Title":"Excellent film dark, violent but extraordinarily transcendent","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Evidently direct to video, an undiscovered gem...both storytelling & acting. Far superior to 95% of the material which makes it way to all the megaplexes.  Dennis Quaid's odyssey from Home to War to Death (the Executioner's Tale....Why, all things are possible...no right, no wrong) and back Home again, to discover it for the first time. Very intense; very worthwhile!  "},{"Title":"disturbingly accurate","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  great movie , quaid is excellent. a great movie about hate and redemption, if you like this one try american history x. the scenes of quaid shooting the muslim that was praying was stunning and shocking this is a brutal portrayal but war is hell "},{"Title":"This is an amazing movie. It should be better known.","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This movie amazed me. I decided to watch it because it was about the war in Bosnia, and I had recently read some books about the breakup of Yugoslavia. The first 20 minutes of the film had me worried that it would descend into some kind of action hero claptrap. Dennis Quaid's character is an American military officer who loses his family to a terrorist attack, commits some atrocities of his own, and becomes a hard, unfeeling mercenary. After a tour with the French Foreign Legion, he finds employment helping the Bosnian Serbs kill Muslims. From this point on the movie really begins to shine. Quaid, who I never before thought of as a heavy hitter among actors, does a great job portraying a man slowly recovering his humanity amidst inhuman madness. The Slavic cast also gives wonderful, believable performances. Especially Nastasa Ninkovic (Vera). This movie has scenes of horror and despair, as well as scenes of compelling poignancy and basic humanity. It's also one of those rare movies that breaks away from the usual Hollywood storytelling stereotypes.I couldn't stop thinking about Savior for days. It's not a fun movie (in fact, there's a scene near the end that left me enraged and in tears), but it is a very worthwhile one. "},{"Title":"A realistic production","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I've seen this movie on HBO and I have to say that I was deeply impressed. As a war movies buff, this movie makes it on my Top 3 list of all time. Savior projected the reality of war so clear that I was shocked by it, and that after seeing hundreds of war movies. Dennis Quaid surprised me also with its astonishing performance. I was used to see him in kids movies and now he's my war movie hero. "},{"Title":"Anti-violence film not for the faint-hearted.","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Happily married father loses family to violence and becomes a very violent mercenary. Later in Bosnia he finds redemption. We saw this film a year ago and still think of it when a news story shows some jingoistic politician rattling a saber. Savior is a thought provoking film that should have been shown on a broader scale. I only saw it to rent. I rate this movie a nine. "},{"Title":"Who is the Savior?","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  A movie that makes you feel and makes you think and feels like a realistic portrait of war.  Like one of the other reviewers, I also like to think the baby is the Savior.  But you can debate who the title most accurately refers to.  One of my favorite movies in a very long time. "},{"Title":"depressing but very well done","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I rented this on a whim (knew nothing about it) and was blown away.  Of course, I was crying my eyes out.  I don't feel the film is sentimental but a powerful reminder of the meaninglessness of war.  Plus the fact that the film was shot in Montenegro, Yugoslavia and uses many local actors gives it a realistic feel. "}{"Title":"Great depiction of war","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I was truly disturbed by this movie. I think the portrayal of the war was realistic and show how in war there is truly no good side and innocent civilians are the ones who suffer the most. I liked the transformation of Dennis Quaid´s character was a great part of the film. I like to think of the baby as the SAVIOR of the film. "},{"Title":"Powerful, if flawed film.","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Saw this film last night on a satellite movie channel after reading reviews on IMDB. Brief thoughts. Quaid was very good as a soldier with no conscience at all. I have never sat through a film where most of the characters are as gray as the ones presented here. There's very little humour (the odd comic line seems misplaced) and, as befits a polemical film, the director hits his message home hard. My only question would be the ending. The redemption of a main character by a chance meeting is too convenient and very American in its attitude. Perhaps the film should have ended differently, but then it might have been too much to cope with for the audience. Recommended to anybody with an interest beyond populist cinema. "},{"Title":"The best picture of the mess that was/is happening in the Balkans","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I was not surprised with the horrible scenes in the movie, since I've heard or seen something like that with my eyes, but the movie has very strong anti-war message, and it's also showing very clear that there were/are no good and bad guys in the Bosnia. Those who are responsible should be in Hague, doesn't matter from which side are. Fantastic movie, I've seen it four times in the cinema. HAVE TO SEE IT! "},{"Title":"Dennis Quaid can do more than smile impishly.","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This movie clearly shows the tragedy of the Balkan War. There are no good sides. Each opponent is shown in varying degree of evil. Accustomed to Dennis Quaid in light roles where is main performance is smiling impishly, I initially thought he was mis-cast. Not so. He performed beautifully and deserves more serious roles such as this one.Who or what was the savior'? I suppose Quaid was supposed to be for saving the infant Vera. But perhaps the war itself was the savior in saving Quaid from his inhuman hate for Muslims. "},{"Title":"To all people  Watch this REAL TIME MOVIE !!!!!","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Hi, my name is gfiles,This movie Savoir is a very, very, perfect movie about Love, about The pain of War, about The REAL SOLDIER, and about the Love of the Family...FIND TIME TO WATCH THIS MOVIE -- PLEASE -) "},{"Title":"a stunning movie","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  it is no doubtone of the best movie i have ever seen but it has a biased touch against the muslims that is only objectable thing in the movie.dennis quaid is very good in his role bit the real heroine of the movie who should get the oscar is the baby vera.hope u see it "},{"Title":"Movie making at it's best","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  With the exception of the long opening scene, this is a well crafted, tight movie.  It proves that special effects, big budgets, exotic locations, and a cast of thousands are not necessary in the making of an exceptional film. The acting is superb, the plot is gripping and memorable.Grief stricken by the loss of his family to a muslim fundamentalist bombing, Quaid exacts his revenge by becoming a sniper for the Serbs in Bosnia.  The film is punctuated by scenes of cold blooded brutality, and yet his humanity returns as he tries to save a woman and her baby.  In the end the film blurs the viewers perception of the problems in Yugoslavia, there aren't any heroes, or villains, just a tragedy.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The best movie about war ever made!!","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This movie was fantastic! It really made me think about the problems in the Balkans, they had never even entered my head before. Dennis Quaid and the other actors and actresses played very realistic roles and i really felt for the characters. I have never cried as much during a movie as i did during this movie!You must see it! "},{"Title":"Stunned.","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  With good (horrible) story, this is one of the filmmaking finest!  Showing the horror of warfare up close. Dennis Quade should be rewarded for his role.  This is the best role of his career.  Truly magnificent.    "},{"Title":"Gritty, and no doubt realistic","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Wow- this film leaves you stunned. Anyone who hasn't spared much of a thought for the war in former Yugoslavia MUST see this. Although the film doesn't have much violence in it, when it comes, it is brutal. The rest of the time, there is an undercurrent of it.Brilliant acting, and leaves you breathless and wondering how people could do such awful things to one another.  "}{"Title":"superb movie, deserving of far more acclaim than it's received","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  A sobering experience which should have received a far wider cinema release than it did (a single week in the only art cinema in Dublin?!). This is a film that isn't brain-mush like 90% of the other movies shown in cinemas today. Congrats and thanks to everyone involved with this film.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" A brutal, powerful, emotional and memorable film, with totally convincing performances all round. This is one of the few films that really shows the dark side of war and doesn't need expensive tricks to do it. Instead it just relies on the truth.I feel though that the DVD was terribly spoilt by having the few non English lines subtitled (unremovable). The subs were not present in the cinema or VHS and the screenplay was obviously deliberately constructed so they would not be needed.Does anyone know of a DVD version where they weren't included or are removable? "},{"Title":"The most shocking Balkans movie","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This really changed my way of watching the war in the Balkans.There's absolutely no way you could be congenial with Joshua in his vengeance against muslim religion. Dennis Quaid with that angry dog looking that after watching him for a few minutes leads you to the conclusion that he has some serious trouble, gives us his best performance along with Traffic's. But the change of mind he suffers in the middle of the movie makes you think he is not really that bad of a person, and that anyone can change even after suffering all kind of horrible things. Also the supporting characters are at their best. I don't know what the Balkans look like but I guess they should be kind of similar to what is shown in the movie. Even the prop is great.The way it shows the hate relation between Bosnians and Serbians makes you think, wether they actually could live together in one country. The violence they treat each other and the coldness they treat their own people after being in contact with the enemy is also something to think about. Yeah, maybe, at least I think so that the subject the movie is about, how to co-habitate with the people you are told to hate. Besides of not generalizing, specially after 9/11. All I hope is that this flick is as accurate as i want it to be.So this one is a war movie without much shooting and bombing, not showing the war itself but the effects it has in the people involved. If you want to see something that will change you in some way, and if your stomach is hard enough, prepare for this one. No philosophy, certainly not shoddy, and even no low punches. After I watched it for the first time I thought, and then I only wanted to watch all over again.Now I'm just gonna try to watch No Man's Land, and THEN I'll decide if Savior is that good 'bout the Balkans. "},{"Title":"One of his best acting jobs ever.","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The story does the right thing taking an American and putting him in the middle of the Bosnia madness (American audiences more easily identify with an American hero).  The film wreaks of authenticity. However it could have done a bit more in setting up the reasons why these people are fighting. That was a bit unclear and plays into the the popular news media's usual myopic reporting of those events.  I like the fact that the central character is a capable mercenary but no Rambo. That would have ruined it. (Ironically, Rambo is incredibly well known in the former Soviet union, and frequently alluded to by ethnic fighters). Definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"The way to salvation","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  A professionally-made production, striking people's consciousness by showing the painful problems of Balkan ethnic conflicts, especially actual after Kosovo war and so-called peace-keeping operation of NATO tendentiously taking the side of one part of the conflict and blaming the other one. A realistic picture of the cruel and ugly face of the war at all. And most of all, a story about the real way human spirit must go through to its salvation - by realizing that the evil that one can see around very often turnes out a mirror reflection of his deeds or intentions.  "},{"Title":"Haunting,Moving,Thought Provoking,Excellent","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This has to be the most haunting and thought provoking film that i have ever seen. I know there has been war films before but to see the brutal acts of war (rape,torture,cold blooded murder)and to think that these things happened only a few years ago and that fact that this has yet again happened in Europe.And the reason for all this terror Religion.However there is another time and place for the politics of the film.The performances were brilliant.  Dennis Quaid proved that not all American actors are rubbish and Natasa Ninkovic performance as Vera was so moving that my eyes even filled up11 out of 10!!!  "},{"Title":"Very touching","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  As this film is about two nations,that I think are very distant to the makers,I must say it was beautifully made and acted by an American lead Quaid(who was in Belgrade for premiere).To me this film was only too short,I think it would've been even better if it was a little longer and I mean before her death...This movie doesn't say who was the good,or the bad guy in that war,the both sides were the same,some of them were good,and some of them not.It's simple the film about human relations between two totally different people during the war.The war that had no point,like any other war. "},{"Title":"Unflinching, overlooked war classic","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Savior is not an easy film to watch. At times it's downright excruciating. But it's also beautiful, and takes its subject matter very, very seriously, with not a cliché in sight for the entire duration. It's also has the best Dennis Quaid performance in his whole career. He is a charming, roguish guy known for his million dollar smile and good natured way. Here he drops all of that for a solemn, tortured turn that leaves your heart in a vice grip and your hands gripping the chair. He plays a military operative whose wife (Natassja Kinski) and little son are slaughtered in a terrorist bombing in Paris. He promptly walks down the street to the nearest mosque, enters and shoots everyone in the place. That's in the first ten minutes of the film. As an escape route he enters a special faction of the French Foreign Legion with his buddy (Stellan Skarsgaard in an excellent but quick appearance), whose task it is to bring some kind of order to the war against n Bosnia. There he finds himself the caretaker of a Bosnian girl who was raped and is pregnant with a Muslim child. Their journey across a ruined, confusing, harrowing country in crisis is one that will give you nightmares. But amidst the horror there is humanity, and a sense that he's trying to find the force within himself, and right his path to help this girl as best he can. There are no good guys or bad guys in this one. Just people swept up by conflict and hate against their will, in constant danger of the raging genocidal fury that lies just outside their door. Quaid steers the film with his rock jawed, stoic intensity, and the girl, played by is phenomenal, her last scene a haunting exodus that will leave you with goosebumps to go along with your nausea. This is a brutal, brutal movie though. Not even in the sense of the specific violence they show, it's the cold, frank context of it that gets under the skin of your soul. But it shows that even a person who emerges from a violent, scorched past into an environment like that can make somewhat of a difference. Very overlooked war film that shows war with no filter, no glossy heroics. Just what it is. "},{"Title":"A Tale to Tell","Date":"23 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This movie is simply put astounding as far as anti war emotions goes. Quaid's character actually puts you in awestruck......WOW!This is one of those films which you should see alone only in order to capture the very essence of humanity with a broader spectrum of emotion. The end narrates beautifully the everlasting battle of life & death.I was fourteen when I first saw this movie and even after 11 long years it kept me captivated in the very essence of human joyousness. I wonder why Dennis Quaid is up with the G.I.Joe thing, instead a actor of his quality should excel in doing roles which explores humanity even in the darkest quarter of life.This cinema is one fine example of story telling. A 8 out of 10 for me. "},{"Title":"A true war story","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The quality of this film is not measured by it's oversights and errors but of the moments of brilliance. Dennis Quaid does seem to drift in and out of his best acting - who knows why - and some of the scenes are pure Hollywood convenience. But at other times the film is tight and suspense is built superbly without using dialogue. Oliver Stone is truly a master.The truth in this film is so apparent that you get the feeling that this story could be superimposed onto any war in history. The immediate black and white moral decisions that people face in war are displayed clearly; if a mistake is made, you die, that's all there is to it; knowing when assistance cannot be given is a skill to be learned; and in the end you realise that people will do it all again, having learned nothing.After toying briefly in the beginning with political world comment, this film steers clear of further judgements and side taking and moves skillfully along a path of a true people story. "}{"Title":"One of the best of its kind - no Hollywood here","Date":"7 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Guy(Quaid, transforming from someone on the brink of being completely desensitized, to regaining his humanity - something that is hard to come by, in these circumstances; note he's the only name in this with a large role) has to choose between two lives his buddy and the very pregnant Vera(Ninkovic, doing incredible, much of her performance without words). He turns his back on the French foreign legion, and makes it his mission to keep the mother and her infant alive. This is all in the middle of the battles in Bosnia, where even children civilians may be targeted. How can they possibly make it?This is among the best anti-war films, up there with both versions, 1930 and 1979, of All Quiet On The Western Front. It is brutally honest about the numerous atrocities of the conflict, including the fact that both sides took part in them - this does not take sides, nor does it paint anyone as good or evil. The rape of the enemy's women, leading to them getting cut off by their family, the mass executions and the sheer random luck of it all. It uses powerful contrasts, such as life and death. It's no wonder that Oliver Stone produced this, otherwise leaving the work largely to those from the region. This is mostly silent in the middle, and does not subtitle the non-English spoken unless one of the Westerners understands it, making it all the more effectively alienating. The 96 minute running time, or 99 with credits, is gripping, with many sequences of tension.There is a lot of disturbing, violent content throughout this, and you will need time afterwards to calm back down. The DVD comes with interviews with Dennis Quaid(2 minutes) and Stellan Skarsgard(3 minutes), and trailers for Halloween H20, The Big Lebowski and 54. I recommend this to anyone who can handle it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Like all Brilliance; flawed","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The film lurches from the beginning with no purpose (and feels like a straight-to video film. However upon the birth of the Bastard-Muslim child the film suddenly finds purpose and direction. This I would recommend to anyone who thinks too deep and likes a good cry at a definitely, non-Hollywood film.Think about what is happening on the Doorsteps of Europe. "},{"Title":"Unflinching, overlooked war classic","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Savior is not an easy film to watch. At times it's downright excruciating. But it's also beautiful, and takes its subject matter very, very seriously, with not a cliché in sight for the entire duration. It's also has the best Dennis Quaid performance in his whole career. He is a charming, roguish guy known for his million dollar smile and good natured way. Here he drops all of that for a solemn, tortured turn that leaves your heart in a vice grip and your hands gripping the chair. He plays a military operative whose wife (Natassja Kinski) and little son are slaughtered in a terrorist bombing in Paris. He promptly walks down the street to the nearest mosque, enters and shoots everyone in the place. That's in the first ten minutes of the film. As an escape route he enters a special faction of the French Foreign Legion with his buddy (Stellan Skarsgaard in an excellent but quick appearance), whose task it is to bring some kind of order to the war against n Bosnia. There he finds himself the caretaker of a Bosnian girl who was raped and is pregnant with a Muslim child. Their journey across a ruined, confusing, harrowing country in crisis is one that will give you nightmares. But amidst the horror there is humanity, and a sense that he's trying to find the force within himself, and right his path to help this girl as best he can. There are no good guys or bad guys in this one. Just people swept up by conflict and hate against their will, in constant danger of the raging genocidal fury that lies just outside their door. Quaid steers the film with his rock jawed, stoic intensity, and the girl, played by is phenomenal, her last scene a haunting exodus that will leave you with goosebumps to go along with your nausea. This is a brutal, brutal movie though. Not even in the sense of the specific violence they show, it's the cold, frank context of it that gets under the skin of your soul. But it shows that even a person who emerges from a violent, scorched past into an environment like that can make somewhat of a difference. Very overlooked war film that shows war with no filter, no glossy heroics. Just what it is. "},{"Title":"Dennis Quaid is great in a tough, but rewarding war film.","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Dennis Quaid (Switchback, Dragonheart) stars as a man who witnessed his wife and son blown up in a bomb attack.  After seeing this he turns into a mercenary of sorts and loses all emotion.  Until he comes upon a woman pregnant from a rape.  Quaid feels a bit of compassion and takes her to her home after he is forced to deliver the baby himself.  She is kicked out of her house and Quaid again decides to take her, this time to a refugee camp. It is on this trip that Quaid regains his feelings for life as he begins to bond with the woman and child.  This description might make the film sound like a bit of a feel-good movie.  It's not, their are several disturbing scenes of violence, including against chldren.  Still the film is rewarding as it does give you a glimpse of some of the horrors of the middle-east and allows for you to see a man change.  I have always liked Dennis Quaid and here he gives what might be his best performance.  He is good, but not great as the emotionless mercenary, but once he meets the woman and baby, his performance becomes superb as the character changes.  I read a couple of early Oscar reports that had his name mentioned for this movie.  Although he didn't receive a nomination he probably deserved one, though not the Oscar itself (nothing could beat Edward Norton in American History X).  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"About war not about the ex-Yougoslavia war","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  What is Savior ? First of all, it's an excellent war movie, tough as reality can be, without all the stuff and all the magnificent heroes usually shown by Hollywood movies (We were soldiers, etc.). But, after the movie was finished, I had to watch it again because the story sounded strange... The movie deals with the war in ex-Yougoslavia and illustrates all aspects of it. Serbs, Bosniacs, Croats have victims whatever their belief and their culture, suffering from the madness of war... and the slow progression of the main character, trapped in an insane 'will to kill', from hate to humanity, is truly moving. But, apart the fact some elements are merely commercial (the beginning with N.Kinski, the US nationality of the main character) made to attract US watchers, the movie has a main drawback  the balance is not fair.- Excepted the old man married to a Serb, the only Croats depicted in the movie are barbarians committing a mass murder (the climax of the movie). - Bosniacs, as Muslims, are the ones who initiate the war process in the movie (bomb attack in Paris) and are shown killing civilian Serbs (mass murder in a village) - Serbs are also acting vs Bosniacs but never a serb is directly shown as a killer  the old woman is, factually, killed by the helo bombing ; the muslim child on the bridge is killed bu a US wardog. Above all, the acts of violence committed by Serbs stem from an honor code (most of time Serb versus a Serb) or are partly justified because the victim is not a real innocent (the raped muslim girl is the daughter of an exploiting man ; the Muslims killed in Paris during the prayer had weapons, etc.). there is a Serb bad guy but he looks like a ordinary student turned mad by war, aimed at protecting his land...So Savior is an excellent movie about the redemption of a man who, because he was inspired only by hate was out of humanity but perfectly adapted to a world without humanity. It's moving that the most he becomes a man, the most he suffers... But Savior is not the movie that surveys the war in ex-Yougoslavia. "},{"Title":"Great Acting from Nastassjia Kinski, inspiring movie","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This is the best movie of the serbian-bosnien war in Yugoslavija, and a great film of tragedy of inhumanity. No nation is been judged here, everyone is loaded with guilt, including the main characters. Maria is a serbian woman,daughter of serbian Partizans and has been raped several times by moslemic bosnian soldiers. After a prisoner exchange, she returned Pregnant to her home, where most people sees in here a whore.She tries to commit suicide, but Josuah could saved her. Dennis a hardened mercenary works for the serbs, is crucially shocked by the inhumanity of this war, kills one of his own mates and starts an Odyssee through the devasted country. A Movie that goes to your heart. A tremendous good performance from Nastassjia Kinski in her role as Maria. Everyone moment of the film i thought she really was Maria. Don`t watch this movie if you have weak nerves.  "},{"Title":"A brutal film with a harrowing anti-war message","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I picked Savior up at the local video shop purely because of the fact that it dealt with the break-up of Yugoslavia - a subject I study at University. I was not surprised by the level of violence which supports the film's strong anti-war message. Fantastic performances all-round, especially Dennis Quaid who is supported by the excellent script. The only thing this film has suffered from is an obviously tight budget. We need more of these type of films if cinema is going to continue in its educational role. If you enjoy this genre I suggest you see Welcome to Sarejevo also.   "},{"Title":"Hard, gritty movie that is ultimately rewarding.","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  It is not so bloody or violent as other war movies (e.g. Saving Private Ryan), yet the violent acts that are shown and left to the viewer's imagination are so appalling (the kicking in the stomach of a heavily pregnant Serb woman, the hacking off of an old grandmothers wedding finger for her ring, a baby being thrown from a fast moving car), one is left breathless and suffocated.In the end one marvels that any Serb, Croat or Bosnian can maintain any humanity amidst what they have to witness and suffer. There is little redemption, but the acting which is totally unsentimental and convincing leaves you thanking God you live in America. Dennis Quaid finally matures as an actor too. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I was lent this film and to be honest I thought no way. but having seen the film I can honestly say it may never be a classic, but It is a film that contains everything that you need for total entertainment.keep an open mind while watching. "},{"Title":"It could be better","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Yes this is a good movie but not as developed as it could be. I think it fell short for the part of audience who have been through such a tragic unbearable events and the part that have not been through such things ( hope they are more than the first category) are not able to actually touch the depth of the situation and have to rely on what they have hared and their environment. I think the writer, who has a noble sense of humanity tried to protect himself from the hurt and despair these kind of subject will cause to heart and at the same time that he was trying to develop the story. The meson scene is not as best as it could be. Some times it feels like the cast have not grasped the depth of the characters they represent. It's a very good movie but it could be better, this subject needs realistic art to be expressed thoroughly. There's a Canadian movie named shake hand with the devil which is about peace makers in Rwanda and it has expressed the subject way better than this one. If you like this movie I suggest you watch Shake Hands with the Devil . "}{"Title":"This movie is quite real to me","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time almost 3 years ago. Last year i dated this guy from Sarajevo, Bosnia. I was really close with his family and his friends, I am German yet i was greatly affected by this movie. My ex Kenan fought in the war along with his brother Keram. I asked him to watch this movie with me, and he asked me to turn it off. He said to me that this movie is very much like what Bosnia was like during the war, and he also said that the movie is sick and hurts him to see because it is so dark and real. The things that happened in the war to the croatians and bosnians were disgusting, the way that people were treated because of their non religious purity is disgusting. I wasn't there first hand but i understand of the war. It truly saddens me that such things had to happen in the first place. Kenan told me that almost every fifty years the country has a war and as far as he can remember every male in the generations in the past have had to fight in a war, here in the us we have had to fight many times to but every generation the people there had to fight. Bosnia was such a beautiful country and i am saddened byt the fact that those people have to die over and over again and their beautiful land is always turned to rubble. If you liked this movie i definitely recommend that you check out the movie Harrisons Flowers, this movie is an accurate depiction of the war, it explores a few different angles but it is quite accurate, and it is a really good movie, i actually think this movie is better but you know life doesn't always have a happy ending just like Savior doesn't. "},{"Title":"Very relevant picture for our time","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  SAVIOR is a very timely, compassionate film that helps us understand the problems developing in the Balkans since 1991. The fact that it is English, and American English at that, and has the feel of an American movie makes it very recommendable for all North Americans. Better films on the subject have been released, Vukovar and Pretty Village, Pretty Flame among them, but being subtitled films from the former Yugolavia, they did not reach a wide audience. SAVIOR is a new release on video in North America. Rent or buy it now, and see it with your family and friends, and explore this ongoing conflict afterwards. SAVIOR is a good choice for a personal discussion about one of the world's most important current events. "},{"Title":"Atrocities","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This film is a controversial one. Sadly it feels like the producers didn't dare to take it all the way, with ONE exception. The scene by the river will definitely make your conscience feel bad, your gutter twist and you won't be able to speak for minutes! Watch this film just for the atrocities shown in the river scene and remember that this is exactly what has been happening every day in Yugoslavia for the past ten years...  "},{"Title":"Brutal, poignant","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  At some point of horror the human mind seems to drop into the 'f**k it all' mode to survive.  This nadir of the spirit is starkly conveyed in 'Savior'.I travelled extensively in Yugoslavia years ago and my impression was that 'this is another planet'. . . so contrasting from comfy suburban USA, and I recognize that planet, sans war, in this film. Dennis Quaid is good, not great, here.  I find something self-conscious about his work.  Not many surprises here war's hell; innocents die; non-subtle presentation yet again by Oliver Stone. "},{"Title":"A very realistic movie about the war in former Yogoslavia, showing the Serbian atrocities against Bosnian citizens.","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is one hell of a movie. No special effects. No gizmos. No effects wizardry. No glamour. No smiling and laughing (in joy)faces. It showed what happened in the War in former Yogoslavia i;e, in Bosnia, and sadly it is happening once again. This time around, it's not Bosnia but Kosovo.I think this kind of movies should be given more coverage and exposure by the media and the studios so that more people can know (and watch) for themseleves about such events. A must see!!! "},{"Title":"Kind of an indifferent movie","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I must agree with Pretorian, as this movie doesn't do anything for me either! I think Schindler's list is one of the best movies I've seen my entire life (only topped by Breaking the waves), but I think Savior wasn't mildly uninteresting. I also have to agree with James Wallace in his comments, so maybe you should read his comment instead. Someone said that this movie was for all that had some intelligence, but I don't think that is true - actually I find that term a bit derogatory. I think it's fair that it's the same with all movies, no matter what genre it is Sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't! All in all Nothing special and when I've seen a movie where I say that I always feel that I've wasted my time. One and a half hours that I'll never get back! "},{"Title":"A bit Outlandish!","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I watched this movie hoping to expect a great masterpiece but alas, it was not even half as good as I expected. First of all, all the people saying this movie is a great war movie are blind human beings because the plot didn't make much sense. A soldier suddenly turns away his American citizenship after the loss of his family. He does some nasty killings and then all of a sudden turns into a better Samaritan than that of the Bible.The movie was okay in showing us what the refugees went through during the Serb war but on the other hand, it looks very ordinary. Most TV war movies made made for TV are far better than this.. "},{"Title":"There's probably something wrong with me...","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Savior is one of those movies that shows pointlessness of war, triumph of the human spirit and so on and so on. However it doesn't get me. Look. I cried in the end of Shindler's List. I cried because of a flying bag in American Beauty. I even shed a tear, when the captain of Galaxy Quest told that morron alien he wasn't a real captain. This film, however, does absolutely nothing for me. I can't feel with the main characters. It's not that there's not enough pain to go around. It's just excess. There's too much pain to take it serious. You leave the film with a numbness. Therefor it can be rated nothing more than a flat 7. Ps. Watch out for another annoying character, played by Natassja Kinski. "},{"Title":"I must have missed the point","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  After reading the rave reviews here and else where on the internet I decided to rent and watch this relatively unknown movie. What I saw though didn't seem to be what I had expected.This pro Serb war movie had some very powerful scenes to say the least but that was just it, just scenes that didn't really in my opinion support the underlying plot which was thin but inspiring to a certain degree.The first part of the story seemed rushed and I don't think it fully established Dennis Quaid's character and his relationship with his family to justify his murderous rampage. They breezed through the beginning so fast I don't even remember what he did for a living.The rest of the movie at times brilliant didn't flow smoothly and the ending was abrupt and incomplete.The acting was ok, one of the better performances I've seen from Quaid but I don't know how they could advertise this as a Nastassja Kinski film in those trailers when she only appeared for 10 minutes maximum.Overall, not a movie for everyone. Although it wasn't a bad movie, it wasn't a good one either. They could have done more. Watch it if you must, but with a majority of reviews saying it was great and fantastic, you may be one of the few who like me feel that it's not as good as they say. "},{"Title":"factual errors","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  goofs Legionaires in training Engage volontaires are shown wearing the beret badge of the 2.REP (Regiment Etranger Parachutist). Correctly they would be wearing the insignia of a grenade with seven flames. Prior to the Kepi Blanc ceremony with the number 0 and after with the number 4 (Meaning 4th Regiment of basic training).Foreign Legion in 1986 is equiped with the FAMAS rifle not FN. "}{"Title":"Accuracy","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I saw the Savior some days ago, and i have some problems understanding why the people who made this okey film, haven't done some better research regarding some of the elements in this picture. Someone might find this a small thing to make a deal of but I think that details is a must to make a good film.The first thing that made me go ups, was when he entered the French Foreign Legion. Everybody with some knowledge of the military knows that officers in the Legion DON'T speak english, the second thing was that he say at some point in the film that SIX years in the legion is all he needs, it's only FIVE years.So for anybody else that wants to make a film with realisme, DO YOUR HOMEWORK "},{"Title":"Full of impossible logic and bad dialog.","Date":"16 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" There is no quality in his character allows me to accept Dennis Quaid's shooting spree at a mosque. Then, when his colleague justifiably kills one of the wounded Muslims who was going to kill Quaid, I am baffled as to why he should then choose to run away with Quaid in tow and become a true criminal like Quaid, even going so far as to join the French Foreign Legion with him. It's an absurd beginning. Another example of awful logic is after the young woman has her baby, it gets cleaned up, and she and Quaid are on the lam together, the baby cries incessantly because it's hungry. Instead of encouraging the mother to breast-feed her infant, Quaid goes to outrageous lengths to feed it milk, even fashioning a nipple out of a condom when he can't find the nipple (bad dialog moment Where's the goddamn nipple!?). Things truly become absurd when, on discovering the milk is almost gone, he shouts at the mother (who had been drinking the milk) Have you been drinking the milk!? Then, he chases down a goat in a nearby field and tries in vain to milk it. Maybe it was meant as comic relief in an otherwise gruesome movie. In any event, I forced myself to watch the entire movie because I wanted to see how truly bad it could become, which, by the end, was quite awful. "},{"Title":"The beginning shows promise, but soon it just goes downhill","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The film opens in Paris. Joshua (Dennis Quaid), a U.S. Military official, is eating with his family. He decides to leave and as he walks away he witnesses his wife and young son killed in a brutal suicide bombing.In a fit of rage, after their funeral Joshua goes to the nearest Muslim temple and shoots about five or six Muslims in the head at point blank range.He then flees to the Foreign Legion, fighting in the Yugoslav war as a mercenary; doing fighting with the Serbians against the Muslims (hmm, I wonder why?).Eventually Joshua finds himself transporting a nursing woman named Maria (Natassja Kinski) to safety...and finds himself questioning his own motives.Considering that the film was directed by a Serbian it's not hard to imagine he had some sort of ulterior motive. Predrag Antonijevic was born in Nis, Serbia, Yugoslavia. Could there be a reason he chose this particular subject as a film choice? Surprisingly I expected an anti-Muslim piece but it's actually more of a don't judge people by their religion piece. Oliver Stone's involvement as producer perhaps solidifies this. But I still felt like the message was a bit wishy-washy - at one point all Muslims are evil, then suddenly they're helpless victims.I'm not necessarily saying that Savior is a worthless propaganda piece with lack of focus...but I am saying that - judged solely as a film - it isn't particularly interesting or original. I thought it could have been much better. I was rather disappointed. It's just not very well fleshed out and I didn't understand what, exactly, it was trying to say - other than that you can't take your frustration out on those with differing religions...but that seems like a rather redundant moral. "},{"Title":"Ethics and morality of the work and idea behind it deserves condemnation","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Obviously ant-war film can suck as well. Also, I suppose that Hitler, if lived long enough, God forbid, would ordered one just like this - where all sides are equally bad, where Jews are equally wrong & equally responsible - well equally my @ss. What's more cynical then moral equalization between victim & executioner, how tries to whitewash narrative of war & crime itself, while rewriting history using apologia & ambiguities. I will admit, though, O.Stone made a good decision when he sent his script to Belgrade based director. Story goes, he noticed him for his eye & photography earlier. Indeed, film is visually beautiful & moody - that's about all that is good about it.At the beginning of this propaganda film viewers are immediately introduced to common Islamophobic trope, so prevalent in todays discourse it paint adherents of Islam with a one broad brush, regardless of their race, ethnicity & cultural background - basically, Muslim here is absolutely identical person to Muslim everywhere. Because of Islam, you see. Islam is supposedly so inherently evil, so corrupt, that it turns persons into clones of each other, into some sort of zombies. So, without any background elaboration, viewer is lead to accept that main character logic isn't flawed, although his action upon that logic might be wrong, when he connect act of terrorism and people from the other side of the planet who committed it to people in Kosovo and Bosnia, only because both people happened to be Muslims, so he decides to take revenge on Kosovars and Bosnians. Of course, viewer will react with rejection of his actions, but only because it's a revenge, and revenge is bad, while much, much lesser number will reject it because this logic is actually very flawed, this connection between terrorists and Bosnians is bogus - film & its author won't allow it anyway, you see, that's deliberate framing of both Muslims everywhere & Bosnians & Kosovars on screen Bosnians are equally evil if not worse then those terrorists them self. From here underlying moral equalization gets worse with every frame.Some noticed how others complained of possible (certain) pro-Serbian bias, they ask why, & don't get it. Others try to explain how authors meant ant-war-this & ant-vendetta-that. As one reviewer writes even if it carries pro-Serbian bias, as long as we see one Serb is sadist, all is OK. He writes Inevitably, some have accused Saviour of bias, though an American film, the director is a Serb...; with such emotive subject partiality would hardly be surprising. Indeed, the film does not flinch from discussing atrocities committed by Bosnian Muslims. Those who accuse this film of being pro-Serb, however, should consider that one of the most hateful characters in the whole film,...is himself a Serb. Another writes I am surprised & saddened that there are still some folks here at the forum fighting over its anti/pro Muslim/Serbian credentials. There is no winner in any war - only despair & death & at times, a faint glimmer of hope. Reading through comments you will hardly be able to draw that conclusion about how people perceived it. Actually, most (re)viewers thinks exactly what I said before everyone are equally bad & responsible. And that's what this film makes a propaganda. One reviewer said you don't hate Serbs, Croatians or Bosnians, you hate war. Of course, we all hate war, & little by little, we think everyone is equally responsible for its beginning, all suffered equally, & civilians on both sides were stricken equally by its horrors - all of a sudden it must be everyone are equally bad & responsible! Well that's utter bs. It's an arrogant & dishonest attempt to rewrite history, & make an apologia for Serbian aggression on Bosnia, while blaming the victim. It's disgusting effort to invoke bogus debate in an attempt to whitewash and justify ethnic cleansing, & legitimize continuous Bosnian genocide denial.More comments revealing impression obtained upon deceitful subtext, & bogus pretense of making ant-war film, which both thrives on faulty perception based on ignorance (few books on Bosnia would do a miracle) 10/10'tijuanadonkey', USA, Best movie on the subject so far, 2006 Unlike many that take sides & immediately turn off this is one I could recommend to who know nothing about the war. No one here is a good guy, in fact everyone is bad to a degree, especially when you understand who everyone is... nothing good came out of a war that destroyed a beautiful nation & turned brother vs. brother in the name of fighting ethnic war from ancient history.; or Michael Markham, UK, Brilliant, 2002 I agree with other reviewers...extraordinary movie. I worried about the apparent American slant at the beginning...I saw it with a Bosnian Muslim friend (even though he was the bad guys in the movie) he was also deeply moved. Clearly the horror & cruelty was on both sides.; or 9/10 Raegan Butcher, USA, Hate & Prejudice can pose as Patriotism, good war movie should ultimately project an anti-war message...Some people have claimed this is a racist film. I do not see it that way. This film shows everyone in a bad light.Moral equalization between victim & executioner - that's an ultimate bs., a brazen abuse of art. It's an arrogant & dishonest attempt to rewrite history & make an apologia for Serbian aggression on Bosnia, while blaming the victim. It's an effort to invoke bogus debate where there are non. Serbian media take this goal seriously & as extremely important. Find more about nature of Bosnian War, what, how & why it happened in books by prominent UK & US historians like Marko Attila Hoare, Noel Malcolm, Robert Donia, John A.V. Fine Jr. For anti-war film based on Bosnian war try Welcome to Sarajevo & No Man's Land! For anti-war film in general try The 25th Hour! "},{"Title":"Shows wrong aspect of Muslims in Bosnian war","Date":"16 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I totally disliked this movie because of its untrue plot. At the beginning (possible spoiler) Quaid went into the mosque and kills everyone there. This movie was very wrong in many aspects. Firstly the Muslims were more humiliated, killed, raped, slaughtered than Croats and Serbs. Statistics says Bosniaks (who were Muslims) lost more lives than Croats and Serbs. The Bosnian war started because the bosniaks turned Muslims, the Serbs and Croats didn't like that and start killing the Muslims. There are still thousands of unmarked Muslims graves still to be found.The director should have done some research before making a movie. "},{"Title":"This film should be avoided for reasons of boredom and racism.","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I would like to preface this review by saying that I am very familiar with the setting of the Balkans wars and the history of the conflicts therein.This was the absolute worst movie I have ever seen. In the first five minutes of the film, our hero goes into a mosque and shoots several Muslims in the back while they are praying &#150; a scene which is so incredible, you expect the character to wake up and reveal that it was all a dream. The movie only gets worse from there. At no point does he redeem himself. He doesn't befriend a Muslim or learn about the atrocities committed against Muslims whatsoever. In fact, you could claim that this film is completely anti-Muslim. After Quaid's character shoots an unarmed Muslim child who is trying to fetch a goat on the wrong side of a bridge, one starts to wonder if this movie is trying to show the Serbian point of view without criticizing it. There is a weak explanation for murder of the child, but again the overly violent and completely unnecessary act is not redeemed in anyway.The Serbs and Muslims agree to a prisoner exchange. For over thirteen Mujahideen Muslims (which were not likely to be in Bosnia anyway, although it did happen), the Serbs trade one pregnant woman who they immediately try to kill because she was raped-of course, by a Muslim.Even the Serbs are treated unfairly in this film. If you accept Oliver Stone's story and setting you might believe that not one house in all of Bosnia has ever had electricity. It's bad enough that they all have a collection of various goats and sheep.Regardless of the genocidal tendencies, the plot seems to be made up as the movie drags along. It is boring and unbelievable. The conflict in Bosnia is simplified into everyone kills everyone and the random bad guys from any group might just pick you up from the street and murder you with a hammer.It is clear why this movie went straight to DVD. There seems to be no research and no clear storyline in this waste of time. This movie is so bad and so unbelievable that you find yourself laughing at one might consider to be inappropriate times. "},{"Title":"Biggest BS ever","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I hated this movie so much it is impossible to explain it in words. This is the most ridiculous plot I have ever seen. There is not one likable character except for the pregnant woman/mother. **possible spoilers** Dennis Quaid plays an unbelievable protagonist who goes to a mosque and shoots a bunch of people who are praying to God because he lost his family?!! Being furious and being crazed is understandable but they depict everyone who is Muslim as evil which is pretty ridiculous. Why would they have any weapons in a mosque? Moreover, it does not make any sense to see a five year old kid throw a grenade at the soldiers with a pretty smile on his face. The whole movie shows this monster of a guy(Dennis Quaid) who faces all these people who are only as evil as him and that transforms him into a better man? I did not buy it at all. Collateral Damage is a much better movie dealing with a similar subject. Although it is an action movie and there are a lot of explosions and less psychological drama it depicts a much more realistic conflict between terrorists and the protagonist. 2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"What a bunch of horses***.","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst movies I've seen lately. The main character is so stereotypic and I have no idea what the moviemakers want us to think about him. First he goes on a shooting rampage on a muslim mosque, then he kills innocent people in Kosovo.Then when the child comes into the picture he suddenly softens up and everything is ok.It would have been nice with a better plot and storyline for sure. And calling this a Drama film is beyond my understanding. The cruel scenes may be moving, but it doesn't help in the long run.If you can avoid seeing this picture, do so. You get a better picture of the Kosovo war on old newsclips. "},{"Title":"What was Oliver Stone thinking?","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  How strange that this Pro-Serb melodrama and the over the top Saving Private Ryan, are held up as the two great 1990's films about war. Where was everyone when Welcome To Sarajevo and The Thin Red Line were on?The basic theme of this film seems to be that both sides in a war do evil things. I'm sure that's true, but don't make me sit through a film about 'evil Jews' during WW2. I ain't buying it. Why didn't this film give us a glimpse of a Serb run death camp, where thousands of Bosnian civilians were tortured and killed? We saw it on the TV news. Are we now asked to ignore it because Serb civilians have also suffered?As a flip-side to this rubbish, check out Michael Winterbottom's brilliant film 'Welcome To Sarajevo.' "}]