[{"Title":"Runs rings around `The Usual Suspects'","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"43 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  You heard me.  Even if you prefer, say, Kevin Spacey's performance in `The Usual Suspects' to Campbell Scott's here (to each his own), at least this is a film that plays fair with us.  We begin at what is, from the protagonist's point of view, the beginning of the tale; things happen that are interesting in their own right and not simply because we know that there's meant to be a mystery lurking somewhere; we are given information as we go along; and later revelations actually explain earlier puzzles.  Mamet doesn't force us through a maze.  Rather, he lets us watch someone else walk through the maze, and it's a pleasure.I'm determined not to spoil this pleasure, so I'm unable to say anything at all, really, about what the movie's about.  I can't even tell you to what the title refers.  I can't even tell you whether it refers to something peripheral or central.  I'd better watch my mouth.  As the slogan of a poster in the film says, in letters screaming above a drawing of a torpedoed battleship, `Somebody talked.'  Not me.All of the cast turn in good performances - that's right, all of them.  I'm tired of remarks about how Rebecca Pidgeon got her role because she's the director's wife.  It could well be true, and it could also be true (for all I know) that she's an actress of minor abilities, but her abilities are more than sufficient to make us believe in the character she plays here.  How, exactly, is she so very different from Campbell Scott, or from Steve Martin, who, everyone will surely concede, gave the performance of his life?  This just isn't the kind of story suited to emoting-while-pretending-not-to acting.  All of the characters must dissemble in front of at least one other of the characters (THAT gives nothing away, trust me), and all of them are just a little bit unsettling.I'll close by putting in a word for Carter Burwell's score.  The music consists of a single labyrinthine tune, which twists about until we THINK we've caught it, and then stops it provides a perfect thumb-nail sketch of the film as a whole.  Also like the film as a whole, it's simply fun.  Unlike so many directors Mamet doesn't act as if he's working in a disreputable genre, in which it's somehow bad form to allow the audience to have too good a time. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly Clever Mystery within a Thriller","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"46 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What is so clever about this movie?First  The dialogue is so wonderfully quirky and packed full of nuances. It was a delight to wait for the next round of words in each scene. The character played by Rebecca Pidgeon offered the best delivery of all the actors.  Her vocal cadences were sheer fun to experience.Second It perfectly paced right down to the wonderfully offbeat and unexpected ending.  It is NOT a slow moving film.  Even if the drama unfolds methodically **WHAT is wrong with audiences today?  WHY must every movie go faster than the Can-Can scene in Moulin Rouge?  I get ill when I read yet another review which reveals the impatience and lack of concentration skills of the viewer.  You want slow pace?  Try Theo Angelopoulos!Third  The cast is perfect for every role.  Campbell Scott, Steve Martin, Rebecca Pidgeon, Felicity Huffman, Ben Gazzara and Ricky Jay.  Each of them bring a special character to each performance.Fourth  Movies like this, that don't feed you every morsel of the plot expectation in the first 15 minutes are a welcome breath of fresh air every time they are released.Congratulations on a most memorable movie to Mamet and company. "},{"Title":"An intelligent masterpiece made by the hands of genius film maker David Mamet","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"44 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I remember watching this film in 1998 at the theater and it became one of my favorites ever since. I have since watched every Mamet film I ran into, they were very good, but I believe this one's his best film yet. The story follows Joseph Ross (Campbell Scott), a salaried mathematician who's invented some truly valuable system that will make a fortune for his company. We meet him as he goes on vacation and befriends with a seemingly multi-millionaire who calls himself Julian Jimmy Dell (Steve Martin). Ross is then drawn into a big conspiracy surrounds his valuable system. I won't go into the details so that i won't spoil the surprises and there are many. All the actors involved gives their best, most notable are Rebecca Pigeon as Susan, Joseph's pretty and sophisticated secretary and for Steve Martin, who was very refreshing to see in a serious role. The film has some unique and intelligent dialogs often appear in David Mamet's works. The twists are very surprising but MAKE SENSE, something that a lot of film makers have to learn these days. Overall an intelligent gem of a film you will not forget easily. Thumbs up and 10/10. Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"Clever who can you trust whodunnit, with Steve Martin in a serious role.","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Steve Martin in a serious role in a Mamet film is reason enough to see The Spanish Prisoner, which I believe gets its name from a type of sucker scam of the same name. And that's what this film is about. A young professional invents the process which is very valuable to his company but he is worried he will not get compensated well enough. This seed of doubt, which others around him recognize, sets into motion a whole series of secrets and deceptions.  The dialog is snappy as in all Mamet writing, and you either really like the style a lot, or you don't.  I really like it.  The various twists get a bit hard to follow, and it is the kind of movie you have to see at least twice for full benefit.  It is not a great film, but a worthy one.Beside Steve martin in his serious role, which he pulls off very well, the film also has Ben Gazzara and Mamet's wife, Rebecca Pidgeon who is very good in one of the key roles in this film. "},{"Title":"Fabulously written but lacking the fireworks needed to make it a big hit","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Joseph Ross is a researcher for a major corporation.  He is in the Caribbean for a business trip to discuss his invention with the heads of the firm - a formula that stands to make the company very, very rich.  While on the trip he meets the charismatic Jimmy Dell who he does a favour for and gradually befriends.  As Joe starts to realise that his employers are trying to squeeze him out for his just deserves, Jimmy starts to offer him understanding and legal help to secure his end.I first discovered this film on late night sky about 5 years ago now and was very taken by it.  Later I got to see it again when I had a free weekend of FilmFour (this weekend in fact!) and I was happy to see it again.  The film is a con, from start to finish it is what the tagline claims - never what it seems.  The whole audience know this and therefore are ready for twists and turns and it is to the film's credit that the twists are still gripping and enjoyable even if we expect it.  The film has a very slow pace and is quite unshowy all the way.In one regard this is to it's detriment but it does create a film that is unassuming and all the more surprising for it.  However the lack of fire works also meant that it never got the audience it deserved.  I believe that, if it had gone more dramatic and tense that it would have played better in multiplexes and drawn in less patient audiences.In a rare (at the time) serious role, Martin is actually very good.  He may not have a great character but he does a really good job with the two sides of his performance - even if the darker side is more revealed through Joe's fate than it is through his performance.  Scott is good but is forced to play a rather bland simple man - meaning that his performance was rather bland at times.  The support cast is good and features several Mamet regulars including the charismatic and distinctive Ricky Jay.  Talking of Mamet, he is great as writer and director and this is yet another film that justifies his reputation in my mind.Overall this is a great film that will engage you and entertain you with it's twisty and enjoyable plot.  It may lack the fireworks or heavy slick style of other films of the genre but it is all the better for it. Criminally under seen and deserves to be discovered. "},{"Title":"A film that twists around suspense film conventions (some spoilers)","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is definitely a thinking man's suspense film that references thrillers of yore. I was reminded of two old films in particular North by Northwest and Charade. Both of these movies concern a mysterious goal and questions about identity.The high stakes involved are established in the first scene of the movie with the introduction of The Process, a vaguely defined procedure or product that will make the company funding it very rich. Joe Ross, the inventor of The Process, is soon marked for an elaborate con game and finds his world tipped upside down with no one being exactly who they seem.A brief consideration of the plot will quickly reveal holes but plot really isn't the point of the film. It's the ideas presented here that make the film fascinating. Even the title The Spanish Prisoner that supposedly references an ancient confidence game doesn't make much sense. The actual confidence game that plays out on the screen bears little resemblance to the Spanish Prisoner as described. In fact, the Spanish Prisoner confidence sounds more like the basic structure of the cinematic thriller (the guy gets the money and the princess). It is this basic structure that Mamet twists just a little. A good example of this is the use of the innocent remark that triggers a memory of something essential. A mother berating her child become the example of this in the film but rather than making her remark once (as is usually done in such films) she repeats it over and over again. In doing this, Mamet is hitting us over the head with the comment's significance and calling attention to it as a cinematic convention.Ultimately, what are interesting are the ideas being presented the effects of deception, the slipperiness of identity and the ambiguity present in all our lives. All of these ideas are communicated via characters' comments and various objects with some kind of metaphoric meaning. For example, the film creates an interesting metaphor with Joe's glasses. At one point, Susan, his secretary, asks him to take them off as if asking him to stop looking at the world through rose-colored glasses and see her (and the world for who and what they really are). I wonder if Susan was truly drawn to him at this point and offering him a real relationship if he will only see it. However, he puts his glasses back on and gently rebuffs her. Susan, rejected, becomes committed to a course that will find her ultimately betraying him. Later, when Joe goes to the only person who appears to be his ally and finds him dead, his glasses (with a bloody fingerprint) are left on the table next to the body. He does not wear the glasses for the rest of the film, symbolic of his finally seeing world around him for what it is untrustworthy and duplicitous.Joe is referred to, somewhat disparagingly throughout the film, as a boy scout. In fact, the film initially seems to be somewhat contemptuous of nice guys in general as it is this characteristic of Joe's that the grifters use to their advantage. Whereas most cons appeal to victims' baser instincts, this one appeals to higher ones. While this appears to be Joe's weakness, cleverly, it is also presented as one of his strengths. There are two times when the con goes awry and both times it is because of Joe's boy scout nature. The first is when Joe thoughtfully substitutes the worn-out book given him by Jimmy (to deliver to Jimmy's sister) with a better copy and keeps the tattered book. The second time is towards the end of the film when Joe helps a woman struggling with her young child through airport security. The mother's comments (as mentioned earlier) spark Joe's memory. In addition, as Joe and the security guard help the woman through, the security guard misses the bag containing the gun handed to Joe by Susan. Unknowing, Joe leaves it behind in his hurry to get back to New York; narrowly avoiding an arrest that surely would have ended all his efforts to free himself from his nightmare. The screen with the x-rayed image of the gun is the only image in the move that we see and Joe doesn't. While it broadcasts an interesting twist, I think the scene was included to also punctuate the idea that maybe nice guys don't always finish last.However, even Joe's good behavior can't protect him from everything and, to save him, Mamet employs the deus ex machina a tried and true method of rescuing the protagonist in suspense films of this ilk. Many a hero has appeared doomed only to have help from some totally unexpected and obscure corner. But even this convention is twisted a bit as the Japanese US Marshall who ultimately saves Joe actually appears in previous scenes.In conclusion, The Spanish Prisoner is a film that entertains you while it's on and leaves you pondering a bit after it's done. "},{"Title":"A Thinking Person's Movie","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie wasn't filled with sex, violence, filthy language or anything like that. It relied on solid characters, an awesome story and excellent directing, something totally unheard of in Hollywood today. It makes me cry to think that no one has heard of this great thriller, but Crap-fests like Armageddon make trillions of dollars at the box office. If you haven't seen it yet, don't listen to anyone's opinion, don't read any summaries of the plot. The less you know, the better it will be. The Spanish Prisoner was the first movie in a while to make me THINK. Go see it if you like thought provoking mysteries. This show is awesome. "},{"Title":"Plays out like a complex puzzle","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  	It's hard to say that 'The Spanish Prisoner' is the best film of the year, because it quite obviously isn't. It's more like a filmed play in that many of it's locations, especially those in the Carribean, look positively fake. What can be said, is that the film is the year's most complex and interesting film, and one of the best.	The script by acclaimed playwright David Mamet (Who also wrote 1997's The Edge) is stunning, excellent with a perfect, credible plot. It's a wonder how anyone could even come up with such a great story.	The acting is also very good. Campbell Scott, who we have never and likely never will see much of is well cast and delivers the flick's best performance. A-List star Steve Martin skips the big bucks for a good script, and it's a wonder he ended up with this project in the first place, an unlikely but excellent career move. The rest of the cast is unremarkable when put up against Scott and Martin, but still good on their own right.	If you have a liking for complicated, though-provoking puzzle-like films 'The Spanish Prisoner' is highly, highly recommended, as is the similar, more accessible 'The Game'. Very intriguing and absorbing 'The Spanish Prisoner' is a must see. "},{"Title":"A breezy Hitchcockian thriller","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" David Mamet's The Spanish Prisoner has been described by the writer-director as being a light, romantic, Hitchcockian thriller. The film lacks the visual strengths of Hitch, of course, but it makes up for this with a clever script and a series of neat twists toward its end. The plot? Campbell Scott plays Joe Ross, an unassuming guy who has invented a mysterious process worth a lot of money. Joe's boss promises to compensate him richly for the process, but Joe is sceptical. Will he really be paid for his work? Joe's growing nervousness is subtly stoked by Jimmy Dell (played by Steve Martin), a charming and apparently wealthy new friend who...well, to say anything more about the film would be to spoil the fun. Suffice to say that Prisoner delights in subverting expectations, and continues Mamet's trend of casting comedians (Steve Martin, Danny Devito, Tim Allen, Ed O'Neil) in serious, tough guy rolls; Mamet's all about scrambling preconceptions.The Spanish Prisoner lacks the big set-pieces necessary to draw in the blockbuster crowd, but it's nevertheless well written. Of course the key word here is written. Mamet's films are oft exercises in style, but unlike most of cinema's stylists, he sculpts entirely with the pen. He's playing with words, with syntax and rhythm, his characters often even pausing to discuss linguistics and the nature of words themselves. They argue over the meaning of words, of literature, and often stop to question the motivation of another character's use of a certain word. For Mamet, language and prose are merely tools for persuasion, and cinema is itself the ultimate card trick, language the ultimate con.8/10 - The joy of Mamet is in recognising how carefully he straddles the line between cliché and genius, taking the conventional beats of the thriller/con/heist genre and using them to sing his own tune. "},{"Title":"one of the year's best films","Date":"13 August 1998","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Spanish Prisoner comes closer to Hitchcock than anything I've seen in  a long, long time.  The cast is excellent; I haven't seen Campbell Scott in  a movie since he was much younger, but he really turned in a great  performance, loaded with nuance and subtlety.  Steve Martin is truly  outstanding--I think it's fair to say that this is one of his career's best  performances.  The only clunker is Rebecca Pidgeon; her character is poorly  written, and she's not much of an actress.  Just between you and me, I  think she only got the job because she's sleeping with the director (she's  Mamet's wife).  Ed O'Neill even shows up halfway through the film with a  nice cameo.  I don't want to give away much about the story for those who haven't seen  TSP, but it really is amazing.  Many of the plot twists actually made me  laugh--not because they were ridiculous, but because they were so  ingeniously crafted and actually plausible.  Since he wrote AND directed  the movie, though, David Mamet let himself get away with a few bad lines  and one or two hokey plot devices.  In the greater context of the movie,  however, they're forgivable.    "}{"Title":"Entertaining, but with plot holes and inconsistencies.","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed this movie in the theater, and I just recently watched it again on television. I enjoyed it both times, but the second time around several plot holes were evident, most of which took place in the last 20 minutes.*****Spoilers***** *****Spoilers*****The problems start at the airport where it appears that Susan is going to double cross Joe by putting a gun in his baggage and giving him a ticket to Venezuela. Before going into the airport Susan insists that he get a clover for St. Patrick's Day from a guy at the entrance, and this turns out to be a recording device that is later used to entrap Susan and Julian. Why did Susan insist that Joe get a recording device to entrap her later?Joe narrowly escapes being caught with the gun and ticket, but does not realize it and heads out to find Susan. She is talking the the fake FBI lady, verifying that she is a bad guy. Joe does not see this, but it is obvious that they expected him to get arrested in the airport or else she would not be in a compromising position. Later, on the ferry, it is made to look as though it was planned that he would end up on the ferry the whole time so that Julian could kill him, but that does not make any sense in light of the fact that they already planned to get him arrested at the airport.It also seems odd that it seemed planed by the US Marshals that he would get on the bus with the Japanese tourists that were all carrying the tubes, one of which would later turn out to be holding a rifle. So did the Marshals plan for Joe to run out of the airport at the last minute, just barely evading police? It seems as though they would have had to plan for him to get out of line at the last minute.These things at the end give the whole movie a very contrived feeling. The rest of the movie seemed plausible, and it was good until the end, but the ending was a real bummer. "},{"Title":"A convoluted, interesting thriller.","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Having seen Mamet's House of Games I sort of knew what to expect and how to watch this movie; I expected a complex plot full of twists, and hence I watched it with particular attention to detail.In the end, the movie turns out to have three major plot twists. The first - and major - plot twist comes at about two thirds of the movie, when it turns out that the FBI is a fake FBI and that they are in it together with Martin. I half-suspected, at one point, that the FBI was fake, but I must admit that this twist came as a genuine surprise. What did not come as a surprise at all was the second major plot twist, about Rebecca Pidgeon being also involved in the conspiracy against Scott; this was bleedin' obvious. From the very beginning she acted extremely suspiciously, always hanging around Campbell, and - as it turned out - had the duty to lead him on to participate in his own frame-up as much as possible according to the conspirators' plans.And this is where the major flaw of the movie lies this second twist was not only obvious to the viewer - since all evidence pointed clearly to her guilt - but SHOULD have been obvious to Scott, as well; he is portrayed as a naive guy, but they gave him enough intelligence for him to be able to work out the very obvious fact that Pidgeon was lying to him. This disappointed me; Scott should have figured out that she is guilty BEFORE he was released on bail. I mean, just the fact that she was so insistent on showing him those Caribbean photos AND that fake FBI card AND her suggestion to Scott to not trust what one is given in a package on a flight, easily implicate her, and Scott certainly had enough time in jail to figure that out. But he didn't; as though he were a complete idiot, or something.Oh, well... Still, the third, and last, major plot twist was a genuine surprise; it turns out that the (real) FBI had Scott wired from the very time he left jail, and that his bail's payer, his boss Gazzara, was the mastermind behind the entire, highly complex, scheme.The film draws you in gradually, and never let's you doze off; every minute there is something happening which might later be important. The plot is as complex as they get, yet I think that if one analyzed the film there would be no logic flaws and that everything would indeed add up - apart from Scott not figuring the second major twist, of course (though this was not so much of a logic flaw in the plot, but was instead a flaw in the characterization).This entire conspiracy story is to a degree far-fetched, without a doubt. However, as long as logic is pretty much intact in a movie, I allow for a certain level of far-fetchedness; after all, this is only a movie and not a documentary. Also, The Game is far more far-fetched, yet that film was very entertaining, as well.The cast is very good, except for Mamet's wife, Rebecca Pidgeon, who is totally wooden and should take some acting classes before appearing in another film. Mamet has a bad habit of putting his wives and mistresses in his movies, and that can backfire when the ladies in question aren't professional actresses. She was similarly wooden in Homicide. "},{"Title":"Whom to trust?","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Joseph Ross is a young man who's employed by a major corporation to come up with an important formula that could make his company and including himself - incredibly wealthy. On an Caribbean holiday along with his business partners he meets the very likable Jimmy Dell and over time they become friends. But things start getting really worrying for Joseph, as he feels that his employers are trying to take all the credit for what's about to come. So Joseph turns to Jimmy for advice on the matter and Jimmy gladly lends a helping hand.Now, The Spanish Prisoner has got to be one of the most undeservedly, overlooked small-scale thrillers of the last decade. The only reason I can think why; is because it's really a glum and quite subdue film that relies on a well-written story to keep you mesmerized and rather bamboozled. There's nothing overly stylish about it, but it's such an elegant and easy going exercise that's professionally handled all round, despite the elementary factors. So don't be expecting a pot-boiler with plenty of fast-paced thrills from this one. For me it's up there with another under-appreciated 90s thriller Arlington Road. These were two films I knew nothing about, but when I accidentally came across them I was more than impressed in what I saw.The shady, paranoid premise is standard stuff for films of this ilk with it being cluttered with the usual cunning double crossings and misleading revelations. But while you might pick up on the web of deceit with it's twists and turns, it's just that the complicated story is far more cerebral in its patterns that you are just compelled by it all. The further along the story goes, the more interesting it does get with the spontaneous structure flowing with concise dialogues and underling sharp wit. Just who can you trust? What are their true intentions? Are they who they say they are? Money, Money, Money? Well, we are talking about high fliers here ;). This sorely thorough cloud hangs high that it will have you thinking. Some twists and bluffs you might see coming, but really you are never quite sure how its entirely going to pan out. Also I couldn't shake the feel of old style crime thrillers from the glass like texture that was manufactured here. The film's location had an atmospheric strong-hold that got swept along with its softly, moody music score.The performances were very good. Steve Martin was more than efficient as he played a unconventional role where he had to provide a real mystic edge and a laid-back attitude to his character. Campbell Scott was satisfactory in a pretty bleak role as Joseph. That's not because of the performance, but that was the character in the story and it's a real important element on how things played out. The support roles were strong by the likes of Rebecca Pigeon, Ben Gazzara, Ricky Jay and Felicity Huffman. Director / writer David Mamet has provided a tight and quite entertaining thriller that's a puzzle to work out.A vividly, ingenious thriller that plays it rather patiently. "},{"Title":"Great but so flawed!","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I finally got to see this film again. I love this film. But I realized after another viewing with a savvy partner that there are just too many holes in the plot and Mamet isn't quite as clever as we first think or would like to believe. Too many plot twists just don't make sense on second viewing. I'd always recommend this movie.. it's fascinating and has great performances but I think the audience is easily tricked into finding it brilliant. Maybe someone can explain why Martin's character is so easily found in the car showroom. Did I miss something there? And what if Campbell Scott's person had actually tried to deliver the tennis book directly to Martin's sister. That would have been the end of the story, period. "},{"Title":"I confess, I'm stumped as to when the con happened","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I love this movie. I've poured over every frame to see exactly what happens when, but there are two things that totally confuse meSPOILER ALERT!!!!!!!!!!First Puzzle When Joe signs the paper to apply for the Club, the top clearly says Club Membership Decree. How, then, did that paper have Spanish writing on it later? The way most of these cons work is that the people use their hands to hide what the victim is signing. But we can definitely see the English on the top of the paper. So how did the Spanish paper get signed?Second Puzzle When did the book containing the process actually get switched? Once again, in a real con, there would be some sort of stumble or moment when the book would be switched. But from the moment Joe shows the book to the FBI man, the red book is in each frame or in Joe's sight. So when exactly did the swap happen?I ask these questions because Mamet was really careful to follow all the rules of a con in House of Games, but breaks them here. Or am I wrong? "},{"Title":"Engaging and interesting - story and performances","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I thoroughly enjoy movies which leave some things unanswered at the end, and where every minute detail is not spelled-out by a line of dialog, a calendar pictured on-screen, or peripheral scenes inserted, which are there only to amplify some detail otherwise unexplained. This movie (thankfully) contains none of these, and they aren't a part of Mamet's forte. What the process is, specifically, couldn't matter less.This is a serpentine story, with one enigma after another, also a Mamet trait. It is completely engrossing, and the performances of the four primary leads Campbell Scott, Rebecca Pidgeon, Ben Gazzara, and Steve Martin (superb in an uncharacteristic, duplicitous role) are without fault. Scott sometimes looks like he could use a shot of caffeine, but that is pretty much his style, and is consistent with this character.Pidgeon is Mamet's wife, and performs admirably. He either marries good actresses, or excels in getting them to perform well (probably a bit of each). If you haven't seen House of Games, with his previous wife, Lindsay Crouse, and Joe Mantegna - be certain to do so.For me, any Mamet film would get at least 7 or 8 stars, sight- unseen. This one (like most of his) is a 10. Also, like Woody Allen film's, and more recently, those by Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy, Mamet's always employ many from a recurring, talented, cohesive ensemble of actors. "},{"Title":"Not Bad, But  Needed A Bit More Spark","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A thinking person's film - that's one label for this movie with basically starred unknown actors. Campbell Scott plays the lead. I read where one well-known critic labeled his acting as wooden, but I didn't find that. He was okay as was the female lead, Rebecca Pigeon. Both played very low-key characters.Pidegon has an interesting face and was new on the film scene when this came out. She's made a couple of films since that are recognizable but I can't say the same for Scott. Also making smaller appearances here are name players, Steve Martin and Ben Gazzara.The story is about an elaborate con job perpetrated on Scott. The problem with it is that it gets too confusing in the last half hour. Despite that, I still found this movie intriguing, even though it may not be one I would watch more than once, possibly twice. There's an edge or something that's missing here, to make this a more entertaining film. Even though I enjoyed it, I am not surprised that it wasn't a hit. "},{"Title":"Rebecca is reason enough to watch this","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The first Mamet film I was consciously aware of was Heist. This was also how I became captivated by Rebecca Pidgeon. Nobody else is so adept at delivering the deadpan one-liners that Mamet scripts are peppered with. Recently, I discovered that she is actually Mamet's wife. Lucky him.Ricky Jay also seems to feature in a lot of Mamet films. He has a lot of quirkyness about him which fits well into the Mamet universe; info about him is a bit scarce, but it seems there must be some connection.Steve Martin puts in the best serious performance I've seen from him. Just when I was about to give up.My only problem with this film is that some of the plot twists required believability to be stretched just a bit too much. |BEGIN SPOILER ALERT| For instance, the club membership form, which was clearly in English that somehow turned into a request for asylum in Venezuela (in Spanish). Or how the conspirators (or the marshalls for that matter) could have known Joe was going to bolt from the airport and take the ferry instead. The gun in the camera bag should have finished him. Or why Susan insisted he buy a shamrock when it turns out to be a bug. |END SPOILER ALERT| None of this matters if you're there mainly to soak up the twisty plot and snappy Mamet dialog, expertly delivered by Rebecca et al. It's escapist cinema at its best. "},{"Title":"An ingenious thriller by David Mamet - Contains Spoilers","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Spanish Prisoner is an ingenious thriller which involves the spectator for 2 hours of suspense. The movie has an unbelievable ending.The whole story is about a mathematician who invented a formula to make his company very rich. After a while some things came up unexpectedly making him confused and defensive.The mathematician met a businessman at a Caribbean party and they started to become friends. The mathematician got involved in a web of treachery that was very risky.After the business man earned his trust, the mathematician discovered that he had been tricked. So he called the FBI to help him, but even the FBI number that the mathematician got from a co-worker was a trick to get the formula.Finally, after the formula felt into the wrong hands the real FBI came on scene to help him and to save his life. They cleared the mathematician's name.We have spectacular acting from Steve Martin and Rebecca Pidgeon. Campbell Scott plays the mathematician.David Mamet, who is the director, was really successful with this movie. He stretches the limits of reality and this is the reason that makes the movie so unique to me, I was really stuck on the edge of my seat watching the movie.I couldn't get up because every single part of the movie is essential to our understanding of the plot and the development of the story.I think this movie is excellent and I recommend that people who really like movies with plot twists watch it. This movie isn't easy to understand; it isn't a relaxing selection.Some parts of the movie are too strange because you can't follow very well the logical sequence. You don't know the reason why certain things happen; you just know that they end up like that. Because of so many plot twists, the movie was unpredictable for me.I strongly recommend this movie to the fans of movies plot twists; this movie really knows how to do this.I categorize this movie as excellent, 4/5 stars. The reason that I don't give it 5/5 stars is that some times you can't follow the way that things happen. One thing is been unpredictable, and another thing is been unreasonable.All in all I think you have to see the movie and watch it yourself. "},{"Title":"This is one of my all time favorite movies!","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my all time favorite movies! I've been a fan of Campbell Scott since the first time I saw this movie (I've probably seen it 10 times by now). His character is smart, sexy, gentle (but strong when he needs to be) and successful, the kind of man every woman dreams of. The main characters have great chemistry, not only the romantic chemistry between Campbell Scott and Rebecca Pidgeon, which takes my breath away in several scenes, but Campbell Scott and Steve Martin are equally mesmerizing when they are on the screen together. The Spanish Prisoner has everything you could want in a movie, excellent cast; fun, witty dialog; sly plot twists; and a very good, and unexpectedly serious performance by Steve Martin. I highly recommend this movie!And here's some great news for Campbell Scott fans! He is now a regular on the new ABC show Six Degrees and I have fallen in love with him all over again! The show is really good, and like The Spanish Prisoner, it's full of intrigue and fun plot twists (and just as I do with The Spanish Prisoner, I find myself rewinding (thank you TIVO!) all of Cambell Scott's scenes!) If you like Six Degrees you'll love the Spanish Prisoner! (and vice-versa!) "}{"Title":"Not for Scooby-Doo fans!","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I found this movie on tv last night by chance about 15 minutes into the story.Unlike many other reviewers I was captivated by Rebecca Pidgeon and decided to watch the movie.This movie is not a typical Hollywood star vehicle. You will not find overblown performances here. This is not a movie that one watches while crunching popcorn. One needs to play complete attention to the screen for the duration of the movie.I enjoyed this movie very much and recommend it to literate people who enjoy mysteries.Unfortunately most young adults today find video games more alluring a pastime and may not enjoy this talkie.I discovered today that this movie is the work of David Mamet - I can recall enjoying his earlier movie, The House of Games.***SPOILERS*** There are no gratuitous shootouts, no car chases, no visits to strip clubs, no explosions, no lovemaking scenes, no gadgets ... -- most 13-year-olds would find this movie boring.Other reviewers complain about plotholes.For example, how did the bad guys know what the book looked like so that they could replace it with a replica -- the fact that they know what the book looks like is the clue that the originator of the con knows this detail. Duh!The encounter that Ross has with Dell in the car showroom is the only mcguffin I spotted.***end_of_SPOILERS***  "},{"Title":"Suspend Belief","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Easily one of the worst movies I have ever seen. In order to complete this thing, the makers/writer had to create the stupidest main character ever. He continually puts himself into situations, and performs acts, that require the suspension of belief and the necessity of the audience to reject common sense or any intelligence at all. It is not an intricate plot, or suspenseful if, in order to create that atmosphere, the main character is a dolt. But that is what happens in this movie. Nothing makes sense. The fact that the actors didn't roll their eyes every time the plot was ridiculous (which was every five minutes) is a credit to their acting abilities. The fact that they took part in this movie is not. The title of the movie should have been You've Got To Be Kidding or maybe Stupid, stupid, stupid. Pick another movie - it almost has to be better than this one. "},{"Title":"An almost-clever plot with enough holes to qualify as Swiss cheese","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just got done watching The Spanish Prisoner on video and, while there is a lot to like about certain aspects of the film, I found that the plot had just a few too many holes in it and the pacing and direction were uneven.I enjoyed the performance of Campbell Scott as Joe Ross, the lead character. His character was subdued, but with something of an edge that you couldn't quite put your finger on. I also found that the twists and turns of the various plot devices were somewhat clever, but this was also the movie's Achilles heel. Without giving any plot devices away, there is simply NO WAY that even the most sophisticated organization could run such an elaborate con game. For every step that they would have to manipulate our Hero to, there are many potential problems that would crop up, and there are many contingency plans that would have to be developed. You would have to plan to have all the necessary people and resources available to achieve all your goals at every step of the way. For this plan to work the CIA and FBI combined couldn't have done the job. For the plot to work, you have to believe that Joe Ross would ABSOLUTELY make ONE particular decision at each juncture. If he makes any other decision (for example, he decides to even glance casually at the Club Membership agreement instead of just blindly signing it) then the entire plot falls apart.I'm led to believe, by reading external reviews, that this is supposed to be a well made, film-noir movie and that the characters are meant to talk..in..measured..staccato..deliberate..voices. I found that annoying. That's not how people talk, and it takes my attention away from what they're saying.The direction was peculiar in a number of instances. For example, some scenes were believable, following from events that came before. Others seemed out of place, as though inserted as an afterthought, the ambiance wholly different from the scenes before or after it.Hey, I like mystery/thriller/con movies as much as anyone, and I liked this one (a little bit). But creating a successful con game for such a movie is a difficult job, yet it's the most important part of the movie. Mamet didn't quite develop his con game enough so, on a scale of 1-10, I'd give The Spanish Prisoner a 3.  "},{"Title":"Why is this movie ranked so high?","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie after checking its rating on the IMDB. I got a bunch of friends together and told them it's supposed to be like The Usual Suspects... We were all excited, and then we hit the PLAY button.This movie was SO BAD, that at many times we would argue over whether or not to turn it off and watch regular Sunday night television instead.Particularly Rebecca Pidgeon, who had the lead female role, was so unbelievably annoying and terrible, that my friends and I were rooting for her to get bumped off so we wouldn't have to hear her any more.Take my advice, and spend your money ANYWHERE else. "},{"Title":"Boring, Predictable, and Poorly Acted Film","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My friends have all told me to see this film and that it's the greatest. I've always loved David Mamet's work too and figured this had to be awesome. When I saw it, I was very disappointed. It's a weak film that has a sluggish pace, terrible acting (Steve Martin's the only one who isn't bad, but is wasted), and a predictable story. I didn't find this film tricky at all as people have said. My advice, rent HOUSE OF GAMES, which is a much better paced, acted and plotted film from Mamet. "},{"Title":"Well-crafted Mamet flick","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  THE SPANISH PRISONER (1998) *** Campbell Scott, Steve  Martin, Rebecca Pidgeon, Ben Gazzara, Ricky Jay, FelicityHuffman, Ed O' Neill.   Excellently paced Hitchcockian thriller witheveryman/epitome of guilelessness bland Scott as an inventor ofan unspecified top secret `process' who finds himself suckeredinto an ultimately intricate con involving mystery man Martin(surprisingly effective) who takes him under his wing andsuspiciously smitten temp Pidgeon in a whirlwind of  doublecrossing, backs tabbing, good old fashioned murder andchicanery.  Written and directed with sheer craft by David Mamet;the rush of getting caught up in the deliberately modulated set-upis only half the fun. "},{"Title":"Perhaps David Mamet's best screenplay ever","Date":"7 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The late 1990s were a great time for Hollywood motion pictures, but there were three Buried Treasures during this period which I'd like to highlight the next three months. Let's begin in 1997. This was the year Titanic scored that rarest of hat tricks &#x96; It was the year's box office champ, it was critically acclaimed, and it won the Best Picture Oscar. But Hollywood churned out some other great feature films that year too Curtis Hanson's thriller, LA Confidential, Ang Lee's The Ice Storm, and Paul Thomas Anderson's breakout picture, Boogie Nights. Veteran Actors Peter Fonda and Robert Duvall turned in their best performances ever in Ulee's Gold and The Apostle, respectively. And Matt Damon and Ben Affleck shot to stardom in Good Will Hunting. Lost in the shuffle was perhaps the best David Mamet screenplay ever filmed. Coming on the heels of his successful big screen adaptation of his play Glengarry Glen Ross in 1992, Mamet's 1994 offering Oleanna was a rare bomb &#x96; both critically and at the box office. He was due for a hit. And boy did he score &#x96; with critics and (by Mamet's metage) with filmgoers. Unfortunately, few people remember The Spanish Prisoner, and it deserves a second look.Campbell Scott (son of George C.) stars as Joe Ross, a corporate engineer who has developed a new industrial process. The plot revolves around an elaborate scam to steal the intellectual property behind this process. Initially, this may sound boring, but remember this is David Mamet. Not since Hitchcock's North By Northwest and Polanski's Rosemary's Baby has a writer/director so excelled at presenting average Americans immured in machinations over which they possess no control. The Spanish Prisoner falls under the same umbrella as Mamet's directorial debut, 1987's House Of Games &#x96; the story of an intricate con game to swindle money from a wealthy author. The parallels between House Of Games and The Spanish Prisoner are many, although I prefer the Campbell Scott vehicle, if for no other reason than the hustlers are after intellectual property rather than the more standard money or tangible goods.Playing about as radically against type as possible, Steve Martin turns in one of the best performances of his career as a wealthy traveler who meets Ross on a corporate retreat in the Caribbean. Martin does an excellent job building trust yet still seeming as though he may be hiding something. He asks Ross to deliver a book to his sister when he returns to New York. Turns out, the sister doesn't really exist (a confidence game known as the Spanish Prisoner), Ross unknowingly opens a Swiss bank account, and unknowingly buys a one-way ticket out of the country. Thus begins a sophisticated swindle involving Ross' boss and an FBI agent who was present at the corporate retreat. But Ross is no dummy. He knows Martin's fingerprints are on the book he gave him, which initiates his reaction to the scam.This is classic Mamet. A labyrinthine plot entrapping a common man into an axiomatic contrivance of grand proportion. The story unfolds layer by layer, in a deliberate yet headlong manner, as Mamet reveals only what we need to know, when we need to know it. And if you've never heard Mamet dialogue, you're in for a treat. His characters speak in choppy, staccato sentences, always reaching for just the right words &#x96; often saying more in their silence than in their verbiage.There are no wasted scenes in The Spanish Prisoner. Everything we see and hear will mean something eventually. It's a tight, alluring story, and a true joy to experience. The Spanish Prisoner is one of those films you'll want to re-watch immediately upon its conclusion. "},{"Title":"The example of story-telling","Date":"5 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There are many kinds of cinemas. This one is one of the top examples of story telling. You won't notice any camera work, any music (was there any?) etc. You are just absorbed by how well the story is told. Trust me, within 5 minutes (though you won't get to understand what's exactly happening there in such short time) you'll be absorbed. Even Steve Martin is watchable.Also perhaps the only movie (at least for grown-ups) with no swearing. At all. Except for a short scene showing a stabbed body, this is a film for everybody (if the youths can get it). In this regard, the exact opposite of Glengarry Glen Ross.I find it very strange that the less people have to say, the more they shout and swear. As if even their ordinary words require some kind of 'strengthening' to be taken seriously. You can't just say something is good, because, you see, nobody would take that. However, when saying something is f... good, you suddenly receive all the attention you've wanted, and they even believe you. Going further down that road, I suppose one day we have to kill our loved ones, to convince them that, indeed, we love them. Exaggerating? Really? Remember LOST TV series and its throughout gratuitous violence, like the scene when Locke, burdened with the memory of something bad in his life, being hit with the car by Desmond, so that he would let go? Figure that out I care so much for my friend that when I see him troubled by something I hit him with my car (violently, by the way) so that he would let go and start smiling again.Back to the movie at hand, I'll have to warn you that after seeing this one, you won't anymore enjoy your daily movie rubbish. That happens, you know, when you have the courage to open up your eyes.In the same evening, I also saw 'Harrison Bergeron' (1995), another story-teller, and now I'm having trouble finding MOVIES (you know, the ones that you can watch beyond their first 10 minutes).So, if you're comfortably numb (as Pink Floyd put it a few decades back), stay away from movies like this one. "},{"Title":"Huge disappointment","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film starts well, but with every plot twist our interest wanes, and by the ending we just don't care anymore about what's happening. Now, the plot is totally unbelievable (SPOILER AHEAD) since Steve Martin would have to anticipate the way that Campbell Scott would react to every situation. Finally, Campbell Scott and Rebecca Pidgeon might be the least charismatic screen couple ever. Their total lack of chemistry is the final nail on the coffin of this movie. "},{"Title":"Real Mystery","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I came into this film halfway through,not knowing what it was, after clicking through many other channels. I was immediately captivated by Rebecca Pidgeon, who was saying my troika was pursued by wolves. And from then on I was enmeshed in this slowly unfolding labryinth of a film. I didn't want it to end!SPOILERS FROM HERE ON..... Yes the ending is a Deus Ex - it really required some coup de theatre from the hero, not a We were here all the time, what about that from the US Marshalls Office to finish this film off properly (IMO).But the real mystery here is why so many reviewers are panning the LUMINOUS contribution RP made to this gem of a film. Her character was shrouded in Delphic utterance from the first - a hook baited with mystery for the hero - a femme fatale who's allure (for the viewer) is her hint at intellectual depth and self-sufficiency (compare and contrast with the string of Hollywood feisty heroines mouthing appalling banalities in SO MANY movies). When Truth Outs at the end, she reacts in a believably stilted way when discovered - she's a normal person who was playing a role. Talk all the deconstruction you like out of that, it works.So I have no idea why some of you are having trouble with her - does she spend the first 15 minutes of the film yelling abusive ad-libs or something?(and Rebecca, if you're reading this, can you send back that red book I lent you? The police here are getting some crazy ideas...) "}{"Title":"An innocent like this has no business in New York","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers ahoy!Most of the problems with this movie have to do with Joe Ross's monumental gullibility. If he's not used to having women drool over him (and there's no reason he would be), he'd be a fool to take Susan's behavior at face value. His quickly becoming chums with Dell is hard to fathom. And above all, instead of bringing a reasonably authentic-looking copy (of no real value, of course) of The Process with him on the sting, he goes for a stroll in the park (literally) with the real thing. This is the one guy in NYC who would buy that swampland in Florida from you, and thank you for it too.There are a number of other hard-to-believe twists and plot holes, some of them mentioned by others here. The ending is really quite difficult to swallow. Deus ex touristica? On the positive side, some of the tricks sprung were rather slick. But they can't make up the deficit.Too bad Mamet didn't spend more time massaging the plot, it could have been much better. 6/10  "},{"Title":"Too convoluted and weird.","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Mamet is known for his razor-sharp and cryptic dialogue.  In this movie, the dialogue is simply cryptic.  You end up scratching your head, wondering what all the critics are fussing about.  This movie does not bore, but it does not mesmerize, either.  I feel sorry for the protagonist, who is in way over his head, but I find the plot to be extremely implausible and even irritating.  The Spanish Prisoner had possibilities, but it annoyed more than entertained me. "},{"Title":"Good Thriller","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have to give this movie credit because it was good to a certain point but never really became anything more than good. The actors were reasonably good also. The main problem I had with this film was that there was a crucial ending and I couldn't understand what was said and had to watch it 4 times before I could understand. The twists throughout were dull and weren't all that thrilling at all. It's basically an average movie which should probably be seen. I also thought Steve Martin struggled in this movie which is completely different to his usual comedic ones. Could have been a lot better with more convincing actors but anyhow it was worth watching. "},{"Title":"Clever plot, lots of tension","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very well constructed film in which paying attention to the dialogue is well rewarded.  The bad guys have all the best (and some very memorable) lines.  Though they proliferate, and doubt is cast over all but the central character, it remains for me a tale about honesty, courtesy and trustworthiness and how they can be exploited. This said, I remain confused about parts of the plot.  Too little seems to be made of the book on Don Budge and the central character's switching of it early in the film.  The knife with which murder is later committed appears to belong to the central character, though it is not clear he even notices.  Had he done so, his behaviour toward the end of the film would have been very different.  And, finally, near the end he embarks on a quest for pictures to clear his name when at least some of the content sought is in the Pigeon character's photo album.  Even there he does not smell a rat. I may simply be confused about these points in the plot.  Overall, a very very good film.  "},{"Title":"How can you criticize Mamet?","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The guy rocks.  His characters seem to operate in their own world.  Like there is a haze around the edges of camera and nothing exists outside of the shot.  That's what you have in a stage play, Mamet's preferred vehicle. Then there is the flat characters.  Flat in the way they deliver their lines; in a monotone.  I think that is his way of de-emphasizing the dialogue in order to bring greater emphasis to the characters' actions.  If Mamet had been making movies in the silent era, he would have been one of the greats of all time.  What is up with the casting of Steve Martin? Wanna see Steve perform when he is drugged and in a straight jacket(metaphorically, not literally)?  Then see this movie.  Compare to Steve in Little Shop Of Horrors.  I can tolerate all of that, but what I hate above all else is glaring implausibility.  It occurs here when Scott's character, now aware that the guy he's been talking to (Martin's character) has lied to him, agrees to take the valuable formula out of the safe (implausible in its own right) and meet him, because of course Martin is the only one in the world who could refer him to a good lawyer.  But it has to be this way or the rest of the movie won't work.  I think Mamet rushed this script.  He's so prolific.  And still, its a pretty good movie.  Just think what he could do if he took his time.  Loved Rebecca Pidgeon.  Her acting is unremarkable but she has a certain freshness, and she looks yum-mie.  Nice work there Dave. "},{"Title":"A mamet caper for a more intellectual crowd","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Here David Mamet utilizes more of an intellectual tract to create suspense and intrigue, rather than a dazzling cast and neat little caper like in his other con game films; Heist, and House of Cards. The what isn't as important as the why, and the execution of the con in general. Steve Martin, Mr. Saturday Night, here diverts from his slap happy demeanor to go down a more serious path. He's a mysterious stranger that befriends the affable, and isolated Joe Ross (Campbell Scott), a computer engineer who has devised some sort of powerful program with his friend and aid George (Ricky Jay). What sets this film apart from most of Mamets other films is that we don't really identify with Joe even after we learn of the overlying scam pulled on him. That is, not until he becomes human, rather than the boring automaton he spends most of the film trudging through. The underlying theme of the film seems to be that of coming to grips with one's situation and relishing the fact that life is to be enjoyed and experienced to the nth degree, not blind-faced like some robot. Just going through the motions. "},{"Title":"one of the best Mamet movies","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the best Mamet movies, a director who made many interesting films starting with 'House of Games' but also disappointed me with films like 'Homicide' and 'Spartan'.Here we have a more classical game of minds story, with a gang of criminals putting together quite a sophisticated plan in order to steal from an inventor his discovery. In the process he is getting to learn that almost everybody around him is not what they seem to be, and that nobody can really be trusted. Without being brilliant the intrigue builds pretty well, there are enough turns and surprises to keep the interest for the almost two hours the movie lasts, and all is done in a relaxed and entertaining manner. Despite being made ten years ago this film is still a good piece of entertainment to watch today. "},{"Title":"Who's on first","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Campbell Scott has invented an important process that brings him some trouble in The Spanish Prisoner, a 1997 film written and directed by David Mamet, also starring Rebecca Pidgeon, Ben Gazzara, Felicity Huffman, and Ricky Jay.Scott plays Joe Ross, an up and comer in the company he works for, but it appears that his widget invention is a work for hire, though the President of the company promises him all kinds of rewards down the line. While at a meeting that takes place in a beautiful resort, he meets a wealthy stranger, Jimmy Dell (Steve Martin), who befriends him. Both Dell and George, Joe's friend and an attorney for the corporation, urge Joe to pin down his boss for compensation for the invention now and not wait. Jimmy suggests there may be a hole in his contract.What I have just described isn't really the plot - it just seems that way. Mamet has written a fascinating, suspenseful drama with dizzying twists and turns. If you're familiar with another wonderful Mamet film, House of Games (costarring yet another of his wives, Lindsay Crouse) you'll be able to figure some of this out, though probably not all.All Mamet films have a certain detachment and staginess about them. These actors all underplay their roles - sometimes they're a little too natural. As Bette Davis said, Today's actors are realistic, but real acting is larger than life. You get the point when you watch this. But I can't say it detracts at all from the film - I think, in fact, this naturalness and remote quality keeps your interest on the plot instead of getting overly involved with the characters. And this is one heck of a plot-driven film.As Joe Ross, the young man who finds his invention bringing him not money but trouble, Campbell Scott is totally internalized, only allowing himself a slight smile from time to time. You can never quite tell what he's thinking - is he interested in Susan (Rebecca Pidgeon) or not? Does he know more of what is going on than we do, or is he as out of it as the audience? You don't know. And you're not supposed to know. Everything about Rebecca Pidgeon is odd, but you can find that character in any office - smarter than her job calls for and a little awkward and off-putting in her overtness. With her strange looks and affected voice and manner (May I be your Queen? she asks Ross) she comes off as one of those intellectual types who throws herself at guys who are never interested in her. She draws just the right amount of attention to herself. Ben Gazzara in a bad toupee is the harried boss; Huffman has a small role and because of her recent success, she seems wasted. But her role is important. Ricky Jay is a teddy bear as George.And Steve Martin - well, he's no Pink Panther here and no wild and crazy guy, but he is a handsome man of mystery. As an extraordinarily wealthy wheeler-dealer, he wines, dines and whispers in the ear of Joe Ross. Then there's his mysterious sister that he wants to fix up with Joe. What's he all about - see for yourself. By the time we come to the last scenes in the film, you won't have any idea of anything, believe me. And you'll love it.As far as I'm concerned, Mamet writes best in this genre; I'm not a huge fan of Glengarry Glen Ross, for example, but I do love this. The Spanish Prisoner - the meaning of the film's name revealed during the film - keeps the viewer absorbed minute by minute. "},{"Title":"How Not To Write A Con-Game Movie","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I originally voted this movie a 7, but then a very bad aftertaste developed. The first hour is an excellent con-game set-up, but the second hour is far too full of plot holes; some were obvious during my initial viewing but others cropped up as I thought more about the plotting.Now I give it a 5, because the final 20 minutes are simply impossible, not just improbable. The main character's behavior had become far too erratic for the ending to occur as shown. *SPOILERS* First, while blank books of the type used are quite common, given its heavy usage and security, the villains could not have duplicated the inevitable wear-and-tear (spots, scratches, dogears, etc). Second, when the main character leaves the airport, the plan was bust; neither the villains nor the Department of Justice could know that the main character would travel on that specific ferry. *SPOILERS*The last line of the movie is kinda cute though. "},{"Title":"a twist too many....","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS - Wait, forget that...How can I spoil something that doesn't make any sense and is, according to a host of posters, all a big con job to begin with?  As with most of David Mamet's work, the real pleasure in THE SPANISH PRISONER is the language.  I'm not always a fan of the happenings in a Mamet movie or play, but I have to admire the dialogue.  It's sometimes stilted, but it just sounds so cool.  The rhythm is even slightly addictive.  It's so obviously well-crafted that I have to appreciate the effort.  Unfortunately, in THE SPANISH PRISONER the language is used to prop up so many implausible twists and turns that it is ultimately too silly to be worthwhile.  At the end I felt a little hoodwinked myself.  As the credits rolled all I could think was, Wait, I don't understand!  And I still don't.  For Mamet fans only. "}{"Title":"Give me a break","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie's clever but ulitmately not satisfying.  The ending left me waiting for something more.  This is Mamet in his let's be clevermode (see The Heist), but it just isn't that clever.  It depends upon the main character's being unbelievably stupid at one point.  There are no memorable performances here but there are two that are painfully inept  Ricky Jay, who is a great magician and quite good in The Heist, isn't very good here but then he is stuck with some awful dialogue; and Rebecca Pidgeon is phony and hard to watch.  It's difficult to know whether it's her part that is implausible or her performance.  Although she never appears in any films other than hubby Mamet's, she is a creditable performer.  In this movie, however, her casting smacks of nepotism.Knowing the movie to be a thriller going in, reasonably smart viewers will be able to guess most of what's coming except for the main character's stupid gaffe (as mentioned above) and a final encounter that isn't believable.  The rest of the trickery at least is plausible until the end.Worth a rental and low expectations... "},{"Title":"The world is crying for screenplays like this one.","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've seen this movie twice,and with the same pleasure.It has one of the best screenplays of the last twenty years.The hero may be naivete itself but actually if we were in his shoes,we would do the same.It's the kind of character it's easy to identify with.One should praise the writers to the sky for their inventiveness,a story with a lot of unexpected twists ,a lot of details which will prove themselves vital for the plot when you thought they were only ... a detail(I will only mention Paddy the hero's childhood's pet,I could mention a dozen of them,but I won't because it would be spoilers).The Hitchcockian influence is obvious (the thirty-nine steps,north by northwest),but thoroughly mastered.David Mamet knows how to make a luminous Central Park look sinister (the carousel).And he does not forget humour.But all in all,this is a dark humour.Because ,if in this world you can trust absolutely nobody -the slogan of the movie is completely true-,if you 've got to be cruel to be kind,if brother will turn on brother,which world do you live in?You will be wondering for a while why Mamet chose this title for his movie.And why so many contemporary thrillers have so poor plots. "},{"Title":"looks like a movie, sounds like a play","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you've seen any trailers, you already know this film is about a confidence-game. Yes, the basic concept is pretty clever and the cast is good. Like the Oceans series, most viewers will be distracted enough by the action not to notice numerous plot flaws which I will discuss in a later; however, there is something else which bothers me.In Roger Ebert's review he describes Mamet & Tarantino as two writers whose dialog is distinctive. While that may be true, I found most of the characters occasionally sounding as if they were speaking lines in a play. The exact repetition of phrases, the hesitations, sounded like a stage actor speaking for effect, rather than a regular person talking. The writing/directing, both by David Mamet, was just too theatrical.Yes&#133; it was too theatrical. And so, I would fall out of the film thinking, that exchange sounded like a play; it sounded just like a play. You can see the problem. I mean&#133; what is a discerning viewer to do? What exactly is a discerning viewer to do? **spoiler alert** Now for those plot issues 1. As Joe is leaving the hotel for the airport, Jimmy Dell gives him a small package to give to Joe's sister who also lives in NY. Most people would slip the small package into their carry-on bag right away so it won't get lost, not Joe. At the ticket counter he is still clutching the package. After confirming his reservation, most people who hadn't already, would slip this package into their carry-on bag so their hands are free to do the boarding rigmarole, but not Joe; while seating in the plane, we see him clutching the little package in his hot hand. At this point, most people who hadn't already, would slip the little package into their carry-on bag in the overhead compartment, but not Joe; he slips it into the elastic pocket on the back of the seat in front of him. Why all this unnatural behavior? Well, the package has to be readily available for a crisis of belief. Some viewers might call this heavy handed. Then I begin to think about the entire concept, remember this is a con game flick. Let's imagine weeks before Jimmy talking to his gang during a planning session OK, we want to build trust with the mark. Anyone have any ideas, George? You could go boozing and womanizing together. OK, boozing; Susan? You could take him for a ride in your seaplane. Seaplane, good; Shawn? You could have someone pretend to mug him and you come along in the nick of time and save him like what happened to Sandra Bullock in The Net. Pretend mugging, good, Henry? You ask him take a package to your fake sister and he won't put it into his luggage because that's just the kind of guy he is. Then the secretary will spook him with mule stories and in a panic he'll open the package in the toilet. When he finds it's legit, he'll be embarrassed at himself for doubting you. Henry, you've been working on that mystery novel again, haven't you. Come on, admit it. OK, anyone else? 2. Joe has been stood up by Jimmy Friday night. Saturday morning he is out walking and sees Jimmy's assistant/body guard on the street going into a large commercial garage. Instead of hailing him, math geek Joe decides to follow him in. The garage belongs to a dealer of classic older cars where Jimmy has an appointment with a salesman. Now lets look at this realistically, this is an either/ or situation. Either the entire garage is a scam set, full of borrowed fancy cars and fake sales people, which is going to cost a lot of money and effort to set up, for what; Joe's 65 seconds in the garage? Or it is a real company near Joe's apartment, and the scam team just happened to set an appointment when all the real employees were away and when Joe just happens to be walking, and just happens to see Jimmy's assistant on the street. Is either one plausible? 3. Joe visits Jimmy's posh condo. Jimmy has just come out of his personal indoor swimming pool in the next room to say hello and then leaves Joe to wait while he dresses. Joe is going to sit for 20 minutes reading old magazines and not take a peak around the corner to see what a personal swimming pool looks like? 4. After the scam goes down Joe goes to the local police to report it. Since the scammers were impersonating the FBI, wouldn't you consider going to the FBI? 5. The NYPD bunko squad investigate the scam and immediately have facts they couldn't have had? The entire Swiss Bank acct. business would require them to know which bank to question, which they wouldn't know. They also wouldn't have known to go to the Venezuelan Consulate to ask for information; the consulate would most likely not given them confidential information, and they certainly would not have given them an official document.6. We have a fake girl-friend on the island, plus a fake personal staff at the condo, plus a fake maitre d', waiters, cooks, and a room full of fake guests at the restaurant; we have a fake car dealer staff and a fake tennis club staff and a fake FBI team. Not only is this getting costly, the more people involved, the more chance for mistakes, leaks or double crosses. I don't think a real scam would have a cast of thousands.But other than these things, it's a pretty good scam/comedy. "},{"Title":"a thriller without the thrills","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sorry.  I really wanted to like this one.  David Mamet is just not a great director.  I just couldn't help thinking that in someone else's hands, his script could have been crafted into a great movie.  This is an old fashioned movie.  The dialogue, the performances, the camera angles.  Nothing wrong with that.  Miller's Crossing was old fashioned, but at least it had a pulse and some sort of visual flair.  This movie looks and feels just like a telemovie.   The actors are all pretty uniformly wooden.  It's like watching a bunch of store mannequins  putting on a stage play.  If  that's your cup of tea, then this one's for you. "},{"Title":"This movie was LAME.....Full of LAME Performances!","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The performances in this movie were terrible. Rebecca Pigeon as Susan Ricci was so lame it was literally bad actress Corny! She was horrific we were under the impression that this was her first movie and she had no previous experience! It was like she was reading her lines from cue cards off set for the first time! She acted more like a stepford robot type of unintelligent schoolgirl. Campbell Scott was so utterly UNemotional in his characters portrayal that he seemed like an amateur as well. You'd think with what happened to him in the movie were to happen in real life it would affect a person on some emotional level of some kind. Not him, no emotion, no character, no personality whatsoever. I've seen better performances in a school play. This movie had a fantastic story line to it with amazing potential. But sadly enough because of the performances it ended up being absolutely boring and was a bad waste of a movie rental. I felt as if I was cheated of the money for the rental! "},{"Title":"Poor acting, poor script","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I think it's a pointless movie. Made me sleepy. The acting is awful, the storyline is slow and dull. The plot is full of holes, just like a swiss cheese.. There are plenty of hints in the plot, but they are so clearly pointed out that it becomes completely obvious that it is a clue to which the plot will return. To me, this just made the attempted twists in the plot laughable and silly. My advice would be to spend your time on something else instead. One short carousel scene and an argument in a car were quite amusing, but the rest was just boring. It's a shame to see so many fine actors wasted in such a pointless script. I am really amazed at all the good reviews it gets on this site.. but then again, they seem to mainly focus on the atmospere, not the plot. This I actually find even sillier.. In short, I wish I had spent my time elsewhere. Just my two cents. "},{"Title":"Obvious plot, stilted acting.","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film has many fine actors who seemed to have taken a break from their skills.  The plot is thin and obvious.  The acting stilted and forced.  Any modicom of reality is checked outside this film.  Don't waste your time.  "},{"Title":"Spanish Freedom.","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Spanish Prisoner (1997) Dir David Mamet / Cast Campbell Scott, Steve Martin, Felicity Huffman, Rebecca Pidgeon, Ben Gazzara Compelling mystery with a title that is symbolic or a misdirection of terms. It stars Campbell Scott who encounters both Steve Martin and Felicity Huffman on the beach at separate times. Huffman takes his picture and Martin offers him a large sum of money for his camera. They get acquainted then Martin offers him a large sum of money to deliver a package to his sister. These characters come in and out of his life until he becomes a target of scandal and murder. One big flaw is that the actors seem to be speaking on cue so they talk at each other instead of with. Intriguing plot with uncertainty directed by David Mamet who preserves mood. Mamet previously made House of Games and Homicide, and is a capable filmmaker but his casting choices seem way off in this film. Scott is hardly sympathetic as the victim, and Martin, despite the fact that he is branching out from his usual comic self, plainly isn't convincing. Huffman and Rebecca Pidgeon are the true gems and keep viewers guessing and the plot tense and unpredictable. Its main theme seems to regard trust either for its hero or viewers facing reality and very real people. Despite its performances the mystery elements are on target. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"David Mamet Does Hitchcock?","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" An employee (Campbell Scott) of a corporation with a lucrative secret process is tempted to betray it. But there is more to it than that.Roger Ebert wrote of David Mamet, His characters often speak as if they're wary of the world, afraid of being misquoted, reluctant to say what's on their minds As a protective shield, they fall into precise legalisms, invoking old sayings as if they're magic charms. Often they punctuate their dialogue with four-letter words, but in The Spanish Prisoner there is not a single obscenity, and we picture Mamet with a proud grin on his face, collecting his very first PG rating. I am still unsure if I like Mamet, but I am leaning towards yes. This film starts a bit slow, but after the first fifteen minutes or so, the twists begin and it is hard to know who to trust. It gets faster and faster and keeps us constantly in doubt. One would have to watch it at least twice to catch all the nuances. "},{"Title":"Web Of Deceit","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As the story begins you get the feeling that, despite the triviality, something important is going on. But you don't know quite what it is. Early scenes, with a variety of characters, contain little bits of business that imply, suggest, hint, portend. Dialogue adds to this impression. You never know who anybody is, says one character to another. Welcome to the world of corporate intrigue.Our protagonist is Joe Ross (Campbell Scott), presumably a Boy Scout type straight arrow, innocent and charming. On behalf of the company he works for, he has created a formula called the process, highly valued, that will make him and his company rich. Trouble is, others may want to steal his formula. The appeal of this film is the challenge of trying to figure out, among all the characters, who are the good guys and who are the villains.Except for scenes early in the plot and at the end, most scenes take place indoors, using sets with persuasive production design. These interior scenes are lit darkly, consistent with a dark, sinister tone. There are lots of close-up shots, as the emphasis here is on characters. What secrets, if any, are they hiding? Background music is low-key with just a hint of Spanish origin. Casting is acceptable; overall acting is quite good.My only complaint is that the story is a bit too contrived. I can't imagine that a villain, or villains, would go to such extreme lengths to accomplish their objective. A simpler plot might have been more realistic.Even so, this is a very good movie. What makes The Spanish Prisoner so enjoyable is that it is all story ... no camera gimmicks, no annoying car chases or obnoxious TV news reporters, no filler. As a result, some viewers will find the film slow going, dull, and bland. It's a film for intelligent viewers who like puzzles and mysteries. And its theme of greed fits right in with contemporary American culture. "}{"Title":"Very fake and somewhat stiff","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Joe Ross (Campbell Scott) is a brilliant designer who created The Process to control world market. He has come to this tropical island location with Susan Ricci (Rebecca Pidgeon) and George Lang (Ricky Jay) to sell it to his boss Mr. Klein (Ben Gazzara). He wants assurances of a big bonus. Then he's approached by Jimmy Dell (Steve Martin). There's also an FBI agent Pat McCune (Felicity Huffman).This is a very over written script from director David Mamet. It's all about the process (forgive the phrase) and not about narrative. The big money making Process is never explained. It's about manners and style. The Mamet dialog is sometimes so amazing because it fits the movie. This movie is like some kind of stage play on a Caribbean resort. It's all so very fake and somewhat stiff. This is a smart movie written by a very smart man except it's a little too smart for its own good. "},{"Title":"ultimately does not work","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" WARNING may contain spoilers!I wanted to like this movie, and it had potential. I have no problem with a complicated plot, as long as it all hangs together and is believable. But this movie has too many unbelievable points, e.g., the Joe Ross character would never have brought the secret to the meeting and agreed to give it to the Jimmy Dell character. He had previously shown that he was both aware and serious about keeping it secret. And despite his beef with his company about getting his compensation in writing (deservedly), it never shows him being willing or interested in betraying the secret, only that he was exploring talking to a lawyer about getting his share of the money.And like most plots, when too many people are involved in a conspiracy, it starts to get ridiculous. In this movie, there must have been a dozen at least!One final point. When Jimmy Dell gave the guy the book and asked him to take it personally to his sister, what did he think would happen when he found out, as he later does, that it was an old woman? Wouldn't that have completely ruined their chances to get at him?Since most of the reviews are glowing, I wanted to put out another viewpoint. "},{"Title":"HIns of N.W.O. agenda (movie ahead of it's time)","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie has hints of Secret Societies and agendas that could be real. The talk in the board room about making money off of Global Warming even though it is a bogus science, and that it would take the world 5 years to figure out the bogus science and that would give them time to make $30million? $30 billion?, $300 billion? We didn't get to see the amount on the blackboard. This movie was ahead of it's time. I saw many odd things like the poster in the office hallway that had a finger pointing and it said Someone Talked. As if the Illuminati had a weak link and their agenda got out. Then the poster in Steve Martin's fake office that had 2 planes on it and said New York. I'll have to watch it again, very good stuff. I think Mamet did 'Barfly', one of my favorite movie's, also 'Things Change'. "},{"Title":"David Mamet imitates Hitchcock","Date":"23 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" &#x84;The Spanish prisoner is along with &#x84;House of games Mamet's finest movie . There is quite a lot of Hitchcock style in it , but in the end the whole thing is pure Mamet. What makes is different than other thrillers is the theatrical approach to it . If you're expecting chases , action, violence or shock you won't find it here . The whole movie is quiet , moves slowly and actually feels like a real life . I would even dare to say that is an intellectual thriller.TSP requires patience from it's audience. If you have it you will be rewarded . It's impressive how subtlety Mamet changes our perception of characters through the movie . When the twists will come around you will be only able to smile with appreciation &#x96; they are so clever.Campbell Scott is great as Joe Ross &#x96; the main hero . He reminded me of a serious Harold Ramis . There are many different aspects of he's character that he is able to show the audience. I was pleasantly surprised by Steve Martin (yes , THIS Steve Martin) as Jimmy Dell. His cold demeanor really fits his character. Ben Gazzara gives a nice supporting role as Klein. There are also Mamet's god old buddy's &#x96; Ricky Jay as advocate and friend of main hero George Lang and Ed O'Neil (famous Al Bundy ) as FBI agent. The only weak point in the acting team is Rebecca Pidgeon (Mamet's wife ) as Susan Ricci . Her character is barely written and her acting is very one note. It's the weakest performance of the movie.The whole thing was not only written , but also directed by Mamet . He's a solid director , but his movie lacks emotions . It seems like it never bothers to be exciting . It's kinda refreshing after all those Hollywood thrillers. Yet , I believe that the ending begs for some REAL TENSION . It comes out as rather anti-climatic final also because it feels like a deus ex machina type of ending .The Spanish prisoner is a cake that lacks the cherry on the top (or I should say at the end) , but it's still a great cake. I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Not so brilliant, not so clever","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie features some of the most stilted dialogue and scenes I've seen. I'm not sure if it's intentional. For a first viewing years ago, I thought it was pretty interesting. Watching it again I realized why I never considered this a classic.To begin, it's so manipulative to be unnatural. I had a difficult time believing that the remarkable coincidences lined up like dominoes set up by design. The revalidation agreement was preposterous, set up so that the intrigue could continue, just like the bizarre set up with Jimmy Dell's sister kept continuing so that only the dumbest person in the world would not suspect that something was awry. And we are to believe that the main character is brilliant?And then there are huge holes in the dialogue, sloppy writing where characters don't finish off what you know they are supposed to say as a matter of logic and common conversation. If you pay attention you'll realize that this lazy, sloppy dialogue only happens in movie land. The ending of the movie is so awkwardly handled that it's hard to believe that anyone would actually believe that this is a clever movie. It's a twist within a twist within a twist that only keeps you invested out of curiosity to see where this lame effort goes. Not terrible, just not very good. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin in a different kind of role.","Date":"28 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Sometimes actors get type casted. One of those actors is Steve Martin. Known for his starring roles in comedies, in this movie he plays a completely different kind of part and plays it well, which is surprising as the movie is a crime drama. The movie itself is great. It has a clever plot, interesting characters, an engaging style, and strong finale. The bad guys are wonderful and their hapless victim, worthy of empathy. The movie is about greed, and false appearances. The bad guys seem good and the good guy is, well, we don't know; the audience is kept guessing. The entire cast is excellent. After watching this movie, one can leave feeling that they have been entertained and also shown what can happen when you let your guard down and trust others just because of the way they look. Yes, appearances can be deceiving and this movie shows how. "},{"Title":"The acting is simply sophomoric","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was tempted to run screaming from the room after viewing the first twenty or so minutes of The Spanish Prisoner due to its less than desirable bunch of actors. However, I was intrigued in spite of myself and ended up finishing the film. A man is hired by his boss to work on a top- secret project and espionage ensues. The writing was phenomenal, in my opinion. I would have preferred to read this as a novel as the plot is only slightly predictable and there are so many twists that no one could figure it out entirely. The acting is simply sophomoric. I think David Mamet should fire the person who did the casting. However, the writing was good enough to balance out the atrocity of the acting, hence my rating of 5. "},{"Title":"Mamet does some showing off, but really, he deserves to.","Date":"11 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" David Mamet can write. There's no two ways about it. He can write with such a beautiful and graceful cadence that any conversation, no matter how dreary or dull, can sound like a poetic work of art. In The Spanish Prisoner he shows off quite a bit, but hey, doesn't he have the right to do so? The Spanish Prisoner is about a naive inventor named Joseph Ross who has come up with a formula called The Process that is the key to global success for the company that employs him. But holding a secret this significant and this important has its drawbacks, and Ross quickly discovers that as an elaborate scheme unfolds before him in order to get ahold of The Process. This scheme is full of twists, turns, and countless surprises, making for a film that is a lot of fun to watch play out, but be prepared to follow the many trails as the film spins out of control towards the end.Now, I said David Mamet is a great writer, and The Spanish Prisoner is an excellently written film, it's just... different. The writing style has a more poetic cadence to it rather than the raw and realistic style of some of his other scripts like Glenngary Glen Ross, or House of Games. The style of the dialouge and its delivery takes some getting used to and there always seem to be those moments where I thought to myself, I bet that line looked a lot better on paper. Regardless, the script is full of sharp wit and crisp cadence, and the depth of the story as a whole is very impressive.In many ways I do feel like this would have been a lot better as a book or even a stage play, as some of the film aspects didn't translate perfectly. There's nothing truly bad about this film and it really is a great film that is a joy to watch, there are just those odd moments. Those moments, for the most part, just come and go and you forget about them after a while, as you become more enticed by the bigger picture unfolding masterfully before your eyes. One thing I consistently couldn't forgive, though, was Rebecca Pidgeon. I feel like she's most of the reason I felt the delivery of certain lines that otherwise would have been ingenious, were delivered a little rocky. She is simply just not good in this film, which is unfortunate considering her character is very important to the film. In fact, every character is important in this film because it is all such an elaborate maze constructed so well by Mamet.The rest of the cast does a great job. Campbell Scott plays the protagonist and does a decent job overall. He has a lot of those so-so lines that don't quite make me cringe, but instead force me to just shrug them off and move on. The most notable performance would have to be Steve Martin playing a straight man role. To see the white haired buffoon who I loved so much in The Jerk go an entire film without delivering anything close to a joke or visual gag was very odd, but also impressive. Martin does an excellent job as the elusive con man, Jimmy Dell, and he has some of the best conversations of the whole film.The Spanish Prisoner really is a great film. It's a poetic work of art from Mr. Mamet, albeit a little pretentious. But it's nothing that really gets in the way. The only thing that really does deter from this films excellence would have to be Rebecca Pidgeon in her bland and forced acting, making some of the lines in this film not as great as they were when Mamet wrote them out on paper. Solving the twisted mystery of this film is so much fun, and everything is pulled off very well. It is definitely one of Mamet's better films and it is an excellent display of the talent he has as a screenwriter. "},{"Title":"Rebecca Pidgeon's casting is a twist I could do with out..","Date":"20 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" All the positive reviews on here had me looking forward to seeing the twists and turns of The Spanish Prisoner. But instead I watched a movie where the only one who doesn't know what going to happen is the unlikeable main character. The plot isn't predictable from the outset but you'll see the twists coming 5 to 10 minutes before they get there. At times its interesting to see the smaller details of the set-up being put into motion but for me, that's not enough. None of these characters are likable. The dialogue is stale and reads like a play straining to be overly clever. The acting of Rebecca Pidgeon, who plays more or less the love interest, is wretched. Like Ed Woods movie wretched. And there are some questions/plot gaps regarding the level of involvement of the FBI (a minor complaint). Oh and this film ends with one of the weakest final lines I've ever heard. "},{"Title":"Hitchcockian Suspense from David Mamet","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What a fun movie! The Spanish Prisoner is a clever and suspenseful little mystery/thriller that stars Campbell Scott, a terrific actor who's always flown just under the radar, as an everyday Joe who finds himself at the center of a puzzling -- and increasingly so as the movie progresses -- intrigue being engineered by someone else.David Mamet proves himself to be as good a director as he is a writer, evoking comparisons to Hitchcock and Patricia Highsmith.Steve Martin appears in an unusual (for him) role, and Mamet's real-life wife (at least at the time), Rebecca Pidgeon, plays a double-crossing femme fatale.Grade A "}{"Title":"Red Book Switch at 10230 & 10238 & 10250 on DVD","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Someone doubted that the red book switch (the process) could work. I think it could. Well, in the least, Mamet put it in the film compare 10230 & 10238 (at least that's the timing on my DVD) the walkie-talkie on top of the red book moves! This is the signal that the guy behind the hero on his left has switched it.Then go forward to 10249-10250 where you can barely see this guy pull it from behind his back! The switch works.This movie pays re-watching for how Mamet layered con-work into the subtext.Let me offer another mystery why does Ricky complain that he has the flu? Cheers, J "},{"Title":"Here's a serious Steve Martin for ya.","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Usually known for his zany roles, Steve Martin gets a non-comic role in The Spanish Prisoner, focusing on a con game. I don't know how much I can tell about this movie without giving it away. But I can tell you that all the cast members do a neat job, especially Campbell Scott in the lead role of a man forced to betray the secret process that he invented (or is he?). David Mamet really does have a special affinity for this kind of topic, which he also visited in 1987's House of Games. Another good con game-related movie is The Game, which came out right before this one. All that I can say is, if you've seen Mulholland Drive, you might have an idea of what to expect. Maybe. "},{"Title":"writing makes up for acting......","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was tempted to run screaming from the room after viewing the first twenty or so minutes of The Spanish Prisoner due to its less than desirable bunch of actors. However, I was intrigued in spite of myself and ended up finishing the film. A man is hired by his boss to work on a top-secret project and espionage ensues. The writing was phenomenal, in my opinion. I would have preferred to read this as a novel as the plot is only slightly predictable and there are so many twists that no one could figure it out entirely. The acting is simply sophomoric. I think David Mamet should fire the person who did the casting. However, the writing was good enough to balance out the atrocity of the acting, hence my rating of 5. "},{"Title":"Terrifically Challenging Puzzle","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" David Mamet's Spanish Prisoner has a terrifically challenging script! In and out with suspicions! It was almost Hitchcockian, though less use of music suspensefully and not as crisp cinematography.But such intelligence and good use of a McGuffin to keep your eye on while the plot thickens around it. Really kept you thinking and guessing.Definitely for fans of Mamet's House of Games as well as fans of Keyser Soze.And surprisingly lack of 4 letter words. (originally written 6/29/1998) "},{"Title":"An amazing film that plays on itself perhaps more than any other film in history","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm going to start this by saying that my review is mostly to prepare those of you who haven't seen the film, because going into it with the wrong mindset can lead to a complete misapprehension of the film and thus not seeing its true greatness. I'm sure some have approached it in what I'm calling the wrong mindset and enjoyed it, but I don't think it's likely for a person to do so. And of course anyone is free to do as he or she wishes with the film, so don't take my words as gospel, anyway.David Mamet has crafted here a film that has truly very little plot and is very easy to see through at every step. However, that's part of the point. The film is an exploration of what it itself is and plays with the conventions of film in general and paranoid thrillers in particular to a hilarious extreme. This takes the form of aphoristic dialogue, obvious clues of future events, and of course the on-the-nose visual motifs that dominate Mamet's direction.Steve Martin is absolutely brilliant in a type of role we've seen from him before and always played well (to explain it would be to give away a plot point) and Campbell Scott puts in a fine, subtle performance in the lead. None of the other actors is required to do much and does what he or she needs to do well. However, acting is just not much of the point of this film--it's all about the narrative.Another important point of this film is that Mamet--known for his profane dialogue elsewhere--manages to make an entire film without swearing. Perhaps it was done to make a point (See how stupid things sound when you don't swear?!) or perhaps it was done just because aphorisms, Shakespeare, Thoreau, and most of the other common sources of the dialogue simply swear little and thus Mamet sort of accidentally went without swearing (I doubt the latter, but it's possible). In either case, there is a purpose to the extremely unnatural dialogue (probably mostly because movies never have realistic dialogue, to be fair) and that is part of the humor of the entire experience.So, all in all, David Mamet has crafted a surprising masterpiece, but it has to be approached in the right way. If you approach it expecting a true thriller, you're probably going to hate it because of its obviousness, the stilted dialogue, and its blatant rehashing of past films. However, if it is approached correctly as a real play on itself, The Spanish Prisoner is an absolutely hilarious film and one of the most intelligent pieces of comedy in history. If you're prepared rightly, it's worth the time, certainly. "},{"Title":"Implausible but stylish mystery.","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Basically a story about the theft of a process, which we may here define as a MacGuffin, around which an elaborate industrial con game is organized.In any game (an activity with rules, more than one participant, and a recognizable outcome) there are only three elements (1) physical skill (you outdrive the cars pursuing you), (2) chance (you jump off the roof and an awning breaks your fall), and/or (3) strategy (you outwit your opponent). Unlike most action movies, Mamet's stories are almost entirely about strategy. That might make it sound like rather less than it is. Mamet seems to love puzzles -- and puzzles within puzzles -- and the lengths people will go to manipulate one another and, man, is this a prize-winning example of his obsession. As in House of Game we have a big con that goes a little astray and winds up not only with the theft of a priceless invention but murder as well.I realize Glengarry Glenross is probably Mamet's most highly esteemed work but I think House of Games and The Spanish Prisoner are more engrossing because more things HAPPEN. Mamet's dialog always involves a lot of byplay, repetition, non sequiturs, and general ellipsis, but the elegant stylization isn't worth much if it doesn't go anywhere. Here the plot moves from the Caribbean to New York to Boston and with each step the conundrum becomes more difficult to figure out.Of course the plot is an implausible one because it depends on the heavies being able to predict precisely the moves of the mark, down to small basically unforeseeable details, such as his snooping in a secretary's desk and stealing a souvenir FBI card out of her scrapbook. But it hardly matters because we're swept along so fluidly in the mystery that we don't really question these events. The viewer, by the way, is kept as much in the dark as Scott Campbell, the protagonist.The performances are all quite apt. Scott Campbell might be a terrific inventor but he's kind of a dim bulb in other respects. He's the kind of highly conventional Schlub that wouldn't DREAM that anyone, let alone an entire organization, would lie with comfort and such powerful effect. You have to wonder what his voting record looks like.Rebecca Pigeon is, I think, an actress who never got the kind of attention she deserves. She's beautiful in an unconventional, petite, brachycephalic, angular way and her locutions and expressions always seem to suggest she may know more about what's going on inside your head than you do yourself. She delivers Mamet's stylized speeches efficiently but in other films has demonstrated considerable range. You never know who a person really is, she says. Something else. She may be treacherous, and he may be wary of an office romance, but they seem genuinely attracted to one another. Near the end, when Scott finally kisses her, she draws back and says, Crikees!, as if amazed and tickled. This is a set up for a final scene when she is hustled into the police van. She's supposed to break away from the cops holding her, run to Scott, throw her arms around him, kiss him fiercely, and confess that her feelings had changed to true love. But no! Thank heaven she has no remorse at all and leaves him with a wisecrack and a sardonic smile. Mamet is nobody's fool.I ought to mention the score. It's mysterious and melancholic. The main theme is built around a handful of descending notes and the orchestration is simple but a little odd -- bass, piano, quiet woodwinds, and chimes. It is so weird and catchy that it could just about stand on its own.Repeat viewings don't spoil the polish, even though the viewer knows the solution to the mystery. It's an original commercial product and it's enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Very Good Film","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a very good Mamet film, one of his best. It does suffer from a few Mametisms however, e.g. clubbing us to death with dialog signals to trigger the main character's eureka moments (the mother's dialog in the Boston airport security check line is excruciating), a plot with some holes in it, and the acting is pure Mamet. Some like his actors' style, some hate it, but overall it works well in this movie and the actors deliver in good form. Cambell Scott plays his part well, ditto Rebecca Pigeon (though weak and stiff as a temptress but otherwise great), and this is one of Steve Martin's best roles. The pace of the movie is really well done. The actions and events move forward and are neither overdone or underdone, and the suspense builds well to the climax. If you like Mamet, this film delivers. If you have your reservations, you still might respect his efforts in this one. "},{"Title":"Twists and Turns","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Keeps you guessing till the very end.Definitely a good one for the DVD library.The only acting I felt was a little stiff or odd was Rebecca Pigeon's but it did not affect the film over all. A sleeper that not too many people seem to know about. Great also is the fact that you don't have to worry about sex, blood or much violence in this film.Which is why it is P.G. They don't have to use cheap sensational tricks to keep you interested. Since this film uses quality, not graphic, raunchy content to sell this film. David Mamet can be proud of this one. A much better choice to throw in the DVD player, when there is nothing but junk on T.V. "},{"Title":"Impressive suspense thriller","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A worker (Campbell Scott)devises a formula which will bestow great riches upon his company. However, he has anxieties about the reward he will receive, these anxieties are heightened by a wealthy man (Steve Martin)who he meets on a business/relaxation trip to the Caribbean. An excellent thriller with many twists and turns to keep you glued to the screen and continually wondering what will happen next. Campbell Scott was very good as the ordinary guy tangled up in a dangerous web, and Steve Martin prooves he can play more than just the funny guy. A satisfying end was reached even if it was a little over the top, on the whole full credit to Mamet. Well worth a watch, good acting and a finely paced rhythm to the movie. "},{"Title":"Great Thriller, Albeit With An Overstretched Ending","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Spanish Prisoner is the definition of a great thriller Suspense which gradually escalates, artful plot twists, and great acting, all are present in D. Mamet's excellent work.The story is as follows Joe Ross (Scott), a middle-level executive in a company, is the team leader that produces the top-secret process, which promises to revolutionalize the industry and bring mythical riches to his firm. A meeting is convened in a Caribbean island for the process to be presented to the investors, and this is where Ross accidentally meets Jimmy Dell (Martin), a rich yet mysterious guy; he also meets Susan (Pigeon), his charming and smart newly assigned secretary, who quickly becomes fond of him. Although the meeting is a big success, and the company gives Ross approval and credit for his work, he leaves the island unsatisfied The reason is that he believes that his superiors, and especially his boss Mr. Klein (Gazzara), are just exploiting him and they do not intend to award him his appropriate dues in the end. Dell offers to help, from this point on everything starts to go wrong for Ross, as nothing and nobody is what they appear.Scott is great as a confused and inherently greedy Ross, while I was also very impressed by Rebecca Pidgeon's performance as Susan. The surprise here of course is Steve Martin, who proves that he is not only a great comedian, but he can also play serious roles with the same skill.The plot is very clever and comes with numerous twists. However, here lies one slight vulnerability of the movie The ending is somewhat overstretched, as it involves a final twist which is rather hard to swallow. This is the only reason I gave it a 9/10, instead of 10/10 mark.  "}{"Title":"Overloaded finale turns promising enterprise into pure cheese","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Total Spoiler package on the way here, so beware if you haven't seen this...I liked the low-key, slow-vamp character of this film. The lead, especially, is an always-two- beats-behind nebbish (or, if you're feeling extra literary, a K-like, Kafkaesque figure) who falls under an avalanche of troubling turns. No matter how much weird stuff snowballs on this poor soul, his most constant expression and stance is one of pinched anger, bewildered disbelief and powerless incomprehension. I like this. I like it not only because it is how most of us would probably go through the events depicted in this film, but because it is an antidote to all the patently silly heroics of Tom Cruise films, wherein the hero is victimized for a split second before shifting into Rambo gear and leaping 20 moves ahead of the most sophisticated adversary and doubling back. (What rubbish.)Where I have a problem with Prisoner is in that the most critical major expository point is handled purely through a line of dialog. We should be shown that Ross's boss is behind all the crazy things that have been happening to him. Instead, this plot turn is dispensed in a brief bit of dialog that it would be easy to miss. I love Mamet (okay, I LIKE Mamet), but this feels like a crappy writing your way out of a plot corner.The slow, expansive atmosphere that is wondrously maintained throughout the first nine tenths of the film is all but destroyed by one of those 40 car plot pile-ups right at the end, that reveals the wealthy Julian Dell as a hit man, that the Japanese tourist is a U.S. Marshall, that a lady quietly sitting by during the final showdown is a marks-person with a tranquilizer gun, that the flirtatious lady the repressed Ross has been considering a dalliance with since early on, and to whom he finally succumbs, is able to say Kill him without batting an eye, that the whole thing has been watched from a distance by the authorities all along, who were waiting for the last few minutes of the film to move in. All this, thrown at us during the last 5 minutes of the film, is too much. It botches the credibility of the experience. (Could Charles Kaufman have taken this very film as a diving-off point for the mother of all narrative backlashes/derailments at the end of Adaptation?)If this was a film from the 40s, I would hop on the bandwagon blaming studio interference for a misguided save ending. As it is, I don't know who to blame for the failure of The Spanish Prisoner. But I do see the wheels of revisionism already starting to turn on behalf of this 7 year old film, with devotees claiming it's a parody or spoof. I don't believe it for a minute. I think Mamet meant it as much as Kafka meant The Trial-- which is to say that while, as authors, both may be capable of abundant wit and irony, neither is about anything so lightweight and easy to categorize as a genre spoof.10 Stars for over half its length. 1 Star ending. 6 Star average overall.  "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is BRILLIANT, and a must-see if you are a fan of good-plot-based films that provide multiple-twist-endings and leave you guessing til the very end ... that said, i must confess i even liked the butterfly effect (for all it's cheesiness, it provided an outta-nowhere ending and kept my attention through-out!) ... ... but spanish prisoner is the GOLD standard. after having only seen wag the dog (a CRAP film) of mamet's prior to this, i wasn't a fan. i've subsequently checked out every film he's made since, and only house of games and homicide come close (winslow boy is pretty great, too)... ... steve martin is surprisingly great and campbell scott and rebecca pigeon are awesome, but basically it's the cool plot that makes this movie so watchable. mamet's occasionally unrealistic dialogue, which KILLS some of his films (like oleander), actually compliments this film nicely. STRONGLY recommended ...  "},{"Title":"mild fun","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A very rewarding movie, well worth whiling away some of your life for.  - Never gets passionately exciting, but zips along pleasantly. MAJOR SPOILERS - this is one of those movies where virtually everyone did it, which was fairly easy to figure out. Too many crooks is not so fun, but the movie has enough intelligence to make it work. Who can you trust? I picked up a hitch hiker today, so trusting a stranger is one more gamble I took. You have to judge what risk you are exposing yourself to, and, unlike the (deliberately misleading?) claim of one character in the Spanish Prisoner, people are not like how they appear! It is true though, that we instinctively judge by appearances, to do so is hardwired. Would you ever trust a tiger? "},{"Title":"One of only a handful of films that I never tire of watching...","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Spanish Prisoner is not a visual feast, but all of its individual components add up to a very pleasant viewing experience. Campbell Scott is just perfect as the lead and Steve Martin has never been better in a rare, non-comedic performance. The supporting characters are all terrific and Carter Burwell's score adds a nice touch. Mamet's wonderful script kept me guessing throughout. I was riveted throughout and although it has a few minor flaws, it just gets better with each subsequent viewing. After seeing it in the theater and watching it several times at home, I can honestly state that it actually works better in the living room. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"When you want to attain a chilled-out state...","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The large amount of silence combined with the time it takes for this plot to develop produces an effect where eventually every line carries enormous weight.  Even (or especially) the small talk.  There is some great dialogue, and a captivating plot.The end seems rushed, and not written as well as the rest of the movie.  Kind of like a John Grisham novel great plot, but apparently not much time or thought put into the resolution.Great film to watch when you want to attain a chilled-out state.  "},{"Title":"A great film, certainly the best twist movie in the last 20 years...","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A discussion of the plot of this film is near impossible, not because it is awful but rather quite the opposite, it is so good I would hate to spoil it for anyone.David Mamet has excelled in this production, from the script to the actors. (Notably including Steve Martin in a serious role, and the obligatory Mamet casting of Rebecca Pidgeon and Ricky Jay, both superb) The plot contains so many twists and turns you will be on the edge of your seat, a roller coaster ride that doesn't resort to extreme violence to keep you interested.All in all a must see film for anyone at all. "},{"Title":"Stylish but flawed","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is such a stylish, smart, fun ride that the implausibility of the conclusion and the Rube Goldberg machinations that were supposedly behind all the action can almost be forgiven.Mamet never condescends to his audience with a lot of expository material -- you have to figure it out as you go (like the hero in the film) and that's a lot of fun.The ending is a real Deus ex Machina mess, a quick explanation that explains nothing.  If you try to imagine the Justice Department staff meeting where this plot within a plot within a plot was proposed and accepted you just laugh out loud.But even that feeling is almost cured by the final, odd exchange between two of the central characters as one is loaded into a police van.  Once again David Mamet's strength for fascinating characterization asserts itself.  "},{"Title":"Excellent second half saves the film","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  At first I wasn't really getting into this film.  I felt that the dialogue timing was off, and some of the characters did not feel right.  Which was dissapointing because dialogue and timing is what David Mamet is known for.  As soon as the plot twists started to happen the film captured all of my interest, and had me questioning everything that I was watching.  This is really a great film if you can get past the first hour which does nothing but set everything up. "},{"Title":"It is all psychological !","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ok to fully understand the films of David Mamet you must have some psychological notions.I am doing a research on the movie and I will post here, what we have found.But people who think that the plot is unbeleivable... I'll tell you a clue... Most of the things in the movie are not real, Joe Ross is searching his identity, and most of the things (Dell for exemple) that we saw happen in his head !!! See the film again with that vision in mind and the movie will work much better !I'll post my results later !!! "},{"Title":"Nice twist, ma'am.","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had more curves than Rita Hayworth, but not so many to make it unsightly.  The perfect blend of complicated plot and intricate characterization, I loved it from opening scene to the ending where Campbell Scott sends his would-be lover to her room.  Steve Martin is enlightening as the crooked eccentric and Ben Gazzara is as always wonderful and commanding.  See this movie. "}{"Title":"Viewer patience is richly rewarded","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"       This was a play before it was a movie, and Mamet writes plays as well as screenplays.  This is also one of the first times Mamet directed one of his screenplays. As a result, it seems artificial on the big screen at first.  Probably the first half of the movie seems that way.  You know it is smart, but it seems a little phony.        By the second half, however, things run much more smoothly and the excitement picks up big time.  Endings are hugely important in movies, and the second half elevates this film to a 3.5 out of 4 level (or 8.5 out of 10), when it seemed like only a 2 (or 5) during the first part.  If you are watching it, hang in there.  It will be worth it.     "},{"Title":"A boy scout grows up","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I gave it a 9/10 because it was a good mystery with lots of twists and turns - until you get used to trust no one.  Rebecca Pidgeon was most believable as was Campbell Scott as the boy scout.  I could believe he would act as he did - at least until he met Ms. Da Silva - but by then I guess that he was too caught up in everything to be too concerned.  Good watch.  "},{"Title":"Impossible !","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The superb acting of Steve Martin (Julian Dell) and Rebecca Pidgeon (Susan Ricci) makes this movie worth looking at.  The plot is not believable.  There is the scene of the club where Joseph Ross (Campbell Scott) signs a paper for membership that later on will put him into troubles.  His boss Mr. Klein (Ben Gazzara) claims he has no money on his bank account and asks to Ross to give him the invention back. He is even dropping the charges against Joseph Ross. The scene with the FBI is strange but possible.  The scene at the airport is the most acceptable.  At the end I would have liked to see back Mr. Klein, how would he react and what would he say to his employee?  I preferred the script of the movie Glengarry Glenn Ross of Mamet than this script about an inventor who is cheated by his own boss. "},{"Title":"very Mamet","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  David Mamet once said, in essence, that acting and actors just weren't that big a deal - an actor learns what to say, stands where he's told to stand to say the words and that's that.  When Mamet directs his own work that's exactly how it seems.  This is a very complicated plot and I have to admit, though I only went thru it once, there are some glaring plot holes that multiple viewings would either clear up or not...but overall, it's a fascinating story. If you're looking for action or even emotional outbursts, you won't find them here.  Some of the acting (directing) is quite wooden and stiff...but that's Mamet. I love his use of language and the way people use each other. So I recommend this for sure. I'm just glad he didn't direct 'Glengarry Glen Ross'. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin in a serious role? Now that's funny!","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's been a while since i've watched a good Hitchcockian type thriller and after seeing this film, i'm still waiting. Yeah ok, it was a pretty interesting plot, but by the end everything just seemed completely unbelievable and it was all too quickly rapped up.Also, I know the lead man's character isn't supposed to be the life of the party, but at least the actor could have made an effort in attempting some facial expressions. The only highlight of the film was Steve Martin showing his serious side. "},{"Title":"Spellbinding paranoia","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Just saw this for a 2nd time, and my wife & I were as impressed as the first time around. The script is very clever (of course), but what I really like is how the direction inserts an *additional* layer of mystery on top of what's already there... through the casting, camera angles, half-hidden facial expressions (used repeatedly), and more. This could be called the Hitchcock touch, although there is a mercilessness and a lack of sympathy for the main character which is not Hitchcockian. As a viewer I feel lost in the intricacies of the movie, which seldom happens.(minor SPOILER) As for the ending, I view this clearly as a dying dream, or wishful thinking. It's just too strange, and unlikely. No explanation on how they got on the trail, or how they were there before everyone else... as a viewer you can choose the ending yourself, and I'll go with a more bleak interpretation.I gave it 9 / 10. "},{"Title":"Watch this carefully.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have heard that many, many people are disappointed with the ending to The Spanish Prisoner, including several of the reviewers on this website. Watch the film again, and really pay attention to what is going on throughout, and especially at the end. It is not what it seems, and perhaps one of the greatest tricks pulled on an audience in recent history.In light of what is going on underneath the surface of this film, I have to say that it is one of the best films I've seen, and I say this partly because I am partial to audience manipulation. It seems to me that all aspects of the film, the most notable being the cinematography and dialogue, exist to make the viewer feel one step ahead of the story. And when the film ends, we still feel one step ahead, so most dismiss this film and move on. It really deserves multiple viewings.  "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I liked the film although the end left me really confused the first time I saw it. The second time it was clarified.Some of the other commentators on this board argued that the direction sucked. I think it was pretty good. The use of the camera angles the 20+ fade to blacks (as one viewer put it), etc. helped to keep the viewer off balance. This is a complex mystery it's supposed to keep you off-center. Rather then using plot device of the red herring, Mamet does it visually. For me it totally works.Yes the dialogue is quirky but this style of delivery is his signature. I liken it to a haiku with maximum content in minimal space. Every sentence can be profound given it's context or just plain fun and goofy, such as the line Dog my cats. It also serves as symbolism or a red herring.I also agree with one of the earlier comments where the writer says Just take the film as it was intended. The writer/director wanted the film to be as it is. I go to a movie to be entertained. If I wanted to punch holes in the plot I'd be a professional critic.I recommend the film to anyone who likes plots loaded with intrigue.  "},{"Title":"It Keeps You Guessing","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie does start a little slow, but picks up steam as the plot twists mount up. The dialogue is a little strange, but I thought it added to the mystique of the film. I had previously seen House of Games so I was used to the quirky dialogue of Mamet. I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"A distinguished puppetplay","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I write this commentary because I am amazed at the stupidity in most of the reviews. If you are one of those who find 'many holes in the plot', because 'it's not logic' I'm talking to you. When trying to understand The Spanish Prisoner (1997) by David Mamet, first thing to do is to accept it completely as it is, and assume that the maker meant it exactly like this.Only in this way can you hope to grasp the logic behind the world the film is presenting to you, follow the route through this world, and notice the bends and shortcuts used.It makes no sense comparing the film with other movies that have similar elements, expecting a similar effect on you as a viewer, and then complaining that the effect didn't come.Looking at the style of acting, the dialogue and the unexpected bends in the plot - for example Joe taking the only copy of the formula to an appointment with criminals -, don't say you found 'flaws', but instead ask yourself why these things are like this.Maybe Mamet is trying to see how far he can stretch the film outside realism and daily logic, while keeping the enchantment, the filmlogic intact. Maybe? Let's say we know this. Now if you don't like it, you just don't like the style, that's all. Okay? It is clear to me that the maker of the film is very much present, always saying something through the mouth of a character, exaggerating the cliché, mocking us (as humans, not as viewers) and the characters, confronting us with strange riddles, etc, etc. He's kind of a little Rumpelstiltskin, a nasty puppetplayer. There is much more to be said about The Spanish Prisoner, but the final thing I want to note about this movie is the pace. The music (by Carter Burwell) lures you into what seems to be the tempo for the scenes and beats too constant throughout film, moderate and graceful, which gives the whole thing somewhat of a distinguished puppetplay. "}{"Title":"A Stylish Thriller","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS!!!!This was a wonderful and unique thriller in the distinctive Mamet style. It certainly is not for everyone, but for those who appreciate Mamet's emphasis on the written word it is quite an enjoyable outing. Those who criticize the stiffness of the actors, the stilted dialogue or the stupidity of the main character are missing the point. This story is meant to be presentational as opposed to strictly representational.What I am getting at is that all of the elements that people are singling out as negatives are intentional devices to define the style of the film. In my opinion, these stylistic choices perform several important functions. The actor's reading of the dialogue in the somewhat monotone style really accentuates the script. It also gave me the feeling of reading a mystery novel and being left to imagine some of the character's internal thoughts and feelings for myself as opposed to having them acted for me. It also seems like Mamet is poking fun at the unnatural quality of dialogue in many novels.As far as the main character's stupidity, well, I am one of the worst at being able to suspend my disbelief but I found several easy justifications for this. For one thing, his image was continuously reinforced as the boy scout, always courteous, trying to do the right thing. Not to mention, pretty much everyone was in on it, from his boss to his buddy that ended up dead. Lastly, I have known people that could solve complex equations in their heads but could barely tie their shoes. So, I was able to empathize with this character despite his many screw-ups. As for the vagueness surrounding the process. This is very typical of old, classic cornball detective stories, where there is always some secret formula or another to be worried about falling into the wrong hands. Hell, back in the day it was all in the brilliant scientist's head and it had to be tortured out of him. If nothing else the film certainly has a unique look and feel to it.I thought that overall it was an extremely clever and entertaining story. I find Mamet's style to be refreshing and unique. "},{"Title":"Incredible movie ... Rebecca Pidgeon is fascinating","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I confess, I've seen this movie 3 times and still can't get enough (few movies do that).  The deadpan, clipped and snappy dialogue is fascinating and witty, especially when done by Rebecca Pidgeon.  She delivers Mamet-speak with perfection.  Sure, there are holes in the story, it's implausible and the dialogue is unnatural and weird (others have said) -- but get over it, it's supposed to be that way!  This isn't a slice of real life, it's thrilling theater at it's peak! "},{"Title":"Incredible movie ... Rebecca Pidgeon is fascinating","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I confess, I've seen this movie 3 times and still can't get enough (few movies do that).  The deadpan, clipped and snappy dialogue is fascinating and witty, especially when done by Rebecca Pidgeon.  She delivers Mamet-speak with perfection.  Sure, there are holes in the story, it's implausible and the dialogue is unnatural and weird (others have said) -- but get over it, it's supposed to be that way!  This isn't a slice of real life, it's thrilling theater at it's peak! "},{"Title":"Remarkable lines plus good performance from Rebecca Pidgeon","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I love David Mamets's films mainly for his writing. I preferred this film to The Winslow Boy, even though the two films are so different in content. One of the reasons for this is Rebecca Pidgeon, who has an unusual screen presence in this film. Her subtle insinuations while speaking the remarkable lines of Mamet are throughly enjoyable. Her last line Help me, boy scout is one such example.As a film there are flaws--unbelievable actions in the Men's room, camera moving behind walls instead of editing the sequence...Mamet's choice of actors in this film is commendable, especially that of Steve Martin. I still view Mamet as a great writer or a (screen)playwright than as a good director.   "},{"Title":"Like Hitchcock for English Majors","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Exquisite David Mamet dialogue distinguishes The Spanish Prisoner from others of its genre--and yet the respect for language is both a blessing and a curse for this film. It is often stilted conversation that the actors are asked to deliver, but they all do it expertly, engagingly, and with a unique understanding of their own peculiar piece of the intricacies of the movie's puzzle. The twists and turns are myriad and mind-boggling, and a certain amount of disbelief needs to be suspended to thoroughly enjoy this thriller, but it's worth it for those who are up to the task. Kudos to all the actors, but especially to Campbell Scott for a marvelously complex, understated, internalized performance as the poor, good-natured, over-educated shmuck who can literally `trust no one' as he is haplessly drawn into a world of intrigue and deception. A fun ride! "},{"Title":"I loved the dialogue.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Why does everyone criticise this movie for lacking verisimilitude ? It is not supposed to. The dialogue reminded me of Pinter along with the cuttoffs and so called wooden acting.Regards Mark   "},{"Title":"Mediocre Mystery","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Disappointing. But, I had to watch this twice. The second time to see if the movie put enough hints for the plot twists or just hid the facts so the surprises come out of nowhere. It was the latter.Good performances from Campbell Scott and Rebecca Pidgeon make this movie watchable. Recommended for mystery junkies and people who want to watch a 2 hour movie that doesn't have cussing and violence.  "},{"Title":"An offbeat but captivating mystery, well worth seeing","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I hate hearing a constant stream of profanities in movies.  So I'm really impressed how David Mamet has made such an interesting and suspenseful film, and still managed to keep it at the PG level.I agree the dialogue in this movie does not always sound natural, unlike the dialogue in, say, a Shakespeare play, for example.  And there are probably some plot loopholes, although some of these can be explained if you think really hard about who all of the bad guys are.This is not a perfect movie, but I did find it very entertaining.  I was frequently on the edge of my seat waiting to see what was going to happen next.  And I thought that both the cast and score were great.  So I would highly recommend this film to anyone who likes a good suspense story, and who can suspend their own critical disbelief for a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"Mysterious mystery","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is about stealing a very valuable process which can fetch millions of dollars (how much is also mysterious as the director cleverly hides the value). The story starts slowly but take tremendous twists and turns as it moves on. The movie is intelligently directed and the punch line trust no one is well kept on. You will really enjoy the movie when you see more than once. The downside of the movie though is the expressionless face of the hero. Even we the viewers show better expressions with each twists and turns the hero just holds his head for everything. But a must see for a mystery lover "},{"Title":"Clever routine thriller","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Steve Martin proofs in this movie that with distiguished arrogance one can also play serious characters.  I must admit, I watched this movie mainly for his sake. I was interested in how a great comedian does in a thriller. And he did it so well, in my opinion, that you keep forgetting that he is actually a comedian.This is a classical &#132;Don't trust anybody`-thriller, where the main character gets betrayed by almost everybody. It's cleverly done, creates fine suspense and has an interesting base. Actually, I don't approve of David Mamet's screenplays because his dialogues often seem over-artificial to me. In this movie, particularly the plot twists stand out and every word in the dialogue has a certain meaning for the film. So, this work of his is at least okay, although comparisons to Hitchcock are not rather justified.  "}{"Title":"Great story with on main flaw","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Mamet seems to be very good at creating complex storylines, but in this particular story I found one major story error that could not be overlooked. The mistake was so drastic that it ruined a lot of the plot for me, though the film was still entertaining.Let me put it this way, if you had a formula, which Mamet calls The Process and never goes into detail of what it was which was kind of a lack of effort on his part, and someone wanted to see this documentation, you know every well what you would do with it.  What moron would keep one copy?  A very sad flaw.  The main character is very bright, and if technical, would know better than to have only one copy.Still a good film, but if you watch it, you will have a nice laugh at this convenient stupidity on the main character's part. "},{"Title":"Very original","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had never heard of this movie when I rented it so I didn't know what to expect. What a pleasant surprise!This is a great movie, very different from anything I've seen before. I loved the strange dialog and the fascinating story with its twists and turns. And it was clean! "},{"Title":"A Very Entertaining Film","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It is interesting to note the number of negative reviews for this film and the similarity in their criticisms.  I would agree that if you are the sort of person who has difficulty in maintaining a state of suspended-belief for two hours that this may not be the movie.  If so, I suggest you and the other plot-reality 'critics' stick to documentaries.  However, if you actually like movies this may be a very enjoyable show to you. This movie is similar to House of Games in plot and dialogue.  If you have seen that movie you will likely experience similar reactions.  The dialogue is witty and often hilarious protagonist standing in line at airport overhearing conversation between mother and daughter regarding fingerprints, for example.  Excellent performances by Rebecca Pidgeon and Steve Martin.  The irony of the complaints regarding the dialogue being contrived are almost as funny as the movie was. It is also quite bizarre that negative comparisons are made with the Usual Suspects, when these are two very similar movies, with neither having a superior plot-development than the other.  They are both really good films.  The approach to dialogue is quite disparate, however these 'complainers' are exactly the sort of people Mamet is poking fun at with this dialogue.  Its one of those jokes where if everyone else is laughing and you're not, then the jokes on you! Anyhow, don't be dissuaded by the negative reviews.  This is an excellent movie.   "},{"Title":"Not recommended","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My main problem with this film is that the main character is stupid and yet he is supposed to be a scientist.  I found myself yelling at the screen when he made choices that no character, I don't care how naive or trusting, could make and still be sympathetic.  The result of this character's stupidity is that the viewer doesn't end up feeling sorry for the predicament he gets in because he essentially brings it on himself.  Also, some of the actions around which plot turns are implausible.As far as the acting goes, Steve Martin is wasted in this film.  Rebecca Pidgeon is stiff and almost unwatchable.  I usually love Mamet and his plays like 'Sexual Perversity in Chicago' and 'American Buffalo' are some of my favorites.  But this is Mamet at his worst.Fans of a well constructed story should stay away from this one. "},{"Title":"Great style, but gaping plot holes ruin it","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  ** BIG SPOILERS HERE **I like to give some liberty to flicks that try this type of clever story, but what makes this type of movie interesting -- and what's supposed to really get under your skin -- is that it's soooo close to possible. But this one isn't. Mamet has an excellent style and can create chilling details, but he doesn't seem to know enough about scientists, inventors, police, con games, or even simple logic to write this kind of movie! Here are a few of the many holes1. Anyone who's an inventor, who keeps a single handwritten copy of an invention in a notebook in a safe behind a picture, please raise your hand. And this would be the sole and confirming instance and proof-of-concept of this invention? No prototype? No tests Nothing else? This is worth millions??? No, this is out of a comic book! Okay, but I'll give some liberty here and say that a damaging copy of the invention exists in a book or on a computer disk...2. No one, but no one, could be stupid enough to bring the sole instance of this thing to the park. This compounded by the fact that he already believes that danger lurks -- he knows that Martin is a con man! Oh, but since the CON MAN asked him to bring it, he's going to??? At the very least, he would bring a facsimile -- how's the con man gonna know? Remember, this guy is a scientist, and perhaps wet behind the ears, but he's not from Mars. If we gotta believe he's from another planet, then the whole movie falls apart, doesn't it? Okay, but let's say he actually IS that clueless...3. How did the FBI happen to have EXACTLY the same type of notebook with which to pull off the switch? A nice green and leather bound book with the exact number of pages, and presumably with the same amount of wear and tear so that this guy will carry it around the park for hours without once flipping it open to glance at the pages? Was this the standard issue scientific invention notebook (see 1 above)??? Or did the FBI have a whole stack of candidate notebooks in one of the bathroom stalls, able to pluck out just the right decoy in a split second from this pile? It's beyond me...4. Why didn't the police buy his story at all? I think that any good detective WOULD buy it, or at least give the guy some latitude. For example, the Swiss bank account. Ever meet up with a con man? They're VERY clever. It's quite plausible, and indeed probable, that a con man would try to frame his mark by opening up a damning account. And why doesn't Mr. Green Scientist just fess up? If he's really that clueless, then, hey, that would be the most plausible approach for him.5. Oh, and a bloody knife in his friend, lovingly fondled to add fingerprints. If 1-4 hadn't killed it for me, that was way over the edge. But enough, already.Believe me, I wish that this had been better. It has enough style to be a classic. But logic? It appears to be clever, without actually being so. Well, it's a pretentious movie. It wants to impress you with its intelligence but instead shows its naivete.Recommend It's worth seeing for it's beautiful style, but most con movies I've seen hold water better than this one. If you like mind games, check out The Usual Suspects, with its shattering finale. That one will keep you thinking for a long time... "},{"Title":"Great movie for what it was designed to be","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, don't watch this movie expecting to see some heavy plot with deep characters. The plot is simple, the characters exist only to support the plot. Main characters are molded to fit into the plot, non-main characters come in, do their job, and leave.A little synopsis. Joe Ross is a scientist who has developed a process which is going to make his company rich. He meets up with Jimmy Dell in an island and they spark a friendship. Ross then starts to have doubts about the intentions of his company, specifically as to how they are going to repay him for this process he created. Things become increasingly fuzzy as some people turn out to not always be who they seem to be.This movie is plain and simple a what's going to happen next? movie and in that it succeeds wonderfully (IMO). Like The Game, one is led to believe things and have it turn out that those things are not true. Or are they? The reason this movie was made was simply to confuse. It did that. It does start off slow which is not a bad thing for this movie. I think a slow beginning establishes an atmosphere of safety and slowly little nicks are taken before the bigger stabs. One annoying bit of the movie are the fortune cookie talking by some of the characters. Too many lines were copied from a Bartlett's Familiar quotations type compilation. Don't let it get to you. I think it's Mamet's way to inject uncertainties and foreshadowing. It stands out like tree in a grass lawn, but doesn't take away from the movie since it's really the plot twists that this movie is all about. Bottom line don't take it too seriously, don't analyze the characters, don't try to find plot flaws (at first). Just sit down and let the movie drive and you'll enjoy it. 8/10 -Mark "},{"Title":"Jack Webb has returned!","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I first started watching this movie I was taken aback by the wooden acting and the deadpan delivery of the dialog and wondered if Jack Webb had returned from the grave because it seemed almost like watching  an episode of Dragnet. However, I'm glad I stuck with it because the plot delivers on everything as promised on the back of the video jacket. It really starts to get interesting as the twists start to reveal themselves, but I can see why none of the acting from this movie won any awards. "},{"Title":"Why can't people just enjoy a good mystery with no shootings?","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Much like classic detective films, there's a serene suspense that I enjoy out of films like Spanish Prisoner that you don't often find in films of today.  Unlike earlier comments, I don't consider Bond to be THAT suspenseful, or Mission Impossible to even be that credible (how many times did we see the 'face mask' gag in that last installment of crap?).  What I do like are the more personal levels of danger, like losing your job, or when 1 person takes the fall, but the world easily goes by without them. That's why I like films like Gattaca or Usual Suspects so much, since the suspense & drama involve only a few people, but the stakes are high for those very few.  Would Usual Suspects, though, have gotten such a big rating in IMDB if nobody got shot and violence was kept to an unseen reference? Nope, don't think so!!!Give yourself 2 hours to be thoughtfully engaged, and think about putting yourself in the shoes of the hero, for once, rather than be merely entertained!Had the ending not been so abrupt, it would've been a 10 to me, but a 9 is well deserved! "},{"Title":"Intelligent movie.","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie for its quirky dialog and, mostly nonviolent, way of telling a story.  The action occurred in the intellect.  For some the movie may move too slow and lack gunplay and explosions.  I thought the story unfolded nicely and I was drawn into the plot.  I did have a problem with the ending.  I thought a scene involving a lapel would have led to a discovery but didn't.  (I agree with another commenter that plot synopses, other than a quick, vague summary, can ruin the watching experience.  A movie's plot should reveal itself slowly.)   "},{"Title":"Highly Recommended","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first came out and it impressed me very much. I especially enjoyed the dialog. It's refreshing to hear characters speak intelligently and without coarse language. The movie is a first rate mystery. Campbell Scott and Rebecca Pidgeon give excellent performances as does Mr. Martin. I've recommended the movie to friends and all have reported that they enjoyed the film. This film to me proves that a thoughtful script and good acting is all that's needed to make a good film. I tire of the cliche endings that have to have a major surprise that you know is coming anyway. This film has surprises and suspense but it doesn't clunk you on the head with them. It respects the viewers intelligence and let's you savor them. "}{"Title":"Wonderful plot-twisting mystery!","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Fantastic mystery!  All the right plot twists to make this highly entertaining.  One word of advice to people who haven't seen it yet  DO NOT TURN IT OFF!  The first 45 minutes of the movie seem so bizarre and boring that you will think it's a terrible movie and will want to turn it off.  Stop yourself!!  Trust me, it will all come together in the second half.If you like this movie, I highly recommend The Game with Michael Douglas and A Fish Called Wanda with Jamie Lee Curtis. "},{"Title":"A major disappointment. All the hype....then zero.","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was really expecting something from this film. It was described as David Mamet's best in some of the literature I read. Even the IMDb voters give it a high rating. It's a long, slow, fragmented film, full of scenes which encompass superficial continuity, but never really have the credibility of a story. The crowning glory comes with the end of the film when the hero is confronted by the villain, only to be rescued by a couple of completely new characters who have mysteriously turned up at a location the hero has found himself in by chance. Make sense? There's the dilemma. On the other hand, if you slot this film into the James Bond/Mission Impossible genre, you don't have to try to make sense of the plot. However, it becomes a complete B movie when put up against films in the Bond category.  "},{"Title":"Big Letdown","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is not only about a con, it also perpetuates one on the viewer. If that is a bit harsh, it is only because we have come to expect more from Mamet. The plot refuses to make sense at different times(unless you are really generous!) and the ending is a damp squib, to say the least. Scott is good, but the Mamet-style dialogue delivery becomes stilted after a while. Steve Martin is wasted. To compare it to Hitchcock is ludicrous. There is about a half hour in the middle where it really picks up, but by then you are clutching at threads, looking anywhere for redeeming qualities. Rebecca Pidgeon is very weak as well.  "},{"Title":"Did I get this right?","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Nice movie with very pleasant characters.  I definitely recommend it. Stop reading this review if you haven't seen the film, as I would like to point out a few flaws.  Yet I might have missed something and would be happy to be corrected if I'm wrong.The gangsters are pursuing two aims. First, they want to steal the plans for a secret invention; second, they want to incriminate the inventor.  The major flaw concerns the drive to the airport; the minor ones concern the tennis book and the ticket to Venezuela.The drive to the airport The only apparent reason to drive Joe to the airport and set him up with his ticket to Venezuela is to further incriminate him, even though his friend was already killed with his knife. Yet it would have been easier and much safer for the criminals, if the secretary had just contacted the police after Joe came to her looking for help.  Driving him to the airport is unnecessarily risky as she could have been accused of helping a murderer.  It was also unwise to put a gun in the handbag and to give Joe the ticket to Venezuela (and then walk him to the counter for the flight to the Caribbean!).  The FBI would have probably believed him that somebody was framing him.  And fear of having to talk to the police again can't be the reason either, because she could have just phoned the police and then disappear.  Perhaps I got something wrong here, but the drive to the airport doesn't make sense to me at all.  (What's also strange is that there's that van in front of them with a Bostonian advertisement on the back door which is meant to give her the idea to drive to the airport in Boston in the first place; that's simply deceiving the audience.)The tennis book Why does Joe buy a second copy of the book?  The reason can't be his suspiciousness, as the whole plot is based on his goodwill and naiveté.  The original copy has a broken binding; does he want to please the rich guy's sister with a copy that's in better condition?  I'm not sure, did he drop it in the plane so that he feels obliged to replace it?  If he did that would have been a good reason.  If he didn't, it seems dumb to replace it, as the original damaged copy might have been a piece of sentimental value.The ticket to Venezuela I find it curious that Joe would give the guy at the harbor his airport ticket to the Caribbean when he wanted to go to New York by boat. (The boat trip is making sense as I take it that Steve Martin was in the car with the others when they followed the bus to the harbor and then sneaked onto the boat.)I wonder if it's possible to make such a gripping punch-line thriller without the usual flaws.  Maybe it's just too much work to consider every detail ... Good movie though and great acting, and I don't see what's wrong with the dialogues (as one reviewer had it), I found them quite excellent. "},{"Title":"Campbell Scott, Rebecca Pidgeon, and Steve Martin are superb in this mystery!!!","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Spanish Prisoner is an excellent suspense mystery film made in the old fashioned way without a lot of grisly violence, loud explosions, and vulgar language. It involves a man named Joe Ross(played extremely well by Campbell Scott, his best performance since his likeable weasel car salesman in Big Night), who is an honest, decent man who has invented a process which will make him a lot of money. Unfortunately the corporate world does not want to pay him for it and so they devise a way to steal it from him and frame him for a murder of a friend. Great supporting cast with Steve Martin doing an excellent job playing a heavy, and of course the most beautiful actress today, Rebecca Pidgeon, playing the femme fatale, girl next door, who is not what she appears to be! For example If Rebecca was a breakfast sandwich at McDonald's she would be called the McHottie!!! A great movie! I have watched it three times and I enjoyed it each time. "},{"Title":"Well, I Figured It Out!","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this film because I had solved the mystery within the first few minutes.  However, I'm not a mystery fan, so if I can figure it out, I expect that a real mystery fan would find this film far too easy.  There were plenty of hints, and all you have to do is pay a bit of attention and have at least some knowledge of the kind of thing that this movie deals with.I did not like the ending, though, because it didn't tie in to the clues as tightly as the rest of the film.  Yes, there were hints, but I don't think there was sufficient evidence to figure it out.  Mind you, if I WAS a mystery fan, I probably would have noticed a few items that (at first glance) seemed like mere window dressing but later turned out to have some bearing on the ending. "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE...I LOVED IT","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  With numerous movie channels I watched this movie without knowing the title. All I knew was Steve Martin played a dramatic role, which I found surprising. Since then, I have taken the time to search the internet to find out what the name of the movie was and found it today. The suspense was great and I think this movie is well worth watching. It was truly captivating and just when you thought you knew who the bad guys were....there were more that you had trusted. I highly recommend this movie.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie!! Keeps you guessing and entertained!","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  At first, the movie started out really slow. But after the first 20 minutes it really got better. Then it really got good. Then it got so good, that I didn't want to leave to go get something to eat, and I was watching it on video. I don't want to give anything away, so I am just gonna say, that you should see this movie. Another great movie, that is just like this one is Zero Effect. You will like them both "},{"Title":"Neat !","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Directed by David Mamet (The Spanish Prisoner) is a great mystery movie.  Don't let anyone tell you the story.  You must see it!  It is a Hitchcock type of story. It is fascinating. House of Games is a very tricky movie. The plot is mind boggling and it is a work of art. My favorite quotes Mike You can't bluff someone who's not paying attention. Mike What I'm talking about comes down to a more basic philosophical principle Don't trust nobody. I recommend the movie.                                                            "},{"Title":"A fascinating movie!","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  David Mamet (House of Games) again directs a fascinating movie. I like the work of Campbell Scott (Singles, The Love Letter) very much and think the role of Joe Ross is a great character added to his repertoire of memorable work. He is so natural in every movie. Keep up the good work Campbell. Joe Ross is a mathematician who worked for hire and developed something outstanding and thinks that he deserves more money than he received. That leads him to a very intriguing situation, and the audience looses the sense of who is the bad  guy and who is not.  That very day I watched this movie I had submitted a project that I developed to a publishing house. Suddenly I was scared stiff. I was so scared that it was not funny. It is unbelievable how a movie can impact one's thinking process.  My favorite scene is when Detective Jones shows up. My favorite quote Detective Jones Nobody looks at a Japanese tourist. George Lang Worry is like interest paid in advance on a debt that never comes due.. "}{"Title":"What?","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I can't for the life of me figure this movie out, can somebody out there who really knows help?  I mean the story is pretty good there's no problem there but the dialogue? At first I thought that maybe it was a foriegn film or the work of a foriegn director/writer but it is neither. It was so incredibly awkward at times that I almost convinced myself that it was trying to be awkward. If that is the case it would be good to know as it would greatly affect my vote. Sure the acting was transparent at times but it was so uniform as if planned to be awkward. I don't know but all who weren't satisfied with this movie but liked the concept should check out The Game with Michael Douglas as it will leave you without these same questions. "},{"Title":"Mamet captures truly perfect dialogue","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've been a fan of David Mamet's plays for sometime now. He has a knack of writing truly accurate dialogue which makes the story seem more real. I also liked his use of relatively unknown actors in the lead roles and more famous people in the supporting roles. "},{"Title":"Twisted theme","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I rarely find a film of this genre that can maintain my attention. This film was well made, written flawlessly (IMHO) and the acting superb. Campbell Scott comes off as a great boyscout. For the low profile this film seems to have, it is worth watching at least once! Twice or more f you want to see things unravel, there are many details to this story. I'm going to look for the novel or screenplay. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Cleverly Done","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I persevered through the first half of the film and was amply rewarded. There are elements of Hitchcock here and there, and it is certainly worth sticking it out for the first 45 minutes, while director and writer David Mamet builds up the story. Not for those who want car chases, gun fights, and lots of explosions. In their own way, the plot twists provide a different sort of excitement. Mostly cerebral, I suspect. "},{"Title":"It's a Mamet!","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It certainly is. It has all those features of his previous films - zombiefied performances, repeated dialogue, overlapping dialogue, intricate plot, deceptions galore and paranoia-a-plenty. You either love him or hate him. I actually like him quite a bit, but this one fell short for me. The performances are fine Campbell Scott is suitably edgy as the Hitchcockian fall-guy, Rebecca Pidgeon actually very good (in a Mametty kind of way) as the too-good-to-be-true personal assistant and Steve Martin nicely oozy as the tycoon. But the plot is really just too convoluted for its own good and disappears up its own behind on several occasions. Fetched from the other side of the galaxy, it pales significantly against Mamet's far subtler and much more believable 'House of Games'.  "},{"Title":"A good try, but no cigar","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had a very good pretense, and all the actors did good jobs, but this movie fails because the plot twists just don't work. I think a good movie is even better in reflection after you have time to mull it over. But when I thought about this movie, I realized that many of this movie's plot devices just don't seem plausible. Much of the movie is based on deceiving the victim into thinking people and things are not what they actually are. But too many of the manipulations are left to chance and it strains credibility when the bad guys' plottings always go the way they want despite the level of chance involved.  "},{"Title":"Things are not always what they seem","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Spanish Prisoner is a thriller that ranks as one of my top-shelf films of 1998, even though it was given little shelf space in my local video store.  David Mamet's twister of a tale is intriguing and more than once surprising, a la Usual Suspects, and Steve Martin plays his part with just the right degree of understatement.  The film seems a bit unpolished at times, as if the budget and shooting schedules were restricted, which only adds to the disguise of an ostensibly simple tale. "},{"Title":"Would this work as a play?","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I can't help but wonder what this movie would look like as a play.  Mamet has the plot twists, and dialogue down, but the film's cinematography is average.  Maybe it's filming outdoors, 'Glengary, Glenross' had wonderful scenes in the real estate office which heighten the tension between characters, 'Prisoner' seems to lack this urgency.  A comparison has been made to Hitchcock in other reviews, but movies like 'Rear Window' have far more going on than this film.  Rebecca Pidgeon only adds to the lethargy by doing each scene exactly like the one before it, (no beginning, no middle, no end, just monotonous acting).Luckily Steve Martin keeps the momentum from stopping completely. This movie really showcases his talent, and he doesn't crack a joke once.Overall, a good film, but not deserving of the accolades I've seen in some reviews.  I was definitely kept in suspense about how it would end, Mamet's dialogue proves complex enough to add nuances which accentuate how the deception eventually works out, but he needs to remember, it's a film, and cameras have limitless possibilities. "},{"Title":"The second half of this movie was very entertaining.","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I sat watching this movie my wife had rented and was not enjoying it very much.  I was thinking of turning off the t.v. when it suddenly got better. It was then that I realized, while the first half of the movie is somewhat contrived and the acting very awkward, it is a necessary vehicle for the well done second half.  I also agree with others who have stated that the female lead needed to be better cast.  Heck, Felicity Huffman (Dana Whitaker on Sports Night, who had a small role in this movie) would have been an excellent choice.  On a scale of $7.50 to full refund, I give this movie a $3.00 rental.   Just make sure you are in the mood for an involved plot when you go rent it.(This is not an action packed block buster, nor is it a sappy chick flick.)  "},{"Title":"That's pretty smart.","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't sure when I first saw this, the acting was a little odd, but fitted the characters.  I found the script dodgy in several places and Pidgeon was interesting yet annoying.  Campbell Scott played the boy-scout character well and Steve Martin was excellent, these two actors along with a plot that I loved (I love the idea of someone being able to engineer something so complex) was enough to make this one of my favorite movies. "}{"Title":"Great film, terrible ending","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  To me The Spanish Prisoner had huge potential, the plot set everything up for a perfect black ending. However, it was not to be. Without giving away the plot, the ending looks like it has been written by a ten year old (apologies to any ten year olds). A great film, let down by the worst ending for a film I've ever seen! "},{"Title":"Fun, mystery and intrigue","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Mamet has created two of the best mystery/fun movies, with the addition of The Spanish Prisoner to the cult classic House of Cards. Mamet movies have a unique style and feel. Mamet's world allows you to lay back and enjoy. No need to critique the acting, writing or rapid pace dialogue. Just enjoy the ride, beacuse if and when Mamet leaves, there is really no one left to fill the void. "},{"Title":"Crikey!","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie could have been great, but, as others have pointed out, Mamet has a predilection for unconvincing dialogue and clumsy direction, not to mention casting his spectacularly untalented wife. It is worth watching to the end, where Mamet confronts us with either the biggest plot hole in the history of cinema or another twist.  Steve Martin and Campbell Scott do an admirable job of making Mamet's dialogue sound semi-natural; Rebecca Pidgeon is brittle and bizarre. "},{"Title":"Average Mamet","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Playwright, screenwriter & director David Mamet's work can be currently divided into distinct categories early awful, early brilliance, middle average, middle brilliance, late awful and late average.For the unacquainted, his trademark is Altmanesque overlapping dialogue, with more structure to his tales, and for the use of the absurdly fat and utter jerk magician, Ricky Jay, in supporting roles.The Spanish Prisoner pretty much ignores this trait and goes instead for the twists he used so well in House of Games... although virtually all of the twists here are predictable.See Glengarry Glen Ross and Oleanna for middle brilliance, House of Games and Things Change for early brilliance, and wait for the late brilliance to kick in.2 NiroStars of 4 "},{"Title":"Plot holes and inconsistent acting.","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The plot holes in this film bring the Grand Canyon to mind.  I won't spoil anything for would be viewers, but I found myself asking many times why in the world would (blah blah), and how is (blah blah) not obvious?  While the secretary's peculiar delivery was at first intriguing, it ended up being just plain annoying.  I thought she might turn up to be more interesting than she was.  And there were uncomfortable moments in conversation, not because the director wanted tension, but because people simply don't behave that way.Do yourself a favor, stay away from this film.  See The Usual Suspects, Dead Again, or Shattered. "},{"Title":"One of Mamet's best films.","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ever since House of Games, I have been a fan of David  Mamet's films.  His latest, The Spanish Prisoner, is one of his best.  Steve Martin reveals an acting ability superior to anything I've seen him do before.  Once again, Campbell Scott proves that he is in a league with David Strathairn as one of our most underrated actors.  Rebecca Pidgeon (Mamet's wife) is not in the same league but merely adequate, and Ed O'Neill shows up as an FBI agent in a cameo role.  As is always the case in Mamet's films, nothing is as it appears to be and I was kept guessing right up to the end.  His work is not for everyone.  It is not for those who need lots of car crashes and special effects in order to be satisfied.  It is not for people who do not wish to think.  The Spanish Prisoner is David Mamet at his finest. "},{"Title":"Everythings not what they seem...","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Take for example this film. High hopes- high fall. Nothing about this movie can be considered good. The dialouge is stiff and very unnatural. Bad acting - very bad acting. Bad directing - very bad directing. I suppose this film in script stage was going to be a mindbender but executives thought it was to complicated for the average american so they forced a rewrite and spoiled the whole concept. The end was laughable. The woman at the airport saying the same thing ten times to her son, the thing that made the main character understand the whole thing. Hello!?! And the female character that repeated everything twice! Things like -You never know who you can trust. -Things are not always what they seem. Like the actor portaying the hero didn´t hear it the first time.Stay away from this one. And referring to Hitchcook is plain and simple an insult to the great master. "},{"Title":"It shoulda been a Contender","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film should have been more engaging and intellectually stimulating than it was. As it is, only Oleanna stands out as a more poorly acted and directed Mamet film (Note to IFC LOSE that film already ! ) What failed ?  The dialog is often stilted and forced-- especially Rebecca Pidgeon, who was just wrong in every way imaginable.  Especially in early scenes, one gets the impression that Mamet was trying for staccato back-and-forth dialog that is more suited to the stage.  On film it comes across as forced and overly artful.  The hints dropped about no one ever being who they seem are about as subtle as a brick through your window at midnight.  Any suspense that remains lies solely in figuring out whether the plot is as incredibly obvious as it seems to be.  ... and while we're on that subject, those of us who figured out the major event of the plot during the first reel are NOT even rewarded for watching closely (numerous times, even in slow motion) to see how the bad guys pull it off.  In fact, one can reasonably conclude that some off-screen science fiction device was used. As the protagonist, Campbell Scott never succeeds in making me like him or care about what happens to his character.  That is largely the fault of the script and the directing moreso than his acting.  For us to believe that he could be so badly duped by others, his character needed to have been developed earlier on as a distracted professor type who understands only abstractions, not people.   Anyone who knows a scientist knows how paranoid s/he is about protecting her/his work-- it is INCONCEIVABLE that he would risk his intellectual product as recklessly as he does.   For that plot device to work, he needed to have something more at stake than simply a pile of money-- a mother dying of a rare disease for wont of funds to pay for an expensive operation, or maybe we learn that he wants the money to support an orphanage full of poor, pathetic children.   If just the money is at stake,  then we need to be convinced that this guy is a real fanatic about gaining wealth, not that he simply wants what he deserves.  As it stands, the story flunks a basic test of realism and fails to make the audience care about the character.A small but annoying point.. am I the only one who wonders why he was ever wearing glasses when he could leave them behind at a critical point and do just fine without them for the remainder of the movie ???  I think they were included as a stereotype for the scientist character, and for a single close-up shot.Having said all of this, I still found the movie a small cut above the rest in the mystery/action/noir genre.  This is hardly the first film of this type to telegraph its plot twists-- and this one does it in pursuit of a more stylish and intellectually engaging storyline.  Maybe I am more critical in my judgment because it easily *could have been* a much better film.  Steve Martin was well-cast against type and was wonderfully enigmatic.  Both Gazzara and Jay succeeded in bringing their characters life more than the two leads.  (that unintentionally sounds like damning with faint praise)  The cinematography was sometimes outstanding.Overall, though, I am befuddled as to how so many reviewers here absolutely gush about the movie.   As John Leonard recently said about 'Eyes Wide Shut'/ Kubrick-- I suspect that others went to see the film expecting a masterpiece by Mamet so that's what they saw.  Sorry-- but for my money, the Emporer forgot to get dressed before he made this film. "},{"Title":"People are not what they seem to be","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  People are not what they seem to be. This is the 'resume' of The Spanish Prisoner. And as in every Mamet's films what we deal with in essence is a game. This game is a display of personalities, ambitions, intrigues, trust and interests. Sit back, relax and watch with careful eyes another game portrayed by Mr. David Mamet's mind.  "},{"Title":"Good potential, but doesn't deliver.","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a great disappointment. The plot held for great turns and twists. Unfortunately, the movie turns out to be quite transparent and predictable, with many unbelievable aspects to the plot.If Cabin Boy isn't available to rent, I guess this will do. "}{"Title":"Unfortunate failure","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was ready to like this film when I rented it - great press, great screenwriter/director, great cast.  Unfortunately, it failed to meet even basic expectations.  While the supporting performances were uneven (great turns from Martin and Gazzara, weak ones from Pidgeon and Jay), poor Campbell Scott, front and center the whole film, never manages to generate any sympathy or energy, and in fact leaves the film fundamentally inaccessible.  I used to think there was no skill involved in playing the center of a plot-centered film, but this movie disproved that theory - a better central actor could have made the film work.  Instead, the connections to him (his potential romance with Pidgeon, his envy and respect for Martin, his drinking-buddy chats with Jay) all fail not because they're poorly written, but because Scott doesn't show anything about what they mean to him.Even Scott's fatal performance aside, this film was difficult for several other reasons - the stilted direction and complete triteness of the opening scenes; the poor line delivery of Pidgeon, whose over-diction becomes annoying, and who never understands a character that uses 'Crikey' as an expletive; the implausibility of Joe Ross' utter gullibility; the purely gratuitous final twists of the plot; and the downright insulting action sequence toward the film's end.  I blame Mamet for all of these, not just for mis-casting Scott and Pidgeon, but for overworking the plot and preventing any real character acting from coming through, except for Martin and Gazzara, who have to work hard at it.Another near miss for Mamet, who is an amazingly talented screenwriter, but simply fails to tie the package together for film. "},{"Title":"Excellent display of panache by David Mamet.","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While watching this film, you get a sense of every thing you need to know being supplied in the script before you realise it. Hints are dropped constantly at the truth which as the plot unfolds, with more twists and turns than a twisty turny thing, becomes more of a guesswork patchwork. To enjoy the movie best, don't try and out-guess it, as, I have to admit, I did. Just let the flow take you to a conclusion that, through all the confusion is roundly satisfying. Without the possibly unnecessary concessions to the mainstream, it would have been a perfect film. It remains excellent. "},{"Title":"This movie pulls you in like a fish on a hook.","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Wonderfully done. The con unfolds in an amazing fashion. This is a can't miss movie. You must watch every move, or you might miss something important. I urge anyone to go and rent this movie.  "},{"Title":"Did I Miss Something?","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Spanish Prisoner is the latest offering from well known screen writer and occasional director David Mamet who is famous for writing a lot of wonderful films which all possess very smart dialogue films such as Glengarry Glen Ross and Wag The Dog are examples of the skill Mamet has with screen plays.Now comes Mamet's latest offering which he also directs and from the advertisements and reviews I've read of it,it is suppose to be a razor sharp,clever and icy thriller. Maybe those reviewers saw a different film because what I saw was definitely not razor sharp,clever or the slightest bit thrilling.The Spanish Prisoner tells the familiar story of a young man (Campbell Scott) who suddenly gets suckered by a lot of smarter people who land this poor fellow in a lot of trouble.The story goes like this Joe Ross (the young man) is doing a good job for his company. He has created a formula which will earn them stacks of money and for this he is given a rather cruisey business trip which sees him , the company's lawyer (Ricky Jay) and a secretary (Rebecca Pidgeon) sent away to a sunny Cuba.  During his stay he comes across a rather mysterious fellow named Jimmy Dell (Steve Martin) who offers him a large portion of money for his camera but rather nicely he gives him the camera for free and the two start talking and decide they will have dinner together in New York but as Joe Ross (the young man) is leaving Jimmy hands him a parcel and tells him whom and where to deliver it to.And as the film further progresses we see Joe slowly get suckered by everybody.With David Mamet writing the screenplay and directing this thriller, which despite having a familiar set up, it is also a promising set up which could be well executed with capable hands (Mamet's are more than capable), you would think that he would turn this into an intriguing clever thriller with sharp dialogue and lots of unexpected twists.  Instead we get one of the most poorly exceuted,directed and written thrillers I've seen in a while.This film has some of the weakest dialogue I've heard in a film. It comes across as if everything the main characters say is supposed to artificial and fake as they consistently say the most stupidest and obvious things. Though this may be a new style by Mamet as a lot of the film's aspects other than dialogue seem to be going for this artifical approach it certainly is a poor one. Some of the dialogue given to the Rebecca Pidgeon character is the worst dialogue I've ever heard and as a result she delivers a pitifully bland performance as does Campbell Scott. Despite being a good actor he is directed in a manner which makes him come across as the most boring and lifeless character I've seen in a while. Steve Martin and Ricly Jay however deliver effective and colourful performances Martin in particular is terrific as a slimy con artist.Not only is the dialogue weak, the characters unappealing and the film's story unoriginal, but the direction is ultra heavy handed and condescending. Some of the clues Mamet's gives us to figure out the plot are so obvious it's downright insulting. The scene in the airport Que is the worst scene. Worst as in the background. There is a conversation going on which is obviously linked to what the main character should do next. Not only is this obvious but what he should do next will be figured out by most viewers about half an hour before we get to that scene!.The Spanish Prisoner is quite a lousy thriller which is full of bad features the only thing which keeps it entertaining is how amusing the bad dialogue gets and Steve Martin's excellent performance but unfortunately other than Martin's performance this is an atrociously bad thriller with a shockingly bad script which is written by one of film's most acclaimed script writers!.2/5 "},{"Title":"This was the best picture I've seen in a long time!!","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was awesome!! It was suspenseful, mysterious, and fun. It kept me on the edge of my seat the whole time!! I never knew what was going to come next, and when it came I was both surprised and at times frightened by the mystery and intrigue! It was an excellent movie and I very highly recommend it to anyone!! )  "},{"Title":"David Mamet  can't get no respect at all","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Alas--why do our best artists in the film industry go unnoticed?Is Mamet's Pulitzer in '84 the last award he's going to get?Seems that way.  Sony Pictures Classics didn't have any trouble taking out ads in the trade papers for Central Station or The Opposite of Sex.  So why didn't they get behind this, another overlooked Mamet gem, which was superior to both films?Ah, enough whining.  It's quite simple--if you like Mamet, you'll have a ball with The Spanish Prisoner.  Enough about those crazy plot twists, anybody can do them.  My brother can put twists in his sports reporting. What'll get you, if you're game, is how simply engaging the film is, even when nothing appears to be happening.  I think it's a safe estimate that a whole hour and a quarter rushes by before anything remotely Hitchcockian happens.  But just listen to that dialogue!Joe (Campbell Scott)  Strange old world.Susan (Rebecca Pidgeon)  Strange old world?  Dog my cats!Joe  Dog my cats indeed.I don't care what you say, you'd have to go and get Vertigo or Rear Window to see the last time anybody toyed around with English the way Mamet does.  What another writer would call his best lines, Mamet uses for throwaway gags.And the parallels to Hitchock are justified, nearly.  Campbell Scott (son of George C., amazingly) has neither the suave easy charm of a Cary Grant, nor James Stewart's ease of switching between natural comfort and excruciating nervousness.  Often times, he's downright dull.  But he manages, and sometimes even manages to take our eyes off of Steve Martin, who (deservedly) got the most critical attention as Jimmy Dell, Joe's newfound friend and possible benefactor.  Sometimes a great physical comedian will want to take his business elsewhere, and do non-comic roles.  And we want to hit them.  Robin Williams is an example, making bad career moves (except Good Will Hunting) since 1989, and not realizing we're not going with him. Steve Martin plays Jimmy Dell not for laughs, but brings his comic energy, anyway.  He glows, and we respond to him the same way we did back in Parenthood and L.A. Story.  Third in the lead is Rebecca Pidgeon, the director's wife.  She doesn't seem much at first, in that awful jacket, doing the cheerful secretary bit, but we get hooked quick.  She does what Lindsay Crouse couldn't do, and with less effort than Sharon Stone--she generates heat without seeming to try.  What Stone puts up in neon lights, Pidgeon writes on a little piece of paper, folds up, and passes to us across the table.In support, we get the reliable Ben Gazzara (look at Buffalo '66 and Happiness--has any other actor had a wider variety of roles in 1998?), and Mamet veteran Ricky Jay, who gets the best lines of all.  "},{"Title":"Like Scooby Doo meets a Michael Crichton Novel","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Great movie...Captivating plot...mysterious characters..BUT What's with the ending?  This reminded me of some Michael Crichton novel where the whole book is great but ends with and then they left the island and all the dinosaurs die because of a clever trick we didn't tell you about.Or, for you Scooby Doo fans, Velma's uncovering of the plot in the final 30 seconds of the show.  All that was missing was Steve Martin saying and I would have gotten away with it too if it wasn't for the meddling FBI!Even the second time through this one was confusing. "},{"Title":"I think there's something going on here that we don't understand fully.","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'd like to start by saying that anyone who has not seen this film should stop here and not read anything else anyone has to say until you've fully appreciated this movie, for this is truly one you don't want to spoil. But keep one thing in mind- no one shares the style that Mamet has created in his work. It's a style unto its own and cannot be reproduced no matter what anyone may thing.I find it tragic. I find it tragic that there is a large amount of people that don't, can't or won't see Mamet for what he is. A cultural genius. As one of our time's greatest writers, I find it incredible that there would be so many negative comments regarding this movie and the mechanical, unbelievable dialog that is found only in the great works of David Mamet. I see the quality of his work, the quality that is lacking in many of the major motion pictures today. The quality is this- I can think of no other writer/director/producer that can create such a powerful suspense film without killing half the entities in the script and either violently ceasing the operation of the automobiles of the remaining half or unintelligently placing them together for a mindlessly gratuitous sex scene. I find it sad, sad indeed that we've grown to such an apocalypticly cultured society that demands these vital elements in a movie for an inclusion into some type of- some type of what I don't know, but it really is sad that Mamet cannot be appreciated by everyone. I suppose our society is to blame, but we can get past that can't we? I see his dialog, that many people have mistaken for as artificial, as a superb style- and as a sort of dialect from a world long forgotten in this world we live.The Spanish Prisoner is close to being one of the greatest movies of our time from one of the greatest literary and visual minds of our time. That is all I will say, for many have ruined it with their quotes and revelations already. Just keep in mind- you're probably going to love this movie or hate it because you don't get it, but if you just don't understand it, don't get upset and call it worthless for no reason other than you didn't see any real gore or a great sex scene that we could have (and did) do without. If you don't get it, I guess first of all you don't really deserve to call yourself filmlover, and second of all- don't ruin it for those minds that thirst for something great that without David Mamet would be harder to find than the plot of A Thin Red Line (Just my opinion and comical relief there- don't take offense at the hypocrisy of my words and the fact that I just didn't get it- but someone's gotta say something about that tragedy that was the script, not the story...)So go check out The Spanish Prisoner- and if you like it, if you really like it- you might want to go see The House of Game which displays the same great style that we're truly lacking in movies these days. "},{"Title":"A great mystery movie","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I went to see this movie, I had no knowledge of the plot or content. I'm really glad I did not know the plot was a mystery and suspense.  By not knowing about the movie, I was somewhat in the same position as the Campbell Scott character.  There were events that were occurring or about to occur and neither he nor I expected it. As I was unaware of the plotting as his character was, we both seemed to respond the same way to the events.   This is one of those movies in which you must pay attention to every detail.  In a movie as good as this, maintaining attention is not a problem.  The whole scheme, which I won't elaborate, is done remarkably well.  You don't really know who the schemers are until the movie tells you.  What is really good about this movie are the performances, especially Campbell Scott. There was great chemistry.  One criticism that some movie critics had was that the movie never defined the process.  To me, it is irrelevant knowing what the process is because the film makes it clear that the process is important and that people will do anything to get it.  This is a must see movie. "},{"Title":"Be careful not to read any spoilers out there...","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  An excellent movie, when I first saw it I didn't have a clue what it was about which is the best way to see it... All I really think the audience should know is that you should pay close attention to this movie, although even if you don't quite grasp certain parts they will dawn on you later...I just loved all the little details in the background that give you a hint about what is going to happen, and you think you're so clever when they ALMOST do...That is pure genious...you would think that all the plot twists and turns might leave some people behind but that's just the thing, they're so subtle at times as not to do so...and that is just what it is about plot stacked upon plot there are so many little hidden plots and clever little half-plots that you'll never figure every thing out the first time you watch it...Probably one of the best movies ever made. "}{"Title":"Predictable yet interesting","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film presents little new in terms of plot surprises. While viewing it, my companion and I saw just about every turn coming about 10 minutes ahead of time. Yet that does not detract from the quality of the film.The acting is superb (the editing could use a little work), the writing concise, and I found myself entranced despite the predictability of the story.Still a highly recommended title, if for no other reason than to see Steve Martin in a well-played role, plus many other excellent performances. "},{"Title":"cool, calm","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  An elegant, if somewhat minimalist, crime story with excellent, layered performances from an ensemble cast. Its mysteriousness and confusion is helped along by the almost unbelievable naivete of the main character. Campbell Scott carries it off well though, keeping us guessing as to just how much he knows.  "},{"Title":"One of Mamet's best!","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I am a David Mamet fan and have been since House of Games.  I expected not to be disappointed by his latest, The Spanish Prisoner, and indeed, my expectations were met!  The biggest surprise was Steve Martin, who revealed an acting ability superior to anything I've seen him do in the past.  Campbell Scott once again revealed his talents as an actor (underrated and deserving of greater recognition).  Rebecca Pidgeon (Mamet's wife) was adequate but not in the same league.  Ben Gazarra was fine, as usual, and even Ed O'Neill has a cameo as an FBI agent.  The cool and twisting plot, where nothing is what it appears to be, had me guessing right up to the end.  Mamet is not for all tastes.  His films are not for people who don't want to think and who are not happy unless there are multiple car crashes and special effects.  He is at his finest here in this splendid example of his best work. "},{"Title":"it's not popcorn!","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've been a fan of Mamet's for almost 20 years now (I learned how to really swear by watching American Buffalo) and I'll be the first to admit that Mamet is an acquired taste. But it's not often that a movie affects me the way that The Spanish Prisoner did. Most of the time, movies are like theater popcorn - you consume them and forget them. Just a pleasant diversion. After I saw The Spanish Prisoner, I thought about the movie for DAYS! My wife and I had hours of conversation centering around this move - Who knew what when Was so-and-so bent or not? If you're expecting a Steve Martin movie you probably won't like this. If you don't want to think, if you want your movies spoon-fed to you, don't see or rent The Spanish Prisoner. Otherwise, give it a shot. (But trust nobody!)  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Spanish Prisoner was an excellent movie.  It's nice to see a movie that has a plot that is interesting, complex, and different than the same old stuff.  This movie gives the audience some credit and doesn't assume them to be idiots like many films where the plot is excessively simple and predictable.  The movie never stops to explain things, it merely gives hints here and there.  The movie is very stingy in giving the viewer any information about what's going on, and this makes the film more entertaining.  You never really know what's going on.  I loved every minute of it.  It's also nice to see a modern movie that isn't completely filled with sex, violence, and bad language.  For some reason, it seems as though movie producers feel they can't make a good movie without these elements. The Spanish Prisoner proves this thinking to be wrong.  It's a great movie that's different than what your used to.  Go see it.   "},{"Title":"Contrived wit","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Mamet is undoubtedly a master at creating scenarios full of bizarre twists as a vehicle for showing the audience how skillful his manipulation of the plot truly is. However, this contrived (oh, how contrived) plot only served to irritate myself and my hardy roommate. You can just see how hard he was working on astounding the audience with the unexpected. Too much so that, at the end of the film, I am just left with a bad taste in my mouth, and a deep regret that I believed all the hype in the first place when I could have seen a film of similar quality, sans authorial pretentiousness, in the second-run, $2.25 cinema down the street. "},{"Title":"Don't Become The Spanish Prisoner","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I finally rented and saw The Spanish Prisoner.  Or should I say saw through it?Rules may be made to be broken -- this one should only rarely be bent Never let a writer direct his script.  He's better at one or the other and the combined project sinks to the highest level of the lesser talent.  Sure, nobody knows what was meant in the creation of a work like the author knows.  But knowing what you mean and putting it before an audience with visual punch are two different talents -- two different jobs that should challenge each other instead of skipping off hand in hand. If you employ your spouse, how can you fire your spouse or sell your business?  The Two Masters rule holds.  Mamet should stick to writing -- he knows it better.All through this film, I found myself waiting for the author to make up his mind about what I was supposed to think was going to happen. All through this film, I found myself wondering who I was supposed to be most concerned about IF I perceived them an impending victim.  Seems that the victim was me.I was never afraid, no near misses, absence of lust, no guts, no real gore -- the crime was boiled soft. We are left on the dock at the end with our hero feeling for ourselves -- not for him.Mamet begins with a good (if worn) plot which exercises an age-old confidence game in gee-whiz-biz-tech corporate America.  This film is advertised on par with The Usual Suspects but only has them.  Our usual suspects -- the gullible tragic hero; a profound but inept victim-partner; a mousy secretary of enigmatic criminal and romantic potential; a severe and demanding employer; a smooth, classic con artist; and of course, the authorities who are and aren't --are suspected at every turn and turn of phrase.  There's very little suspense in the what or in the who of this plot, only in the when.Instead of the heavy handed italic-show-and-tell, Mamet would do better to follow Bryan Singer's Usual Suspects lead and just let the characters tell the story and get out of the way.  Is The Spanish Prisoner contrived?  Not if you think NASA just threw-together the Apollo program.  And speaking of throwing things together -- Steve Martin could've saved himself a hefty phone bill if he'd shown up in person to play Dell.  He probably didn't want to challenge Mamet's genius.  Apparently, neither did Mamet.  Oh, well.  "},{"Title":"Dangerously close to stupidity","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A hole infested plot and a cast filled with actors who show the emotional range of cardboard, made this movie one of my most disappointing rentals in recent memory.  The first 3/4 of the flick was about the most boring thing ever watched.  I was waiting for the intrigue to start instead I got stupid, stilted dialog like Dog my cats indeed.  Yawn.  "},{"Title":"I applaud this movie.","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Usual Suspects?  That's probably the last movie I would relate to this, especially since Usual Suspects was a horrible movie and The Spanish Prisoner is a good one.  I've never seen any other David Mamet film, but now I definitely would like to see his others.  I challenge any other director to make a thriller with no disturbing violence, gratuitous sex scenes, or filthy language and still come up with a thoroughly entertaining film. Far-fetched?  At some points, yes, but don't most thrillers have to teeter on the brink of unrealism in order to entertain us?I see that many people on this message board have commented on how stupid the main character is.  But tell me, haven't you ever got caught up in the environment and/or people around you that somehow hindered your usual judgement?  He is a very smart man who made a costly mistake, and I like it because it shows how really human we are, and that is not unrealistic at all.  "},{"Title":"Not to be missed","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's really too bad that this film came out so early in the year because it should and could have been a real Oscar contender. The Spanish Prisoner is Mamet at his best. He writes and directs a stylish, intelligent, mystery thriller that is without peer. Mamet is able to craft a plot that is complex enough to be interesting but simple enough so that the audience never feels lost. He writes dialog that seems so real that you could see yourself saying it, you never feel like your watching someone say lines. And the acting is out standing. I haven't seen a good movie out of Steve Martin in years and here he is making it look easy in a very un-Steve Martin role. Every thing about this movie seems so right, from the music to the lighting, it's a joy to watch and one not to miss. "}{"Title":"deus ex machina","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Starts off nicely, moves right along, etc., but figuring out that there's a con going on (and who's conning whom) isn't much of a challenge, and the ending is 'way, 'way too easy.A disappointment.  Alfred Hitchcock, somebody said? Plu-leez!...More like Alfred E. Neumann.   "},{"Title":"Throw away the key","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm afraid most critics praised this film for what they wanted it to be, instead of what it actually is, a very illogical mess of a movie.  Don't believe the by-lines, you will NOT be tricked, you will never be surprised at anything if you have half a brain.  I figured out the entire movie by the first ten minutes and so will you.  You see these plot twists coming a mile away, you're only surprised that they actually dared use them!  I guess if you view the film as one man's kafkaesque journey through corporate america, it might stand up, but if you want a mystery or brain-teaser, forget it, and that's how I came to it, because that's how it's marketed. The entire movie is so frustrating, people react in ways they would NEVER do in real life, including co-workers, the police, and even con artists, for that matter.  It's very well directed, the acting is great, but the plot is a TOTAL WASTE OF TIME.  It's ridiculous, completely improbable, and insults intelligent people everywhere.  What planet are these people on, it's certainly not Earth.  Don't bother.  "},{"Title":"Top Notch","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was captivated, surprised, and entertained.  More cerebral and thought provoking than your typical shot-em-up, blow-em-up fare.  "},{"Title":"great plot, ok acting, HORRIBLE writing and script","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Campbell Scott was very good in this, Steve Martin was too.  The secretary/assistant was the most horrible actress i think i've ever seen in a motion picture.  maybe it was due to the ill-written script and dialogue. very unrealistic speech and usage of language.  Steve Martin performed well, but again, his character's dialogue was horrible...even to the point where a conversation ensued between him and Campbell Scott where they both used the term misremembered.  I know everyone I know uses that termP  And the innuendos in the plot, the only way they could make it less subtle is if they would have smashed you over the head with them...the end was kind of awkward too, and left unanswered questions "},{"Title":"Do yourself a favor, watch your front lawn grow first","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Did you ever watch a movie which was so bad that you thought Well, maybe it is this bad on purpose so that we are led to believe that it is profound and thought provoking and perhaps on the cutting edge of independent film making.?  Hal Hartley, Wim Wender and Gus Van Sant make me feel that way sometimes.  Well, the Spanish Prisoner is just plain bad.  Despite more turns than a Formula 1 race track, the plot is predictable, Scott Campbell plays an implausible idiot and the secretary bimbo is a disgrace to her profession (acting, not being a secretary).  I read here at IMDB that she is the wife of the director.  Reminds me of the girlfriend of Ed Burns who played in two of his films.  She was pathetic.  Do yourself a favor, slice your wrists or watch the Sound of Music with the sound off, just don't watch this film.PS I don't understand how the film got such a high rating.  Most comments I read were negative.  "},{"Title":"Not bad, hence 7","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie wasn't bad, but was not enveloping.  I felt this was far too scripted and not acted.  Too much like an apathetic play and not of the caliber of some of the actors.  In no way can this be related to Fargo... "},{"Title":"Usual Suspects I think not!","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The summary on the movie guide said more twists than The Usual Suspects.This film isn't even close to that.The characters were never fully developed and were dull and provoked no caring whatsoever if they died to went to jail.I think they concentrated too hard on fooling the audience rather than making a film that provokes feelings like drama is supposed to do. "},{"Title":"I had to see it twice, and I'm still not sure if I get it","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this movie about four months ago, and then again last night.  I got a completely different take on the twists and on the ending from the first time.  I thought I got the ending the first time I saw it, and I decided that what was presented was in fact the way it ended.  However after a second viewing I found some small bits and pieces throughout the story which gave me a completely different take.  Maybe I'm just paranoid, but there are so many fine points to this drama that I'm still not sure who the bad guys really are or if everyone encountered was in on the scam.  I'll have to watch it a third time and really pay attention to the obscure details I probably missed the first two times.  Riveting, but not at all satisfying.  This is probably why I liked it so much.  "},{"Title":"Stick with it","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I absolutely hated the first 10-15 minutes or so for two reasons  1) everyone's acting seemed very weird, deliveries were all in odd monotones and half-sentences.  2) I had absolutely no idea what was going on.  Soon I was able to get used to the acting and follow the story.  There was about a half hour there where things were really exciting and tricky, things were really coming together, which was great.   But near the very end, when it was necessary to try and tie up the loose ends, things got pretty obvious and credibility was stretched.  Which is OK, I was certainly entertained and was never expecting perfection!   I liked the music, hated the girl, liked the obliging hero, and adored Steve Martin, as always.  You'll have fun discussing it with a bud afterwards.      "},{"Title":"Acting's Fine but the Plot Unravels on Reflection","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Having watched a documentary recently on industrial espionage and the need for companies to keep their developments secret, The Spanish Prisoner had extra resonance for me.I thought the acting was generally excellent. Campbell Scott played the hero as reserved and socially awkward, Steve Martin impressed in a rare low-key, low irritant performance as a too good to be true business man and Rebecca Pidgeon does well as a slightly unbalanced woman (she makes you feel uneasy from the start of the film).It's the plot that lets this film down - improbabilities of behaviour and stupidities are the main problems.  Having watched the afore mentioned documentary and as a result knowing that 'a process' as depicted in this film could be worth billions (particularly if pharmaceutical related), I had a difficult time figuring out the stupidity of Scott's character in losing it so easily.  At the point where he loses it, it becomes very obvious who is involved, which makes the rest of the movie a bit of an anti-climax. What's worse, when you think back over it after it's finished you can really pull the plot apart.  It's a clever string of events - except that it could never be pulled off in the real world.Definitely worth a look but don't think about it too much afterwards. "}{"Title":"Were we all watching the same movie?","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie a few hours ago, and while I did enjoy the ending, I found it only mildly entertaining, and the first half was almost painful. Sure, it had lots of twists and turns, but you have to wonder about the total stupidity of some of these characters. Some of the dialogue is downright stupid. Watch it at your own risk.   "},{"Title":"Undecided","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I am totally undecided.  It's either a great flick or brutally boring. Maybe I'll have to wait five years or so to find out. I still believe that the Best Picture award for 1998 should be voted upon in 2003.  If they make athletes wait five years after they play for their careers to be put into perspective, why not movies?   "},{"Title":"Implausible but entertaining.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For the first two thirds of the scene we are swept along by Mamet's expert manipulation, his ear for quirky dialogue and his gift for giving the most mundane scenes an air of brooding menace. There are so many twists and turns and surprise developments that towards the end we can usually guess the next surprise. At the conclusion I was so bewildered I was not quite sure why the crime had been committed. Lots of fun along the way though and recommended.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding, full of twists and turns.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  outstanding, full of twists and turns. Each character is unique and quite refreshing in their roles. Truly a Mamet classic to be watched over, and over again. Seems like a new picture each time.  Get it in DVD! "},{"Title":"Why picking on Ms. Pidgeon?","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  (By the way, many of the writers in these reviews give you something of a spoiler, including me -- so you might want to quit reading now!  This movie is truly meant to be seen without any advance clues.)So, why is the gathered throng of our group picking on the acting of Rebecca Pidgeon so much?  I thought she did a marvelous job in this film.  To the extent that her acting seemed contrived and stilted -- that was because the character was herself an actor in a play, and she was not doing a very good job of it -- particularly when she needed to improvise.  I found the tension she created to be perfectly valid under the circumstance.  Just saw the movie again last night for the second time (and had to resist giving my wife clues during the video -- she had not seen yet).  This is not as difficult to figure out as, say, Usual Suspects -- but it really kept up a level of tension throughout. "},{"Title":"A stunning film","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was completely taken with The Spanish Prisoner. The title, coined from a con game, misleads one into thinking the picture may be about something else. Forget the title. See the movie. There must be a thousand red herrings in this flick, many actually relevant to its plot, but all guaranteed to have you thinking, not just vegging. I'm getting the DVD...this is a keeper. "},{"Title":"If you're too busy to read the book then see this movie","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was very good. A nice story with a lot of twists. I felt like I was reading a novel and I just couldn't put it down. "},{"Title":"This movie is amazing","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Spanish Prisoner was a masterfully done film and should be regarded as the ideal for a suspense movie. David Mamet's dialogue gives the audience something to think about, constantly testing your mind, and his direction creates a movie that makes you doubt your eyes and yourself at every opportunity.  This is a great movie, on of the best of its kind, and keeps you on your toes and wondering until the moment the credits start rolling. "},{"Title":"The Best Film of the Year and a great con on the audience","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  'The Spanish Prisoner' is the best film of the year. Without a doubt time will reveal the genius behind this film. Anyone who says that this film was completely unbelievable or predictable fell into the trap that was so expertly set up for them by the great playwright/director David Mamet.  "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had not seen a film by David Mamet before The Spanish Prisoner. This movie was wonderfully suspenseful and was filled with clever twists. It reminded me a lot of David Fincher's The Game, in the sense that nothing was really what it seemed and you never really knew what was going on until the end, and even after the finale you had to stop for a minute and sort everything out in your head. Definitely worth a second, more scrutinizing look. Great acting in all of the movie's roles. It also makes you realize that no matter how much you trust someone, there's always room for betrayal. A "}{"Title":"ridiculous plot twists","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Impossible plot twists that don't make sense.  Adults will find this movie to be a waste of time since the ending is so unbelievable.  Steve Martin does a fine job in his best dramatic role. "},{"Title":"Great movie... a great rental and worth the watch.","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie at the video store having never heard of it before. It looked interesting, but I had no idea what it would end up being like. It is a totally new role for Steve Martin, and I am surprised I haven't heard of it before. As it began the movie seemed ridiculous and like it was going to be one I returned without seeing in its entirety.  It was odd, and the dialogue all seemed too scripted (which surprised me with the actors).  I don't want to give the movie away, but you soon begin to understand why it is this way and it HAD to be this way.  It was brilliantly written and directed.  You see what the main character sees, and when he sees it.  You start to predict what is going to happen and what is happening just as he would only to evolve as the story progress just as he must. Needless to say I was VERY happy to have rented this and that I didn't hit the eject button on my VCR.  It is a great movie, and I'd like to tell you more but won't spoil it for you.  Just go rent it. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of this past year.","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Hey!  A new film starring Steve Martin?  Must be a comedy, right?  Wrong. Nor is the film set in Spain.  Nor is there a prisoner.The title of David Mamet's latest film, which played extended periods in the arthouses this past spring and summer, refers to an elaborate con game and the film, like his previous _House of Games_, requires that we pay constant attention to the characters, to the props, to the settings, trying to figure out who is conning who and not realizing, until the very end, how it all fits together.  If you liked _The Usual Suspects_, you'll like this film.Scott stars as the inventor of the Process, some sort of financial planning strategy guaranteed to give its owner virtual control of the world's stock markets.  The actual procedure is never fully explained, but the documents are kept in a briefcase, which Scott wears handcuffed to his wrist and which is kept in a highly secure safe in his company's headquarters.As the film begins, Scott and several of his co-workers, including his friend George, the company lawyer (played by Ricky Jay) and Susan, a pretty secretary (played by Rebecca Pidgeon) who seems to have a deeper interest in Scott than the Process would suggest, are gathered at a fancy Caribbean resort to discuss Scott's invention and how it may best be marketed.Scott runs into a man named Jimmy Dell (played by Martin) on the beach and the two of them become fast friends.  Dell is, apparently, a very wealthy man who has arrived on the island by seaplane and is trying to conceal an affair he's having with another friend's wife.  They make plans to get together upon their return to New York City.Any more plot summary might ruin the film.  Suffice it to say, this is not a Steve Martin comedy.  He plays a serious role here and the quality of his acting might come as a bit of a surprise (unless you've seen the film _Pennies From Heaven_).  But don't let this deter you from picking up this film.David Mamet is one of the most distinctive voices in theater and film these days.  His characters and their dialogue are almost instantly recognizable. Couple this with an intricate, at times labyrinthine plot, and you'll have some idea of the nature of this movie.  Again, very highly recommended. Rating A.  "},{"Title":"watch this one at home","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Watch this one at home. That way you can re-wind to double-check was it really that illogical? At the risk of spoiling your fun, here's confirmation that indeed it is. It's hyped as a con-genre movie, and I can't believe some IMDBers are rating it higher than The Sting. Go, as they say, figure. "},{"Title":"My Great Expectations were destroyed in the first 30 minutes","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sure the film had plausible acting along with some good plot twists but overall this film is impossible. Not only is the film hard to understand but it doesn't even make any sense. How would the  Bad Guys know his every move, the movie itself was an impossible scenario. Then the end is even worse, why in the world would the U.S. Marshals care one bit about this case and how were they notified. The very end only lets you down. Another problem with this film is hidden information like the sum of money and what happened to the code. And the best for last the stupid holes in the plot. For instance why did Jimmy lie about his sister and why did he talk about her in the first place. The only people that should enjoy this film will be the absent minded. If you are looking for a good mystery rent a Hitchcock film. "},{"Title":"The year's best thriller","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  David Mamet is one of the greatest play and screenwriters of all time.  His dialogue is crisp, specific and cunning.  I would compare this film to House Of Games.  The performances by Steve Martin and Campbell Scott rank at the tops of their careers.  However, I could have lived without Rebecca Pigeon. "},{"Title":"Entertainingly, it celebrates paranoia.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Spanish Prisoner is an absorbing picture, that explores and celebrates paranoia. And it does so entertainingly.While it is not flawless (does it need to be?), it employs a theatrical, play-like feel that manages to enhance, rather than detract from, the character of the film.Cast-wise, I felt Rebecca Pigeon was excellent. I can't think of an actress who could upstage her portrayal. Steve Martin is not only a talented comic. He's a gifted actor. Great work, Mamet! "},{"Title":"A real treat.","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Like Mamet's House of Games, this is a twisty thriller in which the central character (and the audience) is drawn into a complex con trick in which no one is what they seem and we're always two steps behind the script. Which is how it should be. Complicated and fun, with Steve Martin brilliantly cast against type. "},{"Title":"Refreshingly original story with well crafted twists & turns","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  David Mamet has a history of writing exceptional stories, and The Spanish Prisoner is no exception.  Extraordinarily crafted plot twists, and a highly orginal and enganging story will keep you interested throughout the film. Steve Martin turns in his best performace yet; he captivates the audience in the many nuances and motivations of his character.  This film's story is exemplary if I told you it would ruin it...like in The Usual Suspects. Furthermore, there are various original plot twists, yet Mamet is so skilled in shifting focus that the audience never once is bewildered or doubts the reality expressed in the narrative.  This is a refreshing break from the hackneyed films we often see in this genre, and this is about as close to Hitchcock as you can get in the 90s.  Furthermore, the score is enchantingly mystical, and Mamet's sense of timing is paramount to the success of the narrative. A great film...it'll make you think about what movies can be. "},{"Title":"Outstanding surprise movie","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Steve Martin turns in another excellent performance.  Most of the actors are unknowns, but the plot of this is great.  My wife & I were guessing right up to the very end.  It flowed well and the con was on! It is certainly worth watching, it will never end up on my All Time Top 10, but it is certainly worth seeing.  "}{"Title":"Interesting but distant","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've been a fan of David Mamet after first seeing House of Games.  The Spanish Prisoner was interesting and well done, but to me the characters in the movie were strangely distant, lacking a certain element of humanity (see Things Change to witness that element of humanity) that I think is essential to a successful story.  The plot, as in the other Mamet movies I have seen, was nicely twisted, generously concoted, always keeping you guessing, ultimately until the very end.  The movie had a very play like feel, not unlike Glengarry, Glen Ross (or Dial M for Murder, for that matter). It was not the play-like feel that got in the way, but in the stiff manner in which the characters interacted with one another.  The dialogue at times seemed uncomfortable between the characters.  The movie was ultimately fun and definitely worth seeing, but if you were expecting something really great, you may be just a little disappointed. "},{"Title":"An All Too Rare Treat","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I simply wanted to say this There are endless comparisons of films to the work of Alfred Hitchcock. There are also re-makes of the master's movies.In this one instance, I think Hitch would have approved highly of this film.  "},{"Title":"Better than most but still predictable","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie store guy who recommended this movie to me compared it to The Usual Suspects, and indeed, so too did the cover sleeve. Though my judgement may be harsh, it is only so in the spirit that the movie was so blithely compared to such another great movie.TSP has a strong story but very poor delivery. It's like buying a really great steak and then frying it on the stove, or opening  a good bottle of Cabernet and adding Ice cubes to the glass. In short, for the story's potential, the delivery was poor.While the movie was filmed in a pseudo film-noir style, where delivery is quiet, reserved, emotion held in check, so that by the very vacuum of excitement, excitement is created in the viewer, the cast was unable to pull off the schtick, instead schlepping around in the skins of characters that didn't quite fit, technique hand me downs that don't work, creating a story that became predictable.I blame the director for casting his squeeze in a role she was incapable of fulfilling. "},{"Title":"It gets better as it goes along","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As a writer/director, Mamet unfortunately relies too often on words - having characters talking about something when showing them doing what they are talking about would be more interesting.  This is especially true in the opening scenes of the film, where character sit around and through some clumsy dialog eventually manage to set up a premise.I also get the feeling that Mamet was writing with a screenplay theory book in one hand he constructs the world of film's most blatant McGuffin, and his attempts at introducing seemingly insignificant plot elements (which are later discovered to be of vital importance) are clumsily blatant.Apart from these stylistic elements, Mamet's story unfortunately suffers from the same thing that many other con-artist movies does the con-artist is a master strategist, who is able to foresee and exploit all of the dumb moves that the victim inevitably takes.  In some cases, the con-artist's plan *requires* the victim to make a dumb move.  The audience is left screaming at the dumb characters in the film, much as a room full of children would scream at the pantomime hero who is oblivious to the dragon sneaking up behind them.Of the cast Steve Martin plays very well a refreshingly low-key character, and Campbell Scott is excellent - even though his character is required by the script to make some stupid moves.Scott's confrontation with his boss' lawyers is one of the few places in the film where the script is up to the quality of Scott's acting.On the plus side, the film picks up after a dragging first 45 minutes, and actually manages to generate some mystery and suspicion until we get to the end, where we get yet another example of super-smart criminals who can predict exactly which way the victim will bolt. "},{"Title":"Adult cotton candy","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Certainly entertaining and intriguing.  Makes you think you're watching an adult minded movie (which it is), yet not to be taken too seriously. Mamet's pretentious writing style is laughable at times, yet I wonder if he was poking fun at his own usage of words (does anyone in real life talk like Mamet's characters do?).  And Rebecca Pidgeon . . . a high school performance.  If she is, indeed, Mamet's wife . . . he should be ashamed for making us watch her attempt at acting. "},{"Title":"the best movie of the year","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Spanish prisoner is a classic film of noir that will stand the test of time. "},{"Title":"Flim Flam Men","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Mamet loves the elaborate confidence game and it shows in the Spanish Prisoner.  With this movie and his other con-man film, House of Games, Mamet proves he knows how to entertain.  I got the same feeling watching The Spanish Prisoner as an adult as I did watching magic tricks on tv as a kid.  It's great fun watching these movies over again.  If you're looking for a good double feature, this would be one. "},{"Title":"Call me a crank, but what is all the fuss about?","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this film tried too hard to be dark and atmospheric, and Hitchcock-ish, but just didn't make it. At all.At some points where you would expect music to heighten suspense or build an atmosphere, you were left only with emptiness where you were given lots of free time to think that, for a super-boffin, Joe was pretty thick. And where an obvious clue was left, you were supposed to get a big surprise.Examples - (i) Isn't it AMAZING that the FBI-agent-that-isn't emphasises the point, in St Estephe, that she really is in the FBI. And she is so obviously chatting with Susan at that time but yet, when Joe discovers that agent Pat McCune is a baddie, he doesn't link the two.(ii) And of COURSE Susan is a baddie too. How else would the FBI know what his book looks like so that they could make an absolute swap? And isn't he a complete moron to have brought the formula in the first place?(iii) Mother to child in airport You left your fingerprints on the book. You left your fingerprints on the book ... Repeat ad nauseum until even thick Joe gets the message (five minutes after everybody in the cinema gets it.). DUH!For a film that is only 110 minutes long, I thought it really dragged and by the time it was over I wanted to run out of the cinema (I would never leave before the end, no matter how I felt about it.).Apologies to all involved with the production, and to all that enjoyed it and contributed to its 8.5 rating in the IMDb database, but you can probably tell that I am getting irritated all over again and that I won't be recommending it to anyone! "},{"Title":"interesting, well acted, multi-layered (Faberge eggesque)","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spanish Prisoner is not the film genre I normally enjoy.  I'm not into mysteries and thrillers but Mr. Mamet has produced a quality film without gratuitous violence that so often accompanies such films.  Mr. Scott was excellent in portrayal of the every man drawn into intrigue but main- taining his dignity and composure.  The rest of the cast was excellent as well.  I had an unexpectedly enjoyable time, I might add I enjoyed the natural humor as well.  Three and half stars.  It would have been four but as stated above this is not my type of film.  Thanks.  Tom  "},{"Title":"elegant tale of industrial espionage","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film takes its title from the common con game played on the protagonist.  The music, acting, dialogue, and crisp direction elevate it far from the commmon.  Joe, the inventor of a valuable industrial process, becomes the unwitting victim of industrial spies in a thriller reminiscent of Hitchcock's work.   "}{"Title":"Stunning.","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A subtle masterpiece, weaving an intruging story & superb acting. Carrer best performance from Steve Martin, and excellent work from the ever good Scott Campbell. One of the few movies this year that makes you pay attention to all the details, and rewards you with an ending that make you re-examine what you've just seen. "},{"Title":"My GOD, is Pidgeon the most fascinating thing on 2 legs?!","Date":"18 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Seems like Camp Mamet has finally taken the cinematic form by the nuts and twists with complete control.  Whereas earlier works were equally script -fantastique, I got the impression that  some of the more elusive elements of the medium were realized with an unequivalent success.  Prisoner, on the other hand, represents a major evolution in terms of the integration between all elements of the cinematic whole, in balance and en toto. In the end, we see the beginning all over again... "},{"Title":"A True Mind-Twister","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In the unique Mamet style, The Spanish Prisoner brings the sharp clarity  and crisp performance of most stage plays onto the screen, in a Mametesque  plot reminiscent of, and superior to, that of The House of Games (1987).   Calm, fluid performances by a cast of lesser-known actors is right on key,  and the better known Steve Martin puts in a sharp performance as the  incalculable Jimmy.  Hard to state the plot without giving it away, but  this is a beautiful example of 90's art-house movie making at its best.   "},{"Title":"Absorbing and Intelligent!","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A complex plot with subtle performances. There is only one plausible solution that can explain everything and indeed, the movie ends  with that solution! A little slow at times, but thoroughly enjoyable! A  must for Mamet fans! "},{"Title":"Even the most brilliant people need to think","Date":"2 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Clever, intriguing - very similar to Mamet's film The house of games which  is also excellent. Prisoner keeps you guessing and constantly surprises -  not to mention excellent performances by Steve Martin (!) and Campbell  Scott. Worth seeing! "},{"Title":"Might've been good in Hitchcock's hands (or pretty much anyone else's)...","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It seems that Mamet is one of the Wunderkinder to many, who can do no wrong on stage or screen. Bleh. I've seen a few of the films he's written and, yeah, they tend to be very good. I barely remember Heistbut vaguely recall that it seemed to go nowhere pretty quickly; I'm sure I enjoyed it to at least some extent merely as a result of the presence of Gene Hackman, one of those actors who elevates anything he's in solely by virtue of his presence. Unfortunately, Mr Hackman wasn't in The Spanish Prisoner, though I think the main problem here is that a real director wasn't directing the thing.Early on in the piece I was trying to reconcile what I've always heard Mamet was noted for -- realistic dialog -- with the garbage I was hearing the actors on screen parrot. 'Parrot' being, given Mamet's way of working with actors (well, 'dictating to' is probably more correct), definitely the word. Part of the problem was quoting ancient Phoenician poets or whatever the hell much of the early dialog consisted of, a trait absent in 99% of the world's relatively sane population and less convincing when the direction comes from a man who seems (understandable, from a writer's perspective, as it may be) a total control freak when it comes to actors delivering his dialog. The fact that Ricky Jay (who, though a cool dude, is a very obviously limited and self-conscious 'actor') delivers some of these lines probably has less to do with their failure than Mamet's helming the affair.I mean, I've spent my fair share of time in some quite diverse subcultures and seen a fair bit of the world, spending a great many years in academia and the like as well as, in common with probably most Americans, in the middle of crowds of people who appear to be Method actors auditioning for Idiocracy 2, and neither intelligentsia nor your basic Joe Halfwits talk anything like Mamet's model in this film. Oh, so the dialog's STYLIZED? Well, whoop-de-doo; if it's stylized, maybe he didn't stylize it ENOUGH because, really, it's not that interesting. And its delivery in this film is pretty uniformly stilted, wooden, and unconvincing. That's both the fault of the words themselves and of their delivery, but in this case I think we can deflect the blame for that away from the actors (well, most of them) and toward the Director who rules delivery of his sacred dialog with an iron fist. The whole also feels very _stagey_, as in old Dave forgetting or not knowing that film is inherently a different kind of medium than stage performance.I have the feeling that many who've reviewed this film are praising Mamet because it's the done thing to do. That the emperor's clothes are, at best, somewhat threadbare is of no apparent concern. The plot's interesting enough, though largely predictable fairly early on (and I am one who tends to let myself get immersed in a good movie, who's not ashamed that he didn't see the twists coming in films like The Usual Suspects and The Sixth Sense) and suffering from a tendency toward hammering us over the head with clues, whether real or false. Overall, I think, if this film's any indication then Mamet's work is at its best when directed by someone else. Obviously I have little on which to base this (like I said, I barely remember Heist and this one's cured me of any tendency to want to rush out to watch any further Mamet-directed films) but from watching other films for which he only has writer's credit I get the impression that his dialog and plots are far more effective in the hands of directors (and editors) who feel free to play a little more fast and loose with those structures and with actors who're working without metronomes.Sure, some actors may be thrilled to speak Mamet's words but I know a lot of actors would probably hate working with someone who demanded such absolute control over what was coming out of an actor's mouth. There's inherently a conflict between those who make the film and those who write it, but this film's one indication of how much weaker a film can be when the writer's vision is all that matters. Forcing stutters, incomplete sentences and repetition is NOT the magic key to writing realistic dialog and, anyway, a competent actor (or a halfway-competent actor under competent direction) should be able to improvise such realistic dialog delivery around the lines on the screenplay that, yeah, more often than not probably ARE too clean and neat to reflect real dialog. Mamet's a good writer, sometimes, but the fact that he's recognized that real speech includes stops and starts and tangents doesn't mean he's qualified to make a film that's any more realistic than average and when he does give such a try and fails it's a cop-out to claim that the reason it's not realistic is because it's stylized, or hyper-realistic, or that perhaps we just don't understand and couldn't begin to fathom the genius of the man.I've seen worse -- the recent The Marine still stands proudly high as one of the worst films I've seen, largely because I probably ruled out a lot more worthy candidates before I actually tried to watch them -- but this film's a bit of a dud, largely because it's mostly just a non-event and even the climaxes are anticlimactic. The pity is that it's one that probably could have been three or four times as interesting, suspenseful, and engaging if directed by any of the directors who've made successes out of other Mamet scripts. At the very least, it'd have been nice if the movie was as interesting as the blurb on its DVD case...Did you...? Ahhh... Yes, I...yes, I said that. I did. But...well...never mind. Fishes fly hale, more's the pity. "},{"Title":"So many plot holes","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a joke with way too many plot holes. 1)When she takes his picture in front of the seaplane, he then takes her camera and takes her picture. She then leaves without asking for her camera back which is when Jimmy asks for it and he gives it to him. Yet somehow she is able to develop pictures from this camera which she never got back. I know they were working together and she could have got the camera back from Jimmy, but he would know. Lame. 2)Why does he feel compelled to follow a strange man into some building only to find Jimmy buying a sports car? No one would do that and there is no reason for him to do so. Pathetic. 3)When he signs the club membership certificate, although they try to block what it says it clearly reads Club Membership, and not the Columbia Venezuela thing it says when they show it later. Come on Mamet! 4) Numerous phrases that come out of people's mouths that no one in those situations would ever say. Example This ticket is for Venezuela, why would you want to go there? Huh? Who would say that. Stupid. You know what I could go on, but why bother? I expect more from Mamet. This movie treats the viewer like an idiot. Skip this junk! "},{"Title":"Great and intelligent thriller","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I almost always enjoy David Mamet's films because they are fun and intelligent(my favorite movie directed by him is House of games).The Spanish prisoner is one of my favorite movies directed by Mamet.The Spanish prisoner shows intelligence in a lot of parts and the movie is very fun,too.Steve Martin is simply great on this movie.Here he shows that he's not only good for comedy.The only bad thing about this movie is that it has a few details near the ending which feel a bit forced.But the film is so good that it's excused.The Spanish prisoner is a great thriller with a lot of intelligence.Rating 9 "},{"Title":"process","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Campbell Scott and his process! David Mamet always makes me laugh. You've gotta love Mamet. You gotta love that his plot device is given the portentous name the process. (It would've been only slightly less funny if he had called it the McGuffin or perhaps the plot device.) The process, by the way, is in Scott's tightly-clutched red leather-bound diary. For all I could tell, it appears to consist of calculus equations -- handwritten! Purportedly, these scrawls will be worth billions to any corporation who possesses them. Total global dominance, or something. Maybe Scott has finally unearthed the secret of alchemy, or maybe his equations provide a precisely-calculated comfort ratio for the number of troops required to illegally occupy an Arabic country measured against shrinking approval-ratings at the Home Front. The movie doesn't say.Well, it turns out that Scott's math homework is the key to SOME sort of wildly complicated scam involving industrial espionage. The company (unnamed, natch) for which Scott works claims proprietary rights to the process, but Scott, who has invented the precious process, begs to differ. He wants to be fully compensated. He has not threatened to take the process to another unnamed company, but when boss Ben Gazarra sics a pair of corporate lawyers on him, Scott wonders what his legal options truly are. His new acquaintance, the mysterious and obscenely wealthy Steve Martin, offers to help.And I'm leaving the plot synopsis there, because a detailed recount will ruin *The Spanish Prisoner* for the viewer. For this movie, despite its McGuffins and Joe Normal hero, is fundamentally different from the usual Hitchcock movie, in that we, along with Scott, have absolutely no clue as to what is really going on. Mamet withholds precisely the same information from us as he withholds from his hero. Though, indeed, there are a few indicators that something is amiss early on. For instance, Rebecca Pigeon's secretary is just a little too weird. (Paraphrase that catches the general tone Hello! Nobody is what they seem! Want a cookie? etc.) I suppose that, on a surface level, the plot twists don't bear up under scrutiny as Mr. Maxwell aptly pointed out in the review below mine, much depends on the con-artists being able to predict exactly how Scott is going to act. How do they KNOW that he'll take the FBI calling-card from Pigeon's scrapbook? I would add to Mr. Maxwell's example a few more (like, how does a man not notice what is written on his boarding pass?), but I'm not going to ruin anyone's fun.But that's just it, though! -- Mamet, it becomes clear upon reflection, has scammed US as well, leading through his maze of bogus booby-traps. NONE of this nonsense bears up under scrutiny, and weren't we as naive to fall for Mamet's scams as Scott was to fall for Steve Martin & Co.'s scams? But do we care? The PUZZLE is what counts, as well as our own enjoyment at being puzzled. Those who quibble about the realism of such-and-such event in *The Spanish Prisoner* are really missing the forest for the trees. And those who gripe about the stylish (i.e., unrealistic) dialog and performances just aren't my kind of people, I guess. Personally, I find Mamet's total disdain for Method acting (a fancy term for another form of posing) to be a breath of fresh air. Look, it's a MOVIE why should artificiality somehow be against the law? Call it Mamet's process, if you must.7 stars out of 10. By the way, nice score by ace-composer Carter Burwell, who often works with the Coens. Will Burwell ever get the credit he deserves? All of his scores are memorable from *Rob Roy*, to *Miller's Crossing*, to *Fargo*, to *The Spanish Prisoner*, on and on. He's one of the best in the business. "},{"Title":"A Kafkian plot executed in a De Palma way with Mametian dialogue","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  David Mamet in Brian de Palma's territory. This is a movie about the filmwatching experience, or how what you see is not really what you see. The Spanish Prisoner is a lesson of cinema in the sense that it is made by fragments of a total that eventually builds and makes sense in the head of the audience.Mamet uses the simulation theme not as a mere entertainment device but as a way to postulate man's necessity of reestablishing a level of significance lost or forgotten. Throughout his filmography Mamet has portrayed universes in which the real and its copy &#150;life and the imitation of life- coexist in such a chaotic way that the automatism of contemporary life has turned against men to the point of enslaving them to that exterior reality that was supposed to be conquered, possessed and exploited. The Mametian hero, essentially an innocent, witty individual, contaminated in a certain degree by the modern world but still keeping an elemental notion of good and evil, would overcome demons wearing the thousand faces of the absolute powers; relying in his innate purity and with incidental aid from external forces, thus restoring an apparent order, more fragile than enduring. The world won't change and the hero didn't fully understand the lesson, but he has solved the problem with his moral more or less untouched.Kafkian as it might sound, the hero here is named Joseph and the MacGuffin  is referred as `The Process'. "}{"Title":"Mamet Does It Again","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** When you meet a stranger, your first impression is often very telling, and good instincts can be very valuable.  Because people are not always whom or what they appear to be, which is the case in `The Spanish Prisoner,' written and directed by David Mamet.  As can be expected in a Mamet story, the con is on once again, and this time it involves a certain valuable formula developed by a man named Joe Ross (Campbell Scott) for a company run by a Mr. Klein (Ben Gazzara).  It's a formula that will put them ahead of the Japanese for the next three to five years, and during that time it's going to make everyone in the company very rich.  Only two people have access to the formula, which is written on Xerox-proof paper and kept in a safe Joe and Mr. Klein.  Joe, however, is somewhat concerned about being properly compensated for his work, as he is not a full time employee of the company, but took this particular job as a work-for-hire; and Mr. Klein has a way of putting off any talk of how much Joe can expect by telling him to wait until the `Board meeting.'  And it's making Joe a bit anxious.In the meantime, Joe meets another man, Jimmy Dell (Steve Martin), a wealthy businessman who ingratiates himself with Joe and in a subtle, passive-aggressive way inflames Joe's doubts about whether or not he will eventually get his due from Mr. Klein and the company.  Joe has no reason to suspect that Jimmy wants anything from him; Jimmy apparently has enough irons in his own fires and he shows no real interest in whatever it is that Joe is involved in, business wise.  He's merely a man who seems to know finance, and his counsel to Joe is nothing more than well-disposed advice to a friend with a mutual concern from someone with experience.  Jimmy even goes so far as offering to have his lawyers look into Joe's affairs.  Joe is not exactly naive, but he lacks experience in these matters.  He trusts Jimmy, but he still wants to believe that Mr. Klein and the company will do right by him eventually.  It's something of a conundrum, but very quickly things begin to happen that force Joe's hand and make it necessary for him to make some decisions.  And it all comes down to the age old question Who do you trust?Mamet certainly knows how to weave a web, and what makes this one so effective is the fact that with a clever, detailed screenplay he never lets the audience in on anything more than what they have to know at any given point in time.  Watching the story unfold, you never know any more than what Joe knows, which allows you to experience it all first hand, so to speak, through Joe.  It all becomes very confusing very quickly, and it's supposed to be; it's what makes it so engrossing and very subtly gets you inching ever closer to the edge of your seat.  You-- like Joe-- know that something is going on, but you never know exactly what or who's behind it.  That it has something to do with the formula and Joe's access to it is obvious early on, but beyond that, anything goes.  It's complex storytelling, and Mamet makes it even more mesmerizing with his unique touch of having his actors deliver their lines in a clipped, rhythmic manner, which combined with the plot makes this spellbinding cinema.Campbell Scott is well cast as Joe Ross; he has the look and affects a manner completely compatible with his character.  Anyone who has ever been in a position in which things are not quite clear will be able to identify with him, and Scott never lets the character get ahead of where he's supposed to be, as far as what he could possibly know and when, and it adds credibility to the fact that a con like this can be perpetrated at all. If Scott didn't do his job, it would be like having a crack in the dam, and the water would quickly come gushing out.  But he does do his job, and it keeps the tension and the mystery in tact until the very end.In a dramatic role, Steve Martin is effective playing somewhat against type in the role of Jimmy.  He's convincing, and displays an aloofness that makes everything he does believable and, like Scott, he never tips his character's hand or does anything to reveal any more than he should. The winsome Rebecca Pidgeon gives an absolutely enticing performance as Susan Ricci, the `new girl' with the company who befriends Joe and gives him the encouragement he needs as he attempts to make some sense of all that is happening.  Pidgeon has an extremely direct approach and employs Mamet's style of acting perfectly (few actors have been able to utilize that rhythm more effectively, in fact; Joe Mantegna, William H. Macy and Lindsay Crouse among them), and she has a quality that draws your attention, no matter who else may be in the scene with her. Arguably, it is her performance that defines the realism of Mamet's world.The supporting cast includes Ricky Jay (George), Felicity Huffman (Pat McCune), Ed O'Neill (F.B.I. Team Leader), Paul Butler (Bookbinder) and J.J. Johnston (Doorman).  With a cryptic title taken from one of the oldest con games on the books, `The Spanish Prisoner' is riveting drama that will keep you guessing until the very end.  But be forewarned; like `Enemy of the State,' this film has the ability to induce paranoia.  It may make you take a closer look at your co-workers and neighbors, and if you don't already have a caller ID on your telephone, you'll probably want to get one, and soon.  Such is the impact a film like this can have, and it's all a part of the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 9/10.  "},{"Title":"A finely crafted waste of time","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a bad, bad movie, done with a lot of talent.  Everyone in the cast seems to be doing an excellent job of what the director wants done - but why?  Why?  The plot could have made a good short story or been the basis for a much more interesting full-length movie, but not this one.  The main problem is the dialogue, which resembles nothing in real life.  Speaking their lines, the characters seem to be working very hard at something other than communicating.  There is nothing spontaneous, natural, or, in short, believable about *any* line of dialogue.  The consistency is amazing - *never* does anyone say something the way a real person in such a situation would say it.  As a result the characters become machines for speaking lines, not people.       As a mystery, this movie missed its big chance  the payoff should not have involved the cops stepping in and finally identifying all the bad guys, but the inventor stepping in and revealing the mechanism by which he works his remote-control robots.    "},{"Title":"It's no match for House of Games (SPOILERS)","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has terrible holes in it.  First, the entire scam hinges entirely on the very tenuous presumption that Ross will lift the FBI agent's card out of the scrapbook.  Without that occurrence, the scam has no chance of success.  A hundred other things have to also fall perfectly into place, but taking that card was pure good luck.The red book switch would be impossible.  There is no way I would carry around an object in my hands for hours, with which I have an intimate familiarity, without my knowing that it was a ringer.  And how could have the con men have known enough details about the book that it would even have a fairly close resemblance to the real mccoy?  Idiotic presumption that a switcheroo would work.  One improbability here led to another.  Ross would have certainly carried his red book more securely than loose in his hand, say in an attache case---and that would at least have made it easier to swallow the premise that he carried the case with an invisible substitute inside..I don't mind getting involved in a complex plot, but if a scheme contains ten elements, each with a one-in-ten chance of working, the odds against the whole plan working are 10,000,000,000 to one. "},{"Title":"I hate to break this to you, but...","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ...MAMET SUCKS!  I know a lot of people who admire Mamet. I have friends whoadmire Mamet. I admire people (Paul Thomas Anderson, for one)who admire Mamet. Really good actors like to work with Mamet,and many actors who are great with other directors absolutelyreek when working with Mamet. I'm sorry, but this is theclearest cut case of The Emperor's New Clothes I've ever seen. So let me be the fly in the ointment and blow the whistle onthis con man (Oh, I get it. That's the irony of his  career...plays and films about con men while he's....CONNINGUS!!! Duh!).Oh yeah..I guess I'd better remain on topic and write about TheSpanish Prisoner. The Spanish Prisoner, to me, represents thestraw that broke the camel's back. This film tossed all logic(real logic, not Mamet logic) to the wind about the time SteveMartin handed that package to Campbell Scott...and what ensuesis too convoluted and enervating (as well as SPOILER-prone), solet me just say it's more of the same Nobody is who they appearto be; everyone is running a con, whether they admit it or not;women are...well, that one I'm not going to touch.If I'm missing something, please fill me in. Please tell me what is the purpose of all that annoying Mametspeak? Why is beingtricked enough of a payoff for enduring his tedious woodenaesthetic? Does he REALLY believe he's been around the blockmore than you or I? Does his insight into what the denizens ofthe underworld are like really just come from what Ricky Jayetells him?    For me the best work Mamet has done has been hacking out specscripts for (better) directors to make. Removed from Mamet'szombie-like direction, his admittedly clever dialogue begins tobreath and allows something of real life (or at least  movie-life) to intrude.   Back to The Spanish Prisoner. It's really no better or worsethan Mamet's other films. The one exception might be ThingsChange, mostly because Don Ameche brought a warmth to hisperformance I'd never encountered in Mamet before. The SpanishPrisoner finally just represents enough is enough for me. I'msick of being disrespected by some effete academician trying topull one over on me. "},{"Title":"Highly overrated","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I am really surprised at how many positive comments there are for this film. This COULD have been a great mystery/suspense film, but like many others of that type, it suffers from impossible plot holes and twists. Other intelligent IMDB readers have noticed this too!Too often, plot twists are thrown in just for the sake of having a plot twist. In this film, there were far too many and they were far too complicated and risky to believe that they would succeed. The whole con itself was far more complicated than it needed to be. In real life, cons are much more simple and straightforward - they have to be in order to work.It was a clear case of  a con in which I know that you know that I know that you know that I know that... looped endlessly out of control.For a much better example of good plot twists, see Wild Things. This film also probably had one too many twists, but at least they worked and were CONSISTENT.Even if you could forgive the impossible plot, the acting and direction were still flat, and the pacing laborious.A 2 out of 10, and that's being generous!  "},{"Title":"Another great con movie from Mamet","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After all the great reviews this film got, it's somewhat surprising this didn't show up on any end of the year top 10 lists.  I know there are a lot of people who seem to wish David Mamet was never even born, but I've always been a fan of his.  He hasn't directed a bad movie yet (THINGS CHANGE was his weakest, but even that has its strong points), and this proves to be no exception.  Like his first film HOUSE OF GAMES, this is about people who are not what they first seem pulling things you don't expect, and he plays his hand like a great poker player, showing the winning card when you least expect it.Campbell Scott and Rebecca Pidgeon have come under a lot of criticism, so let me come to their defense.  I don't know much about Pidgeon, but I've been a fan of Scott's since LONGTIME COMPANION, and he's great here.  People who are geniuses in one field aren't necessarily street smart, which critics of his seem to be missing.  And at the end, he does completely catch on.  And Pidgeon played her role so that you never knew who she really was, despite her assertions to the contrary, and I never knew until the end.  Steve Martin deserves all the praise he got; I hope after this he can escape doing FATHER OF THE BRIDE type schlockfests.  And Nobody looks at a Japanese tourist is the line of the year. "},{"Title":"How to trap the audience","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Have you ever seen somebody, who always stumbles in every obvious trap with no doubt and question? Ever gone to your chiefs' office, changing from normal office light and atmosphere to a dark cellar, where some lawyers are biting to your legs like dogs, while your chief leans against the bricks of the wall? Ever seen that most Japanese tourists are members of the New York State Police? Ever signed voluntarily a membership card within some seconds, while the contents of the treaty is covered with the hand of an unknown person? Ever bought a St. Patrick's button with a surveillance- radio in it? Ever found your friend and savior sitting in his arm-chair with your boy-scout's kitchen knife in his breast? Would you now wash your hands in his blood, leaving your glasses with your bloody fingerprints on the table at his side, running away, while the police arrive at the same time?Not ? That is maybe because you never saw the Spanish Prisoner. Think about it after the movie and you will find almost nothing real in this plot and that no actor behaves as a real person. Who denies that, calling this movie a great thriller and suspense story in the tradition of the Film Noire or Hitchcock has been stuck to the surface, has never seen the movie at all ore has payd too much attention to his female companion in the next cinema seat.That little girl mentioned before is your secretary, always keen on you and saying it, always damned cheerful and smiling, offering herself and a free cooking service with bed and breakfast every day. Marvellous, not? Well, you need to be in line for a leading task in your company because you are the inventor of a new million dollars process and little girl is honest enough to emphasize that. Unfortunately you as the main character and hero will be left alone because every person you involve in your problems occurring later, reveals latest as the enemy or dies. The process in the tale at least is not your invention but a system of unavoidable faith, posed upon you, who are unable to escape if you remain so stupid as you are.Fortunately it is within this system of life, that you encounter a lot of fine hints to save you. The waiter of the ferry-boats holds the key to your saving obviously to your eyes, placing it to a hide-spot, where you can find it directly. You may wait in the queue at the airport before the X- ray test, not knowing that you are carrying a gun in your luggage but hearing several times that you should look for enemies finger prints on a book you possess by occasion. It is also by occasion that you leave the queue before your final butchering so that you can lead the story to the unexpected end.At the same time the plot is presented in the fine- crafted manner of classical detective- stories with a complex plot well puzzled at high speed. So you have no chance to blame the movie an amateur's try. It really follows the tradition of North by Northwest or the 39 Steps, when people  are not what they seem to be and when you encounter at every second moment the dangerous unexpected. That cheerful secretary will philosophize at the beginning of the movie You don't know, what people are, have you ever checked that? Are you a fool answering a question Why should I suspect everything? So is the end of the movie you meanwhile learned that you have to do and that nothing really is, what it seems to be. Your cheerful little college secretary, now is known to be the evil but only the instrument. Are you still a fool asking her Why?. She will answer with her plastic smile Because of the money! Well, what a question.That interesting world, you may have guessed it already, you won't ever find on this planet. You don't have to ask, who is what in the movie but you should ask, who are you! You are the audience to be prooved and checked who has the blame. How is your perception of the line-assembled soap operas with the ambition of detective stories? Do you really know,what instruments are used to flatter you? This movie will show you all of them by exaggeration in quality and quantity. But you will doubt up to the end, if the movie and its story is meant honest or not. The director of the Spanish Prisoner wants to show you, how often you are trapped as audience of movies nevertheless you smile and think you understood it all.The audience should not complain how foolish the main character behaves here, looking as a normal lifes man. This low minded level of consciousness is normally what guarantees the success of a movie in the cinemas, especially regarding the cash. That's why little secretary and her hero behaved so cheerful and stupid, as they did Because of the money! Philosophizing college- secretary adds, facing your funeral at the end Keep your good humour! Both is meant towards the movies. If you ever critisized the low minded craft of current tales, here you get a director's answer He shows, that you and your companions in the seats around are the reason for that. This audience normally does not want or accept anything else. Still in doubt? Ask people what they think and estimate this movie is supposed to be.At the end of the movie, your enemy appears amongst the empty seats of a ferry as a ghost out of hell. When he is finished by Japanese tourists, you say good-bye to your handcuffed smiling little secretary and her bed and breakfast you never got. You should not be astonished, when she now asks you to help her, moments after she gave advice to kill you and laughed upon your friendly manhood weakness. You answer her with Humphrey Bogart, saying good-bye to Margret Astor at the end of the Maltese Falcon. Now you will see her first honest smile, not to you, but to the audience. And you? You also smile in the same direction. The actors face the audience, saying goodbye to them, hoping, they learned the lesson. "},{"Title":"Good plot, goofy dialogue","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If the story in this movie had been presented in a straightforward manner, it would have been much better. It's a good plot with a lot of twists that'll keep you trying to figure it all out after the movie is over. However, the combination of too much phony-sounding dialogue and uninspiring characterization is off-putting. The dialogue is sometimes just plain strange, and once in a while it's goofy enough to make you chuckle (like one of Ross's last comments to his secretary at the end). The way these people talk and act, they never seem like real people, so you can only care so much about what happens to them. If the story had been given more real -seeming characters with more realistic dialogue, it would have been much better. "},{"Title":"Brilliant?  Crap?  I can't decide.","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've watched this movie three times in less than 24 hours and I can't decide if it's brilliant or just plain crap.  It's a rare movie that can make you second-guess your own feelings about it to this extreme.The plot has serious holes. Of that there is no question (see the previous 185 reviews).  The acting and dialogue are off kilter, and the overall production of the film borders on TV movie of the week. But it's Mamet, he wrote Glen Gary, and so it cannot be dismissed out of hand. This man is far too great a writer to put all these ridiculous plot holes in for no reason.Then there's the beautiful Rebecca Pidgeon's performance.  She is so utterly fascinating that it's impossible to take your eyes off her. She steals every scene she's in, and makes you crave for her in the ones she's absent from (hence the three viewings). She had the same effect on me in State and Main. I think I'm in love. Steve Martin will blow you away as well.Overall this movie is certainly worth a viewing.  Love it or hate it, you'll be intrigued, and one way or another you'll feel a bit paranoid.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Thriller, but Pidgeon is for the birds!","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent thriller with a few too many loose ends, but thats part of the fun I guess. Scott does a very good job of being the kind of controlled personality who is smart, but not very clever; Steve Martin is the clever one here. The only bad note here is played by Pidgeon, who at first I thought was playing a sort of an off-kilter character, but in the final climax, where she should have dropped that persona, she still delivers her lines in a flat and horrid way. Jeanne Garafolo or rene zellweger would have been excellent choice to play her character. Hell, anyone could have done a better job. "}{"Title":"Astoundingly Poor Performances","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Oh please, this was a truly awful film. The performances were so wooden it made me cringe. Steve Martin should be ashamed of himself, delivering a kind of hammed up Dirty Rotten Scoundrels role which did not do himself credit. The lead and the femme fatale were unbelievably wooden and completely unbelievable in their roles (her final line was awful).The plot did have a few interesting turns but each twist was signposted so large that all suspense eventually disappeared. "},{"Title":"Interesting to watch","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Interesting film to watch but it could've been much better. The plot is good, but the twists are a little silly at times. The film is shot and edited at a very consistent pace but the it all falls flat as we get nearer to the final sequences. I never discuss the plot and this one is no exception. Do not read a plot synopsis otherwise half the surprise is already gone.The performances are good, but Mamet's direction required more sparkle and urgency, it seemed too laid back.The photography is nothing special and the screenplay required more work and maybe make it more meaty towards the end. "},{"Title":"Painful to watch campbell scott","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Having no actual problems with campbell scott as an actor, I was especially pained to see him portray such a STUPID character.  I suppose that all the Mamet fans will groan as I make these comments, but once and for all, and contrary to popular belief David Mamet is not an overwhelming genius.  Yes he is prolific.  Yes, he writes interesting plot twists.  However, I can watch my cats stalk each other throughout the house night after night AND still, even they are less predictable than the plot twists in the spanish prisoner.Sometimes my husband and I felt like we were dying over the course of the Film if you can class it as such.  If we had to watch the wooden acting go on much longer, we'd have had to have been locked up in a padded cell.What I felt like was a prisoner to this movie which was a lackluster attempt on Mamet's part to be clever.  "},{"Title":"A Conspiracy of Dull","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, the movie has some double-crosses, but they require you to stay awake through the slow rolling plot to get to them.  The cast compounds the slow moving feeling by mumbling to each other through each blunt clue leading up to an awkward slo-mo surprise ending where the lead character is saved miraculously (and conveniently) rather than saving himself and then utters something to the effect of you'll have to go to your room.  Disappointing as hell.  "},{"Title":"Yikes!","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Spanish Prisoner has been compared by other reviewers to Hitchcock's work and to The Usual Suspects - both comparisons are way too generous at best and misleading and irrational at worst. These reviewers must have seen a different movie - that seems to be the only reasonable explanation. This simply is one of the worst flicks I ever dragged myself through. The acting is truly terrible throughout - there's better acting to be seen in TV commercials. Most of the dialog is ridiculously stupid. The plot has more holes than a Swiss cheese. Steve Martin as the bad guy is about as scary as a bunny rabbit. Rebecca Pidgeon as the femme fatale. Really? As another reviewer remarked, she probably only got the job because she's sleeping with the director, i.e. she's Mamet's wife.Too bad there's no zero star option on IMDb because even one star is a rather generous evaluation. "},{"Title":"One for the ages!","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A culmination of the most wooden acting and lacking story ever brought to film. Rebecca Pigeon (cast at the last minute, when Mr. Ed backed out) brings to the screen a blank stare that, combined with your constant anticipation of plot leaves you hanging. Not just at the end, but every time she forgets to close her mouth. Maybe they ran out of food on the set, or some putrid odor prevented her from breathing through her nose. Did Steve Martin not bathe? Perhaps a foul odor was his only contribution to this monstrosity. I, for one, spent the bulk of my viewing time (the portion I was awake for, that is) praying that at any moment Mr. Martin would break out a one-liner, a banjo, a fake 'arrow-through-the-head', or perhaps even a big sign reading, Intermission. Plot? Let's leave it at 'willing suspension of disbelief', perhaps even 'willing suspension of any hope for an entertaining story'.This movie has found a permanent place into my DVD collection, mainly because someday my wife and I may need creative yet humane means by which to punish our children. Likewise, I believe it could really help the CIA make incredible headway interrogating prisoners.Sadly, I can only rate in one-star increments. "},{"Title":"A waste of time....","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A really awful movie, with silly and stilted dialogue, and rotten directing!  The plot was ludicrous and the second part of the movie was implausible.  It was also thoroughly telegraphed, such that anyone older than 12 could predict what came next.  Mamet should read a good mystery novel so he could see what a good and plausible plot looks like!  A waste of time watching this movie, it was almost laughable! "},{"Title":"The Spanish Prisoner","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The con is on in typical, slick, entertainingly complex Mametian fashion as gullible, very naive, but kindhearted Joseph Ross(Campbell Scott), who has designed a certain process for a hi-tech company(Mamet doesn't elaborate on any of this since this is merely a toy to use for the con-game plot)which someone else is seeking after(Juliam Dell, portrayed by Steve Martin). What he finds himself in, despite doing nothing wrong but trusting the wrong people and bringing along material in a book he should've left hidden in the safe, is a spider-web where the spider is collecting his blood and he is weak at the escaping. As the film unfolds, he might just have a chance of escape thanks in part to unseen, outside forces. The problem that plagues him is that Joseph has no one to really trust since it seems that every time he does ask for a helping hand..and it seems he receives it..he is snake-bitten.Slippery as a bucket of eels, Mamet is at his usual clever best by allowing his protagonist to stick his head in the guillotine only to pull it out in the knick of time through some sort of creative twist of fate. Sure, the screenplay has it's share of contrivances..I mean really could anyone run such a con-operation so skillfully without a snag and dupe a character such as Joseph so easily? But, Mamet does it for the sake of entertainment and, at least, he has us watch with wonder at how he unwinds complex webs when it seems the hero has no hope or escape from the mess he finds himself in. Rebecca Pidgeon is quite fun as Susan Ricci, a woman only so eager to offer Ross her help when he has nowhere to turn and Ben Gazzara as Ross' boss who seems oh so weary that his process will be lost forever when it Dell has the material he has sought after that is sure to bring foreign investors lots of moolah. Even the FBI play a part in the labyrinthine plot as it develops. It asks a lot from the viewer, but gosh it's fun. "},{"Title":"Typical Mamet, but not quite as good...","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've found that if David Mamet is credited as writer or director on a film, I pretty much know what to expect. This film was no different. He has a unique approach to dialogue, and his films have a unique atmosphere and pace. Often his actors seem to be detached and unemotional, and speak in very clipped phrases and sentences. Sometimes this type of dialogue can be distracting, but I like that his work is different from the norm and non-clichéd. Mamet is definitely an acquired taste. Just the same, I don't think his style worked very well in this film. He does caper films very well - he's an expert at the unexpected twist. I felt that Heist, Spartan, House of Games, Homicide and Glengarry Glen Ross were much better films where his style worked much better.I didn't like the missus, Rebecca Pidgeon, in this film. I thought she was great in Heist. I thought his ex-wife, Lindsay Crouse, was excellent in House of Games because the dialogue style worked for her character. I always give Mamet projects a look, partly because he casts so well. "},{"Title":"Even the title is a scam.","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This summary may contain a spoiler. Do not read this if you have not seen the movie.David Mamet has proved himself to be master of misdirection, and The Spanish Prisoner is no exception. At first the movie seems to be about the modern corporate dilemma of who owns what intellectual property. There is tension between the Campbell Scott and Ben Gazzara characters over how much, if any, bonus Scott will make by having invented an important process for Gazzara's company. The plot really involves a confidence game that gradually unfolds in the plot line. At one point a character explains that someone is setting up a variation of an old scam called the Spanish prisoner, and begins to explain it. The explanation is interrupted and never finished. Since we know the movie's title, we expect to see that type of fraud carried out. Instead, the title itself turns out to be a scam. The confidence game that Steve Martin and his cohort run is actually called a pigeon drop or Gypsy switch.In this game, Rebecca Pigeon's character is the roper who reels in the mark (Scott). It should probably be no surprise that the name of the scam is the same as that of the leading actress, David Mamet's real-life wife.These days the most popular example of the Spanish prisoner is in the barrage of email from Nigeria purportedly from a doctor trying to transfer money out of the country. If you send him some of your money now, he will reward you handsomely after his funds are released. "}{"Title":"Spanish fog","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ever since the success of 'The Sting', Hollywood has bombarded us with ever greater numbers of stories based on ever more outrageous confidence tricks. Although the workings of the trick provide a plot, such movies are often shallow, contrived and unbelievable. You might say that all films in this genre are by definition contrived and unbelievable, but the key to making them rewarding to watch lies less in fixing the mechanics than in fixing the mood. This principle is illustrated perfectly by two films made by David Mamet, 'House of Games' and 'The Spanish Prisoner', both utterly brilliant movies in both cases, Mamet manages to lose his audience inside the same fog of uncertainty that grips his characters. In 'The Spanish Prisoner', it takes some considerable period of time before it's even apparent who our protagonist is to be the film begins with a meeting of businessmen so opaque that any, all, or none could be up to no good, and even once the hero's credentials are established, neither he nor we know who we should trust. It's clear there'll be a con in here somewhere, but to see where it's coming from, we have to keep watching. Even at the resolution Mamet cheekily hides some of the details beneath the background noise, retaining a degree of mystery to the end.This is an understated but cool and clever movie, the dialogue is slightly stylised and stagey (typical of Mamet the writer), with emblematic themes (as a story of the little man cheated by power, it resembles his earlier fable 'The Water Engine'). Campbell Scott is excellent in the lead role, that of a a man whose life starts to slip from his grasp; and Steve Martin, playing dead straight, is surprisingly good. Of course, at a certain level, it still makes no sense (if it did it might not be so entertaining); but this is still a piece of intelligent and riveting cinema. "},{"Title":"Slow, but intelligent mystery worthy of a thought or two","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well it's nice to see a story with plot. David Mamet has written and directed an intelligent little piece here. Mr. Klein (Ben Gazzara) has a new secret process for making an awful lot of money. Naturally other people want this process - and they will go to bizarre lengths to get to it. Expect crossing, and double and triple crossing in this convoluted but tight thriller.Okay the acting's not up to much. There's very few noticeable faces aside from Steve Martin in the role of a mysterious gentleman whose motives we do not know (although that could be said of almost everyone). They're sufficient but, for my money, I found Gazzara slightly wooden. He's obviously confused by the events around him, but Gazzara doesn't seem to show much range - even when trying to be angry, and so forth. The rest all act a tad ambiguously - which is fine considering the movie's duplicitous heart - but . well I'll say no more.It's Mamet's work that makes the film enjoyable. Up until the very end you can't be sure of anyone. There's a great sense of distrust. This partially works because Mamet focuses on Klein - everyone else is seen from the perspective of their interactions with Klein. There's plot twists throughout, often in a moment's line of dialogue so your attention is focused. This isn't to say that the movie is fast paced - it is quite slow - but that you need to still keep sharp so as not to miss the developments when they do happen. There's also a certain satisfaction in seeing that it all does resolve fairly well, with loose ends dealt with.There is a downside to this movie - repeat watching value. The acting or direction isn't strong enough for a rewatch once the mystery element is solved. There may be some merit in going back over and watching how all the elements link together but that's about it. The fact that the low production values give it a `TV movie' feel (albeit a well plotted one) doesn't help either. Still it's a nice way to engage your brain for the evening and it does merit a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Implausible, but highly entertaining","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you liked 'House of Games' then you're going to love this film which might have been better titled 'The McGuffin Process'. The Spanish Prisoner is not a political thriller, despite its name, but a typical Mamet brain tease. I can forgive the incredulous behaviour of the lead character, the over-gushy performance of Pigeon and the left field wisdom of Ricky Jay because the movie never fails to interest. Mamet, unlike most Hollywood writers/directors, assumes the viewer has something between their ears that does not resemble Swiss cheese, and he, like John Sayles and Woody Allen for example, should be commended for promoting film as art as well as entertainment. "},{"Title":"Almost a good movie","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is almost a really good movie.  Unfortunately, I guessed the entire plot within the first 1/2 hour.  This was due to the wooden performances of most of the actors, and something about the music, too, that I can't quite put my finger on.  Since most of these actors have displayed tremendous talent elsewhere, it must be the direction which is at fault.  I hate to say this, but this is one film I'd like to see re-made with a different director.  It's a really good basic play, but as executed it failed utterly to suspend my credibility or tease my suspense buttons. "},{"Title":"What's wrong with Mamet?","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Rebecca Pidgeon is wrong with Mamet! An excellent movie, with a subtley well-acted Steve Martin is practically ruined with the presence of Ms. Pidgeon as Susan Ricci--the pathetically miscast love-interest.What saddens me further is that Mr. Mamet cast her in his newest film The Winslow Boy.  This, too, is sure to be a good film, but despite Rebecca Pidgeon's acting attempts.  I almost turned off Spanish Prisoner due to her utterly horrid cue-card readings in every scene.  Although I'm glad I didn't, I still can't help wishing she hadn't been in it!I recommend the movie for it's twisting plot, it's finely crafted dialogue, and the rest of the well-acted cast.I leave with one last gripe was that a wig, or just a really bad haircut?!  "},{"Title":"A classic mystery done with modern skills and techniques.","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A classic mystery done with modern skills and techniques. This was fun to watch and felt like seeing one of the old classics but without the distractions of being relocated in time.The excellent script and clever story done by good actors was all I needed for enjoyment.No automobiles were injured in the production of this film. "},{"Title":"Slick Thriller","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the kind of movie Hitchcock would be doing if he was still alive today.  Good plot, great characters, interesting twists. It's like reading a good mystery  novel. Bravo.           "},{"Title":"Pidgeon plays infatuation like a Dalek - Don't get morose, get even she advises robotically.","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Always do business as if the person you were doing business with were screwing you, because they probably are. And if they're not, you can be pleasantly surprised,'' Jimmy Dell (wonderfully creepy Steve Martin) tells salaried employee Joe Ross (Scott).Ross has just invented the process for his company (it's so valuable that when he writes the figure on a blackboard, we don't even see it, only the shining eyes of executives looking at it and their proclamation in unison, like a Greek chorus, of, What do we own?), but he quickly fears they will rob him blind. For good reason.Supposed jet setter Mr Dell leads to more doubts in Joe's mind, and offers to lend his assistance in Joe's battle for monetary consideration. Complicating matters is Susan (Rebecca Pidgeon, Mamet's wife), a distinctly odd, but strangely fascinating woman who is either Ross' only advocate or a crucial figure in the plot against him. Pidgeon plays infatuation like a Dalek - Don't get morose, get even she advises robotically.Mamet claims that this familiar exploration of financial deceit and con artists is lighter than his previous work. It looks just as dark, claustrophobic, dangerous and vaguely dank to me. Although, admittedly, the Hitchcockian feel and the dearth of statutory Mamet expletives probably lends itself to a more widespread audience.As in House of Games (1987), Mamet's first film as a director, The Spanish Prisoner takes a reasonably intelligent, self-possessed character and proceeds to shatter his expectations and sense of equilibrium (similar to Martin Scorcese's 80s masterpiece After Hours). Trust proves his undoing, faith in the human race his tragic flaw - Can't go around mistrusting everybody, he maintains.Eventually, painfully, hopelessly Joe figures out that he has to second-guess the sharks. However, even then he continues to take people at their word. They flatter him and play him on his vanity and greed. Steve Martin, in his best role since Parenthood, is unrelentingly insincere (he would sell his grandma's teeth for a wine gum), he keeps saying, extraordinary gesture and Joe falls for it. Dell flatters in order to deceive and Joe becomes a Kafka/Alfred Hitchcock-type pawn.Predictably, The Spanish Prisoner, features some marvelous Mamet's truncated monosyllabic dialogue such as I put a thief in my mouth to steal my brains, People aren't that complicated Jo, and Work for a living&#133;that explains your good manners. Plus, Mamet's distinctive feel for the conventions of heterosexual male intimacy as its mediated by business and pleasure is indeed a pleasure to behold. The Spanish Prisoner is definitely worth a visit.  "},{"Title":"A well-conceived, well-plotted movie...","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Although to some the Plot seems contrived, if you think about it, it does make sense. The Plot is centered around the con man(woman)menwomen's attempt to predict the every move of his(her)their target(s). He(She)They use the target(s) nature against him(her)them.I shan't be specific for fear of ruining the plot, but watch it at least twice and take heed to a comment by a character at the end. "},{"Title":"Very Pleasant Surprise","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just picked up this movie more or less at random at my neighbourhood video store.  I was pleasantly surprised to find that it was much better than average.  Good plot line with lots of twists & turns but not so complicated that it was hard to follow.  All in all, a nice movie and worth the rental price.. "}{"Title":"The Certificate Joe signed didn't say Request for Asylum to Venezuela!!!","Date":"29 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie had potential, but needlessly squandered it with gratuitous plot-twists and HUGE, GAPING plot holes. This movie, I must say, along with The Game strains credulity beyond even an enthusiastic movie-goers' patience.For me, the single biggest flaw for which no explanation can be given is when Steve Martin's character has Joe sign a certificate in a supposed member's only club to allow Joe entry for lunch. As Joe signs his name, the title at the top of the certificate is initially obscured by the host's fingers. HOWEVER, as the host pulls the certificate away, it clearly reads CLUB MEMBERSHIP in English.Later, when the authorities are questioning Joe about this certificate, they show him the same certificate and ask him if that's his signature on it. Joe says yes. The officer pulls his fingers away to reveal the title of the very same certificate that Joe signed in the club, but this time it says (in Spanish) Request for Asylum to Venezuela. There is no explaining away this flaw. This is just lazy movie-making. There are several other bizarre gaffes like this that destroy the movie's credibility as a legitimate thriller. "},{"Title":"Probably not a film for the average person, but if you are patient, it's a good drama in the end","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a film I probably never would have seen in the first place. However, I was on an airplane with nothing to do and this was the in-flight film, so I reluctantly watched. The first thing that really struck me was that Steve Martin was a prominent character but the film was in no way a comedy. Second, and this really hooked me, was that the writing was very good and quite creative--something I would have expected had I known the film was by David Mamet. Because the film has many twists and turns and surprises, I won't even try to explain the plot--just watch it for yourself. About the only negatives were a few of the twists seemed a tad difficult to believe and Campbell Scott wasn't the most compelling actor in the world as the lead. Still, the film was well-written and unique--and I liked that enough to watch the film again--something I very rarely do. "},{"Title":"The most overrated movie ever?","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was shocked to see such a high rating for this lame film. This one was actually worse than House of Games, which up until this point was the most amateurish I had ever seen in a non-home movie. The Spanish Prisoner had a bit higher budget and as a result H.O.G. may still be the leader in crudeness, but at least House had some suspense. I don't even know where to begin with this movie- the bad acting? The ridiculous things the main character did? Perhaps the delivery of the lines which one source so rightly called staccato. Either way, it was certainly not the worst movie of all time, but a definite turkey. I'm not even that good at guessing what's going to happen in movies because I usually just watch and let things happen, but I think my 6 month old daughter could have seen the twists coming and figured just about all of them out. I knew right away this was the same director as House of Games because of that horrible delivery where you feel like you're watching a bad play. Could Mrs. Mamet actually not be a terrible actress, but rather given bad direction? Were the weird sayings people would throw out there meant to not be funny? Was there actually supposed to be any guesswork or suspense here? These are the questions I'm left with. This would be a phenomenal film for a high school student and a shocking disappointment for a major director. I gave it 2 pts above the lowest rating for a) Steve Martin trying something different and doing pretty well considering and b) I made it through the whole movie without really wanting to turn it off that badly. For some truly excellent intrigue try 3 Days of the Condor or the unheralded Parallax View. "},{"Title":"CAPTIVATED, BUT CHEATED !","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This may have been the hardest movie to grade of all.  I was totally captivated by the intensity, and interweaving of the plot, but couldn't buy the MORE than stupid things the main character did to set himself up.After watching Sting years ago, and looking back into the plot, you kept appreciating how they TRICKED both you and the characters being conned.In this movie, they didn't trick ANYBODY.  The character being conned was too oblivious to be even believable.  He would look fake in Halloween IX!  There was nothing impressive about the con, since it required the star to do things SO stupid that no only is it not a given that he'd do them, but unlikely.Worst of all they cheated.  The MAIN trigger of the con (swapping the book) was a total farce.  Run it back frame by frame, and the original book never moves....yet the audience is supposed to be surprised and amazed at how they pulled off the switch!   They didn't switch it, they just cheated!  Nothing to look back at and see how you were fooled.  The writer is the true fool.The actors all basically stunk.  However, I must say this is the only straight performance by Steve Martin that I appreciated.  The soundtrack contributed greatly to the drama....it was haunting and addicting.   But the potential of the plot fell flat.I felt cheated.  "},{"Title":"This Was A Con-Job Alright...","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For a David Mamet film, this one was a real letdown.  Extremely wooden acting from Campbell Scott and Rebecca Pidgeon (who was obviously only cast because she was Mamet's wife!), rancidly over-the-top dialogue (I mean, not every character needs to talk like they are reading fortune cookies), a blatantly obvious plot, poor TV-movie type production values, and one of the most piddled-out endings I've ever encountered.  I feel slightly insulted that this film was even hoisted upon the audience as a mystery/thriller to begin with.  Only an imbecile couldn't read all of the obvious foreshadowing and in-your-face clues being highlighted both by the visuals and the dialogue in every scene *SPOILERS* Camera and actor focus and comment on a particular knife; lo and behold, someone is killed with it later! Camera focuses in on a set of keys; a few minutes later, our tragi-hero remembers and uses those keys to escape!  Pathetic. Then, after you've endured it for almost 2 hours, they mutter out the denouement in one flat sentence and that's it; cue the closing score.  4/10 (And I'm being generous).  Not mysterious, complicated or thrilling whatsoever *YAWN* Nope, not at all.  "},{"Title":"too many twists","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  ***WARNING SPOILERS DON'T READ THIS UNLESS YOU'VE SEEN THE MOVIE***I thought 3/4 of this movie was excellent, it only got more and more interesting. Then about 20-30 minutes before the end came 2-3 extra twists that ruined the movie. More twists doesn't automatically make it a better movie, and I thought a talented writer like mamet would avoid cliches like the fingerprints on the knife-scene. I never want to see that scene again in any movie please I'm so tired of it! I was surprised of some of the twists but I still don't think I or anyone would be fooled like that. And I would NEVER call the same FBI-agent that just happened to be in the same place as the suspect. If you think a minute  about it you notice many more plot-holes, like other reviewers already have written on here in order for this scam to work they would have to know exactly how the victim would react in every situation and that is impossible. How would they know that he would contact the same FBI-woman instead of calling someone else? What would they have done if he had called a real FBI-agent? If they were that strict on not letting the secretary see the safe how would she be able to study the book long enough in order to remember what it looks like and find an exact identical one. She must have an extraordinary memory or the book must be very common. Why would anyone risk a billion-dollar formula for catching someone who, at that time, still hadn't stolen anything from him? The easiest safest thing would be to forget about it and not contacting him anymore.  Well there are tons of more plot-holes that the other reviewers on here have pointed out better than I have. In spite of it all I think it's a good movie but it isn't as intelligent as it first seems. "},{"Title":"Nooooooooooooooooooooooo","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Spanish Prisoner is just more proof that David Mamet is the worst writer ever.  But now he's not just the worst writer, he's also the worst director.How many fade to blacks can one person do in a single movie?  The first 20 scenes end in a fade to black.  And it's slow.  So slow. And Mamet made sure to include more terrible lines in this movie as well.  Dog my cats indeed.  What is that?? "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Comedy?","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is so embarrassing, but my husband and I still can't decide if this is a brilliantly subtle comedy or a pathetic excuse for a mystery/thriller.Well, it was certainly entertaining. We laughed so hard that we cried. And casting Steve Martin in a serious role was the coup d'etat. We snickered every time he opened his mouth. And that dialogue!! Mamet is a comic genius. "},{"Title":"Stiff, awkward, unwieldy.  Stiff, awkward, unwieldy.","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The dialog in this film was forced, fake, and pretentious.  Susan was annoying and far from believable.  Campbell Scott, who I found creepy in Dying Young, actually was the most believable character to me, and I feel bad about that because I believe Steve Martin to be the biggest talent of all of the cast.Did it bother anyone else that every line needed repeating?And the scene near the end with the frustrated mom at the airport revealing a key to the plot  that is an example of absolutely SOPHOMORIC DIRECTING. Unforgivable. "},{"Title":"A terrible movie","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Some people are talking about 'excellent plot', 'brilliant plot twists' etc....Where ?? When ?? How ???What I saw (and bought on DVD urgh !!!) was a terribly acted, horrible dialogue, and most pathetic excuse for a plot I've ever seen. You could see the plot twists a mile away !!All of it has been done before, and so so much better. How someone can call this a 'Usual Suspects' kinda movie is beyond me.Avoid at all costs. "}{"Title":"Completely Inane","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well, if they learned one thing from making this film, I hope it's that Mamet should never sit in a director's chair again. I'm not prejudiced against Mamet. I like some of his films, particularly Glengarry Glen Ross, which is actually one of my favorites. But The Spanish Prisoner plays and sounds like a high school production. Literally.I cannot for the life of me understand how this film can be called intelligent. Yes, it does not rely on violence, sex, swearing, drugs, alcohol, traffic violations, or even jaywalking to at least make it interesting. So call it a moral film, whatever that means. Oh, yes, it has a plot. I assume that is why it's called intelligent.I sat through this plot not knowing a thing about the film and I could see and hear the twists coming like I was tied to a post watching a host of bison pounding impending death into my ears. Plus it had more holes in it than a room full of acupuncture patients.To begin, the editing was AWFUL, particularly the initial 30 minutes. Typically, when two characters walk into a room, it really does look like they were engrossed in conversation before walking in front of the camera. But in TSP, it looks like Mamet had just given the go ahead to roll tape. It played like it was made up of strips of paper cut up with scissors and then glued together. There might as well have been a speedbump noise every time there was a scene change.And the dialogue?! What is even more discouraging than the abysmal quality of most films coming out now is when we're sold a piece of goods and people are convinced that it's intelligent. At least with the first problem, we're merely disgruntled. With the second, we're delusional. I find that depressing. So this film depressed me for that reason.How contrived TSP is is metaphorically represented by the prime element of its plot structure The System. OK? I don't mind vague points. But this is just lazy. Why couldn't he just have made it top-secret information which could be used for insider trading? Or information about a revolutionary new product? The plot of Episode I The Phantom Menace? Mamet may be acclaimed as a genius, but he has to do more than throw out a script with a twist to have me sacrificing my first-born to his word processor.I will grant you that art is not life. That said, it should not be more artificial than artifice requires. If Mamet hopes to continue holding an audience made up of more than sophomoric dilettantes, he should take some advice from another author.  The overdone or come tardy off, though it might impress some, cannot but make the judicious grieve. Reform it altogether, David. "},{"Title":"Worst use of good film ever","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I cannot believe how bad this movie was.Does David Mamet think we have a single brain cell among us?  Why is every line repeated?  Why is EVERY SINGLE (and there's a lot of them, trust me) plot device handled by a character three or four times?  We see it coming. Just get it over with.  Why is there a character who's ONLY purpose is to spout lines of trite banality as if every time he farts, it's a revelation?I'm not Hollywood enough to know if the actors were purposefully stone-faced, or if Mamet's directing was that god-awful.  Never has an acting troupe so bored me.  Not in 'Kiss the Girls'.  Not in 'Wild Things.' This was HORRID!  Slow, monotone, repetetive.  Who could do such a thing to Steve Martin?!?  Absolutely appalling.This movie would have been turned off after 15 minutes (OK, 5) but we watched in horrid fascination as Mamet turned 3 or 4 pages of dialogue into a feature-length film.  I suspect that the repeating of lines and the brutal slow pace was used as filler.  Though this obvious editing room floor material did give me time to catch my breath after laughing out loud at the stupidity of it all.   "},{"Title":"Mamet should not use his reputation to hide his shortcomings.","Date":"26 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Mamet is a genius, and the script is actually pretty decent, but not great. The acting is the real problem, and that is partly for the fact that some reasonably good actors are apparently uninspired (perhaps due to direction), and others are just poorly cast. With Mamet's reputation, he could have gotten some really top flight actors. Especially weak are Steve Martin and Rebecca Pigeon. She is particularly wooden and atrocious!! But, even given these things, the plot has some rather gaping holes. All in all, I believe that a 2 rating is generous. Yes, it had some nice surprises, but not nearly enough to offset the monstrous flaws. Alfred Hitchcock would be rolling in his grave to know that many reviewers compared this to one of his. "},{"Title":"A low-keyed spoof of the genre","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There's a little of the famous repetitive, stylized Mamet dialogue, especially in the beginning of this intriguing, tongue-in-cheek thriller, but mostly what director Mamet does is play it (almost) straight. The premise is a con, called the Spanish Prisoner con. Steve Martin is the chief con artist, Jimmy Dell, while Campbell Scott is the victim, Joe Ross, whose proprietary business formula--displayed prominently throughout the movie as a red bound notebook--is the booty.Most of us are familiar with this con from our e-mail where it typically takes the form of an African or the Middle Eastern princess seeking help from us to escape from a corrupt society or an oppressive husband. We are advised that she has many millions of dollars but can't get them out of the country without our help in the form of a few thousand bucks for various fees, etc. If we send the money we are assured that we will get a significant percentage of the millions.Here the come-on includes a dark-haired beauty we see only in passing and in photos. Playing her foil is Rebecca Pidgeon (Mamet's talented wife) as Susan Ricci, a somewhat ditzy secretary for Joe's company. At the beginning everything is opaque and intriguing. It's not clear who is who, and who can be trusted and who can't. Indeed if this movie had a theme it would be you can't trust anybody. The real worry, however, seems to be whether Joe will get paid for his work. Mr. Klein (Ben Gazzara) keeps putting him off. And so it appears that we may be viewing another business and relationships satire for which Mamet is justly famous (e.g., Glengarry Glen Ross 1992), but after a bit we begin to see the sinister plot unfold.The acting is good and Mamet sets up his plot twists with precision--although the resolutions of some of the twists are a bit strained; in fact, probability and logic, in keeping with the time-honored tenets of the genre, are sometimes just plain ignored. But what carries this unusual thriller is an underlying tone of irony. Steve Martin is perfectly cast because underneath his sly exterior there seems lurking a guy about to bust out laughing; and indeed the entire edifice is a crafty but covert spoof of Hollywood thrillers. It's almost as though Mamet set out to write and direct a standard thriller but just couldn't help himself. On the other hand he may have had the understated parody in mind all the way, but just didn't want to tell anybody! Certainly Steve Martin was not fooled, but I do wonder about Campbell Scott who played his part with such single-minded intensity.Anyway, there's a lot of clever dialogue, some of it cribbed (Beware of enterprises requiring new clothes is from Thoreau), and some interesting stage business (the tickets, the tennis book, the red-bound book, the camera/gun, the club certificate/request for passage to Venezuela, etc.). And trying to figure out who is up to what will keep you awake. But see this for Rebecca Pidgeon who, in her way, is as original as Mamet. Although her role here is not strictly comedic she reminds me a little of the Japanese comedic actress, Nobuko Miyamoto, widow of director Juzo Itami. She also reminds me of somebody who should be playing Saturday Night Live. Maybe she has.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Amazing and intriguing, this movie has it ALL!!","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My, how I LOVED this movie. Acting, suspense, drama, mystery, and a wonderful script make this one of (if not) the best movies of ALL TIME. The ingeniously crafted story with an amazing ending make this a movie for everyone. After all, it had everything crammed into a 'PG' rating. I couldn't believe how good it was when I saw it. This is the perfect 'thinking man's (or woman's) thriller', but if it isn't.... 'Back to the shooting range for me!'  "},{"Title":"Who wrote the script?","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While sitting in class and watching this movie, my friend and i repeatedly wanted to kill the character played by Rebecca Pidgeon. She repeated all her lines twice. I understand that is isn't her fault, the person who is to blame is the writer David Mamet. Which is funny, because he is also the director. in my opinion, he is the only one who would take such an annoying script and allow Steve Martin to make another terrible movie.  "},{"Title":"a dire film that wastes an average plot line","Date":"22 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A film can be made cheaply and still be a winner. A film can overcome wooden acting performances with a well written dialogue and, sometimes, an expensive production to fool the eyes and mind. A good plot can keep the viewers interest. The Spanish Prisoner fails to deliver on all points.This film has nothing to redeem it, not even Steve Martin can bring this corpse to life - though for a few seconds now and again he sparkles.I've had to check and re-check the IMDb database to make sure the first reviewer and I have watched the same film, then in the interests of fairness I suffered to watch it again with an unbiased audience. Our joint views It stinks. "},{"Title":"Dated for its time....","Date":"29 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie was made in 1997 and for its time it worked. I remember seeing it at the theater and being completely satisfied with the plot and various twists and turns.After seeing it for the second time today, I have to admit there are a number of quirky out-of-date elements that take away from the pace and validity of the plot. First, I did not remember the outcome or most of the plot. That's why I decided to watch it again. Second, I think the dialogue and the plot are outdated now. I have to believe this is a mystery/drama that has outlived our evolution as movie-goers. It is a good example of how our expectations and general knowledge/stimulus has evolved over time - this example being 12 years old. I found the dialogue to be slow and stilted at first and in fact thought the actors were uncomfortable with themselves; almost reading their lines in the first 2/3rds of the movie. The plot now has plenty of holes - why would a smart man fall for the way the Spanish Prisoner grift was performed? Clearly we have increased our sophistication with regard to plot and acting since 1997. The end is still well done and I believe the last 3rd of the movie is worth the time spent. I rate it a 6 out of ten for entertainment, but the entertainment also includes the awareness of how the movie doesn't work that well for 2009. "},{"Title":"Horrible...Bad Acting ...poor suspense...","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" OK i was duped into seeing this movie by the huge amount of positive reviews i read about this movie here.....after seeing the movie...i have no doubt the reviews were either 1)put on here by people working for the studio/producers to sell more dvds or 2)a lot of people have really poor taste in movies and lack the intelligence to think through a storySomeone here even compared it to Usual Suspects, huh u kiddin me....this movie started out alright but the suspense was just too obvious...Rebecca Pidgeon is absolutely terrible and she clearly got the part coz she is the wife of the director...even someone as good as steve martin is wasted....the story may sound great as a plot but is just played out so poorly and seems the movie is made out for 10-15 yr olds....surely only kids would get thrilled by this and any adult can get see the twist coming from a mile away...better avoid.... "},{"Title":"Only the truly great can make the memorably bad- Roger Ebert","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've see some of this guy's other film and liked them, but this was an unfortunate failure.What was done well The movie begins well enough by describing the object of interest in a way that didn't over explain things, but didn't leave you with that pulp fiction what's in the case feeling either. And through various clues you were able to get a very good understanding of the character who was aptly played by Campbell Scott. Steve Martin's performance was also superb as the mysterious stranger.What ruined the experience they are describing this as the thinking man's movie well I have to disagree. I must because the thinking man would have figured out most of the thrills in this movie before they had a chance to thrill. This leaves clever dialogue and plot to hold this movie. The dialogue would pass as apt if it were not for the contrived rambling the main character's secretary and partner. I could handle one character making ridiculous and out of place commentary and trying to pass it off as insightful philosophy, but when the common secretary starts with it that is too much to handle. Aren't you going to save me boy scout? that doesn't make sense.And as for the plot you've already read the scathing reviews. If you get any thrills from this movie then stay away from Hitchcock's Rope or you may soil your pants. "}{"Title":"Dont waste your time with this one","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What a load of crap this movie was. The plot is straight out of the screenwriters handbook. Dialogue is laughable, acting is wooden and the plot, well if you didn't pick what was happening after the first 30 minutes then go back to watching Disney cartoons, you may just be able to understand them.  "},{"Title":"A slow movie filled with strange dialog, but overall a very well done mystery","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Spanish Prisoner reminds me of those old mysteries from the 40's and 50's.  The movie's plot is really great, as is the acting.  David Mamet did not disappoint me in the writing.I will say what I thought was bad.  The dialog is very strange.  I really don't know what Mr. Mamet was going for here, but it's pretty strange.  I praise Mr. Mamet as a writer, not as a director.  He has a very original style, but the was his actors speak, it just seems off.  I don't think he is that great of a director.  I think he could have done a better job, because the dialog can get pretty weird and several of the plot setups are a little hokey, but it's forgivable.Another bad point of the movie is that it's slow.  The first half of the movie reminds me of a play.   There's nothing but dialog, the actors don't move around too much, and there is no music.  But, when the second half comes, the movie picks up speed, and the music kicks in.  I don't have a short attention span so I enjoyed the first half as well as the second.I was rather disappointed in the ending.  Don't worry, I'm not going to give anything away.  I was expecting a better ending with a bigger, `Keyser Soze' twist.  But the rest of the movie makes up for it.  This is a great who-can-you-trust story.If you enjoy a good mystery, good writing, or just a good story, pick this movie up.  It's quite a surprise.  It's smart, well written, and is very entertaining.  Don't start watching it expecting the movie of the year.  Just sit down, relax, and watch.  I highly enjoyed it.  Mystery fans will not be disappointed.7/10  "}]