[{"Title":"A Little Something for Everyone.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"75 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wow. Wild Things is one of those trash masterpieces that is just so clever, so hot and so fun that it becomes one of the most interesting and under-rated films of the 1990s. The rich Denise Richards and the very poor Neve Campbell each accuse high school teacher Matt Dillon of rape, but there is something that is not quite right. Enter detectives Kevin Bacon and Daphne Rubin-Vega. They both doubt that the case is as simple as it seems. Boy are they right. The investigation leads to court where it is made clear by Dillon's attorney (Bill Murray) that the case lacks any real evidence to convict Dillon to prosecutor Robert Wagner's despair. The whole thing was a fabrication to get to Richards' mother's riches (Theresa Russell). But of course this is just the start and there will be double-, triple- and even quadruple-crossing and it is skewered who are good and who are evil or is anyone good? A brilliant screenplay by Stephen Peters and Alfred Hitchcock-styled direction by John McNaughton makes Wild Things a trashy, but highly impressive cinematic winner. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Seductive, slick and sexy; great entertainment!","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"65 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wild Things is a fantastic example of what can be achieved by not worrying about substance and having a film play for straight entertainment value. Here we have a film that takes elements such as beautiful stars, beautiful locations and a bucket load of plot twists and blends it all into a highly enjoyable film experience. Of course, Wild Things doesn't always come across very realistically and, at times even, it's downright ridiculous; but it's done in such a way that it doesn't matter, and because of that we have a film that can do what it wants. The film is helmed by John McNaughton, who had his first success with the cult horror flick Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer. It has to be said that the scene setting and way that the plot moves is somewhat ham-fisted, as sometimes it's painfully obvious that certain sections of the film exist only to give it another selling point; the argument that starts out between Denise Richards and Neve Campbell beside a swimming pool being a case in point. However, McNaughton makes good of these selling points, and for every three way sex scene and absurd plot twist, the film gains an extra point for trashy entertainment value.It's not immediately obvious what Wild Things is going to be about, as the first twenty minutes serve only in setting the scene and from that base, the film could easily turn into any teenage school flick. However, it turns out that this time is well used; as by nulling the audience into a false sense of security, the film is able to make sure that every twist comes as a surprise. The film benefits from a great big name cast, which is anchored by Matt Dillon; who gives one of his best performances. Dillon clearly enjoys himself, and his persona is able to suit both the sleazy and upstanding nature of his character. Kevin Bacon sleepwalks and isn't really able to show his true talent, and similarly Neve Campbell looks out of place (sexy with it) in her role as a teenage junkie. However, Denise Richards rounds the piece of nicely with a charged performance and the ensemble is nicely topped off by the likes of Bill Murray, Theresa Russell and Robert Wagner. The settings that the movie takes place in look great, and ensure that there's more eye candy than just the female leads. Director McNaughton presents a fabulously mysterious atmosphere which obviously bodes well with the plot and, on the whole, if you want a couple of hours of entertainment; you can do a lot, lot worse than this twisty little flick. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock 90210","Date":"24 August 1998","Score":"85 out of 127 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you ever thought a crime thriller could be filmed in Aaron Spelling manner, you've got your movie. Everybody is so good looking and the plot twists more than Chubby Checker. However, in the end almost everything falls into place. You get your suspense, excitement, intrigue and lots of close-ups on some gorgeous hunks. Not so bad at all. "},{"Title":"Everybody's right!","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"45 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Yes, it's lurid. Yes, it's trashy. Yes, it doesn't stand up to close scrutiny. And yes, if you're the sort of person who specialises in spotting plot twists, then you're probably going to do well here.But if you haven't seen this film before, and you're prepared for something a bit on the lurid and trashy side, and you can manage to steer clear of the many spoilers among the reviews here, then you just might find that Wild Things is a fun ride.Because there are, it's true, a number of twists and turns, and not everyone sees them coming. And if you aren't a twist-spotter, but you enjoy movies with twists, then you are going to enjoy this one.I thought it was great fun. And, let's be fair, who's watching Denise Richards' acting? "},{"Title":"Clever script delivers unexpected twists","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"46 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild Things`People aren't always what they appear to be.  Don't forget that.'  Ray's (Kevin Bacon) sage words of advice couldn't ring more true about this tale of deception and hidden alliances.  Wild Things, set in a bayou college town, is sleazy neo-noir a la Body Heat.  The direction and acting are mediocre; however, Stephen Peters script is quite clever, delivering a number of unexpected twists that just don't let up.  It's all a bit contrived and unbelievable, but it's very fun.  The film isn't quite as sexy or explicit as the hype led viewers to expect, but it delivers enough to keep one interested until the final credit.  The menage a trois between Lombardo (Dillon), Suzie (Campbell), and Kelly (Richards) leaves a lot to be desired; it's a bit lifeless, and Dillon's facial expressions are laughable. Bill Murray is solid but miscast as a soft but sleazy lawyer, and Teresa Russell's acting skills regress with each film she makes.The final credits sequence is interesting.  It contains scenes that (fortunately) were not used for the main body of the film; if they had, they would have made some of the calculated twists much too obvious.  The very last scene between Campbell and Bill Murray, which rolls after the aforementioned scenes, extends/embellishes the story with one more twist. All the twists seem to work just perfectly like a snug-fitting puzzle. Director John McNaughton is best known for his stylish debut film Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer.  Kevin Bacon served as executive producer. Recommended on a slow evening.  "},{"Title":"Kinky erotic thriller is fun and extremely entertaining.","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"45 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In Blue Bay's elite beach communities and into the murky waters of the Everglades, you would expect nothing beyond this venture until a guidance counselor (Matt Dillon) is accused of raping two high school students (Neve Campbell and Denise Richards). While they are two detectives on the cast (Kevin Bacon and Daphne Rubin-Vega), they find out there's more than meets the eye in the mystery of deceit, sex and greed.Directed by John Mc Naughton (HernyPortrait of a Serial Killer, Lansky, Normal Life) made an entertaining trashy noir that has an unique blend of sex, suspense, comedy and a twisted story. An terrific cast makes things enjoyable, which includedTheresa Russell, Robert Wagner and Bill Murray. This film wasn't much of a hit, when it was first released in the spring of 1998. But it turned into a cult hit on video. The Unrated DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an good Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. The Unrated DVD adds seven minutes of additional footage, which it has some good moments...especially during the end credits and the characters are more fleshed-out in the Unrated DVD. Wild Things has an good moody music score by George S. Clinton (Austin Powers Trilogy) and striking camera work by Jeffery L. Kimball (Jacob's Ladder, Stigmata, True Romance) are one of the highlights of this guilty pleasure film. Bacon is also the film's executive producer. Murray is a hoot in his minor role as Dillon's lawyer. Written by Stephen Peters. Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"A well fitting puzzle","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"44 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Much has been said about the sexual content of this movie for which I can only say it was nice to get such mice views, clothed and unclothed of Denise Richards. But overall the sexuality of this film is moderate at best.Why i really liked it is because all of the twists in the plots actually come together. At the end of the film, integrated with the end credits, are previously unseen events that kept the full tale slightly hidden from the viewer. By inserting them at the end, the full story was told without inhibiting the ride. If you missed the hints and clues along the way, u can see what you failed to figure out.Certainly this is not a tale that fails to stretch credibility, but its is a film for amusement. But unlike so many, the mystery is solvable and does not rely on contrivances created at the end to make you feel stupid. If you miss them you are not stupid, but if foresee any of the conclusion, and the can be foreseen, hats off to you. "},{"Title":"Well-Executed, Well Acted, Interesting Story","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"34 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Based on the trailers, I expected this to be a low-budget, B-movie that showed off the anatomies of pretty girls - not that that is entirely bad - but I do expect more from a movie.In actuality, this is a very, very good plot that is executed well by the principal actors. Neve Campbell, Denise Richards (surprisingly), and especially Matt Dillion turn in very good performances. I always enjoy Bill Murray and his part in this movie, although fairly small, adds some levity.I can't comment too much on this movie without spoiling it, except to say that things aren't always what they expect to be. There are a lot of plot twists, some that probably couldn't stand tremendous scrutiny, but are realistic enough to keep the audience engaged.The other technical aspects of the movie - direction and cinematography - are done very well, too. That is, they are unobtrusive.This really is a thoroughly entertaining film, and while it does contain one rather steamy scene, is not a cheap sex film, but a well-thought out, well-executed story. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Twisted","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"55 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There is a website that shows silly abbreviated synopsises for movies...for this movie it says There's a plot twist, There's a plot twist, There's a plot twist...There's a plot twist...There's a plot twist...There's a plot twist...The End...There's a plot twist.This sums up the movie very accurately. It's mind popcorn, nothing more. The saving grace of this movie is that you KNOW it's a melodrama that's really not to be taken seriously.The main actors bring life into what could be very overdone characters. The cinematography is not to be missed, and the supporting cast fills in the movie nicely.Not a great movie, but a good movie to vegg out to! "},{"Title":"oooh Neve","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"28 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Funny, raunchy, tongue in cheek, blatantly politically incorrect, Wild Things is a change from McNaughton's 'Henry' days. I'm sure school has never looked so attractive to any prospective teachers when students will offer to wash your car for you, suds'n'all. If none of you know, Neve Campbell is my favourite actress ever. Not that that makes me biased, she has made plenty of bad movies, but this isn't one of them. Lots of twists, perhaps too many, and enough sleaze to satisfy most men and boys, just watch the glorious threesome scene to see what I mean. Don't expect any deep message here, unless it's 'don't trust your lawyer if he's Bill Murray', but then again, it's not that kind of movie. Bacon and Richards are also good, though i'm not a fan of Richards. if you like her, you'll probably love this. 8 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Much more intelligent than it is often given credit for...","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"31 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  During the very limited theatrical run that Wild Things recieved here (I think it was gone in about three weeks), a lot of the reviews and publicity created the impression that this was a soap opera sex thriller. I guess that's an easy approach to take when summing this film up, since its two female leads featured in Party Of Five and episodes of Doogie Howser (man what an awful show that was), not to mention that one of the male leads would be doing well to act his way out of a wet paper bag. The problem with that is that it is just too easy, and easy answer is exactly the sort of thing that this film goes out of its way to avoid. It is not trying to be a modern Hitchcock, it is not trying to be another Basic Instinct, it is just trying to tell a story.The story, such as it is, seems to revolve around Blue Bay High School, the town it is located in, and its snobby, high-income elite, at least in the first reel. We are introduced to all four of the characters who will figure prominently in the story to come during a lecture to the students in their senior year. There's Sam the guidance counsellor, Ray the corrupt policeman, Kelly the daughter of the wealthiest real estate mogul in town, and Suzie the girl from the caravan park across town. All four of these characters have secrets they'd rather not share with any other inhabitant of the town, but that all comes apart when Kelly accuses Sam of raping her. Suzie corroborates her story at first, but then we get our first inkling that things are not all they seem, through the efforts of Bill Murray in one of his best cameos ever. The whole thing is seemingly a conspiracy between Sam, Suzie, and Kelly, but we are never shown whose idea it is until the very end.This next passage will ruin a key surprise the film has in store, so don't read it if you haven't seen it. Unless things have radically changed in this regard during the last ten years, psychologists and other such professionals do not tell test subjects exactly what their IQ is. Even if Suzie or her mother did know exactly, this whole point is delivered with such sledgehammer force that it almost utterly ruins the subtle, slow buildup that the rest of the film exhibited. Were they just running out of money when it came time to film this spot and just decided to go with the quickest, simplest thing they could do? It would have been much more effective and satisfying if the ugly cop (I forget the name) had just spent five or ten minutes going through whatever Suzie had left behind on her run to the Carribean. Summing up this plot point in fifteen seconds was an exceptionally bad move.Overall, however, you can't really go wrong with this film for an evening's entertainment. It doesn't feel the need to talk down at its audience, it doesn't resort to excess simplicity to make itself understood (except for the aforementioned ending), it just tells a story and tells it reasonably well. It is also another great example of DVD's utter superiority, especially during the threesome scene. When this part of the film is shown in its proper aspect ratio, you can make out every character and certain little details I'm sure that Denise Richards would appreciate not having available to horny teenage boys in a freezable and zoomable format. When was the last time you zoomed in on an actress' boobs with a VHS cassette, assuming they were left in frame after some jerk with an editing console chopped it down to fit those garbage 43 screens? "},{"Title":"An erotically superb adventure of deception and action with a brilliant script and twist","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wild Things absolutely wowed me the first time I watched it. I had no knowledge of what it was about, actually, and so I had no knowledge of what to expect. When I saw it for the first time I just had to watch it a second time right after that, to be honest, because I was astounded at how much I enjoyed it. Although I did not own the movie, you know that I went back to rent it a couple of more times because it was just so wonderful, and finally when I got the chance to buy it, I did, and now I have watched it numerous times on numerous occasions because it truly is an excellent movie that I can enjoy with every watch.Each actor and actress had a amazing role and they performed it with excellent expertise; I loved all the performances and they were all so fun and precise with the character they were given that in the long run they make the characters that would normally have been dull and uninteresting awesome and unable to look away from. The way every single line and move was so suspenseful and or clever and it just clicked all into place made my heart sink deeper into the story and never look away; I really was entertained to the point where I could not take my eyes off the screen for how amazing it was. As a Neve Campbell and Denise Richards fanatic, I enjoyed them and their luminous roles, as well as Matt Dillon who was awesome. I thought the way each and every twist and turn in the plot was just so great that my eyes lingered on for more after it was over, which is why of course I watched it a second time, and the only problem I had with this movie is that it was not long enough, though if it had have been longer I do not think it would have worked out for the better or anything, if you understand what I am trying to say. This movie is simply great, so wonderful; I would watch it over and over again if I had to simply because it is so fantastic and I really got into the way there was a major turning point at the ending that blows your mind, as well as the twist halfway through the film. It is magnificent, with unforgettable performances and a great story line. I would recommend you see it immediately if you can stand the subject matter. "},{"Title":"Denise Richards Stunning!!!","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Magnificent storyline. While the basic storyline of what was happening was so simple it was so original as well. All the twists and turns kept you interested throughout the movie which is what people really want to see from a movie, not something that drags on and on about nothing and then finishes with the same kind of ending that every other movie does. Neve Campbell played a different type of role to what she's used to but did it very well. Matt Dillon (playing Sam Lambardo) was excellent although the role could have been cast slightly better maybe with George Clooney. Kevin Bacon gave another stellar performance and kept you interested in his role throughout the movie. But without a doubt the the best performance was Denise Richards who was absolutely perfect for the role. She couldn't have been cast better from anyone in the world. Her beauty made this movie what it was. I think a lot of people would consider Matt Dillon the luckiest man in the world.  "},{"Title":"Heh... what a wild film! But GREAT!!!","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I think that Wild Things was an excellent film. While I see movies for their plot, excitement, and drama, I was originally drawn to renting Wild Things by its review that I saw in my local paper (The Ann Arbor News) a few years ago... I remember that it was singled out specifically for its graphic sexual content and violence... I will admit, yes, this is primarily what cause me to rent the film besides my interest in all three main actors= Neve Campbell, Denise Richards, and Matt Dillon. However, this was not just some dark porn as I expected but rather, a fantastic and different film that was very very interesting...Basically, Campbell and Richards are two high school seniors who have an interesting three-some relationship with their high school guidance counselor, Matt Dillon. He appears to be quite the stud throughout the film and there is an attraction to him by nearly every female character that he seems to meet (especially Richards's mom). After sexual encounters with Richards and Campbell, Richards is convinced by her parents to accuse Dillon of rape as a way to extort money from him... Dillon has quite the spotlight on him from the media and other high-authority figures, as a rape accusation directed towards any high school faculty these days is sure to raise some eyebrows. In the end, Richards/Campbell are really not working against Dillon but rather, they are working with him to in fact extort money from Richards's mother.... What a surprise!There is still conflict and tension between the trio of lovers from start to finish. The ending is quite shocking and unexpected but a great conclusion to this film noir classic... This film should definitely be seen and feel free to email me with any questions or comments... "},{"Title":"Wildly bad","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  'Wild Things' is a hard film to comment on, basically because it is two films; or at least, one film in disguise.  It commences as an issue-based melodrama, except that two things seem odd the pacing is too fast (how is the story going to last the movie?) and the bizarre score seems more fitted to a comedy.  Sure enough, this straight drama is wrapped up, only to subside into a larger thriller; a thriller in which twists and turns of the plot come at an ever faster rate, until in the end the film's aim is clearly to make you gasp rather than care (this is particularly evident when the missing holes in the plot are explained through the perfunctory insertion of extra scenes into the closing credits).  So, to assess it we need to ask what's the quality of the initial set-up; how good is the twisty thriller; and how well is the transition handled?  In fact, the same answer pretty much covers all three bases badly.  The initial drama is based around a high school teacher accused of sexual abuse.  A potentially interesting situation, but presented in an absurd manner the teacher seems terrified from the start that the moment he is alone with a girl, she'll fall out of her bra for him (and it's the kind of film where a lot of falling out of bras goes on); and sure enough, the moment that it happens, the girl in question (inevitably gorgeous) is accusing him of rape (and her evil mother is trying to run him out of town).  One might suggest that one is meant to smell a rat as a lead in to the film's later development; but it's not just the details of the situation that ring false, but the portrayal of the whole world (when the girl, for example, first gives a statement, one policewoman suspects her of lying from the start, but never tells her colleagues (or us) why - indeed, all police work seems to proceed by arbitrary pronouncement at all points).The twistier second half doesn't work either, in part because the first part proved so shallow; as none of the characters are likely or believable, who the hell cares if they aren't what they seem?  As the twists mount, the whole thing feels more like a parody of a David Mamet film; one can only suppose that it's meant to be humourous, but there's no humour beyond the outlines of the plot.  And the film's final joke depends entirely on the audience's prior relationship with Bill Murray; otherwise it simply makes no sense.On the way to this disappointing end, it manages to commit most of the sins typical of films aimed at the teenaged market gross materialism, gratuitous profanity and titillation, the insensitive intrusion of popular music in almost every scene, wafer thin characterisation and the complete absence of real insight into the human condition.  In its defence, the brisk telling of the complex story ensures that, however shallow, 'Wild Things' isn't boring. But it is flimsy, exploitative entertainment hiding under the thinnest veneer of pretension. Avoid unless you've truly nothing worthwhile to do. "},{"Title":"How mixed up and worthless can a movie get?","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I expected nothing of this movie. I did well. I might as well say it is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Let's see what we have. We have a bunch of brainless characters(of which one has an incredible IQ of around 200), so many plot twists that it becomes absurd and to top it all, we have the honor to see some of the worst acting ever. I especially think of the two ladies while saying this Denise Richards and Neve Campbell. The gentlemen aren't much better though, the biggest disappointment being Kevin Bacon.SPOILERSHere is what bothered me most, beside the stupid and usually predictable plot twists we see a world composed of idiots. Towards the end, where Ray is killed, he goes without much reluctance toward the edge of the boat( I doubt it's called edge, but I can't find another word). Or...the cops are plain stupid.  Strangely there are some interesting things, which explain themselves during the movie, like how did Ray know so well what  happened. You got the impression he was smart...an impression which is totally changed at the end.  Then again, during the whole film you think that Sam is intelligent, just to find out that the girl was the one with the brains. In a straight forward way the film is totally not believable. And it becomes less and less believe with each scene  that passes.All the girls, all the beauty, all the lack of intellectual ability this is a poor teen flick. It hardly amazes you...maybe at the first twist, but certainly not again. Though that was the one which amazed me least.It's quite sad to see what stupid and meaningless movies some do for living. There was no sense to it all. Nothing. Plain boring, and so bad that I could hardly keep making fun of its stupidity.  ho I can hardly give it a 4. In the best case a 3.5/10 but I'd go more towards 3. You will see I rarely give one's. It's because  of a solid reason I believe one means nothing. No acting, no sound, no good picture, no nothing. That isn't very often the case. A movie without ideas might reach down to a 2. I never voted one yet though...but if the industry continues to serve us with works like this, I am quite certain the time will come. "},{"Title":"Wild Things, or How To Put Too Many Plot Twists Into a Movie","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERSThe person who was responsible for the script of this movie must have really had an incredible off-day. Plot twists are usually a good thing to have in thrillers, but when they come in such ridiculous amounts as in this movie it becomes really painful.Things start out promising, though. Two girls (Neve Campbell and Denise Richards) accuse Mat Dillon of raping them. The case in brought to court, the charges turn out to be fake, and the Denise Richards' family has to pay Dillon a huge compensation. A police officer (Kevin Bacon, how did he get mixed up in this pile of crap?) suspects there is more to the case then meets the eye and starts an investigation.So far, so good. However, after this point the movie turns into a non-stop series of people betraying each other, having sex with each other and killing each other. The main problem with these events is, that after a while it just loses any form of credibility..you haven't got the faintest idea why on earth these people are doing all these things. For example, the police officer that starts the investigation later turns out to be involved in the entire scheme..why start the investigation then? And after his partner notices he is gone, it takes her about 5 minutes to find out everything...yeah right.After seeing this movie I couldn't help but feel horribly confused and disappointed, even though the ending credits (supposedly) cleared up some gaps in the plot.Maybe I've missed the point of this movie. There'll undoubtedly be people that think that this is a brilliant movie that constantly puts people on the wrong track. But I think this movie manipulates the audience in a very cheap way and simply becomes an implausible mess of plot twists.* out of **** stars "},{"Title":"Let's Twist Again","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There are certain films which have become famous on account of one sexually provocative scene. From Here to Eternity is an excellent film, which deserves to be remembered for many things, but it lives on in the public imagination as the film where Burt Lancaster and Deborah Kerr make love on the beach, even though that scene only occupies a short part of the film's running time. Similarly, The Seven Year Itch is remembered mostly for Marilyn's skirt billowing around her legs. And Wild Things, of course, is best known for That Kiss between Denise Richards and Neve Campbell, although to be honest it has so few intrinsic merits that it deserves to be remembered for little else. Sam Lombardo, a Florida high school guidance counsellor, is accused of rape by a female student, Kelly Van Ryan, the wild daughter of a wealthy family. Things start to look bad for Lombardo when a second student, Suzie Toller, comes forward to say that has also raped her. Lombardo is arrested and engages a lawyer named Kenneth Bowden to represent him. (Is it a coincidence that Lombardo has the same Christian name as, and his lawyer the same surname as, the hero of Cape Fear, another thriller set in the American South and which also involved allegations of rape?) When I started watching this film, I had no idea of the plot (except that it involved two girls kissing) and at this point I was still assuming that it would be either a traditional courtroom thriller or an issue movie about sexual abuse, but it turns out to be neither. There is an unexpected turn of events during the trial. Under cross-examination Suzie reveals that Lombardo did not rape her and that Kelly, who has a grudge against the counsellor, persuaded Suzie to join her in fabricating charges against him. Lombardo is triumphantly acquitted. Now I have long learnt to be wary of crime films which involve the sudden and unexpected acquittal of the defendant about halfway though, as this is generally a sign that a major plot twist is in the offing, the twist normally being that the supposedly innocent man is in reality as guilty as hell, if not of the crime of which he was accused then of some other felony. (There was a twist of this nature in Just Cause, another nineties thriller set in southern Florida). And so it proves here. Following his acquittal Lombardo brings a lawsuit seeking compensation and is awarded $8.5 million. The twist proves to be that he, Suzie and Kelly planned the entire incident in order to split the compensation money between them. That, however, is not the end of the story. Ray Duquette, the police officer who investigated the original rape allegations, becomes suspicious of Lombardo, and keeps him under observation. Moreover, this is not the end of the twists either. Most twist thrillers only have one main plot twist. Some, like Reindeer Games, have two. Wild Things has so many that I lost count. The whole of the second half of the movie amounted to little more than one twist after another. I haven't got space (or the inclination) to list them all here, although they all involve variants on the two most popular twists, namely-1. That a character believed to be dead is in fact alive, and 2. That a character believed to be a hero is in fact a villain. Denise Richards will never be my favourite actress; her performance in The World is Not Enough means that she must go down as one of the worst Bond girls of all times. Nevertheless, her looks and her combination of innocence and sensuality make her just right for the role of the wanton rich girl Kelly (even if, at 27, she was about a decade older than the character she was supposed to be playing). Neve Campbell was also convincing as the sluttish white-trash Suzie, but few of the other actors make much impression; the likes of Kevin Bacon, Theresa Russell and Robert Wagner are all capable of much better work than this. The real problem, however, is not with the acting but with the plot. The result of all the twists is a plot which has been twisted out of all recognition. The story, at least on a first viewing, is virtually incomprehensible, even with the assistance of a series of flashbacks intercut with the closing credits. Eventually the viewer may realise what is supposed to have happened, but this does not help much, as it means that the film simply becomes incredible rather than incomprehensible. One of the characters- I won't say which- has devised a scheme to dispose of all the others, a scheme of such baroque complexity that it bears no relation to the way in which any real human being, even the most fiendish criminal, would behave in real life. Films like this one serve little purpose other than to show off the supposed cleverness of the director and scriptwriters. Comparisons to the work of Alfred Hitchcock, a noted student of psychology, and to the best films noirs, which have a much more realistic view of human nature, seem to me to be very wide of the mark. Wild Things- I don't think I love you. 3/10 (2/10 for the story, with a bonus point for That Kiss). "},{"Title":"Stupid people think it's clever","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Once various characters comes back from the dead over and over during the course of the film, you realize the twists come simply for the sake of appearing clever while never doing anything. Stupid people are surprised, everyone else just sighs in resignation as the movie insults them yet again.Do yourself a favor, don't bother. "},{"Title":"Alfred Hitchcock is turning over in his grave","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this out of duty with my best friend last year, but continually found myself wandering back behind my laptop computer due to an unusual and not surprising feeling of boredom. Thrillers are in my range, and I am not completely rejecting of trashy ones, but this one was so bad and predictable on the whole that I already recounted it from start to finish without knowing anything. The screenplay and direction are lousy, somehow the characters managed to be sporadically interesting, but the two clash and cannot fit together. I am in the target age group for the film, but I somehow would have found more stimulation watching a blank screen. Rating 1/10 "}{"Title":"Horrible, horrible, horrible","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you had two hours left to live, and could do anything you wanted, watch this movie. Two hours would suddenly feel like a lifetime. Stick figure acting, a connect-the-dots plot of twists and turns, and erotic scenes you cannot quite define as either extreme softcore porn or hardcore ham. Two teenage girls in shorts and tank tops washing a Jeep and hosing each other down in slow motion? Frequent zooms in on Denise Richards's butt? And then the movie features the New Kevin Bacon game - how many steps is he away from sucking in this film? All in all, a horrible waste of good time. Watch a mystery, watch a thriller, watch an adult movie if you must, but don't watch this. "},{"Title":"Silly","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The plot twists are silly and predictable. There isn't a likeable character in the entire movie. The sex was dull and smug. The plot suggests the world is ENTIRELY amoral--only bad people win. "},{"Title":"OMG!  This film had a lot of cool twists and turns to it!","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I just finished watching this film and it was amazing! I'm game for films that have you guessing and (Total Recall was one of 'em) this one is one of them. It kept my attention throughout the film. I fully did not expect Dillon's character (who I could believe was innocent) nor most of the other involved was going to turn out to be dirty. Bill Murray's character especially! And the credits, that was a cute thing they did filling out the story with those clips. Especially that one where Kelly and Ray were in that house and they showed what really happened in there.I found this film in a 2/$11 bin at Wal-mart, it sounded good so I figured with the price I wouldn't be out much money if it sucked. But man, I got lucky! Oh yea, Bill Murray was pretty good at playing a character that wasn't comedic. It's great to see actors who usually play comedic roles be able to also play serious ones. Kinda like Steve Martin in Novacaine or Robin Williams in One Hour Photo. "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A weak cast combined with an unpersuasive intrigue, a predictable ending and a truly awful set of dialogues, this film was pathetic. Surely there are better ways of making a movie popular than by introducing a threesome sex-scene. Do yourself a favour, skip this movie, unless you liked Cruel Intentions, in which case you'll probably love the incredible lack of script, acting talent and yuppy displays of teenage angst and confused sexuality. Not worth watching in a million years. "},{"Title":"one of the worst","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Very bad acting (except Bill Murray), bad story, bad directing, no logic at all, artificial. Save your money and time. Last 20 min. are 10% better. "},{"Title":"Wild Things","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Absolutely fantastic in every sense of the words.Sexy, devious and crafty all at the same time.Rich girl Kelly Van Ryan (Denise Richards) and outcast Suzie (Neve Campbell) accuse Sam Lombardo (matt Dillon) of rape.But Detective Ray Duquette (Kevin Bacon) is hot on their trail as he sets out to reveal the truth in the accusations of Susie and Kelly being raped.The investigation leads to court where it is made clear by Dillon's attorney (Bill Murray) that the case lacks any real evidence to convict Dillon to prosecutor Robert Wagner's despair. The whole thing was a cunning set-up to get to Richards' mother's riches (Theresa Russell).Wild Things will leaves you wanting to watch it over and over again as it keeps you on the edge of your seat in this fantastic thriller.Excellent screenplay by by Stephen Peters and Alfred Hitchcock type of movie directed by John McNaughton.Wild Things is everything a good thriller should be. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever? Yes, i think so","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I read in magazines that his movie was bad, but i never imagine it was this bad. Lousy actors, stupid story, and not a single sympathic character in the whole movie. It's unrealistic i girl pulls out her own frontteeth with their roots(the next scene she's got new frontteeth, the must be a really quick dentist there). And why did she do it? It was more than enough evidence with some bloody cloth. This is just one of many stupid events in this movie. I won't even comment all the baywatch/playboy- scenes with denise richards.1 of 10 "},{"Title":"Excellent idea, good development, miserable ending...","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The initial idea for this movie was rather good and original. Greed and betrayal are matters that cannot be dwelled enough in Hollywood. Wild Things certainly plays with the viewers mind, to unthinkable extents. The initial twists definitely made the movie very interesting, and unpredictable to its audience. Indeed, it does a good job at making you think you know what's going to happen, just to fool you in the end. But as the movie got closer to the end, it just seemed to me more and more, that the writer wrote this script with this only intention in mind to fool the audience. So it did, that the natural development of things simply lacked quality. The plot and the way it developed, appeared to be very intelligent. But on the last quarter of the story, this movie just gave itself up. The twists just happened so quickly and so roughly at the end, that it no longer was clever, but just plain stupid and comical. I could no longer suspend my disbelief of the reality of the sequence of the scenes. It all just appeared way too easily, with everything falling into place, but not quite right.I give this movie a 7 for its entertainment value. "},{"Title":"What's the fuss ?","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Advice from friends and reviewers of this site made me rent Wild Things after all. This was to be a must see. Was it ? Not to me. The first hour of the film nothing happens at all, then there are some predictable plot-changes and then, finally, there are one or two surprises. Dillon and Murray are ok but the rest of the cast is acting as if their brains have been removed, notably Russell and Wagner contribute nothing to the film. Wild Things...I think I don't love you after all. "},{"Title":"Less Superficial than I expected","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Got to admit that despite having both *the* most gratuitous sex scene in mainstream scene and the *runnerup* to 'most gratuitous sex scene, it was actually fairly interesting, though toward the end (last 2-3 minutes) it was rather predictable.  "}{"Title":"Sexy entertainment, sex sells!! Demonstrated.","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When it first came out, I didn't care about although many people told me that the it was a good movie with a sexy premise and good plot twist. I didn't still care. Then, when it aired on cable I just watched if for the infamous but glorious threesome sex scene. I mean, who wouldn't like to watch the incredibly hot Denise Richards kissing Neve Campbell? I enjoyed it but didn't care for the plot. Bad mistake. But those kind of errors happen when you sell the movie only for a sex scene. Anyways...Years later I decided to watch it when I caught it on cable. It's a teen thriller with an edge and some good dramatic plot twists. Matt Dillon is a very good actor and exploits his talent here. Neve Campbell is also a fine actress and I'm glad she decided to take this sexy role. Denise Richards steals the show mainly because of her beauty and sex appeal.Watch this movie if you are into Teen Thrillers. This one is spicy and overall good. "},{"Title":"Hot, hot, hot!","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wow, with all the poor votes for Wild Things, I just had to pop in and give it a big, fat 10! I loved this movie, and yes, I love it because it is HOT! There are certain movies, like Wild Things, Body Heat and others, that just revel in pure sexuality, not of just nubile young bodies, but the sexiness of mystery and deceit and suspense and conspiracy and swampy locales.Anyone can find sexy actors and throw them up on screen and let them writhe around. But it takes special talent to truly make a movie hot. It takes great writing skills to take romance novel dialog and make it presentable. It takes great acting to deliver such lines in believable, yet sexy, ways. It takes great directing to properly pace and shoot the action and ratchet up the suspense. It even takes great set direction and location spotting. It's not an easy thing to pull off, and these people pull it off superbly.This is the torrid love affair at its sleaziest best. This is such a masterful take on this particular genre, in no way does it deserve less than a 9. I would consider it a must watch for anyone who's not a total prude.10 out of 10.Barky "},{"Title":"surprising. they should make more movies like this","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is simply terrific. the plot starts off seemingly simple, like an overused lifetime movie channel plot line, but it is one of the most complex and intricate movies i have seen in a long time. i won't spoil it for you, but expect to be surprised, even shocked, by the plot twist and where it eventually goes. the main characters are all very realistic and believable. while they are all terrific, i think that Bill Murray does the best job bringing his character to life as a... well, you'll see what i mean. the only reason i am not giving this movie a 10 is for one particularly 'kinky' scene that i don't believe is needed. otherwise, this is one of the best movies i have seen in a while. just don't watch it with your kids. "},{"Title":"What a WICKED Game!!!","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wild Things is a twisted piece of work. It's so twisted, that you sometimes have a hard time on who to root for.Sam Lombardo (The incredibly oily Matt Dillon)is a guidance counselor that gets caught up in a scandal involving 2 students (Denise Richards and Neve Campbell),who accuses him of rape. Then things turn REALLY crazy when it turns out that they planned it so that they could get money from Richard's oversexed mother (Theresa Russell). Detective Duquette (Kevin Bacon)smells something is up and tells everyone that unless something is done, someone will wind up dead.However, nothing is what it appears.The surprises (Other than the twists throughout the film) were Robert Wagner. I was SOOOOOO surprised when he said the F word! Also surprising is Bill Murray as the slightly unethical lawyer. Finally, the really BIG surprise was Bacon doing a full Monty! This is NOT for kids! Fun film to watch. Try not to take it too seriously! "},{"Title":"The movie was ridiculous, because of careless writing.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The number of plot twists in this movie, while slightly distracting was not in and of itself a problem. Unfortunately, apparently no one proof read the script to make sure the twists made sense. In one instance a character we believe to be dead is brought back to life. This might have worked if not for the fact that we see her dead with a plastic bag over her head. How was she breathing? Some of the characters behaviors like that of the police detective trying to prove the truth didn't even make sense given that he was in on the conspiracy. The lack of continuity turns an average movie into a joke. "},{"Title":"Wild Things? Mild Things, more like.","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Has the world gone mad? I've just been browsing through the other user comments and I am alarmed to discover that they are, for the most part, overwhelmingly positive. Am I the only person who was appalled by the sheer awfulness of this movie?The most mystifying thing about the whole experience was this how could so many talented actors, actresses and filmmakers come together and make such a truly dire movie? Director John McNaughton made the critically acclaimed Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer and the subtle and involving Mad Dog and Glory, among others, and the acting talent on display in Wild Things speaks for itself. Matt Dillon, Kevin Bacon and Neve Campbell have all proven that they can act, but with Wild Things McNaughton could have saved himself a lot of money by employing monkeys or, better still, full-size cardboard cut-outs.The oft-mentioned nudity is tame in the extreme - you see Richards' assets briefly and there is a needless shot of Kevin Bacon's member, but beyond that, if you're looking for cheap titillation, you may want to look elsewhere.Ok, so you do get to see Denise Richards with very few clothes on. This is a good thing. But it does not save the rest of the film from mediocrity; the much-talked-about plot twists are ludicrously overblown, the acting is wooden, the music is terrible and it is badly directed, shot and edited. Imagine an erotic thriller which is neither erotic nor thrilling and you'd be pretty close to the mark. The only thing in this film which might be described as half-decent is the tragically under-used Bill Murray in an amusing supporting role. He appears for a mere fraction of the running time, and still struggles under the clich-ridden screenplay.Overall, this movie feels like a sort of extended episode of Baywatch or Sunset Beach, with more violence and some nudity added in to try and appeal to randy adolescents; the only audience, surely, who could possibly be interested. Why are some obviously talented filmmakers trying to peddle this degenerate, derivative twaddle? Your guess is as good as mine. "},{"Title":"Girls just want to have fun","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*I saw this one in a packed theater on a Saturday night.  The movie was pushing all the right buttons.  It was cruising along, doing it's thing, when it comes to a scene with Denise Richards, Neve Campbell and Matt Dillon all in bed together.  The second the two girls went to kiss each other, a woman in front of me jumped up and yelled, What is this junk?  Porno?!. She ran out and left her boyfriend behind.  He and I and the rest of the audience enjoyed a great, great scene.Lesbian sex improves any movie.  Wild Things is no exception.  Bill Murray was also hilarious as a sleazy lawyer.  But the stars of this show were the Wild Things. They had another great scene together in a swimming pool. The girls were having some fun.  So was I. "},{"Title":"Sex Kittens Go To College","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  WILD THINGS (1998) is a tawdry sexploitation piece not unlike in content (if not style) to most Mamie Van Doren trash of the 1950s. Apart from some stylish visuals and a flavourful musical score, there is nothing to recommend about this turkey a plot with twists and turns which are about as inspired as those of a typical Road Runner cartoon, ludicrous situations and dialogue, kinky sex (though the filmmakers shy away from showing anything truly(!) sexy, thus protecting the film's R rating) and one-dimensional characters. The first hour is almost unbearably stale and monotonous, while the inventiveness of the remaining 40 minutes (with twists, double twists, and double-double twists) are so far-fetched and unconvincing they'll make you wince! Worthless gutter trash on a high budget.    "},{"Title":"A series of surprises don't save this monstrosity","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Prior to viewing this film, all I ever heard about it was the fact that Denise Richards, Neve Campbell and Matt Dillon engaged in a steamy threesome at some point in the movie.  From this, I made the assumption that the movie was basically a soft-core adult film.  However, upon actually viewing it, I found that the film is actually not that at all.The story begins when a couple of high school girls accuse their guidance counselor of rape.  However, the movie is far from over after this case is settled.  Soon thereafter it stems into a complex story of trust and betrayal which all centrals around the idea of greed for money.  Every time I thought I had things figured out there was a sudden twist in the plot that took me off guard, with a different winner of the whole ordeal.  It is difficult to go much further without giving the movie away, but unfortunately the added surprise plot twists ultimately don't save the film. The constant and sudden plot changes weren't executed very well, making the story unbelievable after a while.Even though the appearance of the film at many times is misleading, I still found it to be overly cheesy at times.  This was partly due to sub-par acting.  The best performance was done by Kevin Bacon, even though I wasn't too impressed with him.  To tell you the truth I can't think of a single good Kevin Bacon movie.  It is a shame he was surrounded by the questionable acting of Neve Campbell, Matt Dillon and Denise Richards.  Neve Campbell's performance was characterized by her trademark stutter and unnecessary subtleness.  She nearly drove me crazy half-way through the movie.  Matt Dillon and Denies Richards weren't much better in the acting department. As a saving grace, Bill Murray delivered the comic relief aspect of this movie exceptionally.  It is a shame he only played a minor role in the movie.To sum things up, even though this movie wasn't exactly what I expected of it, the actual story-line was so unmemorable that it will only be a matter of time before I begin referring it to the movie where  Denise Richards, Neve Campbell and Matt Dillon engage in a steamy threesome.5/10 "},{"Title":"A film to watch if you dont want to use your brains","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As I chose to watch this film I didnt expect much. There are a couple of good actors in the film but what I had heard of it before wasnt anything positive. I really like Neve Campbell (Scream 1,2,3, Three to Tango etc.) and I think she was ok in this film as well. The person she played in this film (Suzie) was a reckless teen who drinks and uses drugs and I think she did ok. Kevin Bacon is one of my favourite actors as well but this role was definitely far from his best stuff. The character he played (Sgt. Duguette) was a bit shallow and that is why I think he wasnt able to give anything more. Other than that the acting was nothing more than terrible. Matt Dillon cant act at all and Denise Richards got the part because of her looks. She was simply terrible as well. Sometimes the acting was so terrible that I was just dying laughing. And I think that was not the point of it. The whole movie is really based on showing boobs and women wearing almost nothing. The end saves a bit of it but after the movie I thought why they even bothered to shoot this film. "}{"Title":"Mostly lame acting with plot twists that make you want to watch a dryer instead.","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Carrie Snodgress stands out for her acting.  Kevin Bacon is surprisingly good, Matt Dillon was OK, and the rest was less than OK or the characters were so awful that the talent couldn't pull it off.  Theresa Russell, although I want to like her, was unimaginably awful acting a cliche character.  The directing was heavy handed and lugubrious.The twisty story was told so that I didn't care, and they missed the best chance for a further twist......  Lots of other movies to see... "},{"Title":"More twists than a sour-dough pretzel.","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not sure if this movie would have benefited more from better writing or better directing, but with a healthy dose of improvements to both it could have been a really good movie.  As it is this movie is watchable...but just barely.  The actors involved are certainly competent enough.  And a good mystery will twist you around a little.  But when you get to the final twist in Wild Things, instead of being genuinely amazed and delighted, you end up thinking you've got to be kidding!  You're ready for it to come to a merciful conclusion.  Oh, but if you make it to the end, be sure to watch through the credits for some interesting scenes. "},{"Title":"Wild Thing, You Make My Heart Sing","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This thriller has been one of my favorite movies as long as I can remember. As a kid, this was my go-to flick on any given Sunday. I know this is not a film for children, but what can I say... I was already unusual. A high school guidance counselor (Matt Dillon) is accused of rape by 2 of his students (Denise Richards & Neve Campbell)... The twisted storyline is set in the dreamy Floridian surroundings. For those who haven't been to Florida, it makes you want to discover this bit of paradise. For those who have, it just really makes you miss it. The lascivious original score smells like the Everglades and releases an intriguing scent wherever it infiltrates. Wild Things takes you out on a yacht, or makes you visit the gators (this film seriously makes me think of a typical Florida tourism brochure). The end will blow you away for sure. The cast is eclectic and brilliant (Kevin Bacon is an incredible dirty cop and the 2 main female leads are gorgeous and dangerously manipulative). The sex scenes are audacious and necessary to the plot. The film mixes humor (you can't escape it with Bill Murray in the cast) and seriousness which makes it a perfect combo. Wild Things is a great thriller, a sexy 90s classic!1 reason to watch the scene with Denise washing Matt's car to Lauren Christy's song I Want What I WantRead it here http//squeerelist.blogspot.com/2013/06/wild-things- 1998.html "},{"Title":"Is there a deep dark secret lurking in the American dream? See it here!","Date":"16 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie, one of my all time favorites, and BODY HEAT, are two sides of a coin. Read this film, and think about the message right there for us to all read. It is not just that things are not what they seem to be, but that the American dream is littered with the dark holes of serial criminals, thieves and liars that no one could have been aware of back when this was made. What makes this movie an absolute punch drunk riot is the perfect casting, the perfect setting and a plot that rides you to the end and then beyond. It is a delirious satire, an absolute swanky spoof, and super charged ride. Each time I watch this, I get a little more about the method that makes this work. It is a layering of detail, a rhythm of betrayal and a perfect pitch. Like a great rock concert by a band is at the top of its game, this is film making that cranks at perfect pitch. The serious laughs are even better when you know what to expect. Miss this at your own risk. "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable","Date":"14 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Twists, turns, and humerable (I know its not a word). I liked the different characteristics, and shades of characters (yes I'm trying to make this into 10 lines). I recommend anyone with a sick sense of humor and twisted psychology- you only need a little bit. I love Neve Cambelle because she has a unique character/look and way about things. She's def unique and I always enjoy seeing her on the big screen (and have missed her so). She's dynamic yet vulnerable, and emotional, and physical, and so on. Interesting, dynamic plot here, and bunch of interesting characters to keep up with. I like movies with a number of dynamic/complex characters who are all attractive in their own way. Like cruel intentions or... I can't think of another film similar. Just watch it. "},{"Title":"Dirty Pretty Boring Things","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I liked Wild Things (1998) when I saw it first time - the tricks and turns of the plot were interesting to keep me entertained for two hours even after the words The End because they kept explaining the movie after it was over. Well, this time, I knew the plot and after an hour, the movie became very boring. I would not say that the actors were bad, but what they were saying and what they were playing was ridiculous. This dialog is a treasure Kelly Van Ryan I miss Dad.Sandra Van Ryan I miss him too... sometimes...Kelly Van Ryan No you don't! Sandra Van Ryan He didn't HAVE to kill himself, Kelly. And there are plenty of the dialogs like that in the movie. I am not saying that it did not have any redeeming values. I was touched by Kelly's white a la Lolita socks she was wearing along with her school skirt (and nothing else) during THAT scene. And of course, Bill Murray - the man who had all the fun in the movie. I think he was the reason I finished watching it - he made an appearance in the end. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The Playboy bible","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film could be described as a memorable erotic thriller, and I should say that is Matt Dillon's best performance yet, His character Sam Lombardo, it's a twisted, pervert and it has style. The girl duo Campbell and Richards are perfect cast for this genre, All the other Blue Bay citizens are first rate acting. The Jeffrey Kimball cinematography is pure, detailed and natural, the night scenes are great too, but is the score that makes Wild Things a true five stars movie. George Clinton's ultra-sexy soundtrack matches with the plot and characters like I never seen before. Total complete fun from the beginning to end, the sexual threesome it has a brilliant balance, without turning into a porn flick, It could be named THE PLAYBOY BIBLE for those who like choreographed sexual situations and unexpected moments.  "},{"Title":"Better watch it two times.","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As my general comment, Wild Things is a slick and fun thriller, but that's comes from my second appreciation for it. My first experience with it is so dizzy and makes a headache to me. The plot, ala Hitchcock flicks, is so complicated. I have no enough satisfaction on it, so I decide to give it one more chance. Well, this time, after understanding the plot structure, make me more relax and fun to enjoy it. Therefore, my recommendation is, better watch it two times.7/10  "},{"Title":"SEX CRIMES","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well, us Belgians always like it a bit different, so the official title of this movie here in Belgium was Sexcrimes. Always good for some extra public, but is it it worth the fuzz? Yes and no... The scenario (or story if you want) is in one word breathtaking as it opens like the usual teenmovie you're sick of seen but soon it turns out to be a thriller with so many twisted plots that it feels like you're in the middle of the game that's being directed by John McNaughton (the man who shocked America once with the godlike Henry, portrait of a serial killer. The story is about a school psychiater (Matt Dillon) who is so gorgeous that all female students would jump into bed with him, but Mr Dillon is Vanill a Ice in here as he rejects all the invitations he got... But then one day it happens, Kelly (played by Denise Richards) who happens to be the daughter of the most powerful and rich man from the area, accuses Matt from having raped her. Inspector Duquette (Kevin Bacon) is doing the investigation, and soon he meet a second victim, Suzie (Neve Campbell). And then the fun can begin...is Matt Dillon a teacher who rapes his students or not? We tell you nothing, but you will be surprised... But good we told you in the beginning that there is a bad side as well and sadly enough it's the acting... Matt Dillon is a good looking boy but he absolutely cant convince as playing Mr Evil, Denise Richards (remember her rol in Starship Troopers) is like some barbiedoll who can better be located in some yuppiecomedies with Alicia Silverstone and Bill Murray is just laughable as an advocate. Only good points are Kevin Bacon (even if McNaughton could have done more with him!), Neve Campbell (one of The Craftgirls who is always a pleasure to be seen) and a very nice return of Nicholas Roeg's fave actress, Theresa Russell. Tons of erotic scenes as well (even some hot lesbian scenes), but this just doesn't go any further than just a nice picture. Ooooh just watch the endtitles as well as there you will pick up some details you cant understand during the movie.... "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had been waiting to see this movie for quite some time and I was not let down. This movie had it all humor, suspense, drama and even romance belive it or not. I was expecting to see more of Bill Murray though. Great scenes with Campbell, Dillion and Richards. They have really good chemistry. Matt Dillon plays the perfect sleaze ball. My verdict- A+ "}{"Title":"better than a guilty pleasure","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild Things is on the surface some kind of knockoff version of that old Melrose Place TV show, is actually a very interesting twist-a-minute thriller with a very great cast. I have seen this on television every chance I get and I am knocked out every time. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I will admit the only reason I watched this movie was for the Denise Richards and Neve Campbell's scene(s). I actually liked the movie, I was at the end of my seat, it had a great ending. I couldn't ask for more out of this film. "},{"Title":"Not so good","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was supposed to be a decent movie, but it really wasnt all that good.  It started out pretty good, but then when all of the twists and turns started, the movie fell apart.  Bill Murray has a funny cameo is Dillon's lawyer, but that's about it.  The girls' performances are not so good either.  I dont know why Kevin Bacon has top billing, he has little screentime compared to Dillon.  Overall it's nothing special.  ** out of ****, or 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This film is excellent","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What can I say? This film was great! It has so many genius twists you can get confused about what's going on. What's good about it is in the end credits, it showed you what happened through the film that you never got to see. Denise Richards plays Kelly Van Ryan, the rich bitch you might say. Denise is my favourite actress and always will be but that isn't because the erotic threesome in this film. I wouldn't care less if it wasn't in the film. This stars an all-great cast including Neve Campbell and Matt Dillon. I would recommend this film to anyone, well anyone mature enough to understand the quality of the film and not because it has slight nudity. Oh, and not to mention Neve Campbell's back! "},{"Title":"***Warning Major Spoilers*** Dark, dark comedy, but done very well, keeps you guessing until the end, and then some!!","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERS - This is one of those films where every time you think you understand what's going on, a new twist comes to light. At first guidance counselor Matt Dillon is accused of rape by a student, Denise Richards, and Neve Campbell, the dimwitted one, later comes forward to say she was raped too. At the trial, Neve is cracked by lawyer Bill Murray's cross exam, admits that nothing ever happened, Denise put her up to it because she was upset with Dillon. They plea-bargain with Dillon and give him a multi-million settlement not to press perjury charges.   However, less than half of the movie was over.Next, we see Dillon, Denise, and Neve in a hotel room together, celebrating their scam to get millions, and plan their future.Then we see the three of them at night on a beach, Dillon apparently kills Neve with a champagne bottle, wraps her in plastic, he and Denise carry her off in mom's car and dump the body.  All this time detective Kevin Bacon is suspicious that the truth is not yet out. Bacon is scouting Denise when he breaks in on her, we hear gunshots, he is wounded but he has to kill Denise in self-defense. A hearing determines that Denise must have been the one to kill Neve because blood in her car matched Neve's. Dillon appears to be free with the $$millions.He comes home to his beach house and finds Bacon in the shower, Hello, Partner, I didn't expect you until tomorrow. Bacon only wants his share and he's off. But the transfer will take two days, they go sailing.  Dillon, master sailer, tricks Bacon to the rail and dumps him overboard. As Bacon is climbing back in we see a harpoon shot into him. It is Neve at the trigger, not dead after all, she had pulled her own teeth and left them as evidence.So, Neve and Dillon continue sailing together, they toast. But she has put poison in his drink. She knew how to sail after all. Her mother said, She was very bright, an IQ of something like 200, she could always do anything she wanted. She is the only one left, with all the money, and presumed dead.  Shades of Body Heat!!It is a comedy, although a very, very dark one. I never felt that the script misled or tricked me, I just learned things bit by bit and was surprised each time.  Although, at the end of Bacon's firing hearing I correctly guessed by that time that he and Dillon were partners. However, my thought was more sinister -- I thought they would be gay partners. Not a movie for everyone, still very entertaining if you like a dark comedy. The DVD has a very nice Dolby 5.1 surround sound track. The extras include a couple of deleted scenes but not much worth crowing over.  "},{"Title":"Good story, but cinematically poor.","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The plot of this movie is an interesting one, dealing with greed, lust and revenge.  However the film is far too short to include quite as many plot 'twists' as it does, and in the end it becomes a confusing mess with several unlikely and, frankly, unbelievable turns of events.If the script was sharper, the editing and directing less rushed and more stylish then this film could have done much better.The cast list is impressive, with Kevin Bacon and Neve Campbell in particular giving strong performances.  But Bill Murray steals the show playing the lawyer that defends Lombardo (Dillon).  However his performance does take away the seriousness of the plot that the other actors and trying to create, adding to the mockery of the film as a whole.As an alternative, and much more stylish and creative, crime movie (with a strikingly similar plot), I suggest the serious movie-watcher checks out The Talented Mr Ripley instead.I give this film 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A wild twist.","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A high school guidance counselor is accused of rape by two students. They go on trial and all that. Then comes a huge twist in the whole movie that totally shocks the viewer. You don't see this one coming unless you read the box first. This movie is a hot and erotic thriller with lots of sexy action. There are so many twists and turns in this plot and I was stunned by the whole movie. I liked the music as well because it was a smooth and cool tune. It fit the whole swamp scene. It's just as erotic and cool as Cruel Intentions but yet different in that they have a different story. The plotting for revenge is in both movies and the hot passion is in both two. So if you like Cruel Intentions my guess is that you'll like this one too. "},{"Title":"Wow... That was... uuuh... bad.","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ok... here's a movie I saw at the theater.  I paid a dollar for it.  I got about half my money's worth in the form of nude scenes of some hot chicks.  Outside of that, there was a garbage story with both blatantly obvious twists and stupidly unreal twists such that you become fairly certain even the guys writing the script didn't read page 12 when they were writing page 13.Overall, I'd say avoid this movie at all costs unless you're one of those guys who likes to see 3 minutes of gratuitous nudity thrown into the middle of an hour and a half of utter garbage. "},{"Title":"What the?","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen in my entire life, the worst movie being Any Given Sunday.  Wild Things is right up there with American Pie and Star Wars Episode I, and other such films that suck like those. The plot, the acting, writing were all dull and even the direction was off. The movie felt like it was nine hours long.  What do any of you see in it? IT'S RETARDED! * out of ****  "},{"Title":"Hitchcock this isn't.","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This films plot twists and writhes like one of the alligator's frequently seen slipping in the water in the opening credits would while munching on a screenwriter.  However, very few of the twists have any feeling of authenticity.  Most of the time, this film meanders from one contrived surprise revelation after another.  The acting in this film is mediocre at best; only Neve Campbell is really required to portray anything close to a real person, and she doesn't exactly succeed.  Denise Richards must simply pout and yell, Matt Dillon must be first pure and then smarmy, and Kevin Bacon tries hard to be menacing and fails.  Bill Murray is the only person in the film I wanted to know anything about.  If there had been more sex, one could have classified it as soft porn and it would at least have had some marginal value, but as it is this thriller doesn't thrill at all. "}{"Title":"Erotic? Suspenseful? No.","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Really, really lame 'thriller' for dirty old men and teeny boppers. Matt Dillon in his familiar 'bad guy role'. Alot of language, thrown in to help get the rating and not much else. Same with the nudity. (Even full frontal for Kevin Bacon, woo hoo!) Purely shock value. Even Bill Murray's odd turn as a lawyer can't save this one. Tries too hard with all the plot twists. Kinda funny to see Robert Wagner use the F word though.Lesson in morality...What people will do for lots and lots of money. Why they'll screw each other over, that's what! Ho-hum. "},{"Title":"Twists for the sake of twists","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A collection of continuous plot twists. They end up being so absurdly contrived that you might find yourself comment jokingly in anticipation of the plot's next turn -- and find that you were right! Plot twists for the sake of plot twists. Of course, there are the usual scenes of love-making, but that too seems to have been thrown in for effect. Besides, are breast implants really interesting to watch?   "},{"Title":"What a mistakes!","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Oh god... Although the two women where really gorgeous I didn't enjoy the movie at all. There are so many mistakes in this movie!!!!1- The teacher opens the door of a motel-room and he sees muddy foot-steps on the floor. Well, they look like size 46 to me, but they belong to one of the girls. After a while he strips her underwear and you see a close-up of her shoes shiny schoolgirl shoes!!2- Later on in the movie, the same scene appears again the teacher (forgot the name) is relaxing at the beach, sunny weather, lovely beach. He goe to his cabin and sees some muddy footsteps on the porch. How is it possible to make suchs footsteps when you must walk over dry sand to enter the cabin?!There are some more, but I some other things to do. Wild things A movie for frustrated nerds who don't care about a good plot.The director only did his best to make the actors look as good as possible. Sometimes I wondered if I was watching an episode of Baywatch. Believe me, almost everybody in the theatre started laughing when one of the girls came out of the swimming-pool. So unnatural! Enough...Fizzy  "},{"Title":"Guilty pleasure","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is the type of movie you hate yourself for watching, but there would also be no way you'd consider not finishing it. Almost total garbage, but watchable and not to be taken seriously for a split second.  Matt Dillon needs to go back to acting school - I think he's losing whatever he had going for him years back.  He was awful in Grace of My Heart and now in this, and it takes some doing to give the worse performance in this movie.   "},{"Title":"Intriguing, Humorous & Outrageously Twisted","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This highly entertaining sleaze-fest features gratuitous nudity, bi-sexuality and a mnage-a-trois which all seem to have been included purely to spice things up. It's also, however, a glossy thriller with an extremely well written plot that's intriguing, humorous and outrageously twisted. Remarkably, by the time all the explanatory flashbacks (which are included with the closing credits) have finished, it's also evident that the whole thing makes sense. Greed, betrayal and murder are the story's main ingredients but the sheer wickedness of its characters and the movie's satirical qualities also combine well to ensure that Wild Things compares favourably to most other crime-related mysteries that may be on offer.Kelly Van Ryan (Denise Richards) is a spoilt, 17-year-old rich girl who lives in Blue Bay, Florida. She's used to getting everything she wants but when she sets her sights on her High School guidance counsellor, Sam Lombardo (Matt Dillon), things don't fall into place as easily as she expects and she accuses him of rape. Local police detectives Ray Duquette (Kevin Bacon) and Gloria Perez (Daphne Rubin-Vega) are charged with the responsibility of investigating the alleged crime and Perez is certainly not convinced that there is any substance in Kelly's accusation.When another girl, Suzie Toller (Neve Campbell) also comes forward and makes a similar accusation, Sam Lombardo is arrested and hires lawyer Kenneth Bowden (Bill Murray) to defend him. Kelly's mother Sandra (Theresa Russell) is very wealthy and powerful and also one of Sam's ex-lovers. She's delighted to use the situation to try to ruin Sam but after the case against him collapses in bizarre circumstances and Lombardo is awarded a multi-million dollar settlement for defamation of character, Sandra Van Ryan is left furious and humiliated and looking for revenge. The course that the story takes from this point on is full of twists and double-crosses that keep on coming until the movie eventually ends with the most surprising development of them all.The characters in Wild Things include the very rich and the very poor as well as people who are employed in the legal profession, education and law enforcement. What they all have in common is that they're all morally bankrupt and most of them are criminals. The way in which they're represented on-screen is brilliant as the acting is pitched at just the right amount over-the-top to exploit the absurdity and humour of so many of the situations without allowing the impact of the more scandalous and wicked goings-on to be diminished in any way. In this respect, the entire cast is top-notch but Bill Murray does particularly well as a shyster lawyer who enjoys a good insurance scam but is also smarter than he first appears to be.Wild Things is beautifully filmed and some passages of the score wouldn't have seemed out of place in Twin Peaks. It's tremendous fun to watch and very rewarding because it delivers so much more that it initially seems to promise. "},{"Title":"A Dazzling Experience!","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie has truly left me in awe. I have never seen a movie that changes your perspective of the plot and characters so many times. I do in fact recommend this movie, it is an absolute joy to watch and it never gets old! Neve Campbells performance was, as usual, outstanding and original. The Plot was extremely smart, not confusing at all. The handling of the plot twists add to the director's mastery of the art of cinema. Both Matt Dillon's and Denice Richard's Performance were outstanding. Kevin Bacon was as staggering as the other Three actors but was a still a little unoriginal. It's not immediately obvious what Wild Things is going to be about, as the first twenty minutes serve only in setting the scene and from that base, the film could easily turn into any teenage school flick. However, it turns out that this time is well used. Plus, The film is able to make sure that every twist comes as a surprise. "},{"Title":"How did this film get out of the can?","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of those films where you just wonder how this industry works. Catering trucks are ordered, PA's are hired, top actors are engaged and a whole bunch of very expensive equipment is rented. And for what? People that you believe to have been talented actors are made to say the most dreadful lines. And people who are clearly not talented are saying other bad lines right along with them. More than once, my girlfriend and i looked at each other in complete disbelief that particular scenes made it through the editing room. At first i thought that i'd be able to hang in to see Denise Richards in various states of undress, but even that promise was not enough to keep the VCR running. "},{"Title":"Trashy, Sexy and Fun,","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wildthings is a twisted, sexually charged thriller. Neve Campbell makes her mark as a bisexual convict and Bill Murray is hilarious as a shyster lawyer. The whole film is a trashy as they get but it's all part of it's appeal. Threesomes, Soap-Style cat fights and an over the top courtcase set the film up early on to what can be expected. Though you'll be surprised with every twist. Appearances are deceiving, and in this film, there not just deceiving but fun! "},{"Title":"Is this thing over with yet?","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I thought I was watching a Scooby Doo episode the way it ended.  The plot twists were pretty good at first, but I lost track after the first six, the next twelve or so had me begging for the damn movie to end.  I don't want to sound like I hated this movie, but the ending was just a little too much for my taste. Couple of great T&A scenes, and a quick full frontal nudity of Kevin Bacon, what was that?  The scenes during the credits were interesting, couldn't figure out if it was just cutting room material or the director getting cute.  "},{"Title":"An unexpectedly Good movie.","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" this movie was coming on cable some days back. i had only seen clips of the hot scenes before.so i thought this was some cheap flop movie.but i still watched it(hoping to see those scenes again).but as i watched the movie this turned out to be one of the best suspense,drama,mystery movie i have ever watched.i mean the layers of suspense that it has is just great.just when u think everything is over there is a twist then again a twist then again...i mean it is brilliant.some people complain about the acting in the movie well i don't mind that(i don't think it was that bad).the plot and story are great,i would rather watch a movie with good plot (specially if it is a suspense movie)with little bad acting then a movie with poor plot and good actors. so if u like twist endings in movies like usual suspects, basic instinct 1 and basic instinct 2 then u will love this movie. "}{"Title":"The Bacon Factor","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Women and girls rule our world, as Prince famously put it. I'm sure he would enjoy Wild Things, John McNaughton's passionate tribute to chick control. It's like Charlie's Angels with brains, minus Charlie. There are more surprising plot points in Stephen Peters' fine script than there are dots in Pacman. Bill Murray in the part of low-life lawyer Kenneth Bowden alone will make it worth your while. Now my friend Eric Wilson, long-time subscriber to Sight & Sound, accomplished scholar specializing in 19th century German idealism, resident of Shady Avenue and sometime Loyola intramural cycling champion, Eric tells me you can see Kevin Bacon's schlong if you freeze-frame through the comely, yet over-hyped threesome scene featuring Neve Campbell and Denise Richards. I have two things to say to that. One, movies should be seen in theaters, not on TV screens, remote in hand. Two, the day I watch a a threesome involving Neve & Denise and find myself homing in on Bacon's privates, I'll check myself into the Ashby De La Zouche Gay & Lesbian Emporium for life. By the way, Eric was straight when his girlfriend last checked. I guess he has problems all his own. "},{"Title":"brilliantly intriguing","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" at first glance the plot seems simple. two high school enemy's accuse their well respected school guidance councilor of rape. Simple enough right. Wrong! The plot thickens when one of the detectives on the case suspects there's more to the story than first mets the eye and the other claims to know exactly what that more is. With eight and a half million dollars on the line only one will walk away with the money. the question is will it be rich, popular but unstable Kelly van Ryan, trailer trash loner, Suzie Teller, respected guidance councilor/womanizer Sam lombardo,or one of the inquisitive, clued-up detectives. With 4 complicated lives, 5 double crossings ,8 and a half million dollars, and more twists and turns than a waterslide prepare for a wet and wild ridejust keep in mind innocence can seduceaccusations can destroyand appearances can deceive (cheak out trailer)a brilliant movie which will keep u guessing till the end and still leave you breathless and wanting more. "},{"Title":"Worthless Trash","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie I think, is quite possibly the worst 'thriller' I have ever seen. I use the word 'thriller' very loosely as the film really is a boring yawn festival. So we get to have a look at Denise Richards' tits a couple of times and there is a silly sex scene, but after all is done, the movie is really a piece of boring trash. The plot twists and turns like a walking stick that has been hosed and left out in the sun for six months. At the end it's just a piece of convoluted drivel. The worst part of this movie, is that, with the exception of Kevin Bacon, who is purely overrated, this film is populated with some good actors. People like Bill Murray and Matt Dillon are just too talented to be in this film. Someone else made a comment about filming a Hitchcock style thriller in 90210 Aaron Spelling style were right on the money. The truth is though, that this stylistic approach is just plain wrong. This film is a crime, and I have been robbed of 1 hour and 40 minutes of my life that I will never get back, but at least I can say that I will try to avoid films like this in the future.Avoid it at all costs, unless all you are interested in seeing are Denise Richards tits, which probably are the only two high points of this lamentable film. "},{"Title":"Hot & sticky neo-noir with a game cast = guilty pleasure","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" WILD THINGS (1998) *** Matt Dillon, Kevin Bacon, Neve Campbell, Denise Richards, Theresa Russell, Daphne Rubin-Vega, Jeff East, Carrie Snodgrass, Robert Wagner, Bill Murray. Scintillating neo-noir flick with the soul of an overheated soap opera with hunky high school guidance counselor Dillon accused of rape by student tag team vixens Campbell and Richards with some hairpin turns and corkscrew plotting devices that make overall a guilty pleasure to watch the vipers turn on each other (and a naughty glimpse of a topless and often wet Richards &#150; Yeah Baby!!) Murray is in fine form as the much needed comic relief in Stephen Peter's nasty screenplay. Directed with smarts by John Mc Naughton (check those 'cookie cutter' credit closing snatches of 'missing' plot pieces!) "},{"Title":"Sympathetic Character Anyone?","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film is a big no-no, unless you have a particular fancy for any male or female member of the cast I would stay well away from it. Somebody should have told the director that in a film when you have lots of twists and turns you have to have at least one major character who isn't aware of what the twists and turns are. That way the audience doesn't feel like everything it should have known about the plot happened before the film took up the story of the characters. e.g. In The Usual Suspects the audience is just as dumb as the Detective, without the Detective character the film is just series of lies that serve no point other than winding the audience up. In Wild Things there is no character that doesn't know the whole point of the lies from the very beginning (apart from a few minor characters who are barley involved), so the only person fooled is the one sitting in front of the screen. "},{"Title":"Lousy Doesn't Say Enough","Date":"13 November 2009","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm amazed that anyone could give this a positive review. Most daytime soaps are better written than this trash. There are several talented actors in this and the only conclusion I can surmise is that they did it for a quick payday and did not rehearse or even really try. This is trashy and not in a good way. The twists are terrible throughout. Don't waste your time trying to figure them out or understand them because it is not worth it. Twists work if they enhance the film and make it better. The Sixth Sense and Fight Club come to mind. The twists here have no purpose other than to swerve what's going on. Not good. Baywatch comes off as having more class than Wild Things. I really wish I never wasted my time with this. I really hated it. "},{"Title":"Neve Campbell","Date":"18 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw this film in the theaters in 1997. It was very erotic. I thought the storyline was good and that it always kept you interested. The love scenes were unexpected, but welcomed. I Just learned Neve Campbell had a no-nudity clause in her contract for this film, but Denise Richards went all in with the threesome nudity scene. You have to respect Denise for that decision. Eventually, Neve went nude in a future film, so, her 'no-nudity' clause didn't pay off (They never do.). Matt Damon and Kevin Bacon were great actors in this suspense film. There is a lot of deceit and back-stabbing happening, almost to an epidemic level. Also, don't deny the sequels - sure they're raunchy and cheap - but, who cares?!?!? It's gripping, sexy and adventurous. "},{"Title":"An extremely smart and intelligent film..","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wild Things is a 1998 drama/thriller film written by Stephen Peters and directed by John McNaughton. It was released on March 20, 1998 and it stars Kevin Bacon, Matt Dillon, Neve Campbell and Denise Richards. This is one of those 'who done it?' type of films that pays off really well. Both Neve Campbell and Deniese Richards play their parts extremely well, (although I think a College would have been better then a High School as both lead actresses were in their early and mid 20's when this was made) although Denise Richards steals the show lol. Matt Dillion plays a very good role too as Sam Lombardo. There are three sequels to Wild Things, but don't bother with any of them as they are all terrible. Wild Things has more plot twists and brain turners then a twisted pretzel (with cheese!) If you like films that make you think then you will like Wild Things. Oh, and be sure to get the Region 1 Unrated DVD, because it has a Japanese audio language track, which is awesome. I give Wild Things a 8/10. "},{"Title":"Surprise!! But a nice refreshing one.","Date":"3 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" So if you don't know if you want to watch this movie. Ask yourself this'do i like movies with the follow-up structure Nice girls.Seems like a boring movie.Wait...What??? Oke now i...What but how?? Finally the plot.Seems not so bad after all.Holy crap how did that happen.The end Owh that how it happened somewhat like.It a very nice movie just because it stays refreshing the whole. Time.It's just like i pictured here above. It a nice structure for Who loves that kind of movies. "},{"Title":"Good, Seductive Thriller!","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Kevin Bacon, Matt Dillon, Neve Campbell, Denise Richards, Theresa Russell, Daphne Rubin-Vega, Robert Wagner and Bill Murray star in this 1998 thriller. A money-making plot erupts when a high school guidance counselor is accused of rape. This takes place in Blue Bay, Florida where we meet Sam Lombardo (Dillon), a mild-mannered guidance counselor who is soon accused of raping students, Kelly Van Ryan (Richards) and Suzie Toller (Campbell). Bacon plays police detective, Ray Duquette who investigates the case and learns there may be a plot to get money from Kelly's wealthy mother, Sandra Van Ryan (Russell). Rubin-Vega plays Ray's partner, Gloria Perez, Wagner plays the Van Ryan's lawyer, Tom Baxter and Murray plays Sam's lawyer, Ken Bowden. This is a good, seductive thriller with a good cast and some neat twists I recommend. "}{"Title":"Denise Richards's sexiness powers Wild Things.","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wild Things has been termed a skinematic classic and seldom has a title been more apt. The film is indeed steaming-hot, capital S. In the opening-credits sequence, Matt Dillon and Neve Campbell are billed above the title, with Denise Richards named just afterward. Although this suits where her career was at that point, in another way it's a misnomer, for she's the one who puts the sizzle into the picture. Her saucy beauty, her high-school-cheerleader charm, and her fiery sexiness (not to mention her eminently drool-worthy bod) effortlessly energize the flick and give it sass and spice, most certainly, definitely in that by-now-iconic champagne-pouring three-way between her, Dillon, and Campbell and that equally-legendary girl-on-girl-in-the-pool action between her and Campbell (Also of great help Theresa Russell's firmly pant-inducing sashaying and swaying as Richards's high-society mother). The film has inspired three, count 'em, three sequels, but it's Denise who makes the original continue to stand tall. Our girl has freely exhibited her carnality in other films (Drop Dead Gorgeous, Blonde and Blonder) but it's in Wild Things where she best displays her hotness. She really and truly has the kind of babeliciousness that causes major automobile collisions. "},{"Title":"an entertaining,though very convoluted thriller","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wild Things is a well crafted.suspense/murder mystery/crime drama.it should keep you guessing to the end.there are many twists and turns,perhaps too many.if you like your stories linear,this movie is not for you.it is very convoluted,but does pay off in the end.the are some big names in this movie,and the acting while decent is not the best.thankfully,the story is the focus in this movie,and not so much on the actors.there is some nudity in the film,which while great to watch,is not really necessary to the story,but i guess the filmmakers wanted to make sure they covered all their bases.the choice of music for the film is very appropriate and really sets the mood.this is a highly entertaining piece,especially y on first viewing. 8* out of 10 "},{"Title":"Sexiest scene I've seen!","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wohohow! Pool plus Neve Campell plus Denise Richards equals exploded pants! Truly impressive! The rest? Well, some twists in the story, a decent work by the other actors, Bill Murray is in it too. But most of the movie is just like most of its characters driven by lust. Which isn't bad. It's just quite shallow.Story to forget, characters to amuse and a scene to...well guys, you know, what I mean.Decent movie. Nothing big but alright. And a record for the number of strange twists.And for the ladies Yes, you can see Kevin Footloose Bacon's member. Even tough I liked him better in TREMORS. Kevin, not his thing. "},{"Title":"Not at all predictable","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Kelly is a spoiled rich kid whose mother is ... loose.  But she accuses her high school guidance counselor Sam of raping her.  Sam may be guilty, in the eyes of some, because Suzie, who is 'trailer trash', walks out of a presentation on sex crimes that Sam is leading.  Sam claims to be innocent, and he hires Kenneth, a sleazy lawyer.  From there, the movie takes a number of exciting twists and turns, and just when you think you've got it all figured out, everything goes off in a different direction.  I was able to take pride in knowing that just because I didn't see certain things happen, they might not have happened.  But that didn't make this movie predictable.The plot twists were very exciting.  Something unusual at the end  we did get to see the scenes that were 'left out', filling in the gaps and explaining the seemingly unexplainable. I don't recall any spectacular acting performances, but Bill Murray was good, even though this wasn't really a comedy.  As Sam's scheming attorney, he made it seem like a comedy, though somehow he did seem out of place with the others. I was glad I got to see this movie cleaned up for TV.  It was naughty enough as it was, though the girls did look good in their skimpy outfits.I believe this was worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"*SPOILER!*","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  My friends warned me about the nudity... they told me of the sex romps and the car-washing scene... they even told me about their hard-ons, but curiosity killed the cat, and boy am i one dead kitty. I had to watch it just to find out what the hell they were on about.This fun film is just a load of plot twists with sex and betrayal all thrown in, and of course a little lesbian action can never go a-miss... *rolls eyes* this is definitely one for the boys, although the bitchy fights are always a laugh. I personally don't like Denise Richards, she just irritates the hell out of me (and between you and me, that's not easy) but i don't mind her in this- she seems to have found her calling for the Little Rich Bitch.As long as you don't mind a little soft porn here and there, this film is just some silliness to lighten up your day. If you're offended by such trivial things then maybe you should steer clear... wuss P  "},{"Title":"What is this thing??","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When i sat down to watch this thing, i did it for two reasonsone, i watched part of it before but never got to see the ending and two, i obviously wanted to see denise richardsnow i thought this was going to be a rubbish 'would-be erotic thriller', however, the plot did not seem to be so bad. (SPOILERS!!)You're introduced to the school counceller of 'BlueDale' High, or whatever it is called, who is a popular guy - with the ladies - and is liked by the students. Denise richards plays the sexy high school princess who fancies him and cambell plays a 'druggie'.Now, bear with me, this is complicated beyond belief. The two girls accuse the counceller of raping them. When it goes to court, it alls goes wrong and its revealed it was a hoax played by the two girls. You then find out the counceller was in on it, so all three could receive the settlement money ($8million) - a little twist, gives the film interest and thats fine, but then it goes completely random - the amount of double-crossing and twists is insane. By the end of it, you don't give a damn who got away with all the money as you never really get to see enough of each character to be able to like them or at least like the fact that they 'won' For example, the counceller seems like a nice guy as you are able to see as he is in a lot of the early scenes, but then he turns into this mysterious evil guy. The Detective that has been attempting to reveal the counceller and girl's plot seems like the good guy. When he fails near the end, you think 'oh but hes bound to catch the counceller' but no...hes in it with the counceller... Somehow, it ends with the druggie, Susanne, getting away with the money - regardless that you think shes been killed earlier on, and even seen her 'dead' body wrapped in some clinfilm or whatever.Overall, it is quite funny, sexy and well directed in some cases, however the plot is way too complex for you to care, and just seems like the writer wanted to shock you continuously - he must be a fan of the 'shock factor'i give it 3/10 - for denise richards, some sex scenes and a decent screenplay  "},{"Title":"A Good Combination of Film-Noire with Teenage Movie Elements","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Since I rather dislike what I call teenage movies (i.e. films that feature storylines about teenagers being naughty at school, making mischiefs, attempting their first datings and sex, etc.), I was negatively predisposed before seeing Wild Things. Fortunately, I was very wrong Although the film has many of the so-called teenage movie elements, it is actually what we should call a film-noire, and a good one in fact.The story involves two beatiful young girls, rich and spoiled Kelly (Richards), and weirdo and freaky Suzie (Campbell). In between them stands guidance councelor Lombardo (Dillon) whom they both accuse for rape, something he vehemently denies. Sgt. Duquette (Bacon) and Det. Perez (Rubin-Vega) are investigating the case, which is definitely much more complicated than it seems...The plot is intriguing, with numerous twists. So numerous in fact, that every now and then the viewer has to alter his perception of what he/she thought had been happenning up to that point Actually, some plot hints are even given after the The End screen, as we are shown additional explanatory shots between the credits!The acting is generally satisfactory, with the first-league actors (Bacon and Murray) definitely standing well ahead of the rest; Rubin-Vega is also very good in her role, while Dillon is simply OK. The two young female protagonists (Richards and Cambell), while not bad in their acting at all, get the prime attention for their hot and promiscuous looks...The scenery is also good, with the glades and the swamps giving a special color to the film.In brief, Wild Things wins you, and the prime reason for this, is its clever plot. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Very Nice","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A wonderful cast of ladies revealing more than just their backsides in an interlocking film that leaves everyone wondering What will she do now?  From the I'm Just a Love Machine scene to the pictures of Dillon doing Richards one has to ask, May I see more?  Very wicked with a surprise ending that leaves the swamp trash as the true heroes.  I kind of want to go see a gator wrestling match with the guy who has someone elses teeth.  This is one of those movies you can watch over and over and just wonder who is the worst person in the movie.  I find myself justifying that the ones who got killed deserved it.  And anyway, I just loved the spear gun, an underutilized deadly weapon in movies. "},{"Title":"Hot Lesbo Action,but.....","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Neve and Denise go at it in the pool,but why show Kevin Bacon nude in the shower?I lost my erection for 3 days.Beware of this scene and turn your head.You'll thank me later!!!The story has so many turns that the sexiness is nearly lost and Bill Murray looks like an idiot and way out of place in this movie. "},{"Title":"Sly, Sexy, Underrated Fun","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The iconically sexploitative nature of lesbian relations between an oiled-up Denise Richards and a sexed-up Neve Campbell unjustly pigeon-holed this thinking man's thriller as mere titillation and sizzle rather than steak. While the plot may go about one twist too far, the first four or five surprises are still quite clever and welcome.  This is one of those plots which constantly forces the viewer to vigilantly re-evaluate each character's position in the story about every 15 minutes.  That analytical process is both entertaining and fruitful (literally) in this case.  It is clear that the game is afoot early on, but I challenge anyone to guess where things wind up at the end, or even two steps before the end.  Some imaginative and clever minds came up with this labyrinthian story and it's mostly a pleasure to watch the layers get peeled back.  Not quite perfect (a few plausibility questions), but definitely one of the better neo noir thrillers of the nineties.  8.5 / 10. "}{"Title":"Not wild as much as dumb !","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I guess the moguls at the studio really needed to appease the teenage audience for this bummer. Matt Dillon certainly isn't any relation to Marshal Dillon with his lack of script mastery. The T and A show was better aided by the bikinied appearance of the lesser breasted Theresa Russell whom just exudes more sex appeal than a banana split but never got licked or did she ? John McNaughton was trying to emulate Alfred Hitchcock to no avail. If you are really dying, this would be a good flick to watch ! "},{"Title":"Near Perfect","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's really one of the best film noir (although in color) I've ever seen. The turns of the  plot are inpredictable but seem to me (after 20 times seeing still) logical. The pictures are great, the score good as well and the whole making very unamerican,  almost european. The intimate scenes are a highlight and for an american movie very  couraged. Great actors and Denise Richards in the role of her life. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  From the reviews I've read, this is clearly a love it or hate it type of film. I'm one of the love it crowd. I went into this movie with no preconceptions, and I'm glad I did. There is a part of me that says you can't give this 10 stars. You just can't. So I won't. But I loved this little gem. The last 1/2 hour of the movie had me bellowing out loud damn, sh*t and whoa. The twists and turns came out of nowhere, and were very plausible. This isn't some flick where there's a fantastic story that isn't believeable because of all the out-of-nowhere plot turns. This is solidly written, simple in it's way, but that simplicity is what makes for a truly good flick.So the plot was 10. The acting was quite good. Hell, they had quite a cast signed on for this. The dog in me says any movie with Denise Richards more-or-less topless and making out with Neve Campbell is a keeper, for sure. Visually, technically, aesthetically, I have no complaints.I'm sorry for myself that I waited 5 years after this film was made to see it. It just looked so damned cheezy in the promos. Little did I know this was a great flick. "},{"Title":"If you like movies that are tough to predict...","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have to admit that this movie is a bit of a guilty pleasure for me. When it came out in the theaters it was packaged in the trailers like your typical teenie sex romp flick but I don't think that did it any favors at the box office. Unlike many of the reviews around here, I was intrigued by the plot twists (no matter how absurd some of them were...) that kept you guessing throughout the film. That's a big change from most thrillers that steal their plot from every other movie and treat you like a 5 year old that can't follow the action if they move too fast. I've recommended this film to several people over the years and they've all given me a thumbs up so don't dismiss it until you've viewed it.    "},{"Title":"For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world, and loses his own soul?","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  spoilers alertSexual material, profanity, and violence highlight what most viewers will probably find objectionable in this film. Several graphic sexual encounters show movement and nudity, and one involves a three-way sex scene that also leads into some lesbian behavior. The edited version is entertaining and twisty. I recommend it only if you can catch it in an edited version.When high school counselor Sam turns down the sexual advances of teenage Kelly Van Ryan, she cries rape. Although he is respected in the community, he is suspended from the school and enlists the help of an attorney Bowden. Suzie Toller, another teenager comes forward with a similar story about Sam. However, Bowden puts the pressure back on her and forces her to confess to a plot she and Kelly Van Ryan concocted in order to ruin Sam. The local investigating cop Ray thinks that Sam and the two girls were in it all together hoping to get $8.5 million out of Kelly's mother. This movie shows how some of us made money their master and they'll do anything (kill, steal,..) to reach their goal in this short life on earth. The bible says No servant can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world, and loses his own soul?. Disturbing ending for most viewers for the criminals run away without getting caught. In real life some criminals may never get caught. The bible says do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. But rather fear Him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world, and loses his own soul?. "},{"Title":"Just Not Believable","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" *spoiler* Fine cast in gritty story of teacher wrongly (?) accused of sleeping with students and resulting defamation case. There are only two very real problems - 1) everybody that matters is a dirtball, and 2) by the time you get to the third or fourth shocking surprise it just doesn't make sense anymore. Oh, and a third thing, the wrap-up is pretty unpleasant. Movie tries to redeem its credibility by giving you final flashback scenes that are supposed to explain the many twists in the storyline, but they actually explain very little and only highlight the falseness of the earlier script. Funny part is, this would have been entertaining if a portion of the plot (you pick the portion) had been played straight. As it is it's just attractive junk. 6 out of 10 is probably too much but I'm sticking with it... "},{"Title":"Who, what where how","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  How many twists and turns can you have in just one movie, this was like about ten years of some soap, put into 1 hour and a half, 2 girls plotted with him, she plotted against her, with him, he kills her to be with other, but not really, cop comes in he kills other and plots with him over her but she's not dead she kills both than runs off with 8 million, still with me i guess not, if you like hot sexy films then watch it, but lots of twists to get your mind round. "},{"Title":"This is only what I thought about this movie. CONTAINS SPOILERS!","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS! *If you don't want to know how this movie ends stop reading now!*Um. Wow. Yeah. I loved this movie! Absolutely loved it. I am a big Matt Dillon fan so when I saw this was on tv I freaked out! I quickly put on the channel that was showing it. I knew it was gonna be good right from the begging.I kinda figured there was more going on than what was told. I mean 8 million dollars! I'd put up a scam for that kind of money, too. I basically love the was everyone except Suzie (Neve Campbell) get screwed over. Okay so I was mad that Matt Dillon dies, that was like so not cool.I honestly they think the movie should be called 'Screwed Over'. I mean, hello, at first they're (Dillon, Bacon, Campbell, & Richards) are in on it together. Then the backstabbing starts. And finally Suzie (Campbell) gets the 8 million!I want to buy this movie so bad. I give it two thumbs up. "},{"Title":" Come on guys, don't let the sun go down on an argument","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Matt Dillon is astounding as Samuel in this grisly suspense movie. The supporting cast is excellent. The costumes are poignant. One of the good films in the genre, Wild Things will claw the viewer with sex. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"How did I miss seeing this before now?","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was terrific entertainment. Dynamite cast, bare nekid beauties...oh, I know; that's not pc...but my, oh, my this was *way* more than a skin-flick. The acting was excellent, no kidding, absolutely first rate. The plot had more twists than Pike's Peak Road, the direction was artful, and the music was spot-on righteous! WARNING SPOILER COMMENTS TO FOLLOW We rewound the court scene just to watch it unfold a second and third time, it was so electrifying and delicious in every detail. I still have to work out some of the details in my mind, but I appreciated the director's interesting ploy of tying up loose ends during the end credits. All in all, a very satisfying movie. jack j "}{"Title":"Too many twists","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of the characters in this movie has an IQ of 200 and that is what you need if you want to watch this one without getting totally confused. The plot changes it's direction so many times that in the end, it becomes predictably unpredictable. You sit and think Yeah yeah, he is not the one he seems to be either.Usually I'm fond of smart movies, but this one was just too much for me. The actors help saving the movie from total disaster, however. The performances are good in general and as a bonus you get to see some hot bedroom scenes. Bill Murray is also a pleasure to see, as always.Verdict 4/10 "},{"Title":"Lovable","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Probably the most conniving movie i have ever watched. If you enjoy circles where everything's links together - this is definitely your movie! No one is ever as they seem and there is more in the plot than meets the eye. It's a blink and you'll miss it kinda movie - everything unfolds quite fast, that basically because there is more and more to enfold as the story progresses. You'll never guess the ending, you'll never guess the true characters or the ringleader of the pack and you'll be glued into your seats until the end when you'll be like *gasp**shock* i never saw that person coming. Great film! ****1/2 outta *****  "},{"Title":"The stupid man's Usual Suspects","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  ***THIS COMMENT MAY CONTAIN PLOT SPOILERS*** This film has a lot in common with the Usual Suspects. They were both filmed using cameras and set in the United States. There, the similarities end.Where Suspects succeeded by toying with audience expectations to produce a genuinely surprise twist, this film just disappears up its own arse. It's so preoccupied with trying to keep the audience guessing that it just gets plain silly.  Brief summary - Matt Dillon has been accused of raping Denise Richards and Neve Campbell and it eventually transpires that they were all involved in a complicated scam to fleece Richard's wealthy mother out of $8.5 million. Kevin Bacon's cop realises something is fishy and starts investigating. Fine.  But then it just loses it. The plot twists and convulses with irritating rapidity as one person double-crosses someone else and then someone else is revealed to be in on the game and then someone comes back from the dead and blah blah blah. There's no consistency to what the film is - it becomes a tongue-in-cheek twist circus by default rather than design, once the director realised he had no idea where to take it.  I felt violated after watching this movie. I will echo the comments of those other reviewers who say Denise Richards is hot. She is. But that is not a good enough reason to watch this dumb-assed film. "},{"Title":"A Nice (or Nasty) Surprise","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw that this was on television last night, and I decided to watch it, despite all my better judgement and I was pleasantly surprised. I normally don't like films that seem to be only about sex, and the fact that Neve Campbell and Denise Richards are both it made me think that it would be just that sort of film. However, I like Kevin Bacon and so, I thought that I'd give it ago. Whereas this film is not a favorite of mine I thought that it was very clever and that the twists made it a very interesting watch.The acting was not particularly amazing, however the writers must be given credit for a very interesting storyline and twists that were not expected. On the surface this is merely a film about people being persecuted for something that they havent done, but once you get into it, you see that there is more to that than meets the eye.It is not a film that I would go out of my way to see again, or buy but if it was on again, then I would watch, if not to see the plot once more and try to see how it all fits together. I would recommend you watch it if you have the time but not if you have to go out of your way tod do it. It's good, but not that good!!! "},{"Title":"A fun wallow in excess.","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First time viewers would be hard pressed to keep up with the many twists and turns of this deliciously nasty, sordid, sex and crime drama.  Dillon plays a revered high school guidance counselor who is one day accused of rape by teen nymphet Richards.  Bacon is the investigating policeman, Murray is Dillon's crafty lawyer and Campbell is a troubled and troublesome student who has interest of her own in the case.  Russell is well cast as Richards shrewy mom.  Wagner is her appropriately slimy lawyer pal.  Snodgrass has a hilariously authentic role as Campbell's trailer trash mom.  Rubin-Vega, as Bacon's partner, is an anchor of sorts for the audience.  This court case is but the tip of the plot and to give away much more would really spoil half the fun of watching all the characters run through the ever-surprising story.  Almost none of the characters are what they appear to be.  And none of this is to be taken seriously.  The film is chock full of riotously trashy dialogue, ornery sex and phallic imagery (in Bacon's case, literally!)  The musical score is quirky and unusual with clever use of songs.  The Florida setting adds a lot to the flavor of the movie.  Dillon is adequate, though not fully believable, as an inspirational educator.  Bacon does a fine job and is to be commended for his willingness to let it all hang out (again, literally!)  Campbell is a real surprise in her part.  All decked out in dyed hair, gothic lipstick and tattoos, she is as far away from Party of Five as one can get!  However, her later scenes in the film are less effective.  It would be hard to conceive of a sexier person than Richards.  Her 10,000-watt smile, Playmate hair and gravity-defying breasts are displayed here with full force.  If the film had done any better at the box office, she'd be an international sensation.  The film has the distinction of breaking the laws of logic during it's telling, then showing left out moments during the closing credits to fill in how the story really did unfold.  This was the best way to really consistently surprise the audience.  This is a guilty pleasure, but definitely a pleasure...very underrated. "},{"Title":"Hot chicks and smart guys - maybe.","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This teenage thriller is slightly above medium. The conspiracies played out are really good, but the rest of the movie's quality are the very seducive bodies of Neve Campbell and Denise Richards.Why do you think this movie scored better in all the male age groups of IMDB?Anyway, the movie does manage to pull off quite a surprising ending - won't tell you what is is though - but not until you don't remember any more what happened to who and why who did it.The thing I'm going to remember about this movie are the girls, the volume and complexity of the cons that were pulled. I'm not going to remember fantastic acting, great dialogues, or the great story. In fact, I might remember this movie more as a comedy than a thriller.See it on video - see it for the chicks. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  all plot twist, no story","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm an action movie guy, and I hate dramas, so if this film had been a little campy but had lots of intrigue, I would have been, well, intrigued.Unfortunately, Wild Things is a series of random plot twists that don't make any sense. Sort of a phoney attempt to be clever, but devoid of foreshadowing and character traits that make the plot twists seem appropriate. I didn't end up caring about any of the characters.With the exception of one nude scene, there's nothing titilating here.Who should see this film-- nobody, even teenagersI'll give Wild Things a generous 4 out of 10, partly because Denise Richards is hot. "},{"Title":"Spicy and smart.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Based on R2 DVD 104 minAside from the rather enjoyable soft porn scene this movie is powered by a very smart script, possibly a little too smart as it takes well into the closing credits to wrap up some loose ends.If you've yet to watch it do not make the mistake of assuming sloppy movie making it's much more fun if you assume this is a well thought out thriller that takes pleasure in abusing viewers assumptions.The acting is OK but lacks sparkle, Bill Murray is arguable the best.7/10 well worth watching - not in Mementos league but good. "},{"Title":"A wild sexy thriller. This is what I've heard about Wild Things.","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well, it's wild, and it's sexy, and at times it does thrill. But I don't think it's a wild, sexy thriller. Wild Things stars Matt Dillon as Sam Lombardo, a guidance counselor at some school of some sorts (although I've never been to a school where you can learn how to sail). One of his students (Denise Richards) accuses him of rape, and his life is turned upside down. And when a second student (Neve Campbell) comes forward with a similar story, all hell breaks loose. But this is just the beginning. I have never seen a movie with so many twists and turns before. Just when you think you've got it figured out, they throw something else at you. Here's the problem. It's just too damn far-fetched. You know what I was thinking when I finished watching it? I was thinking about the O.J. trial. If you believe that O.J. was innocent, you'd have to believe that there was this huge conspiracy between the police, the District Attorney, and everyone else involved. If you believe what happens in Wild Things, then chances are you too believe O.J. is innocent. You remember The Usual Suspects? Now that was a good movie. There were twists and turns, but the story somehow seemed believable, because the people seemed believable. And the ending, although shocking at first, made sense and I at least, turned it off thinking it was the best script I'd seen in a long time. I left Wild Things thinking that the director must have known something was wrong, because I'd never seen a movie where they had to explain to you what happened during the closing credits.   Everyone is back stabbing everyone else. Cops are not who they seem to be, students aren't who they seem to be. Lawyers are never who they seem to be. Now for the good things. I love Neve Campbell (as I'm sure most men my age do), and you get to see a lot of Denise Richards, if you know what I mean. And the ladies aren't left out either, because you get to see all, and I mean all, of Kevin Bacon (he's a cop). The performances weren't all that spectacular. I never believed a word Matt Dillon was saying, and the rest of the cast just sort of phoned in their work. I did like the background music. Although the movie took place in Florida, the music made me feel like I was in New Orleans for some reason. Anyway, if you enjoy looking at beautiful people, and I certainly do, go ahead and check out Wild Things but don't expect to really like the story, because while it started out OK, by the time you get to the last 20 minutes, it all just falls apart. "},{"Title":"Review pending approval of unedited version","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this tonight on USA, so they apparently edited out all the nude and 'threesome' scenes that were in it, but I haven't seen it before, so it makes no difference to me. Anyhoo, I think that this was a pretty good movie. The acting was good, the plot had a high number of twists that were some unexpected and some easily guessed, and just the general 'feeling' or 'vibe' of the film was one of suspense. But, as I said in the summary, 'pending approval...', I haven't seen it unedited, and don't know if it will add or take from the film. I guess I'll just have to find out.4/5*****SPOILER*****For those who have seen it, you'll know what I mean. Bill Murray's  line at the end, ...minus my usual fee, really got me laughing. IMHO, best line of the movie. "}{"Title":"Sex, plot twists, male nudity!","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you like Kevin Bacon in more than just an appreciative way....rent this movie!  If you like erotic sex scenes such as lesbian passion and three-ways, you won't be disappointed.  Dillon, Neve, and Bacon all did marvelous roles in this film which kept your mind boggled every moment until the shocking ending.  Even then, you'll still feel you must have missed something major.  It's too bad they had to eliminate the shower scene with Dillon and Bacon....that would have been hot! "},{"Title":"One twist too many","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the typical movie that is far too clever for its own good. The plot has lots of twists and turns, which in itself is not bad, of course. The problem is that eventually there is a twist too many and the plot finally derails, with one of the most unconvincing endings I have seen in a movie of this kind.Of course, you are not supposed to notice that because of the movie's rather lurid, um, erotic side, evidently designed to deviate the audience's attention from the plot's holes. The problem with it is that it apparently takes into account only the male audience, which is supplied with abundant eye candy under the form (forms?) (I'm sorry, I can't help it!) of Ms. Denise Richards, who can't act, but I understand that men should consider her pretty nice to look at. The female audience, on the other hand, is only offered the charms of Matt Dillon, something I really don't get, and Kevin Bacon's butt. Well, not just his butt, you can see something else if you look closely enough. Because it is during such a brief moment, I mean, not because the item in question is too small. Again I'm sorry, I suppose I'll be fulminated by lightning by saying this, but this is exactly the kind of thing this movie inspires.To make matters worse, the acting is uniformly bad, because the actors cannot do better or because their characters keep on changing personalities in such a way that it was impossible to keep up. Thank God for Bill Murray, whose ambulance-chasing lawyer is not only the movie's best performance but also its most likeable character. I guess, enough said.  "},{"Title":" FILM NOIR !","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not a film that certainly can be looked at as some great masterpiece with a fantastic plot and a clever twist at the end. But let's be honest I just don't think that people are watching it for that reason anyway.It's a sexy picture with sexy actors and Denise Richards is the leading light at the centre.I am almost certain that the reason most people watched this film is because they knew about the threesome involving Dillon, Campbell and Richards.But if you look past the sex there is no substance to the story and the acting frankly is wooden.Does anyone care who survives at the end, I don't. To describe this film as film noir is a just a joke it not clever in anyway and certainly offers nothing new to a genre that as been overlooked on mainstream cinema for years. You have wonder what Alfred Hitchcock would have of it all. "},{"Title":"A good thriller, with loads of sex appeal.","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Matt Dillon, Neve Campbell, Kevin Bacon, and Denise Richards. There's eye candy here for both men and women. But.....oh, I'm so.....I'm sorry, the film ISN'T about the gorgeous leads pouting, and getting it on with each other, NO, it's really a thriller - honest, it is!Yeah right!!!This is just a sexy thriller, with more attention on the 'sexy' rather than the thriller parts of the film. Don't get me wrong though, this film works well. It is a good film, but the sex and the breasts and everything else, just seems to distract from the rest of the film.It's got a good plot, and the acting is as good as it was ever gonna be, but don't expect a Hitchcockian style film. It has many twists and turns yes, but when you think about it, it was all so obvious!! Of course, thanks to the eye candy, we are not fully concentrating on the finer plot details, and a 2nd or 3rd viewing will show us to be really stupid. Oh well, we're only human eh?The end credits are a nice touch showing us what actually happens before the film started and what happened throughout that was withheld from us.So, if your in the mood for gorgeous men and women, and don't mind if your brain will TRY to work out the plot, then give this one a go.Whoever you are, you'll be begging for a threesome!!(I've seriously gotta stop thinking about that!!! Tell yourself it's a thriller Doz - It's a thriller, a thriller, a thriller......)7/10Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Twisting, shocking guy movie...","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Saw it on Saturday. Interesting.Denise Richards, Neve Campbell, Kevin Bacon, and Matt Dillon combine to make one of the most innovative twisters in thriller history. Dillon plays Sam, a counsellor accused of raping two students. The story takes off from there, leading you down a winding path of surprises and lies that round out to the shocking finale. This is definitely a guy movie, mostly because of Richards, but the story itself and the twists are immensely appealing. Definitely worth it. "},{"Title":"talk about wild!","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Man, what a rush you get watching this film. A slick, sexy, raunchy, and suspenseful experience from beginning to end. The cast is great, and their credible performances add to your enjoyment during this wild ride of a movie. There are twists and turns at every corner, so many it will make your head spin. A great mystery/sex thriller combination. Highly watchable! 3/4  "},{"Title":"Twisty and plot-filled.","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  WILD THINGS (1998) Rating 8/10This was one wild flick man and was named excellently! The title Wild Things couldn't describe the characters' natures better. Anyway, this movie was a twist-a-minute, completely sexy, amazingly intriguing and brilliantly acted film. I enjoyed the heck out of it, and was something extremely different in cinema these days, and is very welcome for repeated viewings. The film was executed very well and had some nice editing tricks. The acting was a very strong point in the film. The characters in this movie are rather hard to play and quite complicated. The casting was chosen well and the four leads are stunning. Neve Campbell was superb. She was very dark and had the most interesting character in the movie. Denise Richards actually showed us she could act subtlety, and not just as a porn star wannabe. Kevin Bacon was mysterious but didn't have enough involvement in the plot. Matt Dillion's character was very engaging and he acted out his thrilling scenes with shocking emotional faces and a captivating voice. The script for this movie is brilliant. As I said before, the movie has twists every minute and something is always happening on screen. I liked the way the script cut between the most shocking scenes, it always leaves you hanging on the edge of your seat. Overall, Wild Things is one heck of a film, a love-it-or-hate-it experience that personally I loved. This is a movie could well start up a new style of shocks-per-second. A great flick, and endlessly entertaining! "},{"Title":"beware the video cassette!","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The previous comments pretty much sum up the film.  A very twisty plot (but not so over-the-top twisty as some recent films), and a couple of VERY sexy scenes.I'd watched this before on video, but this time something became very apparent  this is the most blatant, clumsy pan-and-scan video conversion I think I've ever seen.  The picture slides around so much you'd think it was filmed by the Blair Witch Project team.  Probably the DVD allows you to watch it in letterbox, so take that option if you have it. "},{"Title":"Not bad, not good","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Let's make thing clear, this film is average. Matt Dillon, Kevin Bacon, Neve Campbell can't act at all. The only actress who have talent in this film is Denise Richards. What a great scene with Neve, I don't care for Campbell for this scene but what about Richards, perfection. Another classic is when she is coming out of the pool with her blue swimsuit. Here is the story thanks to Matthew Patay.Sam Lombardo is a well-respected Florida high school guidance councelor who gets his life turned upside down when two students, spoiled rich-girl Kelly Van Ryan, and trailer-trash bad-girl Suzie Toller, bring rape charges against him in which local police detective Ray Duquette investigates the allegations. But not everything is what it appears to be and the big question arises who is deceiving who? If love this one, get the DVD for a audio commentary by director John McNaughton and three deleted scenes. "},{"Title":"Strange, but good","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  *POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD*This has to be one of the strangest movies ever.  I had to watch it a few times to figure out exactly what was going on.  But I guess that's the idea - it keeps you watching.The plot twists are captivating and will keep you interested.  The acting is not that bad, either.  Kevin Bacon is his usual self, and Neve Campbell turns in one of her better performances (which isn't saying a whole lot).  However, Campbell (who normally looks good on-screen) is not very attractive in this movie (until the end, at least), partly because she's portraying a Goth-like outcast, but mostly because she's starring opposite the jaw-droppingly gorgeous Denise Richards, who I might add, was not nearly as shy (guys take note).But the best actor in this movie is the legendary Bill Murray, who steals the show early on which his usual brand of humor, and has always been a favorite of mine.This movie will never be a classic, but it was good enough for me to keep on tape.  ***1/2 "}{"Title":"Very good, twist a minute mystery...","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I watched Wild things for the first time, I expected a plotless, formulaic, badly acted, sex based entertaining movie.  Instead what I got was a very original film that kept you wondering until the last shot.  The script is very well written and keeps up it's pace, the acting (aside from Denise Richards' performance) was good and I liked the premise as well.This is a great party renter, because it has enough of everything to keep people interested.  All in all a very good movie, 8/10!  "},{"Title":"Nice twists, but awful acting (POSSIBLE SPOILER)","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I agree this film has nome nice twists. And Bill Murray is hysterical, but cmon, Dillon, Richards,and Campbell are some of the worst actors I've ever seen. Sure Richards and Campbell are beautiful, but there annoying and untalented. And Dillon? This guy couldn't act scared if you put a gun too his head. I'm sure he had no problem doing the threesome scene though. "},{"Title":"A intense thriller with Neve Campbell and Denise Richards in some hot scenes.","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Why aren't there a lot more movies like this.This is a good thriller with a very well made plot and some good actors. The movie has of course a killer,but it is almost impossible to find out who it is and when you think you do the movie proves you wrong. The ending is brilliant,but as good as impossible to predict.Even though you hadn't seen it coming you will understand everything at the end.The thing that makes this movie so great are Neve Campbell and Denise Richards who both are very good looking.They play two students who gets sexual involved with each other. And the scene when they kiss is worth all the money of the movie.The only reason why somebody shouldn't like this movie is because they are gay.So go out and rent this movie and show that you aren't gay.I give it a 8 out of 10.******** out of ********** "},{"Title":"Teenage Basic Instinct","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Now here's a thought- let's make a blatant clone of Paul Verhoeven's films(Basic Instinct,Showgirls-Not Starship Troopers) but without any pretty women, decent action and so many twists, the audience won't know what the hell is going on! Sounds like a great idea!-Not! "},{"Title":"Overcomplicated storyline makes it less enjoyable","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This review might contain SPOILERS, read at your own risk.In 'Wild Things', Sam Lombardo, an established high school guidance counsellor is accused of rape by one of his students; Kelly.  However there's a lack of evidence, until Suzie, another student of Sam's, also claims that she was raped by him. After that the story gets really confusing as to who did what and why.The thing that ruined this movie was the seemingly neverending twists in the plot. It can happen only so many times in a movie before you feel that it's not the characters in the movie who are fooling you, but the producers. Lots of spoilers ahead...Due to the innumerous plot twists, there are many holes in the story. As we find out at the end of the movie, Suzie was blackmailing Sam all along. Why didn't he kill her when she was drunk? We also find out that Ray (Kevin Bacon, the detective), was also involved in the scheme and that he didn't know that Suzie was behind it all (which would have given him reason to be suspicious). Why did he encourage the police to continue the investigation jeopardizing the very plot he is involved in? Thses are just some examples.Other than those holes in the plot, it was decent movie. The acting was mostly good, I don't like Neve Campbell, but she was good in this movie. Aside from the occasional scenes when a viewer can tell they're acted, the acting is believable and the story is also great in the beginning, but it gets a little overcomplicated at the end. The sexuality was a bit forced, because it didn't fit into the storyline as much as it did in 'The In Crowd'.GOOD A well acted movie with an interesting plot and many (too many for my taste) surprises.BAD It has an unrealistic ending due to the holes in the complicated plot. Some little bit cheesy/forced scenes.RATING 5/10 "},{"Title":"Clever Flick","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An interesting film, i felt that it had several elements of Film Noir, with the whole femme fatale in it and the whole devious crime detective plot. The cast was well chosen and Neve Campbell and Denise Richards were sizzling in the film. I was totally unexpected of the twist and the ending which made this film in a way a 'shocker' as that one does not really know what to expect next. A good film, very cleverly written. "},{"Title":"Wild indeed","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"        I showed my step-father the films I was buying last night. Among them was this. He gave me that weird look. I told him I actually liked the film for what it was. He said Sure, plus you like naked woman. He couldn't buy the idea that I actually liked it as a film. But it is true. I enjoyed it. Though, I do enjoy a naked woman.      The plot sounds simple. But once you get about three-fourths through it, you start thinking it isn't as simple as you thought. There are about three or four plot twist in the last ten minutes alone. It twist so much, just to answer some of your questions, they must still show the film during the end credits.      The acting is fine. Some people complain about the acting, I think it is fine. And I thought Denise Richards was great as a seductress, hell, she seduced me. Neve Cambell was alright, I think she was mis-cast. As for the guys, they are all fine(I mean their acting in the film is fine, not them sexually).      A lot of people went to see this movie because of the threesome in the film. While it is a nice scene, there is a lot more to the story than sex. If it seems like it is all about sex it is because that's the way advertisements made it out to be. They had the idea sex sells.             If for no other reason to see it, see it for Bill Murray. He shows up as a lawyer who has some of the films best lines.      I enjoyed it. I thought it was a good film with many twist. I would only recommend it to certain people, though.  7/10       "},{"Title":"Teen Thriller (spoilers)","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  'Wild Things' is a stylish attempt at the thriller/mystery genre with plenty of twists and turns! The problem is; that these twists can only occur if the characters did or chose that particular path- thats where the film becomes a major headache and plot-holes develop! The story ends up being fairly ludicrous in that regard. 'Wild Things' is the kind of film that knows its a film- instead of constructing a more believable plot, it just wants to throw every possible twist in the book without really thinking about believability.The ending is totally laughable...I practically yelled Yeah right!. Therefore one must presume that it's target audience was teens. The cast is okay, except Denise Richards! Kevin Bacon, Matt Dillon, Neve Campbell and especially Bill Murray were all welcome commodities, but the story is just plain stupid! Next time the writers should concentrate on content and a believable storyline than numerous ridiculous twists. I somehow didn't buy a certain someone as the mastermind at the end either! Rent teen-slasher 'Scream' instead-  which has better constructed story and it cleverly pokes fun at itself. 'Wild Things' falls into the category of 'teen-thriller' because it really doesn't have the substance to be taken seriously, nor does it have any humour to subsidise it's ridiculous storyline! ** out of *****!  "},{"Title":"A sleazy and fun movie that has a couple of twists too many.","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think why this film didn't do better at the box office is due to confusing advertising. It was marketed as a sex-drenched sleaze thriller when it really wasn't. Granted it has it's fair share of sleaze and sex but that isn't what the movie really is about. It boasts one of the most clever and entertaining plots in some time, but the film also probably has a few twists too many.Now for the good and the badThe Good  1) Neve Campbell and Denise Richard's kiss. 2) The cat fight in the pool (followed by another kiss.) 3) Bill Murray's hilarious ambulance-chasing lawyer. 4) Beautiful and atmospheric cinematography 5) Denise's breasts and legs 6) a complex and surprisingly  good plot.           The Bad   1) Neve Campbell is miscast (though she does a good job).2) 2) Denise Richard's face 3) Neve's doesn't actually do any nudity. 4) the plot is just a bit too complex for it's own good. 5)Kevin Bacon's character got a little annoyingOverall, it's really enjoyable and good on a variety of levels.Rating8 "},{"Title":"It's Basic instinct meets 90210...at least, that's what it wants to be","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  ===== Rating System ***** Must see **** Very good *** I liked it, but you might hate it ** I hated it, but you might like it * Avoid ====> Well, a film with about every young hot star around and even Kevin Bacon and Bill Murray, that's gotta worth a look, right??? Well yes and no. Although the plot delivers an opportunity for a great thriller, the young actors fail to convince on about any level, and the writer uses the premise to cram twice as many twists in the story as any normal moviegoer would have the right to expect.Plotwise and stylistically, this is probably closest to Basic Instinct, trying to make a sexy whodunnit thriller with good looking actors, mysterious music and (intentionally) a slow pace. However, this movie doesn't even come close to match the tension created by BI, mainly because John McNaughton can't make up his mind whether he's making a high school drama or a murder mystery. The transition from the former into the latter kills the tension, because the question that rises when you watch this film is not - 'How is it gonna end?' but - 'What the f**k is going on?'. And I guarantee you for most of the time you will have no idea what's going on, and the main problem is, you will not give a damn either.The young actors are uniformly dismal, with Matt Dillon, Neve Campbell and Denise Richards all working at their blood-suckingly worst. Matt Dillon is the most unconvincing teacher ever to hit the screen, it's pretty clear that Denise Richards wasn't hired for her acting skills, and every time Neve Campbell opens her mouth you're guaranteed to be irritated. On the acting front, only Kevin Bacon (as a convincing a**hole) and Bill Murray (who seems to be brilliant in every role) come off unscratched, and of all actors mentioned these two have the only prospect of a lasting Hollywood career.That said, I must admit I enjoyed every second of this film. If you don't care about a sensible plot and characters, the one reason you should see this film (beside THAT scene) is because you'll have a lot of fun working out what will be the next twist (and there are many). Gather some of your smarter mates around, and have a nice evening.***  "}{"Title":"My number 133 movie ( contains story + spoilers )","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild Things if my number 133 movie. I like it, because it is quite original and the actors to a good job. What I hate about this movie is that it is so confusing, and tells 21 different ways the &#132;villains. In the end you do not know who the villain was, so you cannot question this way of the ending.The story  Sam Lombardo ( Matt Dillon ) has raped Kelly Van Ryan ( Denise Richards ) . Or maybe he has not, if you trust in one of the many endings. Or maybe Sam, Kelly and Suzie ( Neve Campbell ) just pretend that Sam has raped her to get the money of Kellys mother. Detective Duquette ( Kevin Bacon ) makes inquiries in that case. But not even the audience knows if Kelly was raped or not, so you quickly lose your interest in the story. ( at least I did ). And in the end there are 17 versions of the &#132;villains, which is too confusing. I liked Denise Richards in Starship Troopers, I liked Neve Campbell in Scream 1&2, I liked Kevin Bacon in Apollo13 and The River Wild and I liked Bill Murray in Groundhog Day. But nevertheless I did not love this movie, why ?!? Because it could have been much better, if there had not been that many different ways of the ending. All in all, I rated this movie 8/10 and recommend it to thriller fans. If you have any questions, feel free to ask them.  "},{"Title":"Constructed, but not a second boring!","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Its nearly unbelievable how constructed this movie is, because everyone tries to cheat the other. And after a while you cant duplicate the whole conspiracy anymore. In other words, Wild Things becomes with current time more and more illogical! And at the end there is the big surprise - how could it other be! But enough of the bad words, this movie is very funny to watch! There are pretty and good actors like Matt Dillon, Kevin Bacon, Denise Richards and Neve Campbell in the best role Ive seen her yet. The cast of the supporting actors (Murray, Russell, Wagner)is also excellent. Combine a soap opera, a soft porn and a thriller of the black series from the 50s and youve got Wild Things. By the way, its almost as good as Basic Instinct... (7/10) "},{"Title":"Think you know what's happening? Wait for the next twist.","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Great movie. When Sam Lombardo (Matt Dillon) is accused that he raped Kelly (Denise Richards) and Suzie (Neve Campbell) the twists begin. I must admit that first twist (about quarter through the movie) was predictable as it's same as in some other movie (I can't tell you which one or I'll spoil it for you). But this was just first of many. So when you think that you know the whole picture be sure there's another twist just minutes away. So about half through the movie I just gave up trying to figure what's happening and just watched the movie. All for main characters are well played and some great acting (Campbell, Richards, Dillon and Bacon) is supported by humorous Bill Murray. Oh and very important advice when end credits start to roll don't go yet, then all will make sense. "},{"Title":"Really fun movie","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I didn't have very high expectations for this movie, but I was pleasantly surprised. I envisioned it as a really bad episode of 90210 or Melrose Place and for the first half hour that's exactly what it was. But then they threw in some unexpected twists which changed the focus of the story and brought the movie to life at the same time. Although Wild Things is not a comedy I found this a really fun movie to watch and I'm not just saying that because Denise Richards and Neve Campbell make out at one point. You can tell the film creators had fun with it. It's easy to imagine them brainstorming new twists and scenarios.It ain't the Godfather, but it's still a very enjoyable movie to watch. "},{"Title":"A great movie with great actors","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In one comment i said that this movie was bad... i hope this comment to be displayed because now i think that this movie is great, really, one of the best i have seen. Its really entertaining and you never lost the interest in the plot, its changing every minute, and you cant know how will it ends and who is the bad and who is the good guy until it ends. I recommend you to watch this movie if you havent. I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"90210-ish and still a decent watch","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Although it is a little 90210-ish, it's still a good watch. The story opens with a disgruntled college student (Campbell) and a guidance counselor (Dillion). The story leaps over to Richardson when she goes over to Dillion's house, and the story leads you to believe that something went wrong. The next you know Richardson's accusing Dillion of rape, and half way through the trial Campbell (who's testifying since she too had allegedly been raped by Dillion) admits that it's a scam. Basically the next you know Campbell's thought to be killed by Dillion, after the trial, and Richardson's killed by the cop Bacon. Most of the plot doesn't work into the central story, but a lot of it's filled into the last some odd minutes of the credits. It's big on sex, and the violence is rather mild compared to some others. This is a decent neo-noir to rent, though I'm not sure about owning.   "},{"Title":"Very entertaining movie.","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is filled with so many surprising twists and turns.  Kevin Bacon shows his mettle at how versatile he is;  starts out as a nice guy, then we find out different later.  He certainly doesn't mind showing everything he has in the shower scene, which is highly unusual for American actors.  One could have heard a pin drop in that movie theatre when he showed his thing. A thrill to see Carrie Snodgress, whom we haven't seen once since Diary of a Mad Houswife.  She's one of the wild girls' mother.  Plays white trash very well.   Quite a surprise ending. I didn't know Neve Campbell had it in her.  Theresa Russell-sexy as always.   "},{"Title":"Denise Richards is a living goddess, but she cannot pull this lame story out of the gutter.","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well, first of all I have to say that it will be difficult to find sexier girls than Denise Richards and Neve Campbell. The sex/erotic scenes where they participate are breathtaking! Apart from that the only other thing about this movie that is cool is the underlying George Clinton saxophone tunes which really gives the perfect atmosphere of a hot and humid southern Florida scenery where nothing or nobody is like they seem in the first place. The plot of the movie is a quite different matter. I mean, there is really not much new here. It is an old story and it is not very interesting. This film tries to make it interesting by twisting the story repeatedly throughout the movie - especially the last 20 minutes of it. The producers probably thinks this is very clever, but I think that it is either confusing or just not credible. And when you finally think it is over, the movie insists that we have to know how it all got possible by showing some unnecessary clips in the end. So conclusively, the movie should be seen especially for Denise Richards fantastic body, which you get to see quite a lot of, and maybe for the great atmosphere in it mostly due to that exquisite saxophone (thank you George Clinton). It should definitely not be seen for the plot or the many stupid story twists especially in the latter part of it.  "},{"Title":"hot, hot, hot","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  For the type of movie that Wild Things is, it couldn't have been done better.  You've got a three-way, hot girls, and many plot twists.  I would have liked this movie even had Denise Richards been played by some ugly chick.  The fact that she is so hot just added to the excitement.  I guarantee this movie will not bore you for even a second and will keep you guessing. "},{"Title":"Steam in South Florida, Served with a Twist","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild Things, a tawdry tale set in South Florida, is a story with more twists than corkscrew pasta, and is over-the-top good.  Matt Dillon stars as guidance counselor Sam Lombardo of a public school in the town of Blue Bay, and is accused of rape by the luscious daughter (Denise Richards) of one of the wealthiest woman in town (Theresa Russell - It's incredible casting, because the mother and daughter look so alike.)  Of course, Sam is a former paramour of the mother.  From there, things begin to go all over the place sex, lies, murder, double-crossing, and more.  Director John McNaughton really keeps the story tight, and the audience sliding from one surprise to the next.  This is sort of Dynasty crossed with Melrose Place for the high school set.Vote 8  "}{"Title":"whoa","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  hey, you guys have to see this movie!!! the plot is great and the people in it are cool. If you like nudity in your movies, this is the one to see. The good part about that is (besides the fact that you see Denise Richards breasts) is that the movie is unique in its own way and is a good film to see over and over again. "},{"Title":"blood rushing","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Can you believe I thought this movie was going to be stupid? God , I was so wrong! I loved this movie. It made your blood rush and your heart jump. Neve Campbell was smart in finding a movie to get everyone`s mind off of the whole `Scream-fest`. If you like suspense and trickery all wrapped up SEX you will want to rent this movie. "},{"Title":"COOL !!!!!","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think every body wants to see something new in a movie , something very original , so this movie is very ORIGINAL , every body will love it . First you will never guess the ending , it is cool , it is such a surprise, Second , you got to watch it carefully to understand it well... "},{"Title":"Let's twist again.... and again....","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The cream of 80s Bratpack team up with the latest crop of Bratpackers for this teen comedy-come-thriller.  And as with all true Hollywood teen flicks, SEX is the name of the game here.  And there is certainly enough titillation here to keep most juveniles happy.Unfortunately the plot just goes for too many twists for twists sake!  So much so that you find yourself dreading yet another predictable turn.  Its disappointing from a director, whose previous work I had quite admired (especially 'Mad Dog and Glory').  With a cast who are usually so much more watchable than they are here (especially Bacon and Murray) one can't help thinking the film would have been better served with a more accomplished script.  One that didn't seem too pleased with itself and in effect tries to come across as more clever than it actually is.  "},{"Title":"One of the most awesome movies made in the last ten years.","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of the most awesome movies made in the last ten years. This is what a true suspense movie should be made like. It keeps you guessing all the way to the end. In fact if you do not watch the credits you will miss out on what really happened in the whole movie. Easily in my Top 25 movies.  "},{"Title":"Bill Murray, I think I love you....","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild ThingWhere's Bill Murray bin?Now he's in everythangWild Thing!So, wild thing, you want to extend your rangeBut I know the film's a boreph-ph-phone your agent... .....WILD THANG!!!!!(I think that whole 'Wild thing, I think I love you' skit has been done to death by now. But NO! Suddenly it returns to life in a gosh, didn't see that one coming twist.)Wild ThingWhat are those round things?They make my zip go ping!W-w-w-wild thang!Denise, Denise,I've got a crush on you....(Sorry, wrong song.)Matt Dillon. A name that conjurs up...wait, I'm thinking. This is a typical Matt performance. He stands there. Things happen around him. He is paid (presumably). Does anyone have this fantasy? Matt Dillon walks up to his house from the beach and hears the sound of the shower. It opens to reveal Kevin Bacon's taut, naked body. With a smile (tough acting assignment for him), Matt slowly, sensually removes his trousers, not once changing his fixed stare at Kevin. He steps into the shower and slowly lathers the soap. He proceeds to run his hands up and down Kevin's lithe, rugged back. The steam rises. Matt's torso glistens. His lips part. Suddenly, the shower door opens. It is Bill Murray in a surprise plot twist. I mean, who you gonna call? The men stare at Bill and notice something. He is naked. He grins that old Bill Murray smirk. He steps in with them. The two men begin to massage Bill all over with soap. Slowly, Bill sinks to his knees and......Does anybody have that fantasy? Me neither.  "},{"Title":"Surprising Film","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It is one of the most surprising films I have ever seen, everyone (except the female detective) could be the murderer,  I cannot guess the result before the real ending. "},{"Title":"Pretzel Logic","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Best thing about this film was Jeff Kimball's photography of the Florida Everglades and George Clinton's score. Although the two gals were nice to watch and Bill Murray was delightful, the film tries to be too clever with too many surprises and outwits itself. Hopelessly muddled, the script ultimatelydegenerates into pure nonsense; I even doubt that writer Stephen Peters could decipher it. "},{"Title":"Confusing and frustrating, but good characters and original plot","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One thing I'll say about this movie is that it's completely confusing.  There are more plot twists then Scream and any Hitchcock movie put together, and some of the gaps aren't filled in until after the credits start rolling.  Two girls, one a preppy popular girl named Kelly Van Ryan (Denise Richards), and one a trailer trash swap feeder, Suxie Toller (Neve Campbell), accuse their high school guidance counselor of rape.  Now this is where it gets confusing.  After a while it is clear whether or not he committed the rape, but I can't tell you because it would spoil the movie.  Then it is unclear who exactly are lovers.  A bunch of people get killed, but you never know if they really are dead, or just being faking it.  The plot is original, however, and the two girls are incredibly attractive, so that's a plus.  But on the downside, I didn't know what was going on for more than half of the movie.  Don't go into this movie thinking you'll get a straight story, because you won't. "},{"Title":"NASTY","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Everytime this movie comes on HBO, I am sucked in because Denise Richards is such a hottie. But the plot always seemed to confuse me. Little did I know that ... oops let me not say anything! For what it is worth it could have been an adult movie because of the constant sex. But I also love Daphne Rubin-Vega, from my favorite musical RENT. "}{"Title":"Steamy thriller is no smooth ride","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I caught Wild Things late one night on cable.  I really wasn't expecting a lot.  After all most films today that try to re-create the feel of the film-noir-type films of the 1940's fail miserably.  Wild Things, on its unique '90's level, succeeds.  I really don't want to reveal the plot here, this is one film that you don't need to know what's going to happen; there are more plot twists in this film than a ride on a great roller coaster.  The cast are all excellent, especially the three main principals Matt Dillon, Kevin Bacon, and Neve Campbell; in fact as far as Campbell goes, this is by far her best performance on the big screen.  If you haven't seen this film, and love mystery/thrillers, see Wild Things. "},{"Title":"The coolest, twistiest movie I've seen for a long time.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie a lot more than I thought I would.  I was at least one plot twist behind all the way, and I hope I'm not giving away too much to say that there are quite a few.  Neve Campbell is great as usual, Denise Richards is gorgeous of course, and I liked Kevin Bacon in this.  Highly recommeneded as a plot rollercoaster. "},{"Title":"Look at the poster - it tells you all you need to know.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If the concept of Denise Richards, naked but for a bra and schoolgirl mini-skirt ravaging a Gothicly made-up and chemically altered Neve Campbell is appealing to you, then you may find yourself in video heaven. This film is aimed so squarely at the young heterosexual male market that it's pitiful plea for respectability (tick off the Hitchcock references) must have been the only thing to prevent the producers from casting a less principled actress than Campbell and going straight for the top-shelf.Wild Things is not misogynist per se, since the men are as guilty as the women. Indeed, every character is a fraud of some description and since Bill Murray's is the only one to admit as much, he is easily the most charming of a thoroughly abhorrent lot, most of whom get what they deserve. However, it is hard to imagine what possible appeal this could have to female audiences who don't find Matt Dillon's smug grin or Kevin Bacon's damp member enough to reduce them to dribbling lust.There isn't so much a plot here as a series of excuses; for another illogical character-reversal, some pretty scenery or another shot of Richards scantily clad figure, who's cleavage the Director of Photography must have had burnt on to his retinas by the end of the shoot. In amongst it all there is a well-executed parody struggling to get out. The small-town California instincts are played up nicely with the community sub-dividing itself in to various factions who don't so much live together as co-habit. Theresa Russell has fun as Richards (naturally) sluttish mother who has slept her way around Blue Bay and still has a crush on Dillon's teacher-of-the-year. At the other end of the social strata, there is the inevitable swamp trash represented by Campbell and her family of in-bred crocodile trainers. The script is at pains to highlight the differences between these two lifestyles at first but soon gives up when the convoluted murder/black-mail/double-cross system gets in place.In the end this emerges as a competent thriller, high on titillation, low on logic, and acted with general apathy. Executive producer Bacon is particularly tedious, especially when his presence starts to dominate the second half. What you are left wondering is why these people should have bothered in the first place. Granted Campbell is given the chance to show another side to her usual vulnerable-innocence persona, demonstrating vulnerable-guilt instead and Richards is presumably aware that an array of bikinis, pouts and lesbian clinches (champagne-splattered breasts inclusive) will hinder her career none and makes you wonder why she refused Verhoeven. Otherwise Bacon and Dillon seem merely to be waving to each other on downward trajectories, while director McNaughton has finally given in and admitted he is simply a peddler of forgettable trash.Of course, none of this really matters a damn to those who will watch Wild Things, since it is not a bad evenings entertainment if you would rather not have to deal with anything too cerebral and are willing to forgive the dubious quasi-racism and ideological hypocrisy on offer. And unless you hoped to see Neve in the buff, chances are you'll get exactly what you paid for.  "},{"Title":"A fun, trashy film.","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Two high school students; one a rich snob, the other trailor trash, accuse guidence consoluer Dillion of rape and that's just the beginning. Filled with more twist than one can count,  a great sense of humor, and an excellent performance by Bill Murray. A wickedly fun movie. Rent it tonight. Rating 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Superb the spirit of Russ Meyer is alive and well.","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frenziedly campy thriller which manages to undermine everything it purports to be - a pumping exploitation movie - through excess, parody, irony to create a Russ Meyer classic for the 1990s.  Never mind swimming pool/menage a trois frolics - the key to the film is the Kevin Bacon shower scene, where the seeming 'straight' impulse becomes something else much more fun.  What's more, it actually tells us if we care to notice - we should be looking at the swamps, not Miami, those crocodiles and their tears. This is a perfect vehicle for the unhinged normality of Bill Murray, who gives another sly, moving, wicked performance.  He is our greatest actor.  Add to this a subtle film-viewing/exploitation/the Law critique from HENRY-director MacNaughton, and what more could you ask for? "},{"Title":"The steamiest film ever made","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is an incredibly steamy film. Everything about it is steamy. The location is the steamy swamps around the beach community of Blue Bay. The plot has more twists in it than an anaconda. As you watch this movie don't believe anyone is innocent, because this is one movie that leaves you guessing right to the very end. Even into the ending credits. It is a brilliantly shot movie, with some great sequences out on the stunning sunset lit swamps where crocodiles are a common danger. It has a great cast, including Kevin Bacon, Matt Dillon and Neve Campell. Also an absolutely brilliant performance by Bill Murray. This movie combines suspense, and sex with a very black sense of humour.  This is a thoroughly enjoyable film (with an incredibly mind-blowing sex scene that will surely go down in cinematic history), that you should not miss. In the end, a very cleverly written plot and screenplay. 4 stars "},{"Title":"Wild Guesses","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  To be honest, I never thought this movie's gonna be one of my favourite until the Credit Title. Hold your assumptions and thoughts. The truth is, Denise Richards and Neve Campbell stole Matt Dillon and Kevin Bacon's persona. And the guys just standing there with their mouth open and pants rolled down. Good work! Nice Things! Just watch the movie and be wild... "},{"Title":"Better than I expected.","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this expecting a teen titflick (Denise Richards *is* gorgeous and she didn't disappoint in the nakedness department).  However the plot was a pleasant surprise.  It takes a little while to get going, but once it does it's twist after twist after paranoia after twist after paranoia (with a twist thrown in).  Enjoyable, and though the movie is most infamous for the sex scene I think it stands well on its own without it.  P.S.  Don't stop the tape when you reach the credits... "},{"Title":"This Film Might Be So Bad It's Good","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film has so many plot twists, they actually spill over into the end credits.  It's not the actors' fault that every piece of dialogue that comes out of their mouths provokes instant laughter - although you have to wonder what guys like Kevin Bacon, Matt Dillon, and Bill Murray were thinking here.Denise Richards is a porn star.  The film delights in showcasing her as the perpetual teenage jailbait come-on with a weak emotional center and a dearth of morals.  Neve Campbell at least breaks out of her Party of Five half-smile head-tilt acting style.The three-way scene, which exists ostensibly to define the bond that allows these three miscreants to work together on a scam, is as titillating as you think, enough so that it might even justify the price of the rental.  If it doesn't, the camp value of this film is pretty high there's probably a great drinking game that goes along with Wild Things. "},{"Title":"Keeps you guessing!","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't know much about this film before I watched it.  All I really knew about the movie was from the cover of the video, which of course wasn't very descriptive.I thoroughly enjoyed this film!  I really got into the plot early on, and didn't know it was going to go so much further than the rape trial.  In a way, I would have liked it to end right after the first plot twist, because the last half of the film does get a bit excessive with the twists, though they were all plausible.The main reason I got this movie was to watch Denise Richards  (not for her acting).  I'd seen her in Starship Troopers and fell in love.  In this movie she is 100 times hotter, and best of all, topless in one scene.Also, Bill Murray has an exceptional role as a very discount lawyer who tries to pretend that he's a real professional (like having an intercom system in a one room office!).I recommend this movie to anyone who likes to be surprised by twists and turns in a movie.My rating 8  "}{"Title":"A Wild Thriller.","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Welcome to Blue Bay. A picture-perfect beautiful town with all kinds of characters.Kelly Van Ryan (Denise Richards) is a 16 year old cheerleader who one day, after school, offers to wash guidance counseller Sam Lombardo's (Matt Dillion) car. Kelly does so, and the next day she ends up in tears and accuses Sam of rape. So Kelly's mum (Theresa Russell) dives into the situation ordering a court case. Enter Suzy Toller (Neve Campbell), a high school rebel who is nothing like Kelly. Apart from the fact that Suzie Toller next acuuses Sam of rape. But what is behind all this?They'll be dying to play with you in this crime thriller with cool plot twists to keep you on the edgeof your seat.STARRING  Matt Dillion, Denise Richards, Kevin Bacon, Neve Campbell, Daphne Rubin Vega, Theresa Russell, Bill Murray.CERTIFICATE  Restricted 18. Contains Violence, Offensive Language and Sex Scenes. "},{"Title":"Implausible plot twists","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not a horrible movie, some great nudes scenes of Denise Richards.  It seemed committee written.  Let's try this.  Now what? What if this happened?  The trouble is they never went back to the beginning and rewrote scenes to make the later plot twists believable.  You could keep on adding scenes after scene to continue the movie forever, like a soap opera.  Maybe Kevin Bacon will wake up and it was all a dream.  Wait, Neve Campbell is really a conehead under the blonde wig.  Wait, Denise Richards rips off her mask and it is Richard Boone.  That Boone has some body. "},{"Title":"even hitchcock fans will never guess what's coming!","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  at first, I thought this was a typical teenagers accuse teacher of rape film; but was I wrong. Just when you think you've figured it out, there's another twist- and very believable. I dont want to give the plot away, but a hint pay attention to everyone and their skills, and don't let yourself think of characters as stereotypes "},{"Title":"This comedy perpetrates as a suspense thriller!","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I wished I had seen this movie when it was at the theater!  This movie is awesome!  The story was good, the plot twist (s) was unexpected and necessary!  To be honest I found this movie to be kind of funny! Especially scenes involving Kelly and her mother had me rolling!  How many people do you know offer there own children depressants!  Sandra Van Ryan tripped me out when they was at the police station and inside the limousine!  The threesome scene threw me!  This movie is worth watching whenever you need a good laugh along with some suspense! "},{"Title":"Wild Things is Really The Tame Ones","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies of 1997, and a bad attempt at Neo-Noir.  I would have enjoyed Wild Things more if it was done as a Comedy instead of a serious film.  It was bad because there were plot twist for the sake of plot twist as they had no real purpose in the movie.  The supposed hot sex scenes were nothing but cold and tame.  One thing interesting about this film is like many of the director's previous films, it gives a person(Sam Lambardo) who seems like a normal guy but is really a sexual sociopath(he beings with Henry(HenryPortait of A Serial Killer), the alien(The Borrower), and Ashley Judd's prostitute(Normal Life) of people who are not as they seem to be).  The sex scenes in the movie shows the difference between European and American filmmakers(I.E. Hollywood) and that is the Europeans are more open about filmming sex scenes while the Americans are very repressed and closed minded.  I really dislike this movie so much that I can't believe it was done by the same person who directed HenryPortait of A Serial Killer(1986).  The only thing I loved about the picture is the appearence of Bill Murray in a terrific comic role(It's too bad he wasn't the lead actor as the movie would have been better for it). "},{"Title":"8 on a scale of 10","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I came really close to rating this a 9. It was a smart thriller that seemed to have no major holes.There were many surprises - especially the closer to the end we got. It is somewhat ridiculous to believe all these could have happened without more hitches, BUT as long as the movie doesn't have holes, we have to suspend disbelief. Still, because it had just one or two too many twists, I couldn't quite give it a 9. I actually thought about even one or two MORE twists that could have been added to make it REALLY ridiculous. In theory, you could go on forever.The movie did one thing I have never seen before. At the end of the movie after the credits started rolling, they interjected scenes that we did not see - those scenes we saw from a distance and had to speculate (or subconsciously made assumptions) on what happened. The beauty of this is that it filled out the story and answered any remaining questions, but yet did not give us that information DURING the story. Clever and effective.The characters are very intriguing. Everyone is great to look at. The sex appeal between all involved just about breaks the thermometer. I found it vaguely similar to Body Heat - a movie that I rated a 9 and really liked a lot. It has the same kind of twists (though more of them), sensuality, attractive characters, crime, beach-as-the-reward, etc. I think it is safe to say if you liked that movie, you will like this one as well. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining; definitely trashy","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I hesitated to watch this movie for a long time.  I am not the kind of person that watches trashy movies.  By trashy I mean having gratuitous sex and/or violence.  However, I HAD heard of the twists and turns that this movie possessed, and last night when I saw that it was on and since there was nothing else to do I watched it.Without a doubt this movie is trashy.  There is an excess of both violence, sex, and language.  But, the truth be known, I actually liked the movie. This is one of those movies where I can recommend it, but I can only highly recommend it if you can catch it in an edited version.  Why they can't make movies like this as PG-13 movies I don't know.  Everything that was gratuitous in the movie was unnecessary.  Oh well.....Getting to the movie, this was definitely Hitchcockian in feel.  Every time that you think that you have it figured out, the plot is changed on you. At least that is how it is supposed to be.  I saw almost every plot twist coming.  There were, however, a couple that completely stunned me.  That is what makes the movie worth seeing.  If your sick of all of the 'hero saves the day' movies that Hollywood seems to churn out regularly then you definitely need to see this movie.  What really chills me is that it almost appears that they intentionally led you into a false sense of security by feeding you a few predictable plot twists in order to catch you on the really big ones.What especially makes this movie Hitchcockian is its habit of not showing scenes and allowing your imagination to play things out on its own.  The method of manipulating you in that manner is masterful.  Most of the missing scenes are actually played at the end of the movie during the credits in a manner that I am not sure whether Hitchcock would have approved of or not. Regardless, they are still wonderful and add a whole other dimension to the movie.In summary, I give this movie a 8/10.  It would have been a 9/10 if not for all the gratuitous sex. "},{"Title":"Simply Great","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In Blue Bay, Florida, two female students accuse hunky teacher Sam Lombardo (Matt Dillon) of rape. When two police are about to investigate the case they find out that there is something more to the story than anyone is willing to tell.Many sleazy  (and hugely enjoyable) intrigues and a great screenplay together with two marvellous  (to say the least)performances by Bill Murray and Neve Campbell makes this an absolute highlight.As cool as can be. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie with a twist!","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film was much better than I thought. If you can get past the provacative sex/3some scene in this movie you will enjoy this film as it is much wierder and filled with more plot twists than I thought. Denise Richards was awesome as the Rich bitch villan with Neve Campbell playing her trailer trash friend. Be sure to watch very carefully when Kevin Bacon steps out of the shower! And be sure to watch the movie all the way though..until the credits roll. It fills you in on what really happened in the movie. Extremely worth your time to watch and you'll probably want to see it again. 9/10. "},{"Title":"a little too clever for it's own good","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  wild things was enjoyable and not quite what i was expecting. the numerous twists and turns in the plot keep you guessing and they even had to add additional scenes during the end credits to explain how all the turn of events actually happened. Denise Richards got more chances to show off her awesome body than her acting skills, and neve campbell was miscast. matt dillon and bill murray on the other hand hit their respective characters dead on with murray being especially hilarious as an ambulance chasing attorney. a few less twists in the plot and this would be closer to a 8 in my book.  "}{"Title":"Brilliant work of swervery","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was expecting very little from Wild Things from the trailer which was shown in Germany. After having watched the film, I knew why the trailer revealed so little and covered so little ground.Wild Things can be summed by the classic Twin Peaks phrase the owls aren't what they seem. Everybody is trying to fool everyone else.What I liked most about the movie is that despite being misled the entire film, as a viewer I was able to enjoy the ending. I didn't feel conned and the way it was presented was absolutely flawless.I couldn't help but leave the cinema with a big grin on my face which said thanks for showing me that not everything in Hollywood has become bland and predictable.This film isn't just highly recommended, it should be mandatory viewing for any aspiring writer. "},{"Title":"Great Suspense and Mystery","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I thought it was a great movie, edited beautifully, and then the missing scenes in the credits was a nice touch.  The acting was superb one of my favorite movies of the year, I see many movies a year and its a thoughtful process and I rank my favorites as a whole, the movie had great acting, scenery, cinematography, and cohesion. An over all winner in my book, look forward to more of the direction and writing and acting from the persons who brought this great film together "},{"Title":"I think I...don't love you","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not averse to a good trashy thriller, but for some reason(s), WILD THINGS just didn't do it for me.  The twist upon twist piled on during the last 30 minutes don't add up in any satisfying way, and the characters...well first off, I'm not a big fan of any of the 4 main actors (Bill Murray does a nice supporting job as an ambulance chasing lawyer, though).  Secondly, the four characters they play are so unlikable that frankly by the end of the movie I was hoping they'd all get whacked.I've read some compliments about the acting but personally I feel everyone except perhaps Denise Richards was miscast.  Matt Dillon as a wholesome guidance counselor who may have a dark side?  He normally plays the opposite and it bothered me.  Sorry, but with the number of movies he's been in where's he's played a punk (especially his teen movies), I just have a hard time seeing him as a responsible adult--not necessarily his fault, but that's how I view him.  Kevin Bacon plays a tough cop who makes no bones that he's also a mean sumbitch--another against-type casting, I suppose, and Bacon is OK but why get a substitute when there are many b-grade actors who can play this role more convincingly in their sleep?  Richards is okay but that's because she's supposed to play a vapid dim bulb anyway, as opposed to unintentionally playing it in her other films.  Neve Campbell is moderately convincing as Swamp Trash Susie but in a movie that prominently promoted and featured a menage a trois between Dillon, Richards, and Campbell, I would've preferred a more interesting & attractive actress.Here's how I would've cast it -replace Matt Dillon with...Bill Pullman or Tom Hanks (!! now that would've been worth seeing). -replace Kevin Bacon with...Ed Harris -replace Denise Richards with...well, she can stay -replace Neve Campbell with...Melissa Joan Hart (if only for the threeway...forget Sabrina, this is Hollywood, baby!) "},{"Title":"Very, Very twisting!","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film for the first time a couple of nights ago and I felt that although this film did drag at certain parts, it was truly justified with it's sexy scenes of intrigue, suspense and down-right cruelty. Very, Very interesting!Out of 10..........7/10.Denise Richards was actually good for once.  "},{"Title":"I was totally blown away","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was totally blown away when I saw this movie. I went to the cinema and just chose this by chance. I had never heard of it before. Little did I know that I was going to witness one of the best movies I have ever seen. Several times through the movie I thought HA! So THAT is how it is only to be surprised within ten minutes. This is definitely a must-buy for me. I liked the plot extremely much and think it's the best since The Usual Suspects. I have never really drooled over sex scenes (with the exception of Priest) and didn't do it here either, but I liked them. The actors are very good. See this movie if you haven't, because it is a killer. LOVE IT!! "},{"Title":"Silly last twenty minutes","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First hour of this one is almost perfect, but it's ruined by a mad last twenty minutes where as many twists as possible are piled on an increasingly incredible situation. The coup de grace is that the little vignettes that play over the final credits were obviously an attempt to try and explain what's just happened.  "},{"Title":"Most Comments of Any Movie That I have searched so far.","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I liked it!  Contains sex, mystery, intrigue, murder, double dealing, and so many plot twists that you will likely want to go back and see what you missed.  While it may not be the best movie ever made, it is certainly very entertaining and ranks high for the erotic content.  "},{"Title":"Twists and turns","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In the beginning this movie seems obvious, like something we've all seen too many times. But as it moves along nothing is like you think it is. Who's really the bad guy/girl? When you think you have it all sorted out, then BAM! something happens and you have to start wondering all over again. That can be good, but here it's all too much for my liking. It's almost exhausting with all those twists and turns. It makes you think and wonder, but it's almost a little depressing when you find out that you really haven't got a clue. The movie isn't bad, though. The actors all do good jobs. I especially liked the lawyer. If you manage to keep up with the action, you might enjoy this movie. I gave it 6/10 "},{"Title":"Trashy But Good","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This story in the hands of a mediocre director with a cast of unknowns could have ended up to be some grade B soft core porn flick. Yet from the beginning, I was very surprised how something so trashy could be this good.Let's begin with the underlying humor in the film. The start of the story brings in Theresa Russell and Robert Wagner who play their parts in such an exaggerated, soap opera way, that this is as much a comedy as a crime thriller. Then we have the younger characters played well by Campbell and Richards along with Matt Dillon. In their scenes the style of the director turns what should be routine exploitation into artful sleaze. In the middle of all this pops up Bill Murray of all people in a terrific supporting role as a crooked lawyer. And to top it off there is a decent mystery underneath all of the nonsense. This is not a great film but it is certainly entertaining and the talent involved is in some ways better than the material deserved. But who cares, have some fun and just watch this wild thing.   "},{"Title":"Look out twists and turns ahead","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film has more twists and turns than any modern film that I remember..... Even at the end when the twists are over it makes a sharp left turn again, just as you are ready to get out of your seat...of course I was on the edge of my seat the whole time. "}{"Title":"Provocative","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is an interesting thriller, different to say the least. With a cast of good actors (Matt Dillon is great, Theresa Russel too), an excellent director (MacNaughton is the responsible for the extremely violent Henry Portrait of A Serious Killer) and a delicious sound track, Wild Things seems, at first, a television series, but it doesn't take much for you to know what is coming Betrayals, Sex and crime are the prime elements for MacNaughton's movie. What makes it at least worth of a look is the plot, because the movie has turns and surprises!although it isn't a masterpiece, is a provocative entertaining, and Denise Richards , like the rest of the supporting cast, is great! "},{"Title":"Florida noir thriller is fine adult entertainment.","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Reading the reviews and comments about 'Wild Things' gave me the idea that it was full of sex, sleaze and generally reprehensible characters. Viewing it showed me nothing could be further from the truth. Well, OK, there was some sex in it--all right, a lot of sex. And Kevin Bacon did play a cop who was a pretty nasty character. OK, there were a lot of nasty characters.But so what? This is not a movie for children, it's for grown-ups, and it's a first-rate crime thriller. Its steamy Florida location is played for all its worth and the plot is so suitably twisted and complicated that you'll never guess everything that's coming no matter how many thrillers you've seen.Matt Dillon and Kevin Bacon are both in fine form here. I never saw 'Starship Troopers,' but some who saw both movies have expressed surprise at the good performance of Denise Richards in this film following the other one. I agree she's great in this picture. Bill Murray as an attorney provides a little comic relief, but thankfully it's in a style keeping with the tenor of the movie; and Robert Wagner is good in a cameo. "},{"Title":"Delightfully bad, what continuity?","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a gloriously bad teenage take on Body Heat. It feels like they just tacked on new endings until the thing was long enough - some of the conversations that take place in the first half of the movie make NO SENSE AT ALL in the context of the 2nd or 3rd ending. Ooops, I'm sorry, those are not endings, they're plot twists. Don't bother to rent it, wait for it on cable. "},{"Title":"More twists than in a plate of spaghetti but just as good!","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Almost impossible to distinguish between victim and aggressor and between guilty and innocent. The final twist is a real surprise (and was probably written into the script right at the very end!) Not a bad film and the actors are nice to look at but I would be inclined to give it a 12 rating rather than the American R - the only sex scenes are a pair of panties being dropped and a splendid pair of boobs - nothing that you would not see on any beach. Not the best but not bad. "},{"Title":"very sexy thriller!!!great suspenseful flick!!","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a very sexy thriller with twists and turns you where you look.The plot is a young high school teacher is accused of raping a beautiful young student. This movie will keep you guessing until the last second!!It stars today's hottest stars Denise Richards,Neve Campbell, Matt Dillon, Kevin Bacon and Robert Wagner. Wild Things is a very cool movie taking place in the ultra rich city of Green Bay.Bill Murray (Rushmore,Ghostbusters) also stars as Matt Dillon's lawyer during the movie!This movie has a lot of suspense and action for a sexy thriller!!It is one of my favorite movies in this genre!! "},{"Title":"Very pretty girls, very exciting story, very good film","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild Things is not a masterpiece or something like that, but it is very exciting and wicked. The story has a lot of twists and don't think you've guessed everything - there is always something beyond the facts. Neve Campbell is one of my favorite actresses and here she surprised me playing an unusual girl, completely different from Sidney Prescott (Scream 1 and 2). But no one surprised me more than Denise Richards. She's so beautiful and so sexy... So if you're looking for a good mystery film with some sex you won't be disappointed. -------------------------------- 8/10 "},{"Title":"Hitchcock meets MTV","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's not really that worthy of the Master, but it's got a few decent twists and turns.  I didn't think it had that much sex/nudity (three, maybe four scenes over 108 minutes).  Actually, I thought the twists were kinda telegraphed a bit much  it's one of those movies where about a minute before the shoe drops, you realize, Hey, it must be Person X!  Hitchcock wouldn't have done that.Bill Murray is hilarious, and Kevin Bacon is okay.  I wasn't overly impressed by anyone else.  The insertion of the scenes at the end is probably the best part.  Most of it is unnecessary, but at we least we find out how the baddie is going to get at the money at the end. "},{"Title":"It didn't make my heart sing.","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hi, my name is Slim and I just saw a movie about teenage lust, adult lust, lesbian lust, alligator lust, and bad acting lust.  And thrown in because the producers figured the movie needed more plot lines was stupid cops, crooked cops, greedy cops, and stupid lawyers, crooked lawyers and greedy lawyers.  However, they must have run out of illiterate actors to read the rotten script because they had one actor being all types of the cop.  And wouldn't you know it, Kevin Bacon played the cop.I'm talking about &#145;Wild Things' and if wasn't for the some of the teenage girl wet T-shirt shots and some bare breasted lesbian rubadubdub scenes the bad acting would've had me snoring all throughout it.  As it was, I had to keep on kicking myself while waiting for some gratuitous teenage chest thrusters to appear.  Basically, we got a movie about a Florida high school counselor who's accused of getting beasty with one of the rich hormonally amped teenage babe students but another student who's the campus wrong side of the swamp drugged tatoo queen says it's all a sham and so the counselor gets a &#145;settlement' and then it turns out that they were all in it together.We got scenes of straining bursting breasts, we got scenes of straining bursting lawyers, we got scenes of teenage wasteland, we got scenes of rich white folk wasteland, we got scenes of bad writing wasteland, and finally we got actors who are in a wasteland of a movie.One wasted, blown out, sucking star. Go check it out but only if you want to keep on playing Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon.El Monte Slim    "},{"Title":"WOW!!!","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"   I first saw this movie with my mates. I wasn't really expecting much. I didn't really rate Matt Dillon as a brilliant actor(and still don't). But Denise Richards(Starship Troopers) and Neve Campbell(54) were incredibly good and very sexy. Kevin Bacon was adequate throughout until the end scenes where he stormed the screens. Even Bill Murray is on the show! Funnily enough, I didn't think that the scene with the sex sandwich was the most sexy.(check out the scene with Richards and her friend cleaning Dillon's car!) But all that aside, Wild Things has an incredible script, firmly handled by the whole cast. The twists in the story fit perfectly in at the end when its all explained. Rating=4/5 "},{"Title":"It's not just a sleazy thriller","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I finally saw this almost 18 months after it first came out. Everybody made it sound like the only reason to watch is for the sleazy elements. They're great and all, but they neglected to mention that this is right up there with MARATHON MAN and BLOOD SIMPLE for having good plot twists throughout. John McNaughton continues to be a director to watch for. "}{"Title":"A wild, wonderful movie!","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild Things is one of the most surprising movies of the year! It is really hard to explain the twisted plot without giving away any surprises, but I will do my best. Sam Lombardo (Matt Dillon) is a respectable guidance counselor at Blue Bay High School in Blue Bay, Florida. He is a hottie too. All of the girls want to get with him, especially rich girl Kelly Van Ryan (the wonderful, Denise Richards.) Lombardo and Kelly's mom Sandra (Theresa Russell) had a fling at one time, and I think that is why Kelly really wanted Mr. Lombardo. Anyway, one day, she and a friend go to wash Mr. Lombardo's jeep for a school thing. Kelly then goes into his house,  and runs back out, and the next day, she accuses him of rape. Then, white trash Suzy Tuller (the never better, Neve Campbell) accuses him of rape too. Two suspicious cops (Kevin Bacon and Daphne Rubin-Vega) investigate the rape charges put on by the girls, and soon the plot twists begin. Good performances, especially from Richards and Campbell, and the mixture of sex, suspense, comedy, and the plot that is as twisted as a country back road makes Wild Things worth watching again and again. Co-starring Carrie Snodgress, Jeff Perry, Robert Wagner, and Bill Murray "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Before I saw  Wild Things, I thought that it will be a very good movie, but its one of the worst movies that Ive seen. The first 20 min. are good, but then the movie sucks, it turned to a porn and lesbian movie, it is really bad. Matt Dillon and Neve Campbells performances were good, but Denise Richards, Kevin Bacon and especially Theresa Russell were really BAD. The end isnt bad, because its unexpected and very original, but I recommend you to dont look at the movie, it is a very bad way of spend time and money.On a 1-10 scale 2.5 "},{"Title":"More twists than a mountainous road!","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you like surprises, this is a great movie for you.  Plot jumps keep you guessing throughout.  Stay watching after it says the end for the explanation of how it was done.  Plus, you get to see Kevin Bacon's bacon.  "},{"Title":"Three is not a Crowd","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Great Flic. Highlight of film was Mr. Bowden's (Bill Murray's) secretary. You will, in an offbeat voice, say to yourself, for no reason, O.K., Mr. Bowden, for days after watching this whodunwhat to who. "},{"Title":"Great plot twists","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  My Age 13One day, student Kelly Van Ryan, played by Denise Richards, accuses guidance counselor Sam Lombardo, played by Matt Dillon, of raping her.  This places Sam's life in ruin.  Soon after, another student named Suzie, played by Neve Campbell, also comes forward and says that Sam raped her.  Sam is taken to court by Kelly's mother.  Detective Ray Duquette, played by Kevin Bacon, is not convinced that this is as straight-forward as it seems, and suspects a more devious plan at work.Wild Things is quite suspenseful and interesting and the plot twists enjoyably all the time, but it is occasionally boring.  There really isn't very much sex in the film, as most people probably think, and it isn't really my cup of tea.  But the plot twists are the best parts of the film, interesting, surprising and thrilling.  Acting is good from just about every main actor, but the plot twists are what makes this film worthwhile.Australian Classification MA 15+ Medium Level Coarse Language, Medium Level Sex Scenes, Medium Level ViolenceRating 62 out of 100 "},{"Title":"Bad, but in a good way!","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Denise Richard's success as an actress comes from the way her breasts distract you from her horribly wooden acting.  That's OK though, because there's a lot to like about this movie.  The REAL actors, like Matt Dillon, Kevin Bacon, and Bill Murray put on a great, campy show with lots of plot twists, murder, suspense, and even more plot twists.  I especially loved the three-way sex scene where Neve Campbell keeps her clothes on till the end, finally exposing her bare back, while Denise puts on quite the soft-core show with Matt.  Because, you see, Neve isn't THAT kind of actress.  No nudity, her contract says!  Anyway, zap that microwavable popcorn and turn out the lights, because this movie is well worth renting. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever made-There's something for everyone!","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is so awesome! It has something for everyone Comedy, drama, suspense, kinky sex, and action. The writer is a genius. Denise and Neve give such great performances. I love it! "},{"Title":"The most wild movie of the year!!","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When i saw this movie I was impressed. i never thought that sex and violence go together in this way.  the movie is great,I recommend you to look at the movie.  "},{"Title":"Interesting film technique, but that's all","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I seem to look at films more for substance these days than the superficial. This film was definitely the latter in the acting and there really wasn't much of anything new here. The film tries to be clever with all the plot twists to keep the moviegoer guessing. It does succeed on that level but I couldn't get past Denise Richard's wearing a bra in much of the film - an amazing sight, and the various sex scenes -  but it was just too gratuitous for my tastes. Finally, the most interesting thing about the film was the original use of the film's unanswered questions during the closing credits.  "},{"Title":"Illogical things...","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Did anyone wonder why Matt Dillon would bother to stick around Palmdale AFTER nailing the Van Ryan trust fund? Why? Just leave... Why was Kevin Bacon involved in the first place? Is there any less painful way of faking your own death than by do-it yourself dentistry? Why is everyone (except the gator wrestler) so good looking?   "}{"Title":"Thanks for introducing me to Denise Richards","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have to be superficial here.  The plot was OK but who cares?  I was sold when Denise Richards washed the jeep. "},{"Title":"Gag me with a spoon","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie had started out interesting.  Like after Denise Richards washed her teacher's car.  From there, she should have car jacked it and rammed in to a pole.  This movie was so distasteful, slutty, and and pointless.  I hated it.  I'll give it 1/2 of a star, only for the first half of the movie.  "},{"Title":"heathers + the game","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  at first, i totally thought it was another court movie coz that was all they showed on the previews. i like neve and so i thought, not bad, maybe i should watch it...and im really glad i did. its one of my favorite movies by far.the plot was really witty and twisty. i just thought that it was another melodramatic teen movie but boy, was i surprised. it was a very enjoyable and entertaining. the actors and actresses were superb and the paranoia i felt was awesome.i really liked the musical score too. it was classic, something like the score on psycho that gives you that sense that something is terribly wrong and that there are more than meets the eye. i really liked the credits part where the blanks were filled and answered the questions probably plaguing our minds. what can i say? i totally enjoyed it and was really surprised by the versatility of the actors. out of 10, id say i give it a 9.5 or a 10. "},{"Title":"Well, Bill Murray was good...","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't really know what this was about when I hired it, but about ten minutes into the movie I'd already figured out pretty much everything which was going to happen.Sure, Neve Campbell was good (As usual!) and there was a good mix of sex, violence and the occasional dose of humour injected by the unflappable Bill Murray,and Kev Bacon (The look on his face is priceless when he's filming at the poolside!).But on the whole the plot was transparent and some of the acting was quite hammy, especially Theresa Russell. Still, I did quite enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Twistier than something very twisty","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Although this film plotted along at quite a slow rate for much of the film, with Denise Richard's breasts seemingly acting as the majority of the plot, once it reached its climax it certainly knew how to grab the viewer by the throat.The extra angles on the story which were revealed certainly caught me out first time round and made up for the ordinary bulk of the film.Bill Murray was just excellent. He was superbly cast and added to the humour element. A good film, worth watching, but only to see how it finishes. "},{"Title":"Not what it seems","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild Things is the kinda movie you don't wanna take your eyes off. Nothing is what it seems to be,and you still find yourself wondering after the movie how it all came together. Wild Things is brilliant with a wonderful talented cast, this is one of the best thrillers i've ever seen,and i highly recommend seeing it if you haven't seen it yet. "},{"Title":"Plot twists keep you guessing","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of those movies with so many twists and turns of the plot that eventually every time two seemingly unconnected characters are alone  together you expect them to start trading hastily  whispered comments.  Sometimes they do, sometimes they don't, but any clue at all is going to be a spoiler.  Suffice it to say that things work themselves out to a surprising but very satisfactory  conclusion.  The principal actors are all excellent.   The famous three-way and lesbian sex scenes  are actually quite tame, although maybe not be suitable for children.   "},{"Title":"More than just a skin flick.","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Having heard of the famous threesome/girl on girl action beforehand, I was expecting to find some soft core porn with a limited plot when some friends rented this one. However, I soon realized that it was much, much more than that. NO ONE could pick out all of the plot twists in this flick beforehand. Plus,  I'm a sucker for any film which resolves itself during the credits. Well worth watching.  "},{"Title":"I forgot.","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I forgot one thing.. If you like this, check out Palmetto. Woody Harrelson, Elisabeth Shue and Chloe Sevigny (Trees Lounge). It's another good one "},{"Title":"A sexy sizzler that will keep you guessing. *** out of ****","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I first heard of Wild Things, I expected it to be one of those greatly offensive lurid trash movies that contain lots of vulgar material, sexy twists and bizarre happenings. After watching it, I realized that I was corrected. What I never guessed, however, was how entertaining the movie actually was. This movie has more unexpected twists in it than it can actually tell in its 113 minutes, so in the ending credits they're still explaining the hidden elements. This is a clash of originality, sex, humor and suspense and fun.The movie's plot is so annoying, yet smart and trashy. The filmmakers give only enough information away so that we can't figure anything out on our own, and that we can guess and interpret things maybe differently that a person watching the film from a different angle.It takes place in a Florida town called Blue Bay. It's a little city where alligators roam the green tropical swamps and marshes that look creepy and uneasy. Matt Dillon plays Sam Lombardo, a well respected high school guidance counselor, who at the beginning, hosts a seminar about sex crimes. Kevin Bacon is officer Ray Duquette, and his partner, played by Daphne Rubin-Vega, is named Gloria Perez.Then the film introduces the attractive young Kelly Van Ryan, the rich spoilt but unhappy brat of Sandra Van Ryan, who is having an affair with Lombardo. The father of Kelly killed himself, leaving the two of them lonely and hapless for years.Another key player in the film's plot is Suzie Toller (Campbell), another young lady who lives in a beat-up trailer behind an alligator farm, and is not so wealthy.Soon after the characters are properly introduced, Kelly follows Lombardo home, asks for a ride to someplace, washes his car, and appears in his living room so wet and seductive, only the imagination can wonder what happens next, for all that we see in Kelly leaving the trailer of Sam's after a while looking mad. Latter, we learn that she is testifying that she was raped by him. Her mother is outraged.The movie follows a series of over six twists (I counted, but I may have missed a few, it is hard to tell.) many double crosses, unexpected turns, character deceptions and even a few triple crosses leaving only the phrase that comes to mind that no one is who they seem to be.The actors are indeed a little soap opera like. That is Especially true for Denise Richards, from Starship Troopers, who's entirety seems so over acted and fake, put on that I didn't even buy her character.  Who is devilishly perfect, however is Neve Campbell. My raves go out to this person who is capable of a performance tower above all others here. Kevin Bacon and Matt Dillon both were right on the mark, here. While Theresa Russell and Bill Murray did what they could in what little screen time they had.After screening Goodbye, Lover a few days ago, and Wild Things today, I am beginning to realize what movie like this are all about; they exists only to keep an audience guessing what will happen next, but then, they don't necessary know what already has happened, now do they?  "}{"Title":"Twisty plot","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Interesting excuse to show a lot of people in various stages of undress however several plot twists keep the story lively.  Plot summary during the credits helps wrap it all up in a neat little package, one of those like The Great Outdoors where you don't want leave till the bitter end. Denise Richards absolutely sizzles. "},{"Title":"Sexy, and pretty good","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild Things is a pretty good movie. Neve Campbell looks hot as always, but there's so many plot twists to the point you can't take this movie seriously. But it's still a pretty good movie. I give Wild Things **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"Who Needs a Plausible Plot...","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has it all, a great setting, a funny cameo from Bill Murray, a good over the top performance from Robert Wagner and some very very sexy scenes with Denise Richards.  Who could ask for anything more?  How about a plausible story.  Without ruining anything for those who have yet to see it, the story seemed a little too contrived and insulted my intelligence.  Too bad the writers couldn't have crafted something a little more complex and satisfying.  Or they could have gone for the Basic Instinct treatment, and say the heck with the story and just focus on the sex.  Wild Things is okay but left me disappointed. "},{"Title":"Excellent Suspense","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is one of the greatest suspense thrillers I have ever seen.  It starts off with a very deep plot, which always makes a movie more enjoyable. From there, this movie takes off in a twist of plot curves that leave you on the edge of your seat, waiting for more.  The ending leaves you satisfied, and fits the movie great.  If you are looking for a suspense/thriller, rent this movie and you won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Two are company, three's a crowd.","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you're looking for a film with more plot twists than a corkscrew then this is for you. Famous for a couple of pretty explicit scenes it's worth a watch for the mind bending finale on the boat. "},{"Title":"Whew!","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What can I say?It was so outrageous, but I loved it! It has so many plot twists that were so unpredictable and shocking. I couldn't predict anything like that. The energy of the movie was very cool and it kept until the ending and it exploded in an awesome way. Very mind-boggling.The actors Neve Campbell, Denise Richards, Matt Dillion, Kevin Bacon and Bill Murray were excellent. Their chemistry are undeniable.Wild Things takes us to the level that was so wild and racy. It's truly a shockfest movie, my type of movie. To follow the title, it is, indeed, VERY wild. "},{"Title":"Much better than I was expecting","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I started watching this movie with something of a bad attitude, for I didn't expect much from this film.  About halfway in, I was correctly predicting the plot twists, yet I found myself enjoying the film anyway.  And by the end, I had been fooled by a twist or two, and had surprisingly found the movie to be rather good.  This really was a clever film, and I would have regarded it as a great film if the first few twists would have been a surprise.  Nevertheless, if you like films with a great cast, a great look, and a great ending, then this is the kind of movie for you. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Matt Dillon is accused of rape,but there's more to the story than one suspects. Entertaining film with a new plot twist every minute.Rating**** (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Damn Entertaining!","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The serious, overall critique of this movie is mixed. It's very clever, very shocking, but also really really bad. As cornball as you can get. It's in one of those terrific sub-genre plot twist movies like Psycho, Fargo, The Crying Game, Pulp Fiction, etc. that has not one but several twists, only Wild Things takes it to the extreme (and I mean EXTREME). I love movies like that, in fact all four of the movies I mentioned above are among my favorite flicks of all time, but the fact that Wild Things takes it too far, lacking reason and dumbing plot, adds to the crappy camera work, stupid music, and bad acting (Neve Campbell is very hot, but has the talent of the Spice Girls....yeah, tilt your head back and forth like Joey on Dawson's Creek.....I just know that Oscar is on the way!) to make a bad movie. Yet, though the plot is dumb, it's still very unpredictable and often clever to make a great/awful movie.So, there's my serious critique. Now, go rent the movie! Honestly it's more crap than cool, but it's as entertaining as a Springer episode where Steve breaks his record for bruises. Watch it by yourself to get in a good mood, or I recommend watching with a group of friends. Believe me, y'all will hoot and holler during the first 30 minutes more that you would during an all day Springer-thon.   "},{"Title":"Who's the new actor?","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The movie was wonderful, but I was more interested in seeing the credits at > the end to find out who played Jimmy Leach. Pendergast did a great job and > hopefully we will see a lot more of him in the very near future. "}{"Title":"Trust no one","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a very good film and it is example how to make a good movie with a plot that was used many times before.Trust no one, is the way I will describe this film in few words.But one thing is sure ,we can trust Kevin Bacon in the future. "},{"Title":"Not exactly what I expected but good","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well, I was told a little about this movie before I saw it, but only the R rated parts. I didn't expect all the twists at the end.  Some told me to stay for the credits(but I do that for every single movie I see) but now I know why. I was surprised at the characters and how they crossed each other and someone is not always who they seem.  The end made sense as soon as I saw the parts they left out. I was like oh!, so that's what really happened. Bill Murray is great, as always. Neve Campbell is good.  I never saw her as a bad girl, but it was kind of cool to see her in a different light. I just love the twists in this movie. Everything I saw was unexpected. This movie was good and I probably will buy it on DVD soon... "},{"Title":"Florida Noir?","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  With this and Palmetto, we seem to be getting Film Noir type movies set in Florida, except with lots of sun and skin. At first I thought this movie was a direct descendant of the cheesy R rated flicks that played the drive-in during the late 70s. What's up with the car washing scene anyway? But the movie turned and twisted along to an unexpected ending that made me glad I stuck with the movie.   "},{"Title":"worth seeing","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not quite sure why people are saying that this movie was horrible because of nudity.  Likewise, I've noticed several people saying that this movie is great...because of nudity!  Let's get past nudity, please.  All of the reviews of this movie that I have read made that the central issue in judging this picture.  I will address it once by saying to potential viewers that it's comparable to Basic Instinct in its good plot and large amounts of sex which I do not take into account when critiquing.  The movie itself I found entertaining.  The twists were well put together.  It's almost on the same level as The Usual Suspects in that aspect.  You'll need to watch the credits for it to make sense, though.  Overall, there are many great movies that I would recommend before this one, but it's worth seeing if you've got two hours to spare. I give it an eight out of ten. "},{"Title":"SEXPLOITATION REDUX!!!","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this flick.. Matt Dillon was actually watchable, Neve Campbell was super...Kevin Bacon was well, entertaining (hehe) Denise Richards is a putz who should never have a job in Hollywood again (did the casting director not see Starship Troopers) this chick has all the charisma of a stale piece of bread. The plot twists were fun (a couple of them are predictable, but who cares..a movie is supposed to entertain, and this one entertained!). The 3-way was not needed, nor was the bitch-fight in the swimming pool, but what the hell! Did we really need to see Sharon Stone spread her legs in Basic Instinct? Nope, but it's one of the most memorable moments in movie history... Wild Things won't be one of the most memorable moments, but it's sure fun to watch! "},{"Title":"Let's get a couple of things straight","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Firstly, this movie was not brilliant, but neither was it terrible. Secondly, this movie was created as a typically modern American version of a 'steamy thriller'. This means effectively very soft sex and nudity (although the menage a trois pushed it a bit) and some weak attempt at suspense. And that's what you got. Thirdly, movies do not (and have never actually) really required one character for the audience to sympathise with. This is a weak formulaic construct. Fourthly, if you leave a movie before the end of the credits you deserve to miss out on additional info. Movies do not start with the opening credits or end at the beginning of the closing credits. Simple. (Besides, you miss all the interesting technical stuff) Now, this movie has some twists and turns but it is a long way from hard to follow. The acting isn't sterling, but it is certainly adequate (except for Robert Wagner - I totally agree with a previous comment on this one. His puffed up macho/aggressive manner was almost laughable). There is a little bit of tension - but only insofar as you wonder who'll kill who next. Finally, I watched this movie for free so I can't really complain but it isn't worth the 7.3 or so its currently running at. I imagine this will settle down with time. Don't expect too much from this and you won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Sex, sex, and sex and a few plot twists with some lesbians","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  So we got two very good looking girls and a very good looking guy named Matt Dillon. They say he raped them, but it gets better. Nothing but plot twists, and you don't find yourself rooting for anyone. If only my guidance counselor was as good looking as Matt Dillon..watch it when you are in a analytical mood.  "},{"Title":"Nice plot twists, but what the heck???","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you love a film filled with plot twists then this one's for you -- it's a non-stop guessing game until the end. There's only one problem the plot gets twisted into such a frenzy with the mesh of characters that the viewer is completely stumped at the end! The cut scenes which were included during the credits helped a little, but not much. It's worth watching for the 15 or 20 surprises you wouldn't expect, but once is certainly more than enough. I definitely agree with the user who spoke of this as the perfect possible late-night made-for-TV movie. (Very) Steamy & surprising with just a hint of corniness, not a bad contender for a boring night!  "},{"Title":"Not Bad for Cheap Sexploitation","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I did not bother going to see this in a theatre but rented it on video.  I figured the soft-core action might interest my husband.  I wound up being pleasantly surprised; this film actually had a pretty interesting plot with some great twists.  Speaking just for myself, I found the sex scenes kind of boring and contrived, and Kevin Bacon flashing his willy in the shower scene was purely gratuitous.  Ditto for the car-washing scene.  What kept me interested was the story, which kept you guessing as to who was good/bad right to the end.  The way the closing credits wraps things up was a nice touch too. "},{"Title":"Mind twister","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie turns your head around so many times that is hard to keep track of things after a while. What starts out easy turns out to be a wild and complicated plot. Unfortunately the audience is tricked by cheating once in a while. Definitely stay through the credits though if you want to know the real solution. "}{"Title":"death to all mutants","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Forward past the credits at the end and the film will make more sense . Not a lot more, but more. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a very good movie, it sure keeps you guessing and the ending is rather a surprise. Besides, Denise Richards shows plenty of skin, need I say more? "},{"Title":"it could have been great.....","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild Things looks very good on paper.Neeve Campell,Denise Richards,Kevin Bacon & Matt Dillon are among the stars in this movie. Wild Things starts good but as time goes on it gets too complicated,much too complicated. It feels like the movie relies on the sex scenes and they are a few but that isnit good enough in a long way...... "},{"Title":"A fun movie","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's not The Godfather, but it is a very entertaining movie with plausible plot twists.  Definitely one of the better movies of 97 and I enjoyed it much more than LA Confidential "},{"Title":"How could anyone think this piece of S%&# was good???","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I feel sorry for the people who think they understand Hitchcock enough to put Wild Things on the same level as his work.  A special thanks to CitKane (from West Lafayette, IN) who's comment about this movie was right on the money. Wild Things is not a masterful piece of film making!  This was absolute garbage!  The acting was good?? (for a porn-flick maybe but not for any reasonable movie)! I am ashamed at the number of people (about 90% of north americans) who think that a piece of trash like Wild Things can be justified as good by throwing in good sex scenes.  As one commenter wrote The sex scenes were not gratuitous. Each one was an important part of the plot... PARDON ME? Denise Richards mother, screwing the pool boy was an essential part of the plot?  Kevin Bacon's bacon, was an essential part of the plot?  How could anyone think these things.  I will not vote for this movie because there's no negative numbers on the scale.  That's how bad Wild Things was!!! "},{"Title":"Weak attempt at film noir","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Let's just face it  the ensemble cast of John McNaughton's overcooked potboiler aren't nearly as wild as they pretend to be. While it is interesting to see Bill Murray cameo as a low-rent sleaze-bag lawyer, it's also easy to see Neve Campbell exploiting her perverse character as a pathetic attempt to expand her acting range. Director McNaughton throws in one too many metaphorical images of alligators (they're predators, get it?). While Kevin Bacon is effectively slimy and Matt Dillon plays his role just dumb enough to make you wonder if he's smarter than he appears, the movie just topples over itself. The twists get pretty desperate toward the finale, and Robert Wagner embarrasses himself as a rival lawyer trying to act tough. And Denise Richards, although admittedly appealing to look at, delivers her lines with the flatness in the tradition of Plan 9 from Outer Space.  "},{"Title":"Great sex scenes","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The sex scenes were not gratuitous.  Each one was an important part of the plot but, moreover, they were obviously directed at the soft porn industry.  When two babes fight in a pool, or you have a threesome . . . THIS is the way they should be shot! This is a great film that will be talked about for years.  "},{"Title":"Who cares? (spoiler)","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Don't read this if you want the plot completely ruined for you.  My problem with this movie is that if you have a slate of characters who are all thoroughly vindictive and sneaky, who cares what happens to them?  Doesn't there have to be some sort of protagonist for a plot to exist?  I guess we are supposed to feel good that Neve Campbell's character comes out of this mess on top--but why?  Because she had the least money?  This is a completely despicable movie--an incomprehensible plot written around the chance to show Neve Campbell in a split-second three-way scene. "},{"Title":"A neo-film noir presenting numerous twists","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  While this movie is referred to as a thriller, drama or crime flick it represents the modern film noir genre at close to its best. The film looks at a teacher accused of rape by one student soon to be joined by another student's claim of rape. What follows is a rollercoaster ride of twists and turns than will leave you wondering up to the closing credits where flashbacks help to clear things up. Modern plot devices do not hinder this flick's ability to keep you watching to see what happens next. Neve Cambell and Denise Richards shed their good girl images (as well as a lot else) to show they can really act. Even Bill Murray is a surprise as a broken down lawyer and delivers a good supporting role. Worth a watch if you like plot twists. A must see for flim noir lovers everywhere. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great movie . Acting is superb , but the twists make this amazing. But  it works . One thing that has annoyed me . I saw this film at the cinema and like most I walk out pretty quickly when I presume the film is at its end , however it wasn't until my sister had it out on rent did I realise that as the credits start to roll , you get an explantion of the story. Why was it done like that? I know for a fact that a lot of people missed out on the ending , presuming the film was at its end . Especially as those scenes at the end are such an important part of the film . Weird .But in all a great film .  "}{"Title":"Whoa Nelly","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosh.  How seductive.  I was quite enthralled by this film.  So many twists, I was genuinely lost.  Especially at the lawyer Bill Murray being involved. I must say though, I knew that Neve Campbell wasn't dead.  One other thing. Neve has a no nudity clause.  Why didn't she just use a body double? "},{"Title":"Better than you think","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well, surprise, surprise.  This is one that I thought would just be a gaggle of scantily clad girls running about, getting wet and giggling.  For a bit, I wasn't too far off, and then it gets interesting.  The plot changes so often, it's tough to keep up, not impossible, but tough.  It was fun coming up with the answer only to have your idea be crushed in the next scene.  The ending was believable.  OK, it was a bit of a stretch, but it did tie things together nicely.  All in all, a movie that will surprise and entertain you. "},{"Title":"Whoa....","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has so many twists, you begin to wonder how you ended up where you did at the end. Neve Campbell really helps this movie by playing the bad girl. The last 40 minutes are a real treat. I recommend this movie if you can get past the gratuitous sex and nudity that wasn't really needed.  "},{"Title":"One of the most stylish and sexiest thrillers of the decade!","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild Things is a wonderfully crafted, stylized, erotic thriller.  I loved the performance of Neve Campbell, shying away from her characters in Party Of Five and Scream.  I have so much respect for her in this film for her versatility.  Denise Richards really redeemed herself for her horrible performance in Starship Troopers.  She makes a character for herself, making great use of her flaming sexuality.  I loved this film for its fantastic twists and turns and its tantalizing sensuality.  Much, much better than Basic Instinct. "},{"Title":"Sexy, erotic and full of plot twists.","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild Things takes eroticism to a new level with the very sexy threesome between Matt Dillon, Neve Campbell and the incredibly sexy Denise Richards.The cast does a great job with an intriguing script and does well to keep the suspense moving and the ending a secret from the start. "},{"Title":"Has all the elements that make a great 90's thriller","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Although we have been flooded by thrillers lately, i must say that Wild Things was the best of its kind. Photography and scenario are great and the end of the movie is as good as it gets...especially after the end credits. "},{"Title":"YEAH BABY, YEAH!!!!","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Like I said Yeah Baby Yeah!!  This movies ruled,  Neve Cambell did a great job.  So did Denise Richards.  Bill Murray was a surprise.  Never would think he'd be in a movie like this. "},{"Title":"Nice plot","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed very much the movie and I think the best is the intriguing plot. Also I liked Robert Wagner appearance. "},{"Title":"This movie is o.k.","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  On a whole, this movie is better than average. There are some interesting plot twists and the story is strong. the best part of the film is two scenes with Neve Campbell and the girl from Starship Troopers.I suggest renting this movie for those two scenes. "},{"Title":"HUH?","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  the twists in this movie come at you like a baseball bat to the back of the head.  SURPRISE!.  just when you've got it all figured out.......WHACK!   if you are male (and maybe female), do not miss the 4-way scene(yes 4-way; matt, denise, neve & a champagne bottle)  R-rated scene, but very stimulating.  denise richardson has a body like no one would believe and covered with champagne......all the better.   "}{"Title":"Smart, clever and sexy!","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Whoaaaaa! What a twisted story (+ the fact that I'm in love with Denise Richards AND Neve Campbell), this one rocks you off the chair! ...and do NOT miss the extra scenes after the film.  "},{"Title":"What a tangled web we weave...","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  None of the principal players in this film is likeable, with the exception of Daphne Rubin-Vega as the female detective. In spite of that (or maybe because of it), this is a thoroughly enjoyable movie, with more twists and turns than a theme park roller coaster. Definitely not a movie for the kids, Wild Things earns its R rating.Don't expect Oscar-caliber performances. Do expect to be entertained and surprised. Above all, do see this movie and enjoy it for what it is. "},{"Title":"Lots of twists and turns","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The title is very appropriate for this movie. Lots of time, I thought that the movie was over and there was something else. It was better than I expected, a great suspense with a load of dirty characters. "},{"Title":"WOW","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The first half hour or so of this movie is a bit slow, but the remainder of the film is on full throttle with some unlikely plot twists.Contrary to what you may think, this movie was well thought out.  Watch it a second time.  You'll realize the characters are not talking about what you thought the first time through.A good career move for Neve Campbell who needed to get away from her Scream character Sydney and her Party of Five character Julia.  Truly a versatile actress.Wild Things is sure to make your head spin if not hurt. "},{"Title":"I want to express my opinion of the film and the actors.","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I found the movie better than I could have imagined.  The twists and turns were exciting and I loved the acting by Neve Campbell, Denise Richards, Matt Dillion, and everyone else.  These three were especially wonderful. "},{"Title":"too much lousy crime, not enough lesbian sex","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is really nothing more than glorified pornography.  I watched it on video, just one night after I watched Jackie Brown again.  And there is a huge difference, namely, Jackie has a great plot, and Wild Things has almost none.  The way Wild Things unfolds its plot, I think, is very insulting to the audiance here comes a monster, let's kill it; oh wait a minute, just after this one, here comes another; oh wait a minute, here comes yet another one!  Ah, you think this is over?  No! We have YET another big bad monster! All in all, there's about only 5 seconds worth watching -- you know what I'm talking about.  The rest of the so-called plot is laughable. "},{"Title":"A fantastic fun movie","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I am not saying this movie had the greatest plot, but it was not bad. No, that is not the reason that I am a big fan of this movie. The reason is none other than the fantastically good-looking Neve Cambell intimately kissing the likewise fantastically good-looking Denise Richards. I think Neve has really found her niche. If you liked this movie for the plot I think you might also like Hard Rain. "},{"Title":"Fast, fun, and sexy","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  How does Neve Campbell follow Scream? With one of the most exciting, fun, creative movies of all time. Great story, acting, characters. Everyone gave a knock-out performance that leaves with a great feeling inside.  "},{"Title":"interesting","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A fairly good movie with, as stated above, lots of plot twists...for that matter, there are so many of them, that you are deceived into thinking it's predictable.  What i found to be the most appealing, oddly enough, was the fact that they shot this movie with camera angles on the human body that were like what you might see in all those 80's comedy/sex movies like  'Hardbodies' etc.  There were some severely beautiful women in this movie and they were filmed as if they were.  And i imagine the gate swings the other way for a female viewer. "},{"Title":"Pretty decent movie","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild Things begins like an NBC movie special, and ends as a crime thriller. This movie didn't always surprise me, but there were a few unexpected twists. However, as the last user comment said, it can't be taken seriously at any time. Anyway, it is entertaining just the way it is.  "}{"Title":"Oh Groovy Baby","Date":"2 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Film Wild Things is an awesome movie in that PLOT DOES MATTER Even in Singapore where everything is cut to shreds it is a great plot twister and guilty pleasure. The acting is average and the settings are gorgeous. For sure a movie to watch a second Time to catch all of the hidden tricks. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"20 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Even without all the sex, it's still a very good movie.  If you like the ol' switch-a-roo, catch this one. "},{"Title":"They'll make your heart sing","Date":"6 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'Wild Things' is a classic. It deserves its top marks. Of course, in the history of cinema it probably won't be talked about in the same terms as other 'classics,' such as The Godfather and Empire Strikes Back. 'Wild Things' is a different type of film for a different type of audience.It's a twisty-turny thriller where you can't really say too much about the plot without giving away important information that is best left kept secret until you actually watch it. Basically, it involves plenty of glamorous (and murderous!) back-stabbing, by beautiful people in beautiful locations. If you've watched the trailer (and I suggest you don't, seeing as that too gives away more than you really need to know) then you'll see that there's a strong 'sexual element' to it. Therefore, critics can easily dismiss the film as just some (slightly classier) p0rn and leave it at that.Yes, sex is an important part of 'Wild Things,' but, like I say, it's so much more than that. Matt Dillon, Kevin Bacon, Neve Campbell are all great, but, for me, the stand-out performances come from Denise Richards and Bill Murray. Murray normally turns in an excellent performance in whatever he does, so you'll probably expect it from him. However, since Wild Things, Denise Richards has taken more than her fair share of criticism concerning her acting abilities. I can tell you though she shines here (and I'm not just talking 'visually!') and even gets what I would say is the best line of the film &#x96; something about 'taking the car,' but you'll have to watch the film to see the context she uses it in.If you're not offended by plenty of sex in a film and you like your films with more plot twists in than a filmic corkscrew, then give Wild Things a go. Just be sure to sit through the credits for added scenes which explain a lot of what's happened (when I first saw this in the cinema, I noticed that some people actually left the moment the screen went black &#x96; they really missed out!). Also, don't watch the sequels &#x96; I mean it &#x96; just don't. They're basically the same film, only done worse and if you've seen the original you'll have seen it much better. "},{"Title":"Wild and Wet Things.","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wild Things (1998) Dir John McNaughton / Cast Neve Campbell, Denise Richards, Matt Dillon, Kevin Bacon, Bill Murray Full of double crosses that transpires with manipulation as a school guidance counsellor is accused of raping two girls. He is fired and lands in court. Local police do not believe the girls due to lack of evidence. Clever plotting with nobody pin pointed as who they seem to be. The ads promise sex and seduction and this film delivers in full explicit mode. Director John McNaughton films fetching everglade atmosphere that work for mood and mystery. He previously made the controversial Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer. Matt Dillon plays the guidance counsellor who becomes the victim of manipulation. Kevin Bacon plays a hard edge cop investigating the case. Neve Campbell and Denise Richards portray the two girls who may or may not be guilty. Bill Murray steals scenes as a lawyer providing humour as he proceeds to irritate the females on the stand. Screenplay manipulates but mainly to avoid being predictable, which it certainly is not. Some viewers may question whether or not the double crosses play fair within the realms of realism but thankfully it holds strong to elements that have occurred in reality. It presents a strong theme regarding manipulation and how one can be victimized by deceit and lust and other wild things. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"Mixes Hitchcock with Cronenberg and just about works","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Good casting, a twisting and turning plot and some sleaze combine to make this a sexy and effective thriller almost in spite of itself.Matt Dillon stars as Sam Lombardo a teacher accused of sexual assault by two school girls, the sexy Kelly (Denise Richards) and the disturbed Suzie (Neve Campbell). Investigating their claims is Detective Ray Duquette (Kevin Bacon) who suspects the assault claims may be a conspiracy involving the teacher and the two girls to try and get at Kelly's trust fund money. And Bill Murray is in this. I throw this information in at the end of the plot summation so it can be as arbitrary as his appearances in the film.The film gives us a little glimpse of Kelly's decadent Upper class family situation and Suzie's plight as a member of the under-class, but the film is not trying to say anything about this, simply underlining the differences between the two girls and also getting us to pity both women.There are a lot of twists and turns in our story, and they do come together quite well at film's end end and it all makes sense on a second viewing. You even find out why the hell Bill Murray is in this movie! This film is infamous for its lack of subtlety, including a (relatively tame) threesome sex scene, lesbian kissing, and a full frontal shot of Kevin Bacon in ALL of his glory. Also notable for Richards' over the top outing as a conflicted femme fatale. This is easily her best film role. Dillon's performance is probably the film's high point. Once you know what the film is about and the true motives of the characters, you can really appreciate what he does with Lombardo. Campbell is excellent as well.In the end, Wild Things has a lot of flaws, and is easy to poke fun at, but the bottom line is it works. All of the performances, story threads and over the top sexiness come together to make an entertaining and satisfying film. Not classy by any means, but it works. "},{"Title":"Outstanding crime thriller","Date":"27 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Original film by John McNaughton, contains interesting ingredients  plan of revenge, intense sex scenes, police corruption , fraud , juvenile drama , murder , betrayal, lesbian relationships , romance , abuse of power , deception, ambition, and desire.Kelly Van Ryan and Suzie girls are causing the problem, but Suzie is the key to the development of the plot, the actions of the beautiful girls kicking off a series of events relentless , Sam Lombardo is the main objective , and detective Ray Duquette complicate the environment, in the frame of sex crimes trial where he will announce the intentions of the characters develop , the consequences are unpredictable and very exciting .The music of George S. Clinton is stimulating, Stephen Peters 's argument is very creative , the performances of the entire cast is perfect , actress Neve Campbell is brilliant in this entertaining film , Suzie Toller is a memorable character, she becomes most underrated person , this film production is one of the boldest and most daring of all time .This movie is one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Wild Things, you make my heart sing.","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A tawdry tale of sex, murder, money and betrayal, John McNaughton's neo-noir Wild Things comes across like a gloriously trashy blend of Body Heat and Cruel Intentions, only with bigger boobs and a greater degree of salacious Sapphic snogging.The film has more outrageous twists and turns than a worm at a zumba workout&#x97;no-one is who they seem to be, everyone is looking out for number one, and there are no depths to which the characters won't sink in order to achieve their goals&#x97;but director McNaughton copes admirably with the movie's many Machiavellian machinations, adeptly juggling the complex script's many plot threads whilst still ensuring that matters move at a reasonably brisk pace.A superb ensemble cast also helps to make this a hugely entertaining time-waster, the acting talent including Matt Dillon, Kevin Bacon, Robert Wagner, Bill Murray, Theresa Russell, Neve Campbell and, last but not least, Denise Richards, who admittedly couldn't act her way out of a soggy paper bag, but who at least helps make good on the film's promise of some serious sexiness she's soaked whilst washing a car, goes topless during a drunken threesome, flaunts herself in slow motion wearing a semi-translucent swimsuit, and gets it on with Campbell in a swimming pool.7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Great trash","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Florida high school teacher/all around nice guy Matt Dillon is accused of sexual assault by nubile student Denise Richards. Detectives Kevin Bacon and Daphne Rubin-Vega launch an investigation given that Richards's mother, Theresa Russell, is filthy rich and not taking this lying down so to speak. Dillon's reputation is further besmirched when another student - poor white trash Neve Campbell comes forward to also claim sexual assault. Did Dillon really do it or is this some bizarre revenge plot playing out? Trash can be incredibly fun if it is made right or incredibly boring and laughable if made badly. Making great trash is very tricky. Wild Things is great trash and I mean that as a compliment. It knows it is trash, it does not have any aspirations to be anything better than what it is and it revels in the fact that it is trash. Director John McNaughton does not miss any chances to play up the sultry Florida heat or intersperse his scenes with knowing clips of gators cruising the waterways, likening them to the various predators cruising the screen.Other than McNaughton's assured direction, there are a gaggle of other aspects to the film that click in just the right way so that the viewer is in on the fun and games as they unfurl. The screenplay is surprisingly inventive and tight. The sexual assault angle and subsequent courtroom mayhem are only the starting point for a rather complex plot. The film twists and turns with characters double-, triple- and occasionally quadruple-crossing each other. There are so many surprises that they keep coming even after the credits have started to roll.It also helps that the film is so unabashedly sexual, even with two leads known at that time for avoiding excessive skin. Richards is a limited actress - and I use that last term advisedly - but the film truly knows how to utilize her. Showing up at the start at Dillon's house for a charity car wash she looks like a walking porn movie. The film progresses to include a titillating threesome, a lesbian flirtation between Campbell and Richards and the now legendary shower scene where Kevin Bacon...well, shows his impressive bacon.The rock solid cast also helps matters and they seem to be having a blast. They pretty much play everything straight rather than tongue in cheek, which keeps the audience guessing and entertained. Dillon walks a fine tightrope as a guy who may just be too good to be true. Bacon provides just the right touch of world-weariness as one of the investigating officers with just a flourish of sleaze to keep the audience wondering about his own motives. Campbell probably has the most difficult contribution. She needs to be sexy without being overt, enigmatic, vulnerable and yet convey a certain degree of intelligence to guide the audience through some of the twists. To her credit, the viewer rides along freely and only after the film concludes does one realize how improbable some of her character's motivations are. Richards is undoubtedly the weakest link in the cast, but her sexpot looks, sledgehammer delivery and broad acting actually serve her character here well. The supporting cast is littered with a surprising array of familiar faces, all looking like they are enjoying themselves. Russell as the rich mother, Oscar nominee Carrie Snodgress as Campbell's mother, Robert Wagner as a rich friend and Bill Murray as a shady attorney all have moments to shine and plot points to contribute.Ironically, I think this may well have been the last successful potboiler that Hollywood has provided, as I am hard-pressed to remember a more recent successful example. "},{"Title":"An adequate crime thriller","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is about a high school guidance counsellor who is accused of raping a student who comes from a prominent family. However, things do not turn out as it seems.I thought Wild Things was a high school comedy, but actually it is an intelligent crime thriller that twists many times so that the ending is almost unrecognisable from the beginning. It has got good looking actors, nice scenery and sexy scenes, all are recipe for popcorn entertainment. If there was a little more depth from the characters, and the cinematography could be improved, then Wild Things could have been even better. "},{"Title":"Wild Things is truly wild!","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Matt Dillon is brilliant in his role as a guidance counselor who is accused of raping his students or is he. Anyway Kevin Bacon is also brilliant as the police detective in charge of an investigation of murder. Neve Campbell has a strong unusual role as a brilliant but trapped in a blue collar life. Denise Richards who I never saw before is above average in her part. The plot is not easy and you have to watch it to the end to get it but you're left with more questions than answers anyway which is why I am giving it a seven. I love Carrie Snodgress who plays Ruby in this film. I think she is brilliant actress who does a fantastic job with her small part. Of course, I won't reveal anymore regarding the plot because you have to watch it for yourself. It's not an easy plot with lots of twists and turns. In the end, they show the scenes that we don't see and it helps explain what really happens and that does help answer some questions. I can't forget Bill Murray who has a small role in this film as well. Of course, I would like to ask the director lots of questions about this film but that's not going to happen. "}{"Title":"God, what horrible tripe...","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Characters with no character.  Surprise twists with no surprise.  A thriller with no thrills.  Hell, this movie even has erotic drama that is neither erotic nor dramatic... it's just dull.  Lifeless.  I felt stupider (or is that less stupid?) after seeing this film.The best feature Wild Things has going for it is surely the marketing campaign.  With names like Matt Dillon, Denise Richards, and Neve Campbell on the marquee (along with the promise of the bodies attached to those names), this film is at least sure to draw in the Baywatch viewership... but if you're anybody else, I would suggest strongly that you do not see it.  Unless you have a jones for some softcore porn (which is essentially what this brainless waste of time amounts to), this film is a must-avoid. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure.","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  With so many classics around, sometimes there comes a movie that isn't exactly Forrest Gump, that isn't terribly original or inspiring or exceptional   but for some unfathonable reason you like it...Such is the case with Wild Things. Hundreds-thousands of movies are better but I kind of enjoyed this, most of my inner circle did to. Movie's got a weird feel, kind of like the movie Final Analysis meets  a Christoher Pike novel. (He was one of my favorite mystery writers growing up).Only problem is-Pike's books, many about young people ALOT of them with dark sides are alot better then this movie, so is final analysis in my opinion(and that's a movie wild things reminds me of ALOT.)I dont know, this  just shows you don't always have to have brilliant movie making to have an enjoyable movie. I wouldn't rate wild things as one of my favorites by far but it does have your fair ammount of mystery,drama,sex, and weird plot twists, a strange movie to be sure but one just about everyone I know watched and in an odd way enjoyed to a certain extent.  "},{"Title":"More sex wanted!!!!!","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It sucks... We didn't see wild things enough!! Just some kisses, but that's all. We waited for more sexual scenes, but nothing! The story is not very good at all. The characters are deja-vu... A good movie for spotty teenagers, but certainly not a classic movie!  "},{"Title":"Not much fun in the Florida sun","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Being a thriller fan I gave this movie a chance but it wasn't really worth it. The high-school stuff at the beginning is dullsville, as is the false-rape-claim plot device, and I struggled to keep watching. The central section is moderately entertaining - even if the characters are paper-thin (Theresa Russell is a ridiculous caricature of herself) - boosted of course by the appearance of Bill Murray on the scene, though the filmmakers seem to think that a neck-brace gag is more important than letting the great man do his stuff. Then the over-complexity of the denouement and its lack of suspense make all the twists in the tail a big yawn. Oh well, I suppose the movie has its points... "},{"Title":"expect the unexpected","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  100% suspense. Just bring yourself over the first thirty minutes and then watch the film til THE END!!!Interesting but plausible twists with good actors. It starts like a classic who-did-it, but the final conclusion is worth all the waiting. "},{"Title":"The way they should make all movies","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Good music, good actors, good story, good acting, ... the way they should make all movies. The story doesn't stop amazing you from begin to end. Every time you think you know what's going to happen next the story gets a different turn. I've seen the movie a dozen times and it's always nice to see it again. "},{"Title":"Great movie, better acting!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think that this movie is awesome! It may have several plot holes, but the locations, the rest of the story, and the acting make up for it. The acting was my favorite part! Everyone did a great job! Matt Dillon, Kevin Bacon, Neve Campbell, Denise Richards, Daphne Rubin-Vega, Theresa Russell, Bill Murray, and Robert Wagner all brought something wonderful and fresh to their roles, which basically makes the movie! Rent this one! "},{"Title":"Tries to be smart, ends up stupid","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild Things has many things going for it; initially anyway. The cast of beautiful people look good and play their parts well enough. The plot starts of with loads of suspense and really makes you wanting to see more . Of course there's THAT scene. And there's Bill Murray as well. But then midway thorough it all comes undone, badly.The film tries very hard indeed to be intelligent by constantly second-guessing the viewer via the means of twists and swerves but fails badly. The twists don't add anything worthwhile and instead sabotages the whole story, leaving gaping plot-holes everywhere. The characters are also just unbelievable. They try the 'you think you know them but you don't' trick but instead they come up with characters that have no real 'character'. They constantly switch personalities and then back again at will with zero sense behind it. All these would probably have been overlooked but for the fact that the 'BIG' twist right at the end just encapsulates all that is wrong with film and then magnifies them. The ending just well happens and the viewer is just left wondering 'what the?!'. It doesn't build towards it, it just happens leaving one shaking one's head in disbelief and disgust. NOT intelligence, pure stupidity.A too contrived film with an ending that's just ridiculous ruins what could and should have been a cracker. What promised to be a smart, sexy thriller turned out to be a damn ugly mess.  "},{"Title":"An interesting story which prooves too convoluted for its own good.","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The film has an interesting plot concept which could have worked if only it wasn't so convoluted and over the top.  The many plot twists are interesting and often surprising, but there is about one twist too many. Wild Things has the potential makings of at least two decent films.  The first is that of a school teacher accused of rape by his students.  The second is that of a more conventional thriller of femme fatales and double crosses.  Since neither is really explored in depth, the film appears shallow.It seems that the filmmakers concentrated more on the menage` a trois sex scenes instead of on the actual story.The films only saving grace is the quality performances of it's all star cast, including Matt Dillon and Neve Campbell. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Sleazeville","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Can you say the word trashy, boys and girls? That word basically describes Wild Things! But at least it as an intelligent plot. In this movie, everybody isn't what they seem. You could trust one person, but he or she can stab you in the back. That's the dilemma Kevin Bacon, Matt Dillon, and the two hot female stars Denise Richards and Neve Campbell are worrying about. Who can you trust when a s***load of money is at stake?!Everybody in this flick might be as greasier than Andrew Dice Clay's hair, but every one of them plays it with style. I love the scenes with Richards and Campbell in it; they literally steam up the screen. And Bill Murray makes a nice turn as a crackpot lawyer with a slight neck problem. "}{"Title":"A porno with a plotline? Couldn't be - could it?","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  YES IT CAN! This movie dragged on for ever. I watched from beginning to end, and even though my direct tv said it was just two hours, it felt like 4! This insipid story dragged on forever. The one charecter you think you could like (the female cop) gets brushed under the rug without a second consideration. As for the other charecters, just when you think you've got a handle on something that is happening, something totally differant happens! And wasn't everyone just a little too good looking? "},{"Title":"Hey...it might be a porno...but it still deserves respect!","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ok, this movie has sex in it. A lot of it. But because of that no one is recognizing this movie for the geniously written plot, that keeps you on the edge of your seat, guessing up until the last second of the movie. Who ever created this movie must have a lot of talent and must be pretty intelligent. Some people complain about all the sex in it... but really, everything can't be perfect in a movie with this plot. It was a good idea, and no matter what people say, there is no other way really to make this movie avoiding all those scenes, could it? Most porno's today have no point and are senseless, but this has a good story to it... there's comedy and suspense, and sometimes, strong drama. All in all, this is a very cool movie, and it is necessary to watch if you are in a mood for a murder movie that keeps you wondering how? "},{"Title":"Never trust anyone !","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I thought it would have been just a show of beautiful actors and actresses, but it isn't so. A very nice plot completely unpredictable; a good modern thriller. However the actresses are really wonderful. It's 7 out of 10 for me. "},{"Title":"A teen movie","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Man, this is basically a teen movie. The plot is just so unreal and ridiculous. It's basically just trying to make the movie hard to predict the ending... but too much focus on that.. make the whole movie plot unreal and hard to believe. I won't recommend you watch this movie, unless you are a teen and you would like to see Denise Richards naked, this is the movie for you.  "},{"Title":"Violent and hot thriller.","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  John MacNaughton, the director of Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer , finally comes back in making movies, with  Wild Things , an erotic thriller that takes place in the south of Florida. The film tells the story of, Sam Lombardo, a  physical education teacher of a rich university, who is accused of rape by one of his students, daughter of a millionaire woman. The case will bring to the surface more characters a girl addicted to drugs, a smart lawyer and a corrupt policeman. The film is shocking, in certain moments, as the homosexuality of Matt Dillon and Kevin Bacon characters and the sex scenes among   Denise Richards and Neve Campbell. This film offers surprises, stuffed with violence. The characters are, almost everyone of them, very smart and they plant, at every moment, to pass their enemies and even their friends back, just for money.Wild Things is an innovative and intelligent thriller, with excellent music, as the one of the beginning, and it counts with an exquisite picture, that shows the whole hot and exotic climate of Florida.Watch this movie! "},{"Title":"A mild disappointment - the plot breaks down by the end of the movie","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Is this movie meant to be a satire? The bizzare plot twists at the end of the movie would seem to suggest so. If viewed strictly as a drama, the developments in the last third of the movie stretch the bounds of credibility well past the breaking point. The personalities of too many of the characters take a 180 degree turn in behavior without any rational explanations why.   "},{"Title":"Don't take it so friggin' seriously...","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild Things is, above all else, a satire. Whether it is one of sex, of high school, the rich, or film thrillers, it is a satire. You can't go into this film with a serious attitude. I mean, what other serious movie has a car wash scene with Denise Richards for no discernible reason?There's sex (and lots of it, and of a high quality, too), I'll give you that. But that's just more of a reason to see it as an over-the-top, glorified episode of Silk Stalkings. I'm not saying this movie is bad, I happen to like it very much. It's just that you can't judge this movie on the same merits as Kundun or La Dolce Vita. It's a goofy, trashy mystery movie. Just see it as such, and don't be so high-minded about it.And I thought Denise Richards was perfect in the role.  "},{"Title":"Trashy fun loses its way after 2/3","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Somewhere, I don't remember where, I read that you have to admire a movie that goes out of its way to be this trashy, and for about 2/3 of the way, I did.  Then the filmmakers seemed to remember they had a plot to wrap up, and every scene was about a plot twist and explaining that plot twist, and I became tired just trying to keep up with them all.  The acting is good, especially Bill Murray in a supporting role.  Is it a coincidence that the movie starts to fall apart when he leaves the movie?  "},{"Title":"Good dirty fun","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With so many films--even big hits--being total losers in the plot department, it's a treat to come across a film that keeps surprising you with its twists and turns. I'm so tired of films that use story as a threadbare and disposable skeleton on which to hang their car chases, explosions, and shootouts. The cast of Wild Things is adequate and, along with the locations, pretty to look at. The direction is serviceable. Though some of the plot devices are a bit of a stretch, I didn't notice any major holes, which is an accomplishment these days. Put on the popcorn and settle back for an entertaining 2 hours. "},{"Title":"This is where the Wild Things are","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Maybe at this time some of the names are not really saying a lot to folks right now. But back when they made the picture (I know it's only just over a decade, but still) those names meant something. Denise Richards was just fresh of the success of Starship Troopers and onto being a Bond girl. Neve Campbell came off the success of Scream and it seemed she had a wonderful career in front of her. Those two women were doing an erotic thriller? It was a dream come true (no pun intended) for most fan-boys. But what really made this movie work (apart from the great acting by everyone involved) was the script. It is very twisted and wicked, but also very good and suspenseful. So apart from the obvious titillating scenes, there is more here that will get you excited ...Try not to read too much about the story and just enjoy this thriller for what it is ... a great B-movie with great actors and a really great story. "}{"Title":"Sloppy Things","Date":"19 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" To put it charitably, Wild Things is so overambitious that it messes up its ability to be entertaining or enjoyable. To put it NOT so charitably, it is a stupid, sour spirited, self-indulgent piece of filmaking that doesn't seem to have a clue what it wants to achieve. Anyone with an IQ above average will find their intelligence insulted. To even attempt to describe the plot would be out of the question. It is difficult to summarize, because it keeps changing the rules of the game on us. With one silly twist after another, Wild Things becomes increasingly difficult to invest in. Its lack of focus is aggravating, yet the movie is so in love with itself that it will try anything. It takes forever to end, and even when it does, and we see the words 'THE END' on the screen, the movie throws a little extra material in there (supposedly flashbacks). Wild Things goes in all the wrong directions, and is far too clumsy and brain dead to enjoy, (and frankly it's not even all that sexy or erotic, which it is supposed to be...right?) "},{"Title":"Brilliant Modern Day Noir.","Date":"5 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Mcnaughton has not made many movies that have been blockbuster hits. However this movie for sure is a classic. His previous movies 'mad dog and glory' and 'henry, portrait of a serial killer' simple movies. But this movie is a step ahead from the rest. Mcnaughton has brought to the screen a complex and ingenious script in grand style. In my opinion much credit is due to the writer for creating such a novel idea.The movie is based on how characters manipulate others to commit murders and plans while maintaining a devious secret association with a second individual. The theme itself is not groundbreaking or completely original as it has this type of plot device as been used in a 1979 made for TV movie 'Murder by Natural Causes'. Each character is involved in a scheme which turns deadly and risky as the element of greed takes its turn. All the necessary elements and ingredients are contained in the movie to fulfil everyone's tastes. Not forgetting that two scenes of a erotic nature are placed at appropriate moments to exhalerate the interest. *****************SPOILERS AHEAD******************** Matt Dillon is a high school guidance councillor who is accused of rape by Denise and Neve. This is a surprise to him as he is against the allegations. Defense attorney Bill Murray is approached by Matt to fight his case. In the lead up to the court trials he losses his self respect, home and girlfriend. However at the trail it turns out eventually that he was wrongfully accused as Neve admits the truth behind her accusation. Eventually Matt is compensated a large amount by Denise's mother (Theresa Russel) after a lawsuit is filled. Howvever it turns out later that the trio of Neve, Denise and Matt have preplanned and staged this drama act scheme for the money. Kevin Bacon the detective senses foul play and intends to investigate further to to prove his doubts. The stakes get higher and becomes involved within the characters plan of murder and faking deaths. *************END OF SPOILERS**************The movie has a fantastic atmosphere which is complimented with a good background score by George Clinton. He has understood the tone of the movie to incorporate the relevant music. The simple piano tune's charm can be noticed in the final 10 mins of the movie, which in my opinion can be eligible for on of the greatest climax in movie history. The first hour of the movie sets the background to the plot as well character development. However the movie's speed increases after the court trial sequence. It is after then where Neve and Kevin's character bring larger involvement in to the plot, as we can experience a 'colombo' de ja vu. The pace is steady in the movie and neither does any portion tend to move fast or slow. Much of the second half is full of character twists and turns that bring the movie to a nail biting climax. The background to the plot twists are revealed in the end credits which is another highlight to the movie. The locations of sourthern Florida is beautifully shot and realism sets in well. My only advice is not to watch the trailer as this reveals much of the plot and surprises and it tends to spoil the movie's true enjoyment.Kevin Bacon gives a mature performance and there are two different shades to his character that he balances well. Neve Campbell performs well. She is devious as well as evil in the second half. Denise Richards is seductive and sexy but does not have much involvement in second half neither. However she does exhibit her body to the full potential. "},{"Title":"Oscar Winning material","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Yes, this was truly Oscar wining material - well OK, maybe not - but it was entertaining.It's sexy, sultry, sordid, white trash. Complete with teen whores, bad cops, conniving lawyers, and demented teachers.It's built around the beautiful people of a beautiful town in beautiful southern Florida.Twists, turns, lies, deceptions make this something interesting.It's more pf a cult film than a plot driven story, so those of you who think about plot only and character structure will fail to see any enjoyment from this.If you like a little bit of sleaze without the bad intrusion of porn will find this watchable and possibly enjoy rate it high.Not a film to be ciphered into a dramatic exposure of human decency, but something to watch with your lover on on long cold night and a bottle of wine or some mind altering substances and a string of lit candles. "},{"Title":"Can't get any wilder than this!","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie lets people get into the action of everything! It's got a great cast, a great plot, and full of suspense and intrigue. Denise Richards is H.O.T., HOT! Very sultry when she got wet after washing her teacher's jeep. Her mom is hot too. And don't forget Neve Campbell, she was hot when she was involved in the love triangle with Richards and Matt Dillon. In my opinion, this movie should be titled The Greed Game however that title wouldn't stick. There's The Grifters another movie about manipulation. Bill Murray did a spectacular job at playing the lawyer for Matt Dillon's character. He never got harmed in the movie. This has a touch of Hitchcock to it. I think if Alfred Hitchcock was still alive, he would watch it too. It's like a chess game, but only one person can have the prize. Watch this movie, you'll get yourself hooked. Rating 4.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Fun erotic mystery","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" WILD THINGS (1998)starring Matt Dillon, Kevin Bacon, Neve Campbell, Denise Richards, Daphne Rubin-Vega, Bill Murray, Theresa Russell.plot Two high school students, trailer-trash Suzie (Neve Campbell) and rich and beautiful Kelly (Denise Richards) accuse a guidance counselor (Matt Dillon) of rape while a detective (Kevin Bacon) smells something fishy.the good Very fun erotic mystery/thriller with colorful characters, eye candy (as in nudity and camera shots), and as far is confusing mystery goes, its right up there with HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO ME (1981).I also love Denise Richards to death, I don't know why, but everything shes in I just love her part.the bad Absolutely nothing. "},{"Title":"Wild thing of a movie","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  1st watched 12/26/1998 - 7 out of 10(Dir-John McNaughton) Unbelievable beginning leads to unpredictable twists and turns in the last half.  Very tongue-in-cheek style whodunit of sorts with almost every conceivable direction being entertained.Wild thing of a movie.  "},{"Title":"All style, no substance. And what a waste of actors.","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Where was the suspense? And the comedy? And the acting ability? This movie was like Chinatown, only without the plot, the acting, the cinematography, and the direction. Neither an expose of the role of money in a small Florida town, nor a crime drama, nor a sexual-suspense thriller, Wild Things was basically just a waste of time.  "},{"Title":"Hilariously Awful!","Date":"21 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ***** SPOILERS *****Silly, brainless neo-noir that only has the slightest chance of working if you have never, ever seen a Film Noir movie before. Each and every twist can be seen coming a mile away. The supposedly hot sex scenes are tepid for anyone who's viewed Cinemax.Kevin Bacon is excellent. Bill Murray is entertaining in a winking kind of way. Neve Campbell is impossibly out of her depth as the femme fatale. The movie depends on her being the most evil, but you laugh each second she's on screen.The George Clinton score is par for the course for anyone who's watched a late night soft-core installment. And, honestly, Jeffrey Kimball is the cinematographer? Did he just have time to kill? He alone lends class this silly movie doesn't begin to deserve.The double-double-cross ending is a howler! And, please oh please, the during-the-end-credits stuff only emphasizes how truly bad this movie is. The filmmakers are embarrassing themselves beyond imagination! "},{"Title":"It keeps you thinking","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  For example just when you think the movie can't possibly get more contrived, another ridiculous plot twist happens. Just when you think the acting can't get any worse, Denise Richards opens her mouth again. Just when you think 'oh my God, I've been sitting through this abomination forever', you get another hour of tripe. Save yourself some pain and stay away from this steaming pile of movie.1/10 "},{"Title":"Was everyone desperate for a paycheck","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie was so bad i can't believe there were so many real actors in this. Everyone must have needed a paycheck desperately, there was so many twists and turns you really didn't care about any of the characters by the end. I guess the scripts aren't pouring in for Matt Dillion, Bill Murray, Denise Richards and Neve Campbell anymore. Save your time and money! When is Hollywood going to come up with a true blue twist of a story that isn't so darn predictable. Halfway through you could have scripted out the rest of the movie yourself. Bill Murray was funny in some scenes, but the rest of the cast must have lost their minds. "}{"Title":"Lazy exploitation &#150; but semi-enjoyable as trashy Saturday night movie","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Guidance councillor Sam Lombardo is popular with the kids in a small town.  However when he is accused of rape by Kelly, the daughter of the powerful Van Ryan family, he finds this existence starting to fall apart.  Things look worse when Sgt.'s Duquette and Perez find that Suzie Toller also claims he raped her.  But when the case goes to court with Lombardo defended by Ken Bowden, things take the first of many unexpected twists.Ask yourself at the start of the movie what you want to get out of it.  Are you looking for a smart thriller that will leave you breathless or are you looking for a couple of sexy moments where gorgeous girls get naked and kiss each other?  If you want the former then `The Usual Suspects' is probably still available at your local video store.  If you want the latter then this will suit you down to the ground.Sadly I expected a sexually charged thriller and was disappointed to find it didn't really deliver.  The first half of the story is good as it feels it is building to something &#150; you know things are not as simple as they seem, but what is behind it all.  The answer to this question is a let down and, worse still, it sparks a final hour of one twist after another &#150; each being more and more silly than the last.  This really spoils it as it isn't clever it just tries to look clever by trying to confuse the audience &#150; the end result is boredom, tiredness and a feeling of really not caring any longer.  After a while the twists become obvious &#150; I began to expect the most absurd thing and in most cases it came true.The sexy stuff is good however but if you want that then why not just rent a soft porn title instead?  The girl-girl stuff and the nudity simply isn't enough reason to watch this although I admit that Richards is gorgeous and it is quite pleasant to see her and Campbell get it on.Dillon leads an impressive cast on paper &#150; but few are allowed to shine.  He himself is quite dull lifeless.  Bacon is clearly a bigger actor that the role appears to need &#150; and hence spoils some of the later twists by his presence. Richards and Campbell are good &#150; but only because they are only needed to look sexy and seductive, something they do well.  Russell and Wagner are wasted and Murray is trapped doing a lazy neck-brace joke for his scenes.Overall this is worth watching once with a pizza and a beer.  The twist are silly but may do you if you want something trashy while the sexy stuff is pretty well done &#150; but does feel like the film is exploiting it's audience by delivering nudity to cover the plot holes.  Trashy, slightly exploitative and only worth watching if you're in a lazy mood. "},{"Title":"Did Neve Campbell steal the show in Wild Things?","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Maybe not, but she showed she can act. Funny that she hasn't been in more movies. She's a solid acting talent who is sexy but not flashy sexy like Denise Richards. What has happened to Neve Campbell? Wild Things plays like the summation of screwing around by high school teachers in you-name-it, USA. If you have watched The O.C. only to find yourself flipping to The O'Reilly Factor or the History Channel for some action, give Wild Things a try. But if you are a high school teacher, don't watch it with your wife or girlfriend. Teresa Russell shows she still has some flash, whatever that means.This movie should be rate H for horny. "},{"Title":"It's more of a parody than a thriller...","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Too many of the reviewers took this movie far too seriously. It's a satire of film noir really. The fact that Denise Richards is nothing more than untalented pretty face actress made her perfect for the role. It's exactly what the film was trying to do... mock all erotic thrillers and such.It's not Lesile Nielson, or MadTV.. it's smart satire. The kind that doesn't always make you laugh while watching it, but seems pretty dang funny when you look back at it. At the same time, it remains entertaining, and even suspenseful.Neve Campbell and Bill Murray find a way to shine. Despite being surrounded with an overrated Matt Dillon, a pitiful Denise Richards, and perhaps washed-up(although still effective) Kevin Bacon, Neve and Bill both put in quality performances.This movie is definitely worth the rent...if you're of the male gender. "},{"Title":"Underwhelming Raunch","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If you read my reviews (and I don't know why you would; it's mostly blow-hardy nonsense) you'll notice I attribute merit to elaborate fight sequences.Literally, I believe there is narrative value in a masterfully choreographed battle. To give it antagonistic slant, it might be called 'delighting in death.'Why? For two reasons1) I can cite two credible books on writing supporting the use of violence in stories (particularly those slated for a male audience).2) Show me a dude that doesn't like the gunfight from The Matrix or the 'one versus many' battle between Neo and unlimited Agent Smiths in The Matrix Reloaded, and I'll lose one more potential friend. Or even just the bar fight in The Replacements.I feel the same about sexual content as I do violence.It's strenuous, but I must be even-handed about this movie; this film doesn't deserve its stigma.What stigma?When I told a movie buff pal from college about watching Mulholland Drive, the reply text read 'Second best lesbian scene to Wild Things.'The scene she (thought my friend was male, didn't you?) refers to is when Denise Richards, Neve Campbell and Matt Dillon engage in a steamy threesome.Yes it's fun to watch, but wow it's blown out of proportion.This isn't a pornographic film, Proverbial Audience.Just because she's scantily clad in most scenes, doesn't detract from Richards's performance as Kelly Van Ryan. She's very good in this movie, just like in Starship Troopers.Does Richards lose points for being super hot? She isn't discussed very often.Perhaps partially because Kelly's midriff is bare in almost every outfit. But criticisms proclaiming an excess of skin don't belong in my book.So the movie is very sexualized. Without that tension, I don't believe it's half as enjoyable.What is Body Heat without the sexual tension? How about Fatal Attraction or Basic Instinct or Cruel Intentions or anything featuring James Bond?(See those movies if you haven't.)Neve Campbell's acting is very good. She comes off a little strong in the contrarian role. Perhaps it's her liberal use of the 'F-word.'Overall she does a good job with a tough part, though.Kevin Bacon's solid as usual. For most of the movie he's the thoughtful, more reserved Bacon, but towards the end a hint of his character from Diner peeks through.Bill Murray is more reserved as well, doing more 'bare bones' acting than in his usual roles as the funny guy. His character's quietly humorous, but compelling too.Finally, Matt Dillon's fine. I'm afraid he did what he could with a difficult role. Just like Campbell's character, I'm not sure how to improve upon the acting performance. He could use a bit more characterization outside of being the 'handsome and friendly smooth-talker.'The problem is a generalized feeling you get. An awareness you're viewing a movie that's generally accepted as 'good' not 'great,' at its very best.There are some minor details I can name that are more concretely weak. Such as the Van Ryan family's ability to live above the law.But overall, I wish I'd seen this when I was younger and unaware of the famous threesome scene. I'm afraid I would have enjoyed it more without the stigma in mind.The greatest part of this movie is the additional scenes, featured at the beginning of the rolling credits. The shots tie up all loose ends (most of which the audience is unaware of), and twist the story in a few final (and rather satisfying) ways.Overall, Wild Things is very good. It's well made, features an intricate storyline and is just a lot of fun. Plus, it's available for instant streaming via Netflix.Movie fans! If you've been putting it off because you're afraid the quality's 'ungood,' now's the time to watch it.There. You have my permission.Check Wild Things off the list. "},{"Title":"Wild Things- Wild is the Wind? ***","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The classic tale of wealth, greed, conspiracy, mistrust and the eventual downfall of so many people all mark this 1998 thriller film.The problem with the movie is that there are too many plot twists here. Yes, they're very interesting, but after a while, it becomes who is doing what to whom. Honesty and integrity have all but fallen through the cracks here.Never underestimate the one most deviant. She or he may very well have a brain after-all.Robert Wagner is completely wasted here in a bit part of the rich girl's step-father. He is about the only one really not involved with what is going on here. "},{"Title":"Good movie but damn strange way to play it through.","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I really don't know what to think about this movie after watching it. On one hand I really enjoyed all the actors and actresses in it and it had a great story and beginning but as the movie went on and after about 300 twists later I find the movie to be just getting silly but it did come through in the end and wrap everything up nicely.This movie is about a teacher who is accused by two of his young students of rape. They take him to court and make a case agaisnt him but everything is not as it seems.This movie was really good I just feel it did not need to get so silly and overdone exspecially near the end. The twists were no longer a surprise because they happened so often all you expected was another one but other then that good movie. "},{"Title":"Wild Things (1998) was a great movie filled with suspicion, mystery and crime. The director was able to convey the story effectively throughout the whole movie.","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" WILD THINGS (1998) The movie Wild Things (1998) which is directed by John McNaughton, is a mix of crime, mystery and thriller. The movie is about a high school counselor who is accused for raping to students. There are three main characters in the beginning; Sam Lombardo played by Matt Dillon who is the highs school counselor, Kelly Van Ryan played by Denise Richards as one of the student who is sexy, seductive, rich and popular among students, and Suzie Toller played by Neve Campbell as the student who is poor and with a bad cunning personality. The story starts when Kelly had a crush on Sam and when he turned her down, she and her friend Suzie thought of paying it back with accusing him for rap charges which will ruin his whole career. When the cop, Ray Duquette played by Kevin Bacon, work on the cases, he happened to suspect it as a conspiracy which reviled the whole plan between Sam, Kelly and Suzie. Then only the real story started to unfold. As the story unfolds, the real theme turns out to be greed, betrayal and revenge. In the beginning, the whole thing about rape is plan by Sam, Kelly and Suzie. First Kelly files a case against Sam saying he rape her, in the end trial leaves Kelly's rich and famous family in humiliation and Sam walks out with $8 million as a settlement. The greed for money led Suzie to plane a game on top of both Sam's and Kelly's plans which end up murdering Kelly, Sam and the police officer Ray tactically. The series of Flashbacks from Suzie's memory revels that she did all of this in order to take the revenge from her step sister, who happened to be Kelly's mom for being detested and neglected by their dad. The character of Suzie made all the audience think that the mastermind is Sam and took herself out of the story for a little bit by faking her own death. The feelings of poverty, greed and revenge made her to be the mastermind of the story which surprises the audience in the end. The director, John McNaughton has effectively used thematic elements to make the movie so much interesting and keep the audience guessing what is going to happen in the movie next. The character of Suzie shows the effective use of Irony of Character, that is what made the whole movie interesting. First, Suzie was introduced as a poor and a willful neglected girl which made her underestimated in the story. In the end she turned the whole story upside down by taking the control of it. One of the most important element was flashbacks which revealed the whole part of the theme. Overall, Wild Things (1998) was a great movie filled with suspicion, mystery and crime. The director was able to convey the story effectively throughout the whole movie. With all the effects and techniques, the director of the movie has been able to present a brilliant cinema production. "},{"Title":"There Are Many Endings !","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Found this film interesting only because you never knew just how this picture was going to end and who was going to out smart each other. Matt Dillon, (Sam Lombardo), Crash,'04 played a teacher who was adored by both males and mostly females. Denise Richards, Elvis Has Left the Building,04 plays a very hot sexy looking teenager who has the real hots for Sam Lombardo along with Theresa Russell,(Sandra Van Ryan),Black Widow,'87, her mother. Kevin Bacon,(Sgt. Ray Duquette),Loverboy,'05, does not like Sam Lombardo and is always keeping an eye on him and his activities. This picture will lead you down many blind alley's and you will never be able to figure out this picture, unless someone tells you and SPOILS IT! "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is such an adult male fantasy flick--two stunning teenage girls who wear their sex on their sleeves, who use their bodies to manipulate everyone around them, and then--one anyway--gets to punish all those men for letting sex and money go to their heads. A typical American Christian message.I shouldn't like this movie, but I do. It's erotic, it's clever, solid acting, and Bill Murray has a marvelous extended cameo. The music's cool, too. Can't buy that two high school girls (even if one's a sociopathic genius) are that smart to put such a conspiracy together, but I was willing to suspend disbelief. I think there's a trend out there in movie-writing land where 20-40 something year-olds construct stories about high schoolers as if they were the way they wished they had been--a lot smarter, better looking, more sexually accomplished, etc. "},{"Title":"The best film I have seen!","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It is refreshing to view a film that keeps you guessing...and keeps you guessing wrong. Each and every twist is a roller coaster ride to the very end. An excellent sound track. Shot in soft light , with beautiful sunsets and views of the Florida swamps and beaches. The cast are perfectly chosen for their parts with outstanding performances by Neve, Denise, Bill and Matt. We almost forget about the typical rolls they play as they blend in so well as their new characters. I understand that a sequel has been released, but this film does not require a sequel, as it ends so well. Perfect. I give the film 10 on 10. "}{"Title":"Wild Things most often go amok","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The musical score and literary plot was far superior than the seasoned actors that played this wild thing out. Poorcasting or just poor acting by almost all. Who knows. Somescenes seem senseless and didn't carry the story as a thriller became unthrilling midway through. Even RobertWagner couldn't save this one if he was 30yrs. younger and in the lead roll. I did, however, like the ending. But it was a film, by the most part, that needed a lifeboat rather than a yacht. Music and plot, 3 1/2 stars. The rest of the crew, 1 star. "},{"Title":"Wild Things most often go amok","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The musical score and literary plot was far superior than the seasoned actors that played this wild thing out. Poor  casting or just poor acting by almost all. Who knows. Some scenes seem senseless and didn't carry the story; as a thriller became unthrilling midway through. Even Robert Wagner couldn't save this one from drowning if he was 30 years younger and in the lead roll. I did, however, like the ending. But it was a film, by the most part, that needed a lifeboat rather than a yacht. Music and plot, 3 stars. The rest of the crew, 1 star. "},{"Title":"Average thriller","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This started out looking very interesting, but it dropped somewhere around the middle, when it stopped being an interesting entertaining thriller, where nothing is as it seems, and dropped to just being filled with more or less nonsensical plot twists. The acting is typical thriller, not very good, nor very bad. The plot started out pretty good, but was soon completely ruined by meaningless twists, that slope very quickly downwards in credibility. A lot of the scenes and twists seemed to just be there, in order for one or more sex scenes, and probably were, too. I'll admit that the sex scenes are pretty good, but they seem to have only one purpose, and that's distracting the viewer from the incredibly unrealistic, unbelievable plot. If it hadn't had so many ridiculous twists, it might have been better, but at the end, the movie just popped out a new twist every couple of seconds or so. I would only recommend this to people who'll watch any thriller, regardless of quality(or lack thereof) or people who want to see lesbian scenes between Neve Campbell and Denise Richards. 6/10 "},{"Title":"My mouth is still watering.","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the coolest movies I've seen in a long while. Denise Richards is oh so hott! The plot twists are unpredictable and everything that you think is true, most likely is not true.Kevin Bacon, Matt Dillon, Neve Campbell and Denise Richards are the stars as two girls who accuse their guidance counselor of rape and the detective who knows there's more to the story. In the end, its a story of revenge, betrayal, lust and greed. There are a few sexually explicit scenes which may be a little much for young viewers, but for any strait male, this movie is a fantasy! Bill Murray provides comic relief as Matt Dillon's lawyer who always manages to crack a joke just at the right time. Although his part is not that big, he is a key character. So, you know those movies where you think something is true, and then it turns out not to be true, and something else comes out of that little mistake you made? You know what kind of movie I'm talking about? Well, take that scenario, through in a couple more reversals of thinking something is true and you have WILD THINGS. There are literally about a million plot twists in this film. And they all make sense! How many movies can you say actually make sense when you sit down to really think about what is going on? Not very many, especially when the plot is consistantly twisting.Like in that stupid movie Double Take with Eddie Griffin-- the plot is always twisting. And in the end, the whole movie made absolutely no sense! This film is different. It was expertly structured by a guy who had some serious time to think and then a few sex scenes were thrown in for good measure. WILD THINGS gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"Great erotic thriller","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was completely shocked after watching  this movie. Not only was it erotic, but it  actually had a respectable plot with  some ingenius twists. It had everything  a pubescent male could wish for, and all  of the intrigue to defend why he watched  it in the first place. Neve Campbell and  Bill Murray were exceptional, while Matt  Dillon was perfectly cast as the swarmy  Mr. Lombardo. I loved this film, simply  because no one phoned in their  performance. I also commend George  Clinton (of Parliament fame) for the  ultra-cool score. "},{"Title":"only something so bad could be this good","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Startling, scandalously sexy thriller has so many twists and turns that it could arguably redefine the film noir genre. In a small Florida coastal town, guidance counselor Dillon is accused of rape by rich, saucy high school vixen Richards, and her outcast, trailer trash classmate Campbell. Lead detective Bacon suspects there's more to the story and is plunged headfirst into a sleazy, intricate web of greed and deception. If you think you've got it figured out then think again as this slick, well-cast, shamelessly raunchy film takes you on a wild ride that keeps you guessing right until the very end. Similar to watching a sultry soap opera where you can't root for anyone or can root for everyone at the same time, this memorable genre piece is sure to knock your socks off. *** "},{"Title":"A Different But Good Crime/Thriller.","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"    Wild Things is a good film but different from most crime films. Kevin Bacon plays a Florida police officer who investigates when two teenagers Kelly (Denise Richards) and Suzie (Neve Campbell) accuse a guidance counseler (Matt Dillon) of rape. Wild Things is a good buttwisted crime/thriller that keeps you on the edge of your seat. I give  it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"SPOILERS/PLOT QUESTIONS","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Susie's Teeth/Murder If she was so wasted (remember the blurry POV when Lombardo showed up), how did she manage to orchestrate her fake murder, teeth pulling, etc.? If she indeed pulled out her teeth, why weren't they bloody when Duquette found them, yet there was fresh blood at the scene?  I'm aware of the denture forshadowing, and those teeth could be from that set or something, but why did they show her trying to yank them out? And how did she get a perfect set of teeth back at the end? Not that much time transpired to get dental work. And what about the bloody bottle? Fake blood? If Kelly didn't know Susie's death was faked, it appears that she is among the screwed over, so why then was Lombardo mad at Duquette for killing Kelly? Were Lombardo and Susie just going to disappear, leaving Kelly with her mom, who she screwed over, and take ALL the money? Why was Duquette even brought into this? Then at the end we find out that Susie and Bowden were the real orchestrators, and I am confused. Offshore bank accounts-Duquette couldn't crack the location of this account-untraceable, how did Susie and Bowden get at the money? I've watched this over and over and I still don't get it. If someone could explain very plainly the plot twists I would be forever grateful, cause this is really bugging me. "},{"Title":"Keeps you on the edge of your seat every minute. You become to enjoy the plot twist after watching this several times.","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Twists lurk in every direction of this steamy boiler in which no person is who they appear to be all happening in hot and beautiful Florida. When I first saw this at the movies I thought this movie is the best of all-time when it comes to keeping the viewer guessing, but after watching Wild Things several times you just love seeing again and again how great the plot was twisted. In the very last scene you see and figure out how the whole scheme worked and say to yourself just how smart the Bill Murray and Neve Campbell characters are. This was one of the best performances I had seen from Bill Murray in a long time, and the acting from Matt Dillon and Kevin Bacon is of good quality. The best of all things is the sexy performance that Denise Richards gives one of the best in movie history. Wild Things is what made people notice Denise Richards and she became another sex icon. Wild Things is a must see the first time you watch you will find that being on the edge of your seat is great excitement, and with later viewings when you have figured it all out then just take it easy and enjoy a great movie! Wild Things shows on both basic and premium cable. "},{"Title":"What a load of garbage","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you do not want to waste two hours of your time,do not watch this piece of crap!It is about these two stupid girls who are obsessed with their guidance who they are having a threesome with!This movie is completely and totally a load of garbage!It had me completely and totally confused until the VERY end of the movie!I give it a 4/10 only because I love Matt Dillon and Neve Campbell is a great actress! "}{"Title":"A WONDERFUL GUILTY PLEASURE!","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm a 47 year old accountant.  I should not have like this movie.  But I did.  I rate it 8 out of 10.I love suspense/thriller/ mysteries...especially if they have plot twists. Some erotic scenes don't hurt either.  And I can enjoy and appreciate a little camp now and then.  This guilty pleasure has it all.I think Wild Things was done in a serious manner, but meant to be taken as tongue-in-cheek.  It's not high brow stuff.  Just a fun romp.Besides Matt Damon, Kevin Bacon, and Bill Murray are fun to watch.Shhhhh....don't tell anyone I liked this movie.Namaste' "},{"Title":"They're dying to play with you (literally).","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  WOW! What a wicked film! In a world where back-stabbing is what comes naturally, it's every man for themself as plans fall perfectly into place and lives hang in the balance.See, two people have concoted a plan to take off with 8 million dollars. But who are they, and what are their motives?Well first there's the two girls (Neve Campbell and Denise Richards), who accuse one of their teachers of rape (Matt Dillon); there's the cop who finds out a little too much (Kevin Bacon), plus a phoney lawyer (Bill Murray) and a whole list of the players, and the played.Neve is brilliant (again) as Suzie Toller, and Kevin Bacon and Matt Dillon are also good. Bill Murray has a significant portion of the best lines as the shanky lawyer.A bit slow to get started, but when it does, your mind will enter a world where nothing is quite what it seems, and twists and surprises await you at the next corner. "},{"Title":"Better than the usual suspects!","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" An absolutely fantastic movie!Plenty to oggle but more importantly (?!) an exceptionally clever and exciting plot. There's no way anyone could guess the ending and this movie leads you down any number of blind alleys before twisting its way to a superb finish which (gasp) actually makes perfect sense!! Something of a novelty in Hollywood where plot twists are deployed purely for shock with no reference to earlier scenes that no longer tie in to anything!Definitely see this film - it is truly superb. Very clever, very entertaining and Neve + Denise - huzzah!! "},{"Title":"The best movie ever made","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Intentions, suspense, a great story, a little bit of violence, a little bit of sexuality...that's all what a great movie should have. And this movie has all of the things. It's the best movie ever made. The actresses Neve Campbell and Denise Richards are the perfect girls for the acting like the bi-sexual and drug liking girl and the rich spoiled well-off child. And Matt Dillon is the perfect good teacher. But the best is the always changing action When Lombardo killed Suzie, Detective Kelly, Lombardo Detective, Suzie Lombardo...it's great to think always oh what happened!!! Don't miss the explaining after the movie, only so you can understand the action.If you want to talk with me about that movie or about any other things like actors, directors, movies...E-M@IL me!!!At last I want to say Watch that movie, you'll like it!!! Daniel "},{"Title":"SHOCKING!","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great film.  Because of the twisting plot, this film will even be liked by people who don't normally like murder mysteries.  My advice is RENT it, WATCH it (CLOSELY) then watch it again!  And DON'T stop the tape when it says The End, you'll miss even more TWISTS!AWESOME! "},{"Title":"Very Excite-ing","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  true, this movie had an interesting plot with a great twist. True, it was a real mystery because you could never figure out who the real criminal was. But let's be honest here, is that why you saw this movie?This movie can be better described as a rated R porno flick. (with a great plot and twist, of course).Denise Richards is the perfect woman, and the threesome scenes are what make this the perfect movie.(neve Campbell isn't that bad either)If you do not have feelings for the opposite sex, then this movie will simply not be the same. "},{"Title":"Twists and Turns Galore","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  For the first third of the movie I believed it was going to be a standard courtroom drama.  Then it becomes a noirish mystery with the most plot twists since THE USUAL SUSPECTS.  And, unlike that movie, WILD THINGS has some real sexual heat.  The main characters, Bacon, Dillon, Campbell, and Richards turn in excellent performances, as does Bill Murray as a sleazy lawyer.  And a mesmerizing voodoo musical score by George Clinton sets the deep, tropical mood of the southern Florida locale.  I love these kinds of movies and this movie did not disappoint...not by a long shot. "},{"Title":"an entertaining  film full of twists and turns.","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild things is a really good Black comedy/thriller which goes from one twist to another , there are so many twists in fact that you start to guess them before thay happen. Matt Dillan, Kevin Bacon and Bill Murray are up to their usual good Standard and Neve Campbell and Denise Richards are Superb, their actings not bad either! Recomended.  7 out 10  "},{"Title":"Skin Flick","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I liked this movie.  It has all sorts of twists and turns.  You never know what's going to happen from one minute to the next and you can't figure out what is going to happen until it happens.  I only have one problem with this movie.  I did not know there would be so much skin.  There is a lot of adult content in this movie. "},{"Title":"Bitcheroo Switcheroo","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is basically a shaggy dog joke spun and re-spun right on into the credits. I didn't really buy the Ultimate conclusion(yeah sure guys...) but then it didn't matter, they could have randomly had Anyone wind up on that boat at the end; it was that arbitrary.Naughty bits abound in this movie, the hose job, the threesome...personally I liked Theresa Russell, on the balcony in the bikini and then on the cabin boy. She chews the scenery here, sure, but so did Bacon, Wagner, Neve and Denise Richards. Not much of a film acting wise or sense wise, if you like the gal from Starship Troopers(a block of wood-nice wood) or Bacon, then you will like this.Myself, I would give it a 6 outta 10, a good VCR if nothing better is on the shelves... "}{"Title":"TWIST & SHOUT","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Chalk up one less degree for those working with producer/star Kevin Bacon in this wicked swamp-steamy potboiler. When all's done but the twisting and shouting, the famous game may be all that this movie's good for.Our sub-tropical treatise on greed is set in an oozingly rich faux Miami suburb named Blue Bay.  At a yuppie private school in town well-endowed cheerleaders practice their pep as guidance counselor/sailing instructor hunk Matt Dillon is accused of rape by Blue Bay's richest brat-ette (Denise Richards).  In true CRUCIBLE style, town bad girl (Neve Campbell, over-acting in spades) soon joins in the finger pointing pitting Miami bitch matron Theresa Russell (as the mom also scorned) against Counselor Dillon and his low-rent lawyer (Bill Murray, in a performance restrained only by the editor's shears.)From then on this lurid Everglades epic has more twists and turns than the West Coast Highway.  Add in Robert Wagner, Carrie Snodgress, Broadway's Daphne Rubin-Vega (wooden) and a bunch of hungry gators (lovingly shot), and stir well.  After plot control has been handed off for the umpteenth time, our flick loses all common sense and it's clear anything goes - logic be damned!  Fade-out inserts that help dimmer viewers fill in the plot are insulting and unnecessary. Give us some credit! Unlike play to film thriller DEATHTRAP, which also turned the tables time and again, WILD THINGS has no characters you care about and spends most of it's screen time soaking in the Florida sunshine and that glowing moon over Miami.  Kudos to DP Jeffrey L. Kimball for this motion-based tourism brochure. "},{"Title":"No Spoilers....just honest opinion...Great!!!!","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Rented this on video because I thought it would be a $4 thriller for a rainy day. The first half was about what I expected, the second 1/2 was pretty good for twists and turns but when the screen faded to black I thought You're kidding!!! That's a slack ending!!!!Thankfully I'm one of these people who like to read credits and seconds later a new scene comes on screen, it's only a very short scene to be sure but it fills in the gaps in the movie. Several of these teasing scenes appear before the movie is done.By the end of these scenes I'm going Wow! I didn't see any of that coming! What a clever way to edit a film!  All I can say is it's nice not to know the ending of a film before the film finishes and this film was very original in that score. Not since SHATTERED have I been so gobsmacked by a surprise ending.10/10 in the thriller genre. "},{"Title":"A nasty, but fun, ride","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild Things was a very intriguing, fun movie. Although the nudity and now infamous 3-way might have been a bit much for my likings, it still had plenty of twists and turns to keep 'ya guessing.Neve Campbell, Denise Richard, Matt Dillon and Kevin Bacon are all really good and the score to this movie is really great (I can't describe it.). Overall I liked this movie, and the way it showed the not-shown scenes during the credits. Basically, my summary for the entire movie is that Neve Campbell looks horrible as a blond.My rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was great.  If you only see it for the 3 some with Neve, Denise and Matt, you'll get your money's worth.  Denise is hot through the movie. Check it out.  The pool scenes are great.  What a body on that girl Denise Richards.  Great twists in the movie.  This is a must see. "},{"Title":"One of the sexiest movies I've seen","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I admired Basic Instinct for being sexy.  Every nude scene that was in that film was done so to further the plot, deepen a character or play with someone's mind.  I enjoyed it for those reasons.  Wild Things has none of that.  When there is nudity or sexy scenes in here it has nothing to do with furthering the plot, it was gratuitous nudity.  It was to get men into the audience and holler at the gorgeous women on screen.  And I loved it for that.  There are not that many movies that dare to stoop to that level to sell tickets anymore.  Wild Things does and makes no apologies for it.There are so many plot twists in here that when you are not watching Denise Richards get wet and get into a menage a trois, you are engaged by the story.  And it never stops moving.  It always has something new that you are shocked at just when you think there is nothing more to figure out. Especially entertaining in this film is Bill Murray as a sleazy attorney and his secretary.  She had me in stitches at times.  Especially bad is Theresa Russell.  I have never thought of her as a good actress and I think she got by on nepotism for her whole career.  Here she whines and has no idea how to play her part.  I really can't believe that they didn't try to replace her with another actress.  But if you can stomach her for the brief time that she is on screen then you should enjoy the rest of this film.The very end of the film was a shocker to me.  Don't turn the VCR off until the credits have completely stopped rolling.  Here you will see some of the best stuff in the film and it will explain to you alot of what it is that you need to know.Wild Things is a great film, more so for guys for obvious reasons but even for women who like a good story, this will please you as well.It's not often that a film will blatantly use sex to sell their film, it seems like the glory days of the 80's are gone.  But this restores my faith in pointless nudity, and if you like this sort of thing, then you will really enjoy this film.     "},{"Title":"Neve Kicks A$$!!!","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I first heard of this film I thought it would just be about some crazy teenagers having a crazy wild party.Was I right..... N-O NO!This was a mystery as to who is behind all of this scheming. And I when I did find out who the S.P.E.C.T.R.E. was .....boy, man I was way off.(If you want to know what S.P.E.C.T.R.E. means just watch James Bond You Only Move Twice).There are so many twists to this movie, that it makes a Tornado look like a slight breeze. Neve Campbell (as Sydney Prescott in Scream stars in this film as well as other famous faces like, Matt Dillon, Kevin Bacon and Denise Richards. I thought that Scream was a mystery but if you really want a mystery watch this crazy film named .......Wild Things.I give it a Mysterious 8 and a half out 10. "},{"Title":"This movie was too cool","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I love Wild Things. I love Neve Campbell. I love Denise Richards. Matt Dillon is your boy.A cool psychological thriller. Not as good as Basic Instinct or Final Analysis, two of my favorites, but it's close. As has been said, lots of twists and turns in this one; some you could see coming, some were absolutely unforeseen. And the best performance in this movie is from Bill Murray, in my opinion.I'm just thinking that the threesome scene just wasn't necessary, but there are those who love that kind of thing. Not that I don't like that kind of thing, but I watched this with my dad and his lady friend...I gave this a 7, almost an 8 "},{"Title":"Stylish, Original and clever, but too clever","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film shoots itself in the foot by trying to be too clever with itself as well as the fact that all its lead characters are highly dislikable, but it will entertain you and has enough twists and turns to keep you guessing until the very end. Do not try to piece everything together though as you may begin to find gaping holes in the storyline, most of which the director tries to rectify during the end credits in a kind of 'out takes' way. The film surprised me as I went in to it thinking it was going to be very poor, solely a showcase for gorgeous rising Hollywood starlets, Campbell and Richards, but despite its faults it was an original and entertaining idea.  "},{"Title":"The most unpredictable movie ever.","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I borrowed this from a friend expecting to see nothing more then a good hooter flick. I was wrong. This movie has more twists then a Chubby Checkers album. It's so unpredictable that watching someone else watch it for the first time would be entertaining. Great plot, really great. Whoever came up with the idea for the plot has one of the most complex minds in Hollywood. Very very good. "},{"Title":"You will be thrilled by one of the best cast in movie history","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The best thing regarding Wild Things is the fabulous cast which includes Neve Campbell in her most challenging part to date, Kevin Bacon who shows full front nudity, every man's dreamgirl Denise Richards in her most sexual part and Matt Dillon. Please don't forget Bill Murray who has the most funny lines in this movie and Robert Wagner who is solid as ever. Go and watch this movie and be thrilled, exited and surprised.  "}{"Title":"Wild Things is the hottest and most suspenseful film since Basic Instinct.","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild Things was an awesome movie.  Everyone should see this flick.  I saw this movie in theatres and was blown away!  This movie has everything! Sex, drugs, violence, drama, comedy, and even a little bit of action.  Wild Things is a flick that is sure not to be forgotten.  With a terrific cast and an awesome script, Wild Things if fun ride you don't want to miss. "},{"Title":"What a ride","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of the most unique pictures to come out of Hollywood in years. The storyline is gripping, fast-paced and wonderfully impossible to predict. Typical white-bread thriller this ain't. Kevin Bacon and Neve Campbell are suitably creepy, and Bill Murray is wonderful as a corrupt lawyer. Of course, many folks will rent Wild Things just to see Neve and Denise Richards kiss. That's good too, although Selma Blair and Sarah Michelle Gellar's French kiss in Cruel Intentions is more fun to watch.  "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wow, I rented this movie because everything else was out but I'm glad all of those big name movies were out.  What a surprisingly plot twisting movie.  I love this kind of movie where you never know what's going to happen, in the tradition of Color of Night (Bruce Willis film) where everything you think is going to happen doesn't, those big name predictable movies get old, it's nice to see a fresh faced plot twister with a dash of Bill Murray in there. "},{"Title":"total waste of time","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think that movie was awful. I really didn't like the plot and the twists in the plot were just so far-fetched and totally boring. After half an hour of that movie, all I wanted to do was get out of that theatre and come home and watch Bambi cause it's a whole lot better than this movie!!! Plus, the rating where I saw it was PG-13 and I really think it should have been R because of all the sex. So, if you're actually gonna watch that movie, fine, do so, but I'm telling you, it's a waste of time and money. I'd rather be a professional bowler than to see this movie again! "},{"Title":"Didn't really like it","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The story loses veracity with all the turnarounds. It could be much better just with some modifications. However, Neve Campbell gives us another great display of talent and acting capacity. "},{"Title":"more cheap thrills","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I rented Wild Things because it made a Top 10 Hottest Movies list in Cosmopolitan magazine. It's a reasonably sexy, entirely disposable film, but it's certainly entertaining. It got a lot of notice primarily because Neve Campbell (teen heartthrob from TV's Party of Five) gets into a menage-a-trois with Matt Dillon and Denise Richards.It is pretty silly, but it is a fun ride while it lasts, and there is plenty to look at, if you're looking for a sexy thrill (hey, it worked for me). There are lots of great looking people wandering around with little on, plot twists aplenty, and a rapid fire pace to the whole thing. So, while I'm glad I didn't pay to see it in the theatre, it was definitely worth the money at the video store. "},{"Title":"Very fun movie...","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think this movie should have also been called a comedy, Bill Murray was great(he's one of my favorite comic actors). This movie can't be taken seriously, and I don't think it tries to be. It works as a date movie, party movie and just plain watch again and again movie. One of the most fun to watch movies I have ever seen. Great when you go rent a movie with your buddies or girlfriend/boyfriend. Just make sure you don't watch it with your parents. J/K. 8/10. "},{"Title":"An entertaining satire","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild Things is a well thought-out and clever satire, and I think that most people who saw it took it too seriously and didn't realize that. The acting and the writing are extremely cheesy, but intentionally so.  "},{"Title":"Much, Much better than i thought","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well I didnt want to see this one, it looked like a senseless porn, of course it has some prescindible sex scenes, but it is a great movie, it has a TV show structure that all those TV directors wish to get on their series (it has the quality of baywatchs girls, but well managed), and its altered to look like being shot in video format(if you can't tell betwen 35mm and video it works better cause it envolves you better), so it gives the hole TV show atmosphere, and definitely John McNaughton gave a lesson to the media bussines, making a great critic film, and to get it better it has a very solid story, the best twists in many years, while you expect a thrilled twist, it breaks the standards, so if you think it is bad, or just another Hollywood paid porn, you haven't really seen it. "},{"Title":"Silly, suspenseful and sexy","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I rented Wild Things because it made a Top 10 Hottest Movies list in Cosmopolitan magazine. It's a reasonably sexy, entirely disposable film, but it's certainly entertaining. It got a lot of notice primarily because Neve Campbell (teen heartthrob from TV's Party of Five) gets into a menage-a-trois with Matt Dillon and Theresa Russell.It is pretty silly, but it is a fun ride while it lasts, and there is plenty to look at, if you're looking for a sexy thrill (hey, it worked for me). There are lots of great looking people wandering around with little on, plot twists aplenty, and a rapid fire pace to the whole thing. So, while I'm glad I didn't pay to see it in the theatre, it was definitely worth three bucks at the video store.  "}{"Title":"Not just any old 7","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I gave Wild Things a 7.  It didn't start out as a 7 but that's what I gave it.  Honestly, it started out a 5.  Had I not seen the movie I would have been entirely happy giving it a 5, except I don't vote on movies I haven't seen.  Anyway, I went to go see it.  Again, honestly, I didn't go see it so I could vote on it.  Like so many other all-American males, I went to see it for Bill Murray... oh, and there were two really gorgeous girls in it getting VERY friendly with each other.  So it starts out as a 5 but bad acting all-around (except for Mr. Murray) knocks it down to a 4.  The aforementioned girl/girl eye-candy brought it back up to a 5 and the car wash scene gave it a half-point bonus.  5.5.  A special guest appearance by Kevin Bacon, Jr., no not his son, dropped it right back down to a 4.  The movie was saved by two things, however.  1)Bill Murray is great!  He is a much better actor than people give him credit for (watch Groundhog Day, please!)and when he's in a role that lets him do his stuff he's one of the best out there (I'm not going to say he's Olivier or anything but believe me here).  His performance raised the score to a 5.5.  2)The ending was very clever.  The sort of 'filler' scenes that show you how the whole scheme was planned out gave this movie a uniqueness it didn't have in any other part of the story.  Until I saw the ending I was kinda blah about the whole movie.  After I saw the ending I couldn't stop saying good things about it. Final Score 5-1+1+0.5-1.5+1.5+1.5 = 7 "},{"Title":"Sleeper Hit!","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie took me by surprise. I expected a t&a fest, but while there was a 3 some, it almost didn't matter. I mean, yes, denise richards is freaky naked and Neve Cambell only shows her back, but the story was so odd and unexpected, it ended up being a really good mystery movie! Who would have thought?  "},{"Title":"Real cool trash!","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a fun and funny film about the triumph of trailer trash.  For those of us from a certain class and domicile who have endured a lifetime of insults, it's real redemption to see Neve Campbell's Suzie fool 'em all. You go girl, all the way to the bank!  "},{"Title":"The worst picture ever since Jerry Lewis' Nazi clown.","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A film produced by Kevin Bacon -- need I say more? In the pantheon of the lower depths of film making, this waste of time rules supreme with it's vacuous dialogue, porno quality acting skills & cut'n'paste plot, you'll find yourself thinking of every excuse imaginable for a refund.My advice, buy a $4 bottle of champagne and pour it on yourself if you're looking for erotica. "},{"Title":"Wildly silly film has all skin but no brain...","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Yes, this is a very sloppily written film. Even with a few  plot twists here and there, this film didn't have much else going for it, even for the sexual content. If you haven't seen it yet, and want to see it just for that, you won't find much. A Calvin Klein ad is more explicit. You have the Denise Richards Body Double scene and the Kevin Bacon weenie scene. And there's Theresa Russell (who is extremely repulsive in my opinion) and that's it. That about rounds it up.Summarized in one word, this film can be narrowed down to a potboiler. The cast had a lot more acting potential, even the Bill Murray cameo proved unredeeming. But because they used such a cast, the producers probably figured it would make a quick buck and slowly leave the pop side.Frankly, this is a late night MADE-FOR-TV movie, with a few famous faces thrown in, and some spicy scenes. If you don't want to waste $2-$3 of your money, you're better off watching one of those. "},{"Title":"NOTHING TO SAVE, EXCEPT THE CROCODILES !","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  To say that  Wild things  is a bad movie isn't enough. Why a movie with such good actors can be that bad ; that's the question to ask!First the plot  now, at least, we know that a movie mixing  Vertigo  ,  And then, they were none  and  Everglades  an hostile world  (produced by Florida Tourist Office) CAN'T work.Then, I believe it's one of the first time in Movie history that a film is conceived as a crossed-word puzzle. With the solution in the same film (at the last page. No sorry ! during the final credits, I mean) ! The public would have deserved a  Wild Things Part 2. That's part of elementary respect.Respect of the audience is a real forgotten concept in Hollywood nowadays.OK I'm too virulent. I loved the crocodiles.A DVD to destroy.  "},{"Title":"Slick, not rewatchable.","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think that after viewing Wild Things you will think Wow, that was cool and then you'll never have to check it out again. John MacNaughton is a very talented director, but seems to be wasting his talent here. The film is sexy, probably a teenagers wet dream, but it really seems to have no value. I did like Bill Murray in a small, but pivotal role.  "},{"Title":"Trashy, sexy, superb","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wild Things has everything great actors, a breathtaking story and a menage a trois.When you like thrillers you've to see this movie. "},{"Title":"John McNaughton's Twists and Turns","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A police detective uncovers a conspiracy behind a case involving a high-school guidance counselor when accusations of rape are made against him by two female students.While this film is perhaps not as critically-acclaimed as the crime comedy Mad Dog and Glory, this is the more satisfying McNaughton police story, with a great mystery and more intrigue. You never really know who is working with who until the very end.The DVD commentary pays close attention to all the attempts to have beautiful lighting and backgrounds. There are a few behind the scenes tips, such as the use of cardboard where more expensive visuals would be no better. We even find out that one scene is actually an homage to Red River, which you might never have figured out. "},{"Title":"How about 'Mild Things'? or 'Vile Things'? I don't know I got nothing","Date":"18 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Some committee of studio executives wrote this movie. By the time you read this review this movie will have sucked for years now unabated, just raging like some grand tire fire, burning for thousands of miles in every direction hot sooty suck. Not erotic, not edgy,and not a sultry sexy neo- noir thriller- it is cheap, it is sexually retarded, and it is boring. Were it not for the totally tacked-on plot twists this movie could be used as a sleep aid. This movie exists to satisfy some sort of jail-bait fantasy, which is always the sign of a classy film production. A perfect example of what a disposable movie looks like, use it wad it up then throw it away, add garbage to garbage. "}{"Title":"Sex and Money.","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It would be a major mistake to take this seriously because it must have been meant to be a comedy. It's actually pretty amusing. It follows in the train of such hits as Basic Instinct, The Mean Season, Masquerade, Fatal Passion, or whatever. Everything is parodied. The score slyly chuckles as it traces the contours of Bernard Hermann's masterful theme in Vertigo, shamelessly ripping off the ostinato. The plot rests on a kind of pretzel logic in which everybody is in cahoots with somebody else. It's too complicated to describe. But let's say that Matt Dillon is a proletarian guidance counselor at an elite Florida high school. He teams up with two luscious babes -- Denise Richards of the unending bosoms and Neve Campbell as her friend. The two gals are bisexual and are getting it on with each other as well was with Matt Dillon and the local detective, Kevin Bacon. Dillon and the succulent babes have a false rape charge brought against him, Dillon, and afterwards they sue the rear ends of Richards' mother and her husband, Teresa Russell and Robert Wagner. Much duplicity follows and multiple murders. All is not explained until the end credits roll. I told you it was complicated.I don't think it's worth commenting on the acting since it's all a joke anyway. If you doubt that it's a joke, consider this scene. Dillon and Richards have apparently murdered Campbell, wrapped her body in a shower curtain or a plastic tarp, and bundle the remains into the rear of an SUV. The two killers climb into the front seats. There is a pause. Then Richards says, My mother would kill me if she knew I took the Rover. The funniest part is just about over by the time Bill Murray, as a shabby storefront lawyer, disappears from the plot. Here's how we first meet Murray. At the point where Dillon is charged with rape and about to be hauled into court, he seeks out Murray, who is seated behind his desk wearing a neck brace. Dillon sits down and begins to spill his sad tale but interrupts himself to ask, What IS that thing? Murray says, Oh, this is nothing. I can take it off any time I want. He peeks out the window and mutters, There was this insurance guy around here a while ago. Then he tears off the neck brace, flings it away, and sits back to hear the rest of the story.I'm not sure all the performers knew they were in a comedy. Some are like Margaret Dumont in the Marx Brothers' movies. But the director certainly knows the kind of material he's dealing with. Richards and Campbell have an argument in a swimming pool and while Richards is apparently holding her buddy under water and drowning her, the camera lingers salaciously on Richards' jiggling boobs. It's a magnificent display of bad taste. If the camera had a neck I would wring it.Robert Wagner is in this, too, along with Kevin Bacon. Let's see. RJ was my supporting player in the unforgettable artistic triumph Windmills of the Gods. Or was it Rage of Angels? I forget. Anyway, that gives me a Kevin Bacon number of one. As for Kevin Bacon, I get a Kevin Bacon number of two.Nice shots of Florida beaches. Man-eating alligators. Sailboats of such dimensions that I couldn't afford the upkeep and neither could you. But, withal, this is a message movie, funny or not. The message is that money buys an opulent existence on a tropical beach with Neve Campbell as a companion. Don't worry. She's a genius, with an IQ of 200, which puts her right up there with John Stuart Mill. To prove it, she remarks that the name of the sailboat is Helios and brings up Medea and Creon and some other high-falutin' Greek. She's sexy too. The only thing is, you have to keep one eye open all night. "},{"Title":"Tame","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What a mess this was. Not the story; that clicks together quite easily. An I.Q. around 200 isn't needed to sort it out.This starts off from a sort of '90210' platform, specifically using Richards in the same manner as she was used in Starship Troopers. The middle tends toward Body Heat and attempts to twist us around a la Usual Suspects; but this is a poor backwoods cousin with none of the narrative brains of noir.This is the second time McNaughton failed to use Murray with effect -- he incorrectly sees Murray as comic relief. But watch Quick Change or Groundhog Day, and you can see that he knows how to play in that place between the movie reality and us.If the storytelling had a real conspiracy with a smart actor like Murray, we might have had something interesting; this is laid out for dummies. "},{"Title":"This movie is a twist failure","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie simply doesn't work. You will not predict the ending, and I won't say what it is. But, that's not plus. Anybody can make plot twists unexpected, if they don't make any sense, and have no basis. This movie simply arbitrarily switches tracks without laying any good groundwork. A movie can not be made exclusively by great looking women. If you want the movie just to see the women, than rent the DVD, and skip to the good parts, with muted sound. Otherwise, don't bother.The plot twists (without giving them away) amount to throwing out a stereotyped character, and having them be the opposite of what they appear. Big surprise. Neve Cambell is a truly great actress, and I hope one day she gets a film that does more than cash-in on her looks. "},{"Title":"If you loved Basic Instinct and Showgirls, you should watch Wild Things","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I wasn't too into Showgirls and not a big fan of Basic Instinct, but some how this movie did fit into a fine story. This movie is risque. But that's what attracted me to it. Like I said, if you did like Showgirls and Basic Instinct, you will most likely enjoy Wild Things.7/10 "},{"Title":"Wild Things","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Saucy tale of sex, revenge and murder that wows you at every turn and shocks you with every shattering scene.  "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com - @tss5078","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" For years, people have been talking to me about this smart, sexy thriller, that spawned three sequels. There is also something to be said for mysteries, with twists and turns, that make you think, but a half hour into this thing, it was easy to figure out why none of the stars came back for the sequels. This movie certainly plays up the eye candy angle, with two of the most beautiful women in Hollywood, and at first glance, it seems like it's going to be a pretty good film, but then the twists and turns kick in. Throwing in a twist can make an ordinary film spectacular, but when you do it every five minutes, it just confuses the hell out of the audience, and that's what happened here. By the end of Wild Things, I didn't know what the hell was going on anymore. As for the performances, they range from the brilliant Neve Campbell to the horrid Matt Dillon, and feature a ton of cameos in-between. I wanted to like this movie, there are some very good looking people, who like to take their cloths off, and that does tend to help you focus more, but the question is what are we focusing on? I concluded that there really isn't a reason to watch two hours of pure garbage, when you can find all the naked celebrity pictures you could ever want, in five minutes online. "},{"Title":"our introduction to Denise Richards","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Obviously, the scene in Wild Things that really surprised everyone was a certain scene with Kevin Bacon. But as for the rest of the movie, it involves a rape lawsuit in a Florida high school, and the strange things that follow. I'm not sure how much I can tell you without giving it away. I never would have envisioned so many twists and turns in a movie. As it was, this was our introduction to Denise Richards (although she had earlier appeared in the worth-seeing Starship Troopers). All in all, if you come away from this movie royally confused, don't say that I didn't warn you. But don't get me wrong it's a pretty interesting movie. Also starring Matt Dillon, Neve Campbell, Theresa Russell, Robert Wagner, Bill Murray and Carrie Snodgress. "},{"Title":"This Will Be A Film Noir Classic!","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't expect much from this film the first time I saw it in the movie theatre the first day it came out, but I was pleasantly surprised.  I recently rented this film on video to get myself acquainted with it again. Matt Dillon plays a teacher at a Florida prep school where he is wrongly accused of raping two of his students.  The plot in this film isn't that simple.  You won't know what will happen from one scene to the next.  The film has mystery, comedy, and erotic moments.  With so many Hitchcockian twists and turns, Wild Things doesn't disappoint.  The 3-way sex scene with Matt Dillon, Neve Campbell, & Denise Richards is the best reason to see this film.  Denise Richards was a virtually unknown actress before this film came out.  She shot to stardom after millions of people around the world saw her go topless and share an erotic lesbian kiss with Neve Campbell. Trust me people, this scene is HOT!!!  But there are two disappointments in this film.  The first disappointment is that Neve Campbell doesn't go topless. I've discovered that Neve Campbell has it written in all her film contracts that she never goes nude.  That's a shame.  The second disappointment in this film is that Kevin Bacon does go nude.  Near the end of this film, we get to see Kevin Bacon's.... BACON.... dangle in a shower scene.  I think this was Kevin Bacon's first frontal nude scene ever.  Women may like this scene.  Men may want to look away.  Throughout the film, we find out that everybody are not as they seem to be as the characters are being betrayed left and right.... and killed off one-by-one.  I thought the cast members did some fine acting.... except for Matt Dillon.  I thought Matt Dillon was stiff and dull in his performance.  I thought Neve Campbell and Denise Richards were beautiful and gave decent performances with what they could with the B-movie dialogue that was written.  Bill Murray gave a very funny comedic performance as Matt Dillon's defense lawyer.  Kevin Bacon, as always, gave the best performance in this movie.  Wild Things isn't the best movie ever made, but the plot twists and the 3-way sex scene makes this film a fun ride to take.  This will forever be a classic!  Great Film Noir! "},{"Title":"All in all it was a very promising movie, but the many twists just made it too complicated and unbelievable.","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Let's be honest the only reason why men watch this movie is because Denise Richards and Neve Campbell are in it. Too bad for the girls, although I guess they don't mind Matt Damon is in it as well. Isn't there another reason to watch this movie then? Well, I don't think it will be the story, because there are so many twists in it that it is almost impossible to keep following it. The only other reason I can come up with to watch this movie must be the many erotic scenes (Richards and Campbell kissing in the pool and in a car, a threesome between Campbell, Richards and Damon,...). Wild Things is about Kelly Van Ryan (Denise Richards), a rich snob, who accuses the school guidance counselor, Sam Lombardo (Matt Dillon) of raping her. The police starts an investigation and they soon find another victim. Suzie Toller (Neve Campbell) is a poor, drug using girl that lives in a trailer. She attends the same school and she claims to be raped by Lombardo as well. However, during the trial she appears to be lying. She admits that it is just a trick to punish Mr. Lombardo because he has let her down once and that Van Ryan is in it as well. So far so good, but then the movie starts to twist and turn so often that it makes it very hard to keep understanding what is actually happening. All the good people appear to be bad; the victims are in a conspiracy with the criminal, but so are many other people; murders are being committed like if it is nothing... It's just one huge mess. I guess the only reason why people keep watching until the end is because they are expecting even more steaming sex scenes. All in all it was a very promising movie, but the many twists just made it too complicated and unbelievable. On the other hand, I'm only a man with a healthy dose of hormones... I give this movie a 6/10. It's the best I can do. "},{"Title":"Sex is the only real reason to watch it","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" *SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS Wild things is a trash entertainment , but an enjoyable entertainment . It isn't great on any kind of level . Still , it provides a quite decent entertainment for nearly 2 hours. It's better than most of the movies in its genre - erotic thriller (not that the genre has about 2 really good movies in it , while the rest is basically a straight-to-video/DVD crap.The best thing about Wild things is sex. We have three hot ladies here &#x96; Denise Richards , Neve Campbell and Theresa Russell . Not that the men are ugly , hell no , after all we have here Kevin Bacon and Matt Dillon. I can assure you that at some point in the movie you will see everyone of them in some state of undress. WD also has some great sex scenes &#x96; the lesbian scene at the pool and great threesome between two ladies and one man . The threesome is one of my favorite and most arousing movie scenes EVER.The screenplay by Stephen Peters isn't exactly a brilliant one . It feels like a story from one of those pulp magazines that inspired Quentin Tarantino to make Pulp fiction. I was able to figure out most of the twists and connections between characters before the movie presented them to the audience . Yet there was some inspired stuff here &#x96; the teeth , the lovely behind the scenes ending credits and Bill Murray's part in the story (!).John McNaughton directs the sex scenes very nicely . Atmospheric score by George S. Clinton certainly helps him. On the other hand he tries to hide the surprises from the audience in a too obvious way &#x96; for example if you didn't saw Dillon raping Richards or the fight between Bacon and Richards it means that the truth is completely different than what movie is trying to suggest you.Denise Richards is watchable here . Her body does most of the acting . Neve Campbell is really solid as the naughty girl , same as Kevin Bacon as FBI agent. Matt Dillon isn't bad , but the way he acts makes it obvious for the audience that he isn't exactly a good guy as the movie tries to present him . Theresa Russell is quite good as the rich and powerful Sandra Van Ryan. I was surprised by Bill Murray who gives a very funny performance as the tricky lawyer.It's obviously the best movie of the franchise . Not really a quality movie , but if you will low your expectations you probably will have fun with this popcorn thriller. I give it 5/10. "}{"Title":"Twist-a-minute thriller","Date":"3 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I remember when WILD THINGS came out on first release; for some reason, it never appealed to me. Back then I only cared about horror films like SCREAM, and this sleazy-looking thriller didn't have what it took to whet my appetite back then. Fourteen years later my tastes have broadened a great deal, so I decided to check it out.WILD THINGS turns out to be a real thrill-ride of a film, and that's all down to Stephen Peters' script, which is tremendous. It packs more genuinely surprising twists into its running time than half a dozen other Hollywood thrillers, and you can never predict where it's about to go next.An ensemble cast of actors known for appearances in sometimes-trashy cinema adds to the appeal. Matt Dillon does well balancing a difficult leading role, and Kevin Bacon has fun as a hard-ass cop, riffing on a role he must have played dozens of times during his career. Denise Richards, too, appears to be having a good time, trading on her cheerleader looks to decent effect, though Neve Campbell can't seem to shift her SCREAM-style goody two-shoes persona.Watch out for decent production values, slick direction from John McNaughton (HENRY PORTRAIT OF A SERIAL KILLER) and a wicked supporting role for Bill Murray. "},{"Title":"A corps of socio-psychopaths fills a deep-layered neo-noir with manipulation, death, greed, and sex","Date":"6 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If any of the 5 main characters in this story ever does anything remotely nice or good to anyone else, it's hard to remember what it is. Mostly, they plan, plot, manipulate, lie, steal, cheat, and kill. All are consumed by and driven by greed. That's number one, But some are driven by revenge, sex, jealousy and even love.It's only a question of which is lowest and cleverest among them and will beat the others.Important parts of the back story aren't shown visually until after the credits start rolling. Be sure to watch until the end to confirm information that is provided verbally and in prior developments. That is, if you care to understand fully what you have just seen of the complex interactions of these sociopaths and psychopaths.There is a kind of justice to it all since all but 2 of them end up dead.The 5 characters are played by Bill Murray (a sleazy lawyer), Kevin Bacon (corrupt cop), Matt Dillon (corrupt high school counselor), Neve Campbell (supposedly punk teenager but highly intelligent), and Denise Richards (sexy daughter of very wealthy Theresa Russell).At times the material is treated with some humor, but at the midway point you know that a major twist lies just ahead. These kinds of twists are losing their surprise value because they've been used so much, so one way to create entertainment for a sophisticated audience is to multiply them while maintaining plausibility. That's what's done here.The only decent character with much screen time appears to be Bacon's partner, played by Daphne Rubin-Vega, but her character is almost nothing but a convenience to the transmission of the plot.The movie more or less succeeds at what it does by not going too deeply into the characters, although we cannot take the outcome seriously. If it made them into really real people, we'd reject this confluence of psychopaths and their actions as implausible. The actors have to make us believe in their actions, and they do, while remaining somewhat as superficial. The most depth and reality is accorded to Denise Richards, whose emotions are the most genuine. This means that she is among the more manipulated. Kevin Bacon manipulates and is manipulated. He seems to be stuck on Matt Dillon, and Denise Richards surely is. Dillon is stuck on himself.Neo-noir is getting old. It's getting harder to be original. This story is basically formulaic, but it injects novelty via its complexity, to some extent by its setting, by its emphasis on sex, and by treating its material with some humor and lightness at times. It ends up working. "},{"Title":"Sub-par Thriller","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wild Things has been compared to Basic Instinct, and that's an apt comparison. Both are steamy, pulpy thrillers filled with sex, violence and diabolical schemes. But while Basic Instinct succeeds in its ambitions, Wild Things doesn't.Sam Lombardo (Matt Dillon) is the much beloved guidance counselor at a Florida high school. But two students, rich kid Kelly Van Ryan (Denise Richards) and self-proclaimed white trash Suzy Toller (Neve Campbell) accuse Lombardo of rape. But did he do it, or is something more devious afoot?There are two big problems with Wild Things the script and the direction. This kind of thriller needs two things, and in as much amounts as possible atmosphere and sleaze. Unfortunately, director John McNaughton makes the mistake of misunderstanding the material. He knows it's supposed to be pulpy, but he presents the mood with subtlety. This is precisely the wrong thing to do with this kind of story. Furthermore, when the first big twist comes, McNaughton doesn't know how to handle the material anymore, and he becomes unsure of how to proceed. The result is an unconvincing second half. Finally, McNaughton does not know how to pan a camera. When the camera moves, it is done so badly that it's jarring.The script's deficiencies would not be so noticeable if McNaughton's direction had been better (at least until the end). As such, they are emphasized. The story works great until the final 20 minutes, when it really falls apart. Writer Stephen Peters is so determined to bend the story over itself again and again that it ceases to make sense.The acting is okay. Matt Dillon fares the best as Lambardo. Denise Richards is less effective as Kelly, then Neve Campbell comes in third. Kevin Bacon is flat, and Bill Murray is miscast. No one else has much to do.Wild Things wants to be a good potboiler, but it doesn't have the guts to get down and dirty. "},{"Title":"When Basic Insect Rules.. !","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Thriller , with so many twists , a graphic sex scenes where you can watch 2 young actresses as lesbians ! , some good scenery , and maybe a vendetta against rich people ..Hmmm ..Let's do it , and why not ? It got the word commercial all over it ! Actually this movie is candid to a respectable extent. Explicitly they write the word SEX on the board at the first scene. It's not discussing a problem or making a serious statement about a case , it's the human greed , instinct , impurity as wild things ..And that's it ! I told you earlier it's a wild deal which well-done also. However it's not all brainless ..If you try to philosophize it ..They gave you chances  we're living a rotten world where the instinct's needs rule , the society's values became lower and lower since the investigators as well as the defenders of the truth (the officer , and the lawyer) are investigating and defending money only , there is no perfect truth only detached pieces of it , greed can make the human a wilder beast with evil brain and no mercy.. etc.And if you want to have only a nice time there are more than satisfying point ..I personally preferred the steamy presence of (Theresa Russell) and all of her scenes , she was younger , hotter , more truthful than everybody else ! , plus the smart ending through the closing credits.SO WHAT IS THE PROBLEM ANYWAY ?! , what's here to make the critic criticize ? It has something for everyone But.. You might sense some coldness  the sex scene with all due respect wasn't hot by any chance ..It was the worst acting I've ever seen among resembling situations plus a hunch about the 2 actresses as not comfortable at all during this. Generally the performance was fake (Denise Richards and Matt Dillon for examples) , moreover the bad feelings that this movie leaves you with (intentionally or unintentionally) about the illusion of the trust , the permeation of depravity , the end of goodness or at least its weakness. Or maybe the fact about (Denise Richards) and (Neve Campbell) as not sexy enough !, or that (Dillon) didn't deserve any of them !! Or the most shocking truth of all that after (Basic Insect- 1992) crime movies used to hackney as well as degrade their good issues to act immorally , it's wild things through wild ride utilizes its wild elements commercially however not to a very stupid extent which managed to destroy any possible meaning in other similar movies. "},{"Title":"Just OK","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I didn't like Wild Things, because there were too many twists and the plot changed too dramatically half way through the film. I never knew who was the actual villain was. First I thought it was Denise Richards, then Neve Campbell, then Denise Richards, Matt Dillon and Neve Campbell, then just Matt Dillon, then Kevin Bacon and Matt Dillion, then Neve Campbell and Matt Dillon, & then @ the end it was Neve Campbell and Bill Murray. Movie was OK and kept me entertained, but at the end I realized it was stupid and cheap. I recommend Malice, because it followed a similar plot and had lots of twists and a major change of plot half way through the film, like this did. "},{"Title":"Not even the legendary scene could save this movie!","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Well when i got hold of this DVD my first instinct was to do what i Woolf have done in school fast forward to the scenes and then return it to the friend i borrowed it from ........... but something made me watch this movie just to see what it was all about, to say i wasn't expecting was an understatement.That said in fact this movie didn't offer to much in terms of entertainment but it offered to much in other departments namely.1)To many twists all of which you knew or guessed at least a few minutes and more before they happened. (warning i guess them 9.9 times out of 10 but these were to obvious and the legendary scene does a huge damage on this front too).2)To many explanations!!! Dude we are not that dumb and we don't need to know everything, theorising what happens is a lot of fun.What this movie didn't have enough of was Denise Richards she was way too hot and even though i didn't watch it I would recommend you watch the UNRATED version. At least if there were some more sexual tensions in this movie then we could have sexy and entertaining thriller like basic instinct.The acting was surprisingly good not that you expect much from such a film but there are a few fine actors in this movie and they have done a good job.P.S Both the women look anything but 18 the age they are supposed to play also Matt Dillon looks out of place the casting was not the best but no ones complaining.I kind of liked the background score as and when it was used it was one of the saving graces in this otherwise ordinary movie.All said and done this movie is not that bad a package provided you watch the unrated version, are really bored, wish to know how and where they fit in the legendary scene and love watching a movie and guessing the twists.More like a last choice but watchable nonetheless remember to rent the UNRATED version though. "},{"Title":"Lovely to look at, heaven  to touch...it's a real shame it has to sleaze so much!","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I think the directors, screenwriters and actors involved in this sleazy tale were going for the feel of a noir thriller by a writer like James M. Cain or Jim Thompson. They also seemed to be trying to mix in some of the arch wit and cynicism of an Alfred Hitchcock movie or a Lawrence Block Burglar novel. However, they pretty much missed the mark with the last objective, and the first two have already been done quite well by films such as 'Body Heat' and 'Miami Blues', so 'Wild Things' ends up looking a bit shabby by comparison.The problem is the nature of the story material. Noir thrillers always have two overriding themese 1) People (Especially Women) Are No Damned Good (CRIME) and 2) Instant Karma's Gonna Get Ya Every Time (PUNISHMENT). A noir movie has to incorporate these two themes in new and unpredictable ways, and Wild Things simply thrashes around too much in an attempt to do something new while it moves from the CRIME theme to the PUNISHMENT. Trying not to be derivative, the story ends up exhausting the viewer's patience. A master plotter like Loren Estleman could have streamlined this puppy and simplified it while preserving the 'wheels with wheels' factor going, but the screenplay here just doesn't know when to say 'WHEN'. And there's the matter of taste and restraint, of which 'Wild Things' has none. Keep in mind that Cain and Thompson had plenty of sleazy, trashy, sociopath characters in their books, and it took considerable care and taste to bring their plots to a movie without overloading the Sleaze Meter and making the viewer loathe and despise everybody in the story. But somewhere in the process of making this film, the director lost control and let the whole thing lurch over into I Hate Every Major Character In This Film territory. I think I hit my gag limit with the totally gratuitous nude shower shot of Kevin Bacon. It didn't add a thing to the story, and was obviously just there to expose yet another acre of flesh to the camera. All of my quibbles with this film are really with the screenplay. I think the actors are all high level pros who do what they do really well...it's just that the movie requires them to play repellent characters. And boy, are they repellent! In defense of Denise Richards, no she can't act, but she never really is given a chance to act, in this film or most others. Film makers just use her as a Barbie Doll with nice boobs and striking eyebrows - kind of like the 2nd coming of Brooke Shields. That is again the case here. I think that it is still possible that Richards could go the route of Jennifer Connelly and eventually do credit to some 'real' actresses roles...If she is ever given the chance.And the movie LOOKS great. Wonderful scenery, lighting, camera work and production values. However, when you have to use this as a defense for a movie's quality, you are basically admitting that the problems with acting or direction or storyline are insupportable. I am not saying you shouldn't see this movie...you just have to be in the right mood to enjoy it. If I had to described the internal criteria a viewer needed in order to enjoy this movie, he or she would be saying to them self I'd like to watch something like 'Body Heat', or The Postman Always Rings Twice, but it doesn't have to be as good. "},{"Title":"What a croc!","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In Wild Things, B-flick director McNaughton manages to wrest some lame performances from a pretty good cast while telling a convoluted story about a couple of babes (Richards/Campbell)  who accuse their school guidance counselor (Dillon) of rape. A conspiracy flick set in sweaty swampy Florida with everything but the proverbial kitchen sink tossed in, the only question this flick raises is which of the many predictable conclusions was selected. Full of twists and turns, Wild Things is best watched with the brain disengaged so each switchback will come as a surprise and the mind can just zone on the titillators. An okay couch potato guy flick, those who want more info should check Ebert's review as he nailed this one. Be sure to watch through the closing credits for more scenes. (C+) "},{"Title":"Men fare better than females","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" For certainly Kevin Bacon and Matt Dillon walk off with the film. The two empty headed females in question are Neve Campbell and Denise Richards. Both of which I found boring and so predictable in their over acted performances. But then we are graced with some real professional women in the likes of Theresa Russell and Carrie Snodgress. Unfortunately they aren't in it long enough to count. Also Bill Murray in a cameo performance. I thought the plot was stupid and can't understand why no one caught on to Campbell's witchery. Or should I say bitchery. Wearing unflattering wigs, one wonders what her real hair was like. The author of this piece of junk (and I'm being polite) was out to lunch. The ending will find most viewers sick at the sight of the fem fa-tale (if you really want to call her that) sailing off into the sunset having killed someone and getting away with it. I guess the code of decency doesn't exist anymore and we continue to make films of violence letting the killers get away with their dirty deeds. Maybe that is why there is so much crime and violence in this world. I give it 2 and a half stars for Bacon, Dillon and supporting cast. "},{"Title":"Cruel and complex","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Dillon plays a teacher at a school accused of raping a student (Denise Richards)--but did he?  That's only the beginning of a very cruel, extremely complex and VERY entertaining thriller.  There are tons of twists and turns and the movie doesn't take itself seriously for one second.  There's also a fairly explicit sex scene between Dillon, Richards and Neve Campbell.  There's also a few shots of Dillon shirtless and full frontal nudity from Kevin Bacon!  Lots of fun and never dull.  Well worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Don't waste your time...","Date":"8 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" So, if you're interested in watching this movie for the 'classic' Neve Campbell/Denise Richards scene, all the power to you. If you would like to watch a good movie, pass this one up. This movie proves that even decent actors can't fix a bad script. Oh, there are a lot of twists & turns to attempt to move the plot along & keep you interested, but there's no escaping the ridiculous dialogue & farcical acting. In my opinion, Matt Dillon and Kevin Bacon should be ashamed of themselves. Like I said before, if you want to watch it for the 'classic' Neve Campbell/Denise Richards scenes, that's cool, but that's all there is, & the only reason I gave it 2 stars. "},{"Title":"Fully committed campy noir sexploitation","Date":"5 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In the Florida glades town of Blue Bay, Kelly Van Ryan (Denise Richards) is the rich queen bee of the high school. Her father killed himself leaving her with her flirtatious mother (Theresa Russell). Sam Lombardo (Matt Dillon) is the school counselor accused of raping her. Police detectives Ray Duquette (Kevin Bacon) and Gloria Perez (Daphne Rubin-Vega) investigate. Sam hires unscrupulous defense lawyer Ken Bowden (Bill Murray). Suzie Toller (Neve Campbell) is the outsider poor white trash classmate who has a similar story about Sam raping her. Both stories have Sam saying No little girl can make me come.As a noir crime mystery, this is way too convoluted to be compelling. It tries to be hard-boiled but it has a few too many twists. It has two or three twists too many. The good thing here is that this is a full-on campy sexploitation and the movie knows it. Director John McNaughton happily and proudly wades through the muck. This is deliberate cheese and there is some good fun to be had. Bill Murray is really camping it up. The threesome is famous or infamous on par with Sharon Stone. It's a cheap guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"One of the best and most stylish mysteries in this generation","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  John McNaughton's Wild Things is a stylish thriller that gives new meaning to the term, Kevin's Bacon (just kidding, but that scene tells all).  Story takes more twists than a pretzel factory as a prissy upper class teen (Denis Richards comes great in her breakthrough) accuses a womanizing guidance counselor (Matt Dillon in top form) that he raped her.  It ruins his life, until the plot thickens (among other things thickening).  But seriously, this film is great entertainment with the story having more pzazz that the ending (though the ending is pretty cool too).  Not for kids though.  Bill Murray gives a fine performance as a coniving (and funny) ambulance chaser.  A+ "},{"Title":"If you are a Christian, you shouldnt be watching this movie!","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a terrible movie basd upon one thing and one thing alone Sex. GAY sex. When my brother rented this movie, I was astounded at the EXTREMELY high sexual content. PLan and simple, If you plan to go to heaven (Unlike the rest of people that have wrote the other reviews saying the threesome scene is superb) do not watch this movie! If leaves you feeling dirty inside. VERY DIRTY. Bottom LIne Satanists Watch It------- Good People Have a better time with something less raunchy. "},{"Title":"Very Silly","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This got to be one of the silliest films I`ve seen in a long time , the plots and turns as the writer tries to come up with an even more ridiculous plot device than the one before. Matt Dillon is even funnier here than what he was in THERE`S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY  but it should be remembered that film was a comedy while WILD THINGS claims to be an erotic thriller so I guess it`s a piece of rubbish rather than a post modernist thriller masterpiece  "},{"Title":"Wild Things","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I can agree with the critics that the most notable scenes are X-rated, and the story isn't exactly all great, but if you like that, it's one to watch. Basically high school counselor Sam Lombardo (Matt Dillon) is taken to court when he reported by Kelly Lanier Van Ryan (Denise Richards, after her big break in Starship Troopers) that he raped her. Suzie Marie Toller (Scream's Neve Campbell) also tells the police that he raped her, in court however, there is a big fight when she tells the court it was a lie, and she believes Kelly is doing the same. The big twist however turns out that the three of them are in an agreement in order to get a big cash settlement. Sgt. Ray Duquette (Kevin Bacon) is determined to prove that he knows this agreement. It gets pretty crucial when it looks like they kill Suzie, and then Kelly dies. All the big action however takes place on Sam's boat when you find out Suzie's death was faked. Also starring Theresa Russell as Sandra Van Ryan, Daphne Rubin-Vega as Det. Gloria Perez, Austin Powers' Robert Wagner as Tom Baxter and Bill Murray as Kenneth Bowden. The great threesome with Richards' fantastic breasts was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments. Good! "},{"Title":"Seat-numbing heavy-petter...","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Terrific cast of actors in the service of a torrid, preposterous piece of modern noir. Guidance counselor Matt Dillon is accused of raping two female students who look as though they are well-equipped at taking care of themselves--naturally there's more than meets the eye to the accusation. Lots of plot twists and turns, each one more outlandish than the next. Implausible and ridiculous in the extreme, though the south Florida locations surely help, as do supporting turns by old pros Bill Murray, Robert Wagner, Theresa Russell and Carrie Snodgress. Cinematography by Jeffrey L. Kimball is colorful and expressive, yet the end results are exhausting instead of pleasurable. *1/2 from **** "}]