[{"Title":"The Eye That Lies","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"74 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a wonderful experience. Never mind that the acting is poor and the story weak --that was never the point. This film was made because DePalma knows how to make his camera dance and wanted to make a film based on that notion.A central question in most art concerns the role of the viewer. This dominated easel painting, then was the center of evolution of the novel and now sits at the core of thought about film. Is the viewer an omniscient God, or can the viewer be fooled like a person? Is the viewer a passive observer, or does she `walk' with the participants as an invisible character? So many clever questions.DePalma thinks the camera is a whole new thing, The camera is a type of character, part narrator, part actor, part god. It can lie, be fooled, search curiously, document, play jokes. So this is a film about the camera's eyes. `Snake' both because the camera can snake around following Cage, going places that Cage cannot, but also `snake' because the camera sees with forked tongue.So we have one seemingly continuous shot of the key scene, which is played first from Cage's perspective, then the fighter's, the Navy guy, the Girl, then the cop again, and finally the `flying eye.' Along the way, every eye trick DePalma can think of is woven in--The girl's glasses are crushed so she sees less than the audience--The whole mess is about what a satellite sees--The casino has 1000 cameras which our own eyes coopt--The thing is framed by the TV eye--God-like, we scan over several hotel rooms while Cage and Sinese are stuck in the hallway maze--Splitscreen simultaneity--The whole thing is in real time, as if you were living in the actionThis is masterfully intellectual. See it. Forget the story. "},{"Title":"A Three Ring Circus of a Movie- I Loved It!","Date":"20 August 1998","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Overblown, overdirected, overacted that's why I always enjoy DePalma's movies.  He made the statement that the camera lies 24 times a second, and SNAKE EYES plays on that theme.De Palma's camera is constantly in motion, roaming through the arena, casino , and hotel as if it had a life of its own.  At the beginning of the film we watch Nick Santoro (Nicolas Cage) as he swims through the sewer (his words) that is the Atlantic City casino world.  He tells us, This isn't a beach town.  It's a sewer.  It's my sewer, I am the king.It's literally a dark and stormy night.  A hurricane (a tv reporter is pressured to refer to it as a 'tropical depression' on the air) is coming ashore, and 14,000 people are gathered at a casino complex to watch a prizefight.There's a shooting during the fight, and Cage orders the exits sealed; who would go outside into a hurricane remains a mystery, but anyhow.  There are two mysterious women involved in the incident, and as time passes he realizes that there were lots of people involved, possibly even his longtime friend Navy Commander Dunne (Gary Sinese) who is as straight-arrow as Cage's character is sleazy.By the end of the story Cage is working toward redemption- even though during the early part of the film it's made clear that he sees everything as having a price.There's one point where he is offered a million dollars to reveal where one of the women (she knows a lot- too much- about a defense contract, and was talking to the Secretary of Defense when he was shot) is hiding.  And there 's a very real chance that he might give in, or be unable to protect her when the danger gets intense.Men in De Palma's films have a way of failing to come through for women in critical situations.  An executive couldn't save his wife in OBSESSION.  A young actor couldn't protect a mysterious, beautiful woman in BODY DOUBLE.  The nicest guy in school couldn't keep the outcast/prom queen CARRIE from humiliation and its awful consequences.  In the superb BLOW OUT a movie soundman rescues a young woman from a sinking car early in the story, but is too late to save her from a madman at the film's conclusion.So there is no guarantee of a happy ending.  Self doubt weighs heavily in De Palma's films, and often people's best efforts are to no avail.Admittedly David Koepp and De Palma's script is something of a problem.  There's a complex conspiracy underfoot, and conspiracies are low on my list of compelling things- I got burned out on them in the seventies.Far more compelling is the great fun that Cage has with his character.  Boy, does he get to chew scenery here.  Constantly in motion, talking on his cell phone (even during a hurricane; some of my friends can't use theirs when a cloud passes over the sun), interacting with the low life characters around the casino.And, oh, does DePalma have fun with the whole thing.  Of course, nothing is what it seems to be.  He retells the action from the viewpoint of this or that character we sometimes literally see what happened through that character's eyes.  An important setpiece in which we finally see what really happened in clear perspective uses split screen imagery- and in the theatre where we saw SNAKE EYES the use of stereo sound was an integral part of the seperation of images.For all the bravado of his performance, I was impressed with Cage's ability and willingness to share the screen with other actors.  In some of the retellings he is a supporting character or featured extra, and as an actor he's more than willing to let our attention shift to someone else.  A lesser actor might have been afraid of that shift of focus.  Way to go, Nicolas.  That's a real sign of maturity as an actor.So did I buy into De Palma's bag of tricks?  Yup, 100%.  It's nice to see a movie that isn't afraid of the old razzle-dazzle.  I do appreciate subtlety and complex ideas- that's why I'm a voracious reader.  I really don't think I'd enjoy De Palma directing an adaptation of a Jane Austen novel or REMEMBRANCE OF THINGS PAST.  The Merchant- Ivory people do that sort of thing so nicely.  But it was nice to sit back for an hour and a half and let a master showman use illusion to fool us and let our eyes fool our brains.On a five scale, Pops gives it four slot machines.    "},{"Title":"I Like This.....Which Surprises Me","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"30 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Most people didn't like this movie, from what I have heard and read over the years. Some of my friends who saw it didn't like it either. For some reason, I did, and that was despite a few things I normally don't put up with (too much usages of the Lord's name in vain and the usual anti-military agenda.)However, I found this a very fast-moving, involving story with Nicholas Cage playing an extremely interesting person Rick Santoro, a guy who acts like a complete crazy man at the beginning but slowly gets it together as the film goes on. Gary Sinise plays his normal corrupt role (this was before his CSI New York days) and Carla Gugino was very easy on my eyes.Brian DePalma directed this, so you know it's going to be stylishly shot, too. This looks really, really good on the recently-released Blu-Ray.All the characters are interesting, actually. One complaint I agree with the ending was a bit weak and detracts from the story. It's a rough film but edgy and interesting. Don't be discouraged reading a lot of negative reviews about this. It's good entertainment. "},{"Title":"Careening through space","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Police detective Rick Santoro (Nick Cage) attends a championship boxing match. Also attending is Navy Commander Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise), Rick's best friend. During the boxing match a bullet hits and kills US Secretary of Defense Charles Kirkland. What follows is a real-time mystery in which Santoro and Dunne seal off the boxing arena and work together to find the assassins. As the film progresses, Santoro gradually comes to realise that there's a conspiracy behind the assassination and that Dunne is involved. Santoro, an unscrupulous cop with a history of taking bribes, is thus faced with a choice accept a million dollar payoff to keep his mouth shut, or arrest his buddy.Stanley Kubrick once observed that most films don't have any purpose other than to mechanically figure out what people want and to construct some artificial form of entertainment for them. People seek the familiar. Whether it be a familiar genre, actors, or a specific kind of emotional gratification, films have become delivery systems for the feelings that we crave. But director Brian De Palma is a bit of an anomaly. Like most of his thrillers, Snake Eyes has its fangs firmly in the past - in this case the conspiracy thrillers of Hitchcock, and Orson Welles' Touch of Evil - and yet annoys those looking for familiarity precisely because De Palma is relentless in bending the film toward his own private concerns. And so, typical of De Palma, this is a film in love with penetrating space, with shifting points of view, with explorations of memory, vision and the corruption (match fixing, blackmail, assassination, political spin) festering beneath all glitz. The script, written by David Koepp, itself serves only as a framework for De Palma to indulge in his fetish-like obsession with seeing, subjectivity and the fallibility of images.Unsurprisingly, Eyes begins with a shot of a globe shaped statue. It's a nod to Touch of Evil's introductory Universal International logo, another trashy B movie in which a seedy tale of moral responsibility intersects with much camera wizardry. De Palma's camera then picks up a fumbling news reporter, her off screen director and a bank of television monitors, one of which shows Santoro jokingly addressing a camera. What then follows is a 13 minute single take in which De Palma gives us a tour of a boxing arena, familiarises us with its layout, and introduces us to the film's key players.The film spells out its concerns with this very first shot. The reporter's monologue serves as a precursor to the elaborate long-take that follows. One slip and everything must be restarted/re-staged for the eye. The film is a technical exercise, a juggling match, framed (begining and end) by the TV image. The globe and the thunder storm will themselves appear later during the film's finale and Cage himself is introduced as a vessel designed to command the lens. He's a loudmouth centre of attention who, quite literally, learns to pay attention to things outside himself.Much of the rest of the movie revisits this 13 minutes single-take from the perspective of different characters and cameras, none of whose optics can be trusted. Like most De Palma films, Eyes is thus primarily concerned with the dishonesty of the image. His camera is a snake, constantly prowling, searching, scheming and lying. One sequence, which recalls Jack Terry's patient rewind-and-play in Blow Out, has Santoro watching a boxing KO from varying angles, as he tries to come to some measure of truth. Like Antonioni's Blow Up, the film overwhelms us with its sheer number of lenses, points of views and visual trickery. A person can lie. A camera can lie. But a hundred cameras will add up to the truth more surely than a hundred fallible eyewitness accounts.The first 70 minutes of Snake Eyes are crammed with bravura set pieces and exhilarating camera work. The real star here is De Palma, whose camera prowls the arena with relish, dipping, ducking and whizzing back and forth. Cage, his character torn from the pages of pulp magazines, does his best to match De Palma's bravado. His performance is hilarious; seedy but with heart.During the film's final ten minutes, however, the film loses steam. There's no climax. But this ending was never intended. Like Orson Welles, much of De Palma's filmography has been tampered. Obsession had it's paedophillic sub-story removed by composer Bernard Herrmann, a prudish Tom Cruise had all the romance and sex scenes cut out of Mission Impossible, Black Dahlia lost over 50 minutes of footage, Mission to Mars was subject to budget cuts which resulted in an abrupt last act and Bonfire was so rife with confusion that a book was written (The Devil's Candy) detailing De Palma's troubles with studios. Get To Know Your Rabbit and Redacted would face similar problems.The original ending of Eyes tied into the first shot, and included a massive action/CGI sequence involving the previously seen globe and a hurricane. This sequence was similar in tone to the end of Femme Fatale, in which noir fate comes crashing down. But the studio's balked at the numbers and a cheaper ending was quickly tacked on. Still, the current ending is interesting in the way it pushes hard and fast past a typical happy ending. Rather than being redeemed, Santoro becomes a hero, only to be promptly brought up on corruption charges. In De Palma's world, past sins are never forgotten.8.9/10 - Spielberg and Fincher would later hire screenwriter David Koepp for War of the Worlds and Panic Room, two films likewise preoccupied with cameras and space. Alfonso Cuaron would cite Eyes as an influence on Children of Men and De Palma's overhead God's eye tracking shot would be borrowed by Spielberg in Minority Report. Eyes made the top of many lists in France, but is treated with scorn every where else. Worth multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"No Dice","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm a sucker for the steady-cam. Scorsese's famous entry-to-the-nightclub scene in Goodfellas that was so perfectly aped by Jon Favreau and co. in the wonderful Swingers is probably still the daddy, but the shot that glides around Mark Wahlberg to the sultry strains of 'Best of my Love' in Boogie Nights runs it pretty close. For sheer audacity though, you need look no further than the opening section of Brian De Palma's Snake Eyes.I own a thesaurus and am fairly adept at the old 'Shift+F7' trick, but this scene left me clutching thin air for superlatives. The beauty is, it comes from nothing. The film opens up on ground that is not so much well trodden as mercilessly stamped upon A local news reporter helpfully sets the scene for all her faithful viewers and of course, for all of us too.But from the moment she hands over to her colleague inside an Atlantic City casino, banality is banished. What follows is a mesmerising, one-take, directorial tour de force. It is fight night and we follow bent copper Rick Santoro (Nicolas Cage) as he swaggers around making shady deals and collaring nefarious snitches for bribes and pay-offs. He checks in on heavyweight boxer Lincoln Tyler (Stan Shaw) who is preparing for the feature bout and then goes in to the arena. There he meets up with old chum Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise) who is head of security for the evening and settles down for the action. The fight doesn't last long. Tyler is caught by a massive haymaker in the first round and windmills backwards. At the same time a sniper high in the rafters takes aim and assassinates the US Defence Secretary who is seated just behind Santoro. Chaos ensues and the curtain closes on the first act with the camera swirling upwards at the end of its long journey. Unbelievably fifteen minutes have passed by the time De Palma shouts cut.Impressive stuff. Indeed, De Palma seems so pleased with the shot that he decides to hang the whole movie on it, revisiting events from different perspectives using flashback and CCTV footage as Santoro tries to piece together what has happened.Sadly, from such high, heady beginnings, Snake Eyes has a long way to fall. And fall it does. Spectacularly. Nose-dives would be a better assessment.Cage does his best, rolling out both familiar personas the extravagant clown and the intense, introspective everyman, but he can't fight his way through a clunker of a plot. Conspiracy-wise, I don't suppose it would be an outrageous spoiler for me to mention that Dunne is up to his neck in it. If you want to shroud your movie in ambiguity, you are probably better off not casting Gary Sinise as the villain of the piece. Let's face it he's no Jimmy Stewart. Sinise must be one of the shiftiest looking men on the planet &#150; the furrowed brow, those furtive eyes - the military uniform simply tops off the caricature of a disillusioned ex-soldier with a chip on his shoulder. I wouldn't buy a used car from him, let alone put him in charge of security of an event attended by a major dignitary.The acting is not bad, the cinematography remains slick and glossy throughout &#150; even the direction is solid and unpretentious &#150; but the lesson here is that nothing will work if you don't have a story. This is insipid nonsense that meanders along pointlessly and then confusingly and abruptly just ends. There is no steady build up of tension and no devious twist. Instead we have a bizarre and strangely out of place postscript which is probably an attempt to cleverly keep the camera rolling beyond the standard good triumphing over evil, lovers clinch, stretch out into widescreen and roll credits finale that closes most action flicks.It backfires spectacularly. Rather than being innovative and bittersweet, the last scene is irritating and mildly deflating. Action heroes are meant to be flawed, we don't want to watch them screwing up their lives, we know they are gamblers and alcoholics. I would rather see them save the day, kiss the girl and I'll take the rest on faith thank you very much.6/10 "},{"Title":"A feast of visuals, but a famine of suspense.","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Director Brian DePalma has always been excellent at letting the visual image  speak for itself (like Hitchcock, with whom he is often compared).  In  Snake Eyes,  the juxtaposed and multi-angled images are captivating for a  while, until you realize how unsuspenseful the story quickly becomes.  Once  all the key players and plot elements are revealed, the film seems to have  nowhere to go and resorts to those hokey flashback devices where we see the  events play out differently via each character's recollection.   Cage and  Sinise do the best they can with the material, but they lack real  motivation, mirroring the film's lack of direction.  This particularly  hurts Sinise's characterization which starts out solid, then is set adrift  mid-way through the film, and winds up completely contrived by the  end. Overall a disappointment, but maybe not a bad rental if you are a Nicholas  Cage fan. "},{"Title":"Brian De Palma, Nicolas Cage, and Gary Sinise are in top form. The script is not.","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  ** 1/2 out of ****For nearly 80 minutes Snake Eyes is fascinating entertainment.  Not only is the storyline engrossing, but the camerawork is truly brilliant and the behind-the-scenes look of a boxing match is compelling.  Add to this two of Hollywood's most talented actors in Nicolas Cage and Gary Sinise and you'd expect an edge-of-the-seat, fast-paced, plot-twisting thriller.  Well, for the most part the film works, but unfortunately bogs down with quite a bad ending.The film takes place during a boxing match in Atlantic City, which is currently hounded by a raging tropical storm.  Detective Rick Santoro (Nicolas Cage) is there to place some bets and watch the game with his best friend, Commander Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise), the same man who is also guarding the Secretary of Defense.However, something goes wrong, Dunne is taken off position by a red-haired woman, and the Secretary is shot by an assailant.  Dunne, in turn, manages to take down the assassin, but an another crisis occurs when all the spectators try to leave.  They're locked in, thus holding 14,000 eyewitnesses inside while Santoro tries to figure out what's truly going on with the help of a mysterious young woman (Carla Gugino).I've always been a fan of Brian De Palma and his films.  His movies are never truly perfect masterpieces (then again, not much is), but this director can make anything seem interesting, even if only in a visual sense. With Snake Eyes, the accomplished director has created his most visually edgy and dazzling film to date, with camerawork that would stun even the most hardened De Palma fan.  So much goes on here, to the point where it's exhilarating.  The split-screens, first-person POVs, long-tracking shots (thus, the famous 12-minute non-stop opening), aerial views, etc. all make for an enthralling experience, all the more heightened if you're not familiar with De Palma's works.I remember the previews and commercials to this film, and they gave the film the look of a terrific thriller with a dynamic script.  It doesn't quite happen like that.  There aren't particularly any plot twists (unless you count that whole phantom punch but that was given away in the previews) and the identity of the villain is laughably obvious.  The worst thing is, the revelation behind the reasons for the shooting don't create much of a sense of paranoia, which was prevalent in another De Palma thriller, Blow Out.  Here, the motive is just a standard-issue conspiracy theory.  But the worst is saved for last the ending, which is De Palma's most disappointing to date.  I'd rather not say what happens, other than the fact that the weather gets a little too involved.By this point, I seem to hold the film mostly in negative regard, but like I stated, the direction is breathtaking.  In addition, the performances are often terrific.  The standouts are, of course, Nicolas Cage and Gary Sinise. Cage creates an entertaining character in Rick Santoro, one who initially starts off as a wild maverick but settles down to a more calm and composed person.  Sinise is equally superb as his best friend, Dunne.  Though this film did put him in danger of typecasting, he did play an entirely different sort of character in Brian De Palma's most recent film, Mission to Mars. The supporting cast is solid, with Carla Gugino getting the most substantial screentime of the other performers.  She's decent, but is given little to work with.Obviously, Snake Eye's best moments are when De Palma gets to strut his stuff, and he does manage to put in some suspense, though not to the best of his abilities.  I mean, this is the man who crafted the train station shootout in The Untouchables, the bullet train finale in Mission Impossible, the chainsaw scene and the bloody finale of Scarface, and the spacewalk in Mission to Mars.  Here, we get a chase as Cage's character and the villain are after Gugino without the other knowing there's actually a pursuit.  It's a mildly clever sequence, but never seems quite as tense as it should be.I suppose in terms of entertainment value, Snake Eyes does get the job done, but it feels too shallow and superficial to be wholly satisfying.  Had the ending matched the previous material, this would have been grand entertainment.  What we get is still often first-rate, but is also slightly disappointing. "},{"Title":"Good potential, terrible writing","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie caught my attention on cable as I was flipping channels. The mystery and the setup were great. The placement of suspicious events was great. At one point, I even commented to myself, this is a good f---in' movie! Boy was I wrong.As the story unfolded, you wish it didn't. It's a good movie before you find out what's going on. Then the plot holes, cheesy dialogue, outrageously contrived situations, and just plain comical story progression spread like wildfire. It's almost as if someone came up with a great story idea and then left it in the hands of a high school scriptwriting hobbyist.The investigation of the murder of the US Defense Secretary in front of 14,000 witnesses is left up to one city cop and one military security officer who are best friends? People are running around a casino and being able to stay hidden? I better stop there because if I start listing plot holes and stupid scenarios, we'll never get out of here. I'm trying really hard not to comment on the end. It's like whoever was writing the script got tired of writing and just threw something together so he could rest his fingers and get paid.However, if you can not focus on the bad writing (kinda like not focusing on a speeding train heading towards you), the style of the film is quite interesting. I liked how the story (terrible as it was) unfolded through the different angles and points of view of different people. The timing and placement of action were executed well. It's too bad that a movie has to rely on something as minor as a script in order to be good.-----SPOILER-----I like Gary Sinise. He's a good actor. But unfortunately, he's usually typecast as a bad guy, so I kinda suspected he was involved all along. "},{"Title":"Buried Treasure","Date":"30 May 2015","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers AheadYes, I concur, the film has the feature that dooms any movie including Stanley Kubrick's only bomb THE KILLING. When will directors figure out that temporal streaming or showing the movie from each individuals point of view then trying to tie them all together is an utter disaster. MOMENTO, VANTAGE POINT both suffered from the same fatal flaw. This is still a great movie. It has great moral depth like all of the master Brian De Palma's works. I love two images in this movie. When Rick sees the money on the floor covered in blood, he finally gets it. He understands the price that is paid for that money. What a piece of work, a handful of geniuses could use visuals like that Leone, Kubrick and Hitch. The other when bleeding from the mouth Rick flings blood on Kevin's medals, see the anger of Kevin's face, yes that is how you got those. What intelligence in the use of imagery to save whole pages of boring dialogue. Also, in an amoral, decadent age it is quite wise to be cryptic. You are not allowed to be openly moral with pagan atavists. You want to know the theme of the movie? Cage recites it at the end of the movie to Julia; he tells her hundreds of years ago pirates put lights on those rocks to lure ships to their doom. Then they would run out kill them and steal their goods. Rick says the only thing that has changed is that the lights are brighter. De Palma is always attacked for his sex and violence but his films are deeply moral. Everyone remember the black angel of death looming over Nancy Allen's head in BLOW OUT. She had caused another's death and had to be punished. Same with DRESSED TO KILL, watch the innocent little girl stare at Angie Dickinson before she is killed; her promiscuity sealed her doom. De Palma always is deeply moral beneath all the sex and violence like his master Hitch. Here Kevin's patriotism will not save him from his impending doom, we watch as his masterful planning and meticulous using of people, including Rick, falls apart before his eyes. Like Hitch, immoral people are punished by the hand of God, through deadly fate. Things just go apart on them. He was so sure Rick was venal beyond redemption; he never understood that, like many slightly evil people, they like the damage done to their advantage carefully kept out of sight. Rick knows what Kevin is saying is true; he knew all his corruption would come out and he would be destroyed but he stammers I NEVER KILLED ANYONE BEFORE. Kevin tries to reassure him, just do what you do best, look the other way I will take care of it. This is when DePalma has Rick stare at the money soaked in blood upon the floor. What a work of art!!! Yes, I took three stars off for the temporal juxtaposition that wrecks what could have been another BLOW OUT. If you want to see a deeply moral, fast moving, exciting, suspenseful film made by one of our greatest directors, Brian De Palma, watch this movie. Hitch would have loved this movie. "},{"Title":"falls apart after the intro","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Cage is a slick, crooked Atlantic City cop with dreams of making it to the big time. While attending a highly publicized boxing match with friend and Naval officer Sinise, he finds himself in the midst of a conspiracy after an important political figure is assassinated by a Middle Eastern terrorist, and for the first time he decides to try and complete his job in honest fashion. Stylish but disappointing thriller begins with nifty camera work and has the makings of something really special, but once you get past all the fancy tricks there's really nothing left to hold your interest. Even worse, the film clearly suffers from some last minute edits. ** "}{"Title":"Nicely assembled thriller.","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Snake Eyes is not very original as a premise, yet the material feels engaging and fresh as it unfolds on the screen. It is also well shot, well edited, and while the story is kind of silly, it never gets too convoluted and it says linear and focused. It's not a great movie, but as it stands, it makes a pretty fun thriller.It is fight night in Altantic City, and the Secretary of Defence is attending. Unfortunately for him (and the nation I supposed) he is gunned down in the middle of the match. Panic erupts, and the police lock down the arena, leaving fourteen thousand possible suspects and/or eye witnesses inside. It is up to detective Rick Santoro to gets some answers.If I am gonna make any complains about the film, it would be the following two. Nicholas Cage (as usual) over-acts BIG TIME!!! I MEAN HE REALLY OVER DOES HIS PERFORMANCE!!!!!!! WHAT THE HECK??!!! ............excuse me. I also find the Climactic finale a bit over directed. Any who knows movies, knows that Brian de Palma likes to stage his adrenaline like an opera, with bold assertive scoring, and slow motion, plus an emphasis on physical acting. Sometimes it feels right, sometimes not. One thing he always gets right though, is his integration of a long sweeping shot. Snake Eyes begins with one, and it takes up most of the first scene in fact, that's pretty good.Snake Eyes despite its flaws is crafted skillfully enough to sustain a viewer for a hundred minutes. It is not a film that needs to be seen but it is a good one to watch if you catch it on the box one night. "},{"Title":"Starts out showing potential, turns out to suck.","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"24 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The beginning is really cool, and there looks to be a great, convoluted conspiracy plot developing. But there isn't -- your first guess might not be right, but your second one will be, and there's no surprises from there. The ending is particularly lame, with a series of coincidences standing in for an actual plot.   "},{"Title":"Initially promising but ultimately disappointing thriller","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Snake Eyes opens with a brilliant 12-minute tracking shot, ostensively one long unedited scene. In this sequence we learn everything we need to know about our hero, played by Nicolas Cage. He is a highly energetic and corrupt Atlantic City cop - it's a sewer, but it's my sewer. It's fight night, and there are a number of dignitaries in the crowd. Included in this select group is the Minister of Defense, guarded by a good friend of Nic's, played by Gary Sinese.It isn't long before the Minister of Defense is dead, and Nic's cover-up machine kicks in. But who is really guilty here? Who's the blonde, and who's the redhead? Will our hero ultimately stay in character, or will his conscience win over?Brian De Palma should do well by this material. He's a veteran of thrillers with a number of good ones under his belt (see Blow Out, Body Double, Carrie). But this movie loses steam about halfway through. A cliched and perfectly predictable plot sets in, the Nicolas Cage character loses his energy, and the finale in the rain makes no sense. To add insult to injury, the movie tacks on a half-hearted happy ending. Rent the aformentioned movies instead.  "},{"Title":"Why Nicholas Cage and Gary Sinise Why!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw the preview to this movie. I thought it had a good premise. But when I saw it in theaters. I thought this movie was incredibly bad. It was poorly directed by Brian De palma(im sorry to say) and poorly acted by Nicholas Cage and Gary Sinise(im also sorry to say). This movie at times seems to have a few good suspencful moments. But its bland  and dumb. Don't waste your money. "},{"Title":"Brian De Palma at his worst","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  * star out of 4Before I begin the review of Snake Eyes, I want to clearly state that I like Brian De Palma.  He may not always have the best scripts for his films but I've enjoyed a lot of what he's made.  The Untouchables is an action masterpiece, Body Double and Dressed to Kill are classic suspense/thrillers, and Mission Impossible is an entertaining and flashy action/adventure.  So, it's natural to have some sort of high expectations while watching Snake Eyes.  I just had no idea the movie would be this awful.The film's plot really means nothing as it's just a way to show off some visual style, and boy does the movie begin with style.  For the first twelve minutes I did not notice a single cut in the camera.  It's just one long movement that focuses on Nicolas Cage, who plays Atlantic City police detective Rick Santoro.  The camera finally ends its long run with the assassination of the Secretary of Defense and what results afterward is a bland and predictable film with implausibilities that would make a child feel insulted.Is it that bad?  Well, some people might actually enjoy the movie but it's basically a complete letdown.  What's wrong with it?  Well, De Palma has crafted some meticulous and unbearably suspenseful thrillers (the above mentioned Body Double and Dressed to Kill).  Snake Eyes does not fit into that description.  Instead, it's an incoherent story with some really bad plot twists (if you call those twists) that lead to the answer to a mystery in which the audience already knew before even watching the movie.  Acting wise, only Cage stays away from blandness. Hey, De Palma even saved the worst for last an extremely terrible conclusion that is so dumb that it makes you wonder how the producers and studio executives could have watched it and not demand major changes.  Then again, they probably already noticed how awful the movie was before all that and figured changing the ending entirely would have been useless.Do yourself a favor and watch the other De Palma films I mentioned.  Don't waste your time with this dud. "},{"Title":"Questions, questions, questions!","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  1. Is Rick the only cop in Atlantic City?2. Where did all of the FBI agents go?3. Did the fat guy get killed in his hotel room?4. How come those two soldiers who were killed couldn't be trusted but the other dozen people who were involved in the conspiracy could be?5. Does the Secretary of Defense have final say in regards to  how all money in the defense budget will be spent?6. How did the place clear out so fast of 20,000 fight fans when no one was being allowed out of the building?  Were Jack Nicholson and Leonardo DiCaprio there?7. Do casinos really have 1000 cameras?8. How come Rick was the only one who could figure out that the champ took a dive when it was clear as day on the videotape?  Didn't they watch it on ESPN's Sportcenter?9. What were those things that looked like missles doing in the basement of a casino in New Jersey?10. What were Cage, DePalma and the scriptwriter thinking? "},{"Title":"A typically idiotic De Palma thriller; switch off your brains.","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Another absurd De Palma thriller, but not as annoying as many of his other ones. The dialog and even the acting are occasionally sub-par or a touch laughable (e.g. Cage talking to the boxer, Sinise revealing himself to Cage, etc.) and the conspiracy plot is rather dumb and far-fetched (but this has become standard practice in (modern) thrillers). There is some typical depalmanesque nonsense; for example, the woman gets shot in the arm but neither bleeds heavily, nor feels that much pain, nor does she get treated, nor is the wound a hindrance - summa summarum the bullet entering her body at hundreds of km/s was merely a minor inconvenience, that's all. Cage's angry reaction to the woman accusing his pal of treason is also very silly and quite baffling. It was very predictable very early on that Sinise was involved in the conspiracy, and that he would kill himself when he got cornered. And what's with that ending? Cage becomes a hero. Fine. But then the plot goes one step further into the future and there are corruption allegations against him; who cares? This has nothing to do with the main plot, so why have it in the movie? And how about that very last scene, when the credits roll we see workers at a construction site. Why? The movie is watchable and isn't dull or too annoying (all things considered), but it's just another brainless thriller.If anyone has snake eyes it's Sinise. Apart from looking alien, this guy is one of the worst actors in recent decades. "},{"Title":"A terrific opening with a ludicrous ending.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Brian DePlama is a great director.  The opening shot was amazing and Nicolas Cage played his part to the hilt.  I can live without Gary Sinise, he's very stiff and he played his Ransom character all over again.  Carla Gugino is a terrible actress.  At first, I dealt with it.  Nicolas Cage had enough acting ability to cover everyone else.  But when the whole tidal wave thing (pointless), and that extremely awful ending, not even the greatest multi-Oscar winner can save it.  This is the worst kind of bad film, where it starts off great and ends very dismal.  One of the year's most disappointing. "},{"Title":"Unlikable main character and all-too-obvious bad guy","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Snake Eyes (1998) D Brian De Palma. Nicolas Cage, Gary Sinise, John Heard, Carla Gugino, Stan Shaw, Kevin Dunn, Michael Rispoli, Luis Guzman. Acceptable action film places Cage as a loud-mouthed, hot shot police officer who, along with 14,000 screaming fans, witnesses the murder of the U.S. secretary of defense while attending a boxing match. Of course, there is a conspiracy which he uncovers in 98 minutes. First film I have ever seen where I knew who the bad guy was just by viewing the opening credits. This `twist' is revealed halfway through the film, so by the end, it's hard to imagine why the audience would even care. In addition, Cage plays one of the most unlikable main characters in recent memory. On the plus side, the Hitchcock-esque unbroken opening shot is a great touch. Unfortunately the rest of the film is drab. RATING 5 out of 10. Rated R for violence and profanity.  "},{"Title":"A pain, unwatchable mess.","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This wasn't a movie, it was more like a two hour ooooh-look-what-I-can-do -with-the-camera exercise by DePalma. That 17 minute long opening shot wasn't amazing, it was annoying. All I could think after a while was Just make a cut dammit! I must also add that Cage and Sinise were absolutely terrible in this movie, but look at the material they were given I guess. Overall, this is the worst movie I have seen this year. (And that includes Phantoms.) "}{"Title":"Over the top, but still watchable fun","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Once upon a time, there was a very talented actor called Nicholas Cage, who set Box Offices alight all over the world. As it stands... this fairytale hasn't concluded 'happily ever after,' as poor old Nick hasn't had a hit movie in years. But, during the 'once upon a time' phase, he did a lot of good stuff.'Snake Eyes' is pretty good. Yes, it's a little far-fetched, but the fun you'll get out of it will make up for the times when you have to suspend your disbelief in order to ignore the plot holes (and obvious storytelling).During a live title fight in an Atlantic City boxing ring, a visiting politician is assassinated. But, local cop (and a slightly crooked one at that) Nicholas Cage, is on hand to get to the bottom of it all. So it's a kind of 'who-dun-it' conspiracy thriller. Although there aren't really that many possible culprits, so you'll probably guess who's the mastermind behind it all long before the final act. But that doesn't really matter. The phrase 'larger than life' is best suited to describing Cage's performance. He's pretty over the top in all his scenes and, again, you may not always believe that a real person can act like that, you'll enjoy the ride all the same.It's not a long film, clocking in at slightly over the hour and a half mark. And, despite having not that much new on offer, it's still worth a watch. If you find it on TV late at night some time and feel like staying up, you'll have a good time. Despite being shot in the nineties, it still stands the test of time in the 'fun stakes.' "},{"Title":"Det. Cage meets the challenge of untangling an assassination on his turf","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The movie Vantage Point (2008) that repeats the same action from different viewpoints as a means of narrating the story is not the first to have done this, and maybe Snake Eyes is also not the first, but it was 10 years earlier, and it's well done.The sure hand of Brian de Palma is all over this film, for the better. There is logical development, tension, and a story that moves ahead nicely and keeps us involved.It's a good detective story, and once the bad guy is revealed it still stays a good story and becomes more of a thriller.Nicolas Cage has a difficult part, especially in the first few sequences where he has many long lines to deliver quickly in a hyper fashion. He does it well. He's a good leading man. I've yet to see him in a movie that didn't hold my interest. Gary Sinise plays his buddy. He's cast well in his part, which is shaded nicely. Good support from Carla Gugino and Stan Shaw. John Heard is not given much scope here to show his talent.Cage is the detective in Atlantic City and the Secretary of Defense has been assassinated under his nose and that of his bodyguard Sinise. From there, we head in the typical direction, which is conspiracy, but it's a fun ride, smoothly done by de Palma, the pro.It may be that there are negative reviews or that people enjoy taking pot shots at de Palma, but compared to many action pictures with tons of shooting and blood, this one, while tame on those dimensions, is far more interesting. At least de Palma made sure that the story held together. "},{"Title":"Probably Not the Worst Thing in De Palma's Career","Date":"19 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A shady police detective (Nicolas Cage) finds himself in the middle of a murder conspiracy at an important boxing match in an Atlantic City casino.Unfortunately, the DVD I watched had the picture stretched out funny. The film was widescreen, but two wide and not tall enough. I suppose I could have fixed that by adjusting my TV settings, but I was generally disappointed in the presentation. I will not hold that against the film, though -- just saying it needs a better release.Some of the De Palma traits are here there is a bit of surveillance (not quite his regular voyeurism theme, but not far removed) and a little bit of split screen. These aspects really mark it as his work even if nothing else does.Having Nicolas Cage as the lead was a gamble. He can be amazing or dreadful, and you never know what you are going to get. Here he runs the whole range -- in some scenes he is pretty good and in others pretty awful. The overall strength or weakness of the film seems to fall on Cage, and this may be why it falters at times. "},{"Title":"Do you want your snake broiled or boiled?","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The theme is simple and some will say already seen over and over again. A new version of Big Brother. Micro spying cameras set in the concrete of buildings, millions of eyes that are seeing and transmitting and telling who knows who and no one wants to know though it would be better not to have these spying eyes.What's different is the setting in a boxing arena, one night when a fight is supposed to take place to which the Secretary of Defense will attend. The arena is part of a bigger complex with casino and hotel and quite a few other things of the same type. So we have crowds, crowded places, and dozens of miles of crowded corridors and dozens of illuminated floors. Brilliant.Then the security is important for that aforesaid Secretary of Defense and yet the objective is to assassinate him because he is going to get rid of the financing for this spying system we have already mentioned. You can imagine there are plenty of people who are against it, in the industrial complex, in the military and in the military industrial complex. Yet there are some people inside the new system who see the danger and try to let the Secretary of Defense know.And during that boxing fight the assassination is of course attempted and a local honest, way of speaking, cop who believes in some fundamental principles and refuses violence as a means to solve any problem, will put his two bits in the machine and the storm outside, close to a hurricane, will be the mirror image of the tempest inside the arena and gambling complex. You add to that what is always suspicious in such films, the long friendship between two people who happen to be in the two opposed camps and you have the recipe for a dense, rapid and thrilling action film.The rest is only detail and you will have to get them by yourselves because I have forgotten them. Have a good adventure.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Snake Eyes","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" From director Brian De Palma (Scarface, The Untouchables), I didn't know anything about this film apart from the title (duh) and the two lead actors, so I gave it a go. First thing I have to mention is very well put together first five or so minutes, no cutaways or anything, a well rehearsed scene. Anyway, basically flamboyant Atlantic City cop Rick Santoro (Nicolas Cage) is right in front of a politician when he is shot, and he is now talking to a couple of suspects as they lead him to the man in cahoots with the shooter. You find out pretty quickly the bad guy is in fact the man who was meant to be helping Rick, Commander Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise). So there is some bickering, and Rick gets beaten pretty badly by an original suspect, the boxer he supported, but don't worry, the day is saved and the bad guys get what they deserve. Also starring Home Alone's John Heard as Gilbert Powell, Carla Gugino as Julia Costello, Stan Shaw as Lincoln Tyler, Small Soldiers' Kevin Dunn (lol, just like Sinise's character) as Lou Logan, Michael Rispoli as Jimmy George, Joel Fabiani as Charles Kirkland, Luis Guzmán as Cyrus and a slightly brief Dumb and Dumber's Mike Starr as Walt McGahn. Cage and Sinise make the most of the roles, but the story isn't as gripping as I'd have hoped, but not bad. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Visually luscious, but then, so what?","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Mr. De Palma throws all the movie technique book at you in this movie the opening scene is shot in virtually one take (as his admired Hitchcock did in Rope, only in Rope's case it was the whole movie), subjective camera, the same story told from different points of view, etc. But all these cinematic fireworks and the manic pace can barely hide the thinness of the story, a very much business-as-usual thriller, put together with even less competence than usual. It is a pity the visual part is really beautiful and Cage and Sinise are as good as the script allows them to be, but after the movie ends you feel you've been conned.I say hear-hear to the questions posed by a previous reviewer, and I add one of my own how did the police arrive so timely at the right place? Who called them? If you know, feel free to send me a message. Probably this is something I missed, but I don't feel like seeing the whole movie again to see what it was.  "},{"Title":"You already know who's behind the murder after watching the first 20 minutes of the film.","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was shocked after watching the first 20 minutes of this film. I knew who was behind the murder about 5 minutes after that character was first shown on screen. I was quite disappointed with this movie... Something that Nicolas Cage usually doesn't do to me. "},{"Title":"oh my. what happened?","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  witness 30 minutes of film brilliance and then sit back as this film falls completely apart. it's such a shame too, as depalma has pieced together a gob-smacking bit of eye-candy with no heart. a sad waste of cage's (and depalma's) wealth of talent.  "},{"Title":"What an opening!!!","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had heard mixed reviews about De Palma's new film Snake Eyes but I really didn't care because I absolutely had to see it.  I read the opening shot in the film is a twenty minute steadicam shot with no cuts and I had to see that.  I saw it and loved it.  There were a couple of hidden cuts but it still was an incredible achievement.  Other films like The Player, Touch of Evil, Boogie Nights, Bonfire of the Vanities, Halloween, and Titanic have all made great use of the tracking shot but Snake Eyes does it best.  The shot is so busy, so well choreographed and so instrumental in the rest of the film that this shot works perfectly for the film.Unfortunately though, the rest of the film doesn't quite hold up.  With exception to a couple of very interesting POV tracking shots and an impressive crane shot, the film doesn't meet its opening.  Snake Eyes is a director's film; De Palma is such a technically advanced filmmaker that his knowledge of the camera and the editing process makes this film watchable but his story is sacrificed in the process.  If you like a lot of style in a film, Snake Eyes has it but not everywhere. "},{"Title":"When will they make the other half?","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie starts quite well.  There are twists in the story (which were well filmed) but none of them really grab you and keep you interested. However, after all of the plot twists are resolved I thought we were now going to get the standard 'cop has to protect female witness' type film. But no, the movie just stopped...If I have to moan then I'd say this; Luis Guzman (Cyrus) plays pretty much an identical part to the one he did in Carlito's Way. Also there was the lawyer character pretty much lifted from the same movie...and Italians in grey suits and black shirts all from Carlito's Way. Cage's character is a cold, uncaring one...then when some events happen to people that he doesn't even know his character completely changes. How could you be best friends with someone for that length of time (Cage/Sinise) and not realise that they were so evil inside?This movie is the worst Nick Cage one that I've seen in a long time. "}{"Title":"What happened to the story?","Date":"5 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Brian De Palma did a good job. Camera movements and pictures were great. Even editing was pretty good. But this ain't good enough to make a good film out of a totally predictable and terribly stupid story! Don't you guys read the script first???I was disappointed !  "},{"Title":"Great at first, but disappointing ending","Date":"30 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movies starts great. The opening scene was the perfect opening to what I thought was going to be a promising movie. Cage and Sinese give excellent performance. The movie was entertaining throughout, but absolutely falls apart at the end. The ending killed the great movie I thought I was watching. If you plan on seeing this movie, wait till video. "},{"Title":"Good... for the first 20 minutes...","Date":"12 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Very disappointing.  It started off fast, and quirky, as a good movie usually does.  Then the  murder... Who done it?  Well, the suspects (about 6 or so) got pinned so  quick, that you found yourself planning the ending before you were even 20  minutes into the picture.  As just as quick as the action started, your #1  suspect shows him/herself.  For an unpredictable movie, it was extremely  predictable.  And the Don't believe your eyes promotion line is farthest  from the truth... the movie doesn't let you see anything so that you can  say oh, there he is and oh, there she went.  It only shows you those  scenes when they're basically saying LOOK HERE! SEE THAT!Don't waste your time on this one. "},{"Title":"Obvious","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie was so obvious, I walked out.  "},{"Title":"Stunning opening...flat middle...depressed ending","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For the first third of Snake Eyes, I thought, at last, De Palma has made a  clever, stylish AND an interestingly engaging film!  Great!The feeling endured even BEYOND the spectacular no-cut steadycam dance that  takes us everywhere -- up stairs, through crowds, into rooms, on a stairway  chase and take-down, onto the arena floor...action and ACTING! all done  without a break, without a flaw! It is the energizer that shows us  everything we need to see and activates our engagement with plot, character  and situation for fully a third of the film!I was, of course, wrong.  De Palma blows it out of the water.Beyond the bravura opening sequence and follow, the film deteriorates into a  morass of predictable, cliche-ridden characters working through less that  compelling plot shifts, carrying a vague and, ultimately, stupid set of  motivations to a dreary conclusion.  Finally, the film crashes to a mind -numbingly ineffectual non-climax.  A coda and credit-roll grabber keeps you  hanging in there for a shaggy dog gag that makes you want to give De Palma  the finger...literally!But about that opening  The mass of detail that we're given in the opening  20-minutes keeps us guessing as the plot unfurls.  We see a plethora of  details, facts, faces, events, moves and incidents...all the little human  element leading up to the assassination of the Secretary of Defense.  Later , we see these elements replayed, repeated, re-referenced through different  points of view.  Which are accurate?  Which are true?  Which are wrong -headed and which are down-right lies....we don't know.  Paranoia-a-go -go...So far so good. As we begin to understand more and more, however, the plot,  the conspiracy, the conspirators, in fact, become less and less  interesting.  Sorry.  I wanted to like this one...especially as my name,  like Nicholas Cage's character, is Santoro.This is also the first film I recall in which a central character, Kevin  Dunne (played by Gary Sinise), has the same name as a key actor (Kevin Dunn , who plays pool t.v.-reporter, Lou Login).  Interesting?  Yes, but not  significant.Larry Santoro "},{"Title":"Strictly for De Palma-maniacs","Date":"16 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ...Like me.I really like De Palma movies. It's sad sometimes how much I do. I think he as a person is as dull as ditch-water but I believe technically his movies are fascinating and that he has a masterful way of pulling an audience into a story and orchestrating their expectations. Body Double ranks among my personal favorites. Dressed to Kill, Sisters, and Blow Out are all terrific films. Obviously, if you disagree, that's fine. As others have noted, the movie starts out great but then quickly tanks. Nicholas Cage is a little too old to play this character and there are moments where he's uncomfortable to watch. It's not natural; it's showing off. There are head-turns and dialogue deliveries that see him channeling 1997 Jim Carrey. He never really seems comfortable in this character's shoes. Sinise does just fine. Gugino is great to look at and Stan Shaw is quite memorable as a boxer at a crossroads with himself. The movie reveals it's cards way too quickly, which shifts the emphasis of the story onto a foundation of absolutely nothing. There is no reason to keep watching once the cat is let out of the bag except that you're holding out hope for something, anything. The ending is one of the worst endings I have ever seen. I do not understand how a tidal wave hitting the casino could look worse than the half-baked ant-climax they replaced it with. For a director so uncompromising as to answer the ripoff accusations with his most Hitchcockian movie at the time (Body Double), I'm surprised he didn't stay true to his vision. Maybe after the screen tests did so poorly, De Palma realized he had no vision and that he was treading water with a poor script.I give it a 4 because it's wonderfully shot, opens with great promise, has a musical score too good for the material, and at times carries great energy. Too bad it sucks. "},{"Title":"Yikes, what a load of rubbish.","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What a load of garbage. I like Nick Cage, he has done some good stuff (Wild at Heart, Leaving Las Vegas, Raising Arizona) but like all actors there are some stinking turkeys and Cage has had more than his fair share (Vampires Kiss, Gone in 60 Seconds, Captain Corelli's Mandolin, National Treasure and soon National Treasure 2 but that may turn out to be a fine film?). This is another one. The story was pathetic. Not so much for being unrealistic it was just rubbish. I cared not a jot for any of the characters and I never felt they gave a damn about the film they were in. The supporting actors should never work again and the writers should go back to school to learn to write proper sentences of more than 6 words. Nick Cage got beaten up and that was pretty good. However the pain on his face was nothing to do with the beating. It was having to trot out that awful script. Don't worry Nick, I felt your pain too........(problem is I didn't get paid $16 million for it). "},{"Title":"not a very good memory of this one, except for the beginning","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Not the worst that has come from director Brian De Palma, actor Nicolas Cage, or screenwriter David Koepp, but certainly not as memorable as it could've been, Snake Eyes is a thriller that shows up every now and again on TV. I watch it for a few minutes and then get sort of a memory from seeing it in the theater. How I remember it may give an indication of how both remarkable and unremarkable it was. The opening shot, which is usually most remembered, is a daring feat of cinema from a director like De Palma, and does give promise to something big and exciting. We right away get immersed into this larger-than-life atmosphere, with Cage as a smooth talking, high-charged operator as it were schmoozing with people but always on the move. Meanwhile, De Palma makes sure we meet a few essential people (i.e. Gary Sinise's character) while not losing the focus of the shot(s). One might almost think to compare with it Scorsese's own virtuoso long-takes in Goodfellas or even those long-takes in European movies. It might look like De Palma's looking for an angle with this. Unfortunately, the rest of the film doesn't really add up to the strengths of this shot. The film is really a kind of pot-boiler murder mystery with Cage conducting the investigation, asking questions, but not getting straight answers. There is the subsequent twist in there with a certain character who one might think of as oh-should've-seen-him-coming-and-did. There is conspiracy in the story, which sounds intriguing, but its all very much sticking to a formula or convention that doesn't make it stick out much. And as much as Cage might try in his part, the supporting players don't do much in the way of backing him up (save for Sinise). While I was not as disappointed by the film as say, for example, Ebert was in writing about it, it wasn't something that really had me excited or entertained by it overall. It was just another summer movie to check out back in 1998, and maybe tape off of TV, but never to really watch again, which is really the most damning that can be said about the picture and its director (who's better films are really more enjoyable on repeat viewings). There's a lot that was going on in the structure and plot, but it didn't add up to much for me. "},{"Title":"Please...put a little trash in your heart","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" You sit, watching Snake Eyes, wondering why it was ever made. Clearly a vanity project (is there any other?) for director Brian De Palma, whose career has been in a tailspin for quite some time, it offers an abundance of trashiness and a minimum of depth. Yet, for some reason...it entertains you in spite of itself. A post-Oscar Nicolas Cage plays the perpetually campy Rick Santoro, an Atlantic City detective who witnesses the assassination of the Secretary of Defense (Joel Fabiani) on the eve of a nasty 'tropical storm.' In the meantime, his best-friend Marine buddy Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise), put in charge of security, frets over allowing the tragedy to happen. Bit by bit, it appears that nothing is quite as it seems, and the assassination carries greater (and also vaguer) implications than initially perceived. David Koepp's script has enough ideas for the first 45 minutes, and de Palma's sweeping, brilliant camera work gives the events a satisfying urgency, but Snake Eyes falls in its third act, culminating in a ridiculous finale that suggests everyone involved ran out of ideas for maintaining credibility. Or maybe that's just a part of the film's bad-1960s-action -B-list charm. Aesthetically pleasing if you leave your brain on the shelf, Snake Eyes is a solid little guilty pleasure...with low expectations, you will be entertained. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I am a big fan of Nick Cage and Brian Depalma,but this movie was very disappointing.Sure,it used fancy camera angles and it looked good,but the plot seemed like it was written by a ten year old.The acting was terrible also.Almost as if this was supposed to be a campy take off of an action movie.Gary Sinise seemed to be the only one taking his role seriously.I am a big fan of the style Depalma uses and I know the critics usually tear him apart,but this is one instance where I agree with them! "}{"Title":"Lights out! for this poor, senseless Cage thriller.","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  OW! My eyes! They couldn't stand a chance of handling such a poor mystery thriller like SNAKE EYES! All of the 14,000 spectators at a boxing match becoming suspect to a murder conspiracy (which brought to my undivided attention) would have made a great and intriguing story that holds high above most thrillers. Problem is, it's Brian DePalma who tried hard to make a movie fit by late 90s standards, and fails by adding some annoying flashback footage of what we've noticed in the beginning, not to mention some of the worst acting I've seen in recent releases. A director known for a few highly-acclaimed classics including CARRIE (which has the familiar split-screen image) would make a good photographer for GLAMOUR magazine. Worse, the boxing ring flashbacks don't have anything to do with the movie, just some showing off in front of the Panavision camera shot with 35mm film! Nicolas Cage has been the excuse to attract you and your friends, but for being so smart and obnoxious, he does extremely well at it....for the wrong picture. You can't keep a good Cage down for hanging on until the fight is over, which explains it mercilessly. Crucial suspense elements are instantly missing from SNAKE EYES, making the venom spread all over you. Brian DePalma and John Carpenter will soon realize that there are new and better talented directors waiting in the wings. Lights out for the both of you! "},{"Title":"An interesting premise, but too many holes...","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Great idea for this film, but like many dePalma efforts, it comes up short. Cage doesn't really sink his teeth into this role the way he should ( and why he's making these types of films after his Oscar is anyone's guess...), and Gary Sinise could have been anybody.  The plot is pretty easy to figure out early on, although several good scenes and dialogue exchanges occur in the later 2/3s of the film.  The ultimate motivation for the central plot action was weakly handled.  Overall, a 4 out of 10.N.B.  Can anyone tell me where Sinise hides that enormous pistol  and silencer rig he whips out so effortlessly?  His uniform is so tight, it should be visible to everyone.  "},{"Title":"Boring, very boring...","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After a very cool opening sequence this movie quickly runs itself into a dead end. Brain de Palma is one of my favorite directors because of movies like Carrie, Scarface, Carlitos Way, and Mission Impossible. But, he seems to have no motivation to make a good movie after such a long and very cool opening sequence. Its seems that he just gave up almost after he saw this movie really didn't have anywhere to go. There is a really boring climax (if I can call it that), if you're not asleep by the end of this movie. But, as I said I really like the first sequence so it gets a 10/10 on that sequence and a 3/10 for the rest of the movie. So I just gave it a 5/10 as a final grading. "},{"Title":"Great opening sequence, pity about the rest...","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Whoever enjoyed Pulp Fiction or The Usual Suspects should find something to their taste in Brian De Palma's new film Snake Eyes, I however felt it could have been a whole lot better than it actually was, especially with such a notable director as De Palma, whose previous films have included Scarface, The Untouchables and Carlito's Way.That once star of the independent filmmaking circuit, Nicolas Cage, plays crooked cop, Rick Santoro, who's best friend, Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise), is in charge of arranging security for a big fight taking place in Atlantic City, with an important member of the government in attendance. When this government member is assassinated, while watching the boxing, Santoro investigates and gradually uncovers a conspiracy that reaches to the highest levels of US Government, bringing his &#145;professional' behaviour, friendship and loyalty into question&#133;As previously mentioned, fans of Pulp Fiction and The Usual Suspects should find Snake Eyes an interesting proposition, as it's a film that requires concentration, due to the complexity of the narrative. Often flashbacks are used to further the story and gain unique perspectives on unfolding events from different characters' viewpoints. What is especially great about this film is that it features one of the longest continuous tracking shots in cinema history, abet for a couple of hidden cuts.The Player, Touch of Evil, even Bonfire of the Vanities (De Palma again!) all had continuous tracking shots at their inception, but they lasted, on average, six minutes, whereas Snake Eyes opens with one which lasts for twenty! Quite an achievement, but after this plateau of cinema excellence, what follows is a &#145;by-the-numbers' potboiler of a thriller/drama. The film has one or two visual flourishes but overall does not live up to the grand opening. Nicolas Cage, well, plays Nicolas Cage and Gary Sinise is good, but the film, unfortunately, is not. Worth seeing for the opening 20 minutes, but after that, go home and watch Scarface or Carlito's Way to see De Palma at his best.  "},{"Title":"Well... the previews looked cool","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"   From the previews Snake Eyes looks awesome. It seems fast paced, complex, and just plain cool. I went to the theatre pumped, finally something unique in this (very) crappy year for movies. I should've known better....Nick Santoro (Nicolas Cage) is a laid-back, loud mouth cop who comes across an old friend, Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise) during a heavyweight fight. Kevin is there to guard the secretary of defense. After the fight starts, a suspicious woman drags Kevin from the secretary of defense and a few moments later an unknown assassin guns down the secretary. Nick begins investigating the security tape taken and starts putting one and one together when he realizes that this assassination attempt may be a conspiracy far more complex that it seemed.When I was watching Snake Eyes I was wowed by the first half hour or so. DePalma introduces the characters in a long, continuous tracking shot which is pretty interesting. Then after the assassination the story picks up even more. People are not as they seem, the minutes before the fight are described again, but through other character's points of view, the tape reveals that the fight was fixed, adding yet another element to the story! I'm on the edge of my seat, interested as hell in the film... then kaput! We take a bad left turn into typical cliched action movie land and the film never recovers from that. As quickly the story pumps you up, it just as quickly lets you down, and on top of that we have a terrible tacked on ending that just tops off the letdown. "},{"Title":"dissapointed","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you've ever seen the trailor to the film snake eyes it looks very entertaining. But I was very dissapointed. The movie started moving really fast (Nicholas cage walking fast , talking fast) . Then the plot stretches and is sometimes predictable. Anyway this movie is not entertaining but there are some interesting film teqniques used.   "},{"Title":"De Palma & Cage Excel In Stylish Conspiracy Thriller","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Snake Eyes is a stylish thriller about a political assassination and the investigation that follows it. What distinguishes this film from numerous others with similar plots is the sheer brilliance of Brian De Palma's direction and Nicolas Cage's extraordinary performance as a crooked cop who originally appears to be exuberant and boorish but gradually becomes more subdued as he starts to uncover details of a complex conspiracy and then gets concerned with problems relating to friendship, loyalty and delineating the boundaries of his own criminality.The impact of this movie's opening sequence is absolutely astonishing. It lasts for about 15 - 20 minutes and delivers so much exposition, movement and pace that it's impossible to resist being caught up in its momentum and gripped by what's going on. Cage is at the centre of everything that happens at this stage and his hyperactive, fast-talking character seems perfectly in tune with the exceptional camera-work to such an extent that even just watching the action becomes totally exhilarating.De Palma's considerable visual flair is also a strong feature of the remainder of the movie with intelligent and imaginative use being made of flashbacks, slow motion and events being filmed from numerous viewpoints. There's also some effective split screen sequences and an amazing overhead shot where the camera travels across the top of a series of adjoining hotel rooms. This type of originality in presenting visual information (that would otherwise be fairly mundane) is very impressive and further evidence of De Palma's remarkable talent.It's fight night in Atlantic City and corrupt homicide detective Rick Santoro (Nicolas Cage) has a ringside seat in the arena where a heavyweight boxing match is due to take place. Sitting nearby is his old friend Navy Commander Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise) who's responsible for the security of the U.S. Secretary Of Defense. When the fight gets under way, Dunne gets distracted by a glamorous redhead called Serena (Jayne Heitmeyer) who doesn't look very interested in the boxing and soon after he moves towards her, she rushes off through the crowd and Dunne follows.A very short time later, Dunne's seat is taken by an attractive young woman called Julia Costello (Carla Gugino) who leans over and tries desperately to speak to the Secretary Of Defense. She fails, however, because just at that moment, the heavyweight champion is knocked down and the Secretary Of Defense is shot in the neck. Costello looks shocked and promptly runs away.Panic and chaos follow as the fatally injured politician is taken to hospital and the crowd start to scramble for the exits. Santoro takes charge of the investigation and works at high speed to try to discover the identity of the assassin before any efforts can be made to put someone else in charge. He watches T.V. and surveillance camera recordings and discovers amongst other things that the big fight was fixed. Along the way, the integrity of his investigation also becomes compromised when he colludes with Dunne to cover up his friend's negligence.Santoro's efforts are eventually rewarded as he discovers who was behind the assassination and the associated conspiracy that involved using fraudulent data to secure lucrative government contracts. Further unexpected developments then follow which produce mixed results for Santoro.Nicolas Cage is magnificent as the unscrupulous cop who has a gambling problem and thinks nothing of beating up and robbing a petty criminal so that he can use the money to place a bet on the big fight. Santoro routinely takes bribes and has no problem with being involved in cover-ups but finds that even he has to draw the line somewhere and in his case, he stops at murder. Cage makes the various aspects of Santoro's character come to life with extraordinary conviction and energy in one of his best-ever performances. The supporting cast also provide fine performances but ultimately it's the amazing contributions made by Cage and De Palma that make this movie so enjoyable to watch. "},{"Title":"Snake Eyes leaves a bitter aftertaste","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I admit it, I was warned. I had read the reviews for Snake Eyes and nobody I knew who saw it had much good to say about it.  Yet I still rented it.This movie was like a drink that tastes good when it first hits your mouth but quickly becomes bitter and leaves a nasty aftertaste.  This was not an action movie, it tried to be a suspense-like thriller but it failed.The first 15 minutes, you are drawn in by the uncut shot and the frenetic pace as everything is set up.  Almost as soon as it is over, though, the plot falls apart.  Almost everything is revealed and all of the schemes that are set up in the first scene are thrown out the window.  Soon you are not wondering who the murderer is, but rather, are they going to even try and make me figure anything out on my own.  Finally, the ending puts the whole stinking mess out of its misery but not without tormenting us with some more inane, headscratching, unnecessary moments.  Don't bother with this movie because it is not even worth a rental just to see a lot of unique camera angles that are only redundant, at best.P.S.  Is anyone else tired of seeing the politician/military guy play the I am doing this for the good of the people and you wouldn't stop me if you were a true patriot/friend role.  It is pretty stupid and insulting, especially when they are always in it for the power/money.  Don't worry, I didn't just spoil the ending, you learn that in the first half of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Terrible, worst movie this summer","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Talented actors Nick Cage, Gary Sinese completely let me down in a movie that does not even deserve to be called a thriller.  Snake Eyes is without a doubt the worst movie this summer (1998) "},{"Title":"One of the worst films of my life","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Snake Eyes is a film that is so not worth anyones' time that it's hard to justify taking the time to write this review. It has poor writing, horrible music, and a pace that is like a hamster on speed running on a track. Sure, it has two wonderful actors, but they can't rise above the film. "}{"Title":"Sorry Nick, but this one stinks","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  You know, I rented this film truly hoping for a good movie, and I just didn't get what I hoped for. There are alot of things wrong with this movie. First of all, 1. I found Cage's character incredibly annoying, and was actually rooting for him to get the s**t beat out of him. 2. Gary Sinise is such a fine actor, but he just didn't seem to try this time around, he might as well have phoned in his performance. 3. The only person I enjoyed seeing on screen during this movie was the fat security camera guy who was in Dumb and Dumber. That's pretty sad.  I was just very disapointed by this one. I figured that with the combination of Nick Cage, Gary Sinise, and Brian De Palma, you have a no lose situation. Boy, was I wrong "},{"Title":"DePalma - what have you done!!??!!??","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have to confess to being a great De Palma fan. 'Scarface' was one of the best films ever made.........And so it was with great anticipation that I rented 'Snake Eyes.' Oh Dear!! I also have to confess to being a fan of Nick Cage (Wild at Heart, Raising Arizona etc) but the moment I saw him, ahhhh, let's make that - heard im  - I was lost. I stayed lost throughout the film. The acting was one notch above 'coma' and the plot ran out after half an hour. Don't do this to me again Mr.De Palma - you can do much better and you know it. "},{"Title":"Amateurish. Insults the intelligence. Couldn't believe my eyes.","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One of the worst movies I've ever seen. Right down there with Milk Money and Cool World. Incredibly bad dialog. Trite and contrived plot with lots of obscure and meaningless business. The action doesn't flow smoothly.The characters' motivation is mostly a mystery. Some decent acting by Gary Sinise and Carla Gugino. Nicolas Cage is one dimensional and self delusional. The scene near the end where Cage staggers through the tunnels is overacted and agonizingly embarrassing.A real disappointment. "},{"Title":"Predictable with no suspense.","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film was most predictable. I knew the plot and who was the insider in the murder of the Defense Secretary within 5 minutes of the murder. The only thing I liked about this film was looking at the beautiful actress, Carla Gugino. That is it. A don't see!   "},{"Title":"Solid De Palma Murder Mystery","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brian De Palma's Snake Eyes is about a fast-talking shady Atlantic City detective, Rick Santoro (Nicolas Cage), who becomes involved with a murder conspiracy at a heavyweight boxing match in an Atlantic City casino while a hurricane hits. Gary Sinise plays Naval officer Commander Dunne, Santoro's best friend, and Carla Gugino plays a mysterious woman in white.De Palma employs some outstanding camera work; particularly the camera view replicating from the prize fighter's eyes that then turns into the mirror and you see the fighter, shadow boxing, and the scene in the upper hotel rooms where the camera looks down and glides over several adjacent rooms to show how people really behave behind closed doors. The rest of the movie doesn't quite live up to the grace of its opening, but it still has a nice elegant style going for it. The story/script is nothing amazing, but De Palma rescues it with his visual panache, and it remains one of Nicolas Cage's most over the top, entertaining performances. Also, Stan Shaw's performance is my favorite part in the film. There's some cool Brian De Palma shots and some references to Vertigo and other films, but the end kind of undercuts the good things.Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Cage and de Palma create magic","Date":"10 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" While Nicolas Cage is brilliant as ever in Snake Eyes, it is not him but Brian de Palma who is the real star of the show. No filmmaker, I daresay, can make the camera dance like de Palma. The camera maneuvering that he employs here is just breathtaking to watch. The opening tracking shot is quite easily the movie's highlight. The 20 minute Steadicam sequence may have a couple of hidden cuts but de Palma certainly succeeds in evoking the great Max Ophüls. Then there are other sequences which such innovative camera positioning and angles that one is instantly reminded of the Master of Suspense, Alfred Hitchcock. Alas, despite its early promise, Snake Eyes fails to sustain the suspense! The movie falls flat in final act with de Palma failing to orchestrate a fitting closure. That said, Snake Eyes offers more than most modern-day thrillers. If de Palma's camera play is not a good enough reason for you to watch a film then you may watch it for Nicolas Cage, who, like was the norm in the 90s, delivers yet another thoroughly engaging performance. Cage's dialog delivery is seldom better than what we get to savor during the opening tracking sequence. Cage is well supported by Gary Sinise and Carla Gugino. Cage and de Palma succeed in creating magic... it's a different matter they are not able to sustain it till the end.For more on the world of cinema, please visit my film blog A Potpourri of Vestiges. "},{"Title":"De Palma Sees Reduction.","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Snake Eyes (1998) Dir Brian De Palma / Cast Nicolas Cage, Carla Gugino, Gary Sinise, Kevin Dunn, Jayne Heitmeyer Intriguing mystery thriller addressing viewing life through the intent to commit wrong. Plot involves the assassination of the U.S. Secretary of Defense at a boxing match. Nicolas Cage plays a hotshot detective who smells conspiracy. He is assisting a Naval officer, played by Gary Sinise. Cage is flawed by his gambling past but he surges ahead in search of a mysterious blonde woman who was seated by the U.S. Secretary before the incident. Director Brian De Palma emphasizes on conspiracy. He dealt with similar themes to greater payoff in Blow Out. Starts out well but grows repetitious with a contrived ending. Cage delivers an energetic performance in his search for answers and the consequences for trusting the wrong people. Carla Gugino steals scenes as a mysterious woman brandishing a wig and contains information. Gary Sinise is disappointing in an obvious role of villain. Anybody can see this coming from a mile away. Kevin Dunn appears as an anchorman but the role is standard cardboard fare. Jayne Heitmeyer plays a suspicious redhead seated at ringside whom is sighted for questioning. A major setback for a director who has done far better. Well made disappointment with misguided themes that go down with the punch. Score 5 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Predating the IRS being Cage's BBF.","Date":"6 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film hasn't age brilliantly, but it's still halfway decent. It dates from before Nicholas Cage's absurd, self-inflicted, IRS problems, after which artistic integrity began running a distant second (or third? or fourth? or fifth?) to cold, hard cash. The basic plot is one you have seen in some variation a thousand times before, although, Cage, in his usual over the top way, adds some spice to it. I'm desperately trying to write a longer review, but there is so little to say here. Overall, it's a very derivative story with workmanlike, but far from outstanding, performances. Honestly, your time would almost certainly be better spent on an awful lot of other thrillers out there, although you won't do too much self-flagellation if you choose to spend (squander?) your time on this instead. "},{"Title":"good thriller loses tension","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ricky Santoro (Nicolas Cage) is a wild corrupt Atlantic City cop. It's the night of a big fight and a hurricane is coming. His best friend Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise) is escorting Defense Secretary Charles Kirkland and arena owner Gilbert Powell (John Heard). Redhead Serena leaves the seat beside Santoro and the mysterious Julia Costello (Carla Gugino) with a blonde wig sits down. She starts arguing with Kirkland. Dunne follows Serena breaking protocol. A sniper kills Kirkland and injures Costello. Chaos ensues. Santoro grabs the investigation trying to find Costello. Dunne had killed the assassin. Santoro finds that the champ Lincoln Tyler had taken a dive as part of a conspiracy.Nicolas Cage's wild acting is really distracting from a possibly interesting mystery thriller. At least, he gets out of that crazy jacket but his crazy acting never stops. Director Brian De Palma sets up a good looking conspiracy but then reveals it almost right away. The audience is not given much to work out after that. De Palma is doing some interesting camera work but the tension is not there. The conspiracy is not engaging and the ending falls flat. "},{"Title":"Cool, stylish 90's thriller","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brian De Palma's Snake Eyes (1998) is about a fast-talking shady Atlantic City detective, Rick Santoro (Nicolas Cage), who becomes involved with a murder conspiracy at a heavyweight boxing match in an Atlantic City casino while a hurricane hits. Gary Sinise plays Naval officer Commander Dunne, Santoro's best friend, and Carla Gugino plays a mysterious woman in white.This is a top-of-the-line crime thriller that cost a bundle. The opening 13-minute sequence is an amazing continuous shot, but some say it actually consists of several seamless cuts. Regardless, it's filmmaking of the highest order. The score by Ryûichi Sakamoto is unique and a highlight. Gugino is a cutie and Jayne Heitmeyer is stunning as the lady in red. Interestingly, practically the entire movie takes place in the extravagant casino/hotel.Some complain about the contrivances of the ending, but all these types of thrillers contain contrivances; besides, it's not as bad as people say if you reflect on it. Speaking of the ending, as good as the opening is I actually enjoyed the second half more, which is when the real villain manifests. What I like about the antagonist is that he or she has a good -- almost noble -- motive. But does the end justify the means? Like the excellent Training Day, Snake Eyes is about a corrupt authority figure but, unlike that movie, redemption might still be possible. Unfortunately, the chickens must first come home to roost, as they say.On the downside, as great as the two women are, they coulda done more with 'em, but this is a minor cavil.The film is lean at 98 minutes and was shot in Atlantic City and Montreal.GRADE B+ "}{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I don't know why I watch the movies I do, because I always waste at least three hours a week watching crappy movies. A shady police detective finds himself in the middle of a murder conspiracy at an important boxing match in an Atlantic City casino. It started good, but regretfully, ended bad. It had a good plot, and showed how money can influence people's lives so much, even the calmest of people can kill. In other ways, this movie was a magical thrill ride. Actually, the movie itself is nothing that special, but it has some good stuff. It is a pretty unnecessary film. The story is nothing new. I give it seven out of ten. "},{"Title":"Intriguing story - poor execution","Date":"7 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Snake Eyes - A story about a crooked cop in Atlantic City who gets wrapped up in a murder investigation/conspiracy when a U.S. Senate member is shot during a prize fight. As the investigation unfolds, he begins to see the web of a conspiracy present itself and finds the one person he least expects in the middle of it all.As far as the writing is concerned, I really enjoy the twists the script took throughout the majority of the story. Crooked cop in Sin City of the East who sits upon his sewer throne. His best friend - a decorated war hero. The scale of good and evil weighs the two of them right off the bat. I did feel the reveal of how Gary Sinise's character is involved with the conspiracy at hand was a little too early, but then again, the second half of the story might have been lost. Still, I would have liked the suspense to last a bit longer. Overall, the writing was solid. That's not why I gave this movie a four...Once again, you have a Nicolas Cage movie where without the supporting actors (Sinise, Kevin Dunn), this thing would not be on any kind of radar for me (The Rock, Face Off). He overacted through most of the film and while some might blame the dialog that was given, Sinise didn't seem to have a problem with it. The same goes for Julia Costello - her fright in the situation her character was trapped in never came across. It felt flimsy and paper thin - no guts = no connection to the audience. Gary Sinise was great. His performance was solid, conveying the straight-laced, nice guy, All-American at the beginning and slowly showing his true colors by the end of the film. The best in this one.The camera work was also a high point for me. The long takes and swirling shots really gave the feel of how big the surrounds were. That was one point that impressed me with all of the actors was regardless of what I thought of their performance, some of those takes were minutes long in one shot - no edit. That's pretty impressive. I would have to be on-set to see them make it all come together. "},{"Title":"A curiously enjoyable mess!","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What has Hollywood ever learned about adapting film noir styles to modern day thrillers? You can't polish a turd, but you could polish your shoes with a turd if you were willing to ignore the stink! What makes me ever more curious about director Brian De Palma is that he's capable of making a great film, but then he's also so incompetent at times that you'd think he is willing hate upon himself, like he's being forced to make films he really doesn't want to.Snake Eyes is a curious case because for De Palma, it stinks, but for Nicolas Cage, it's a film where he can break out the absurdly operatic Cage-isms and still look good because he's surrounded by so much unconvincing acting that it's hard to pin the blame on anyone else.At a high profile boxing match in Atlantic City, New Jersey - where in De Palma's mind, women all talk like Popeye - corrupt Detective Rick Santoro finds himself witness to an even higher profile assassination as a hurricane whips up outside. With his Dept. of Defence buddy Gary Sinise's job on the line, he helps himself to the job of cleaning up and looking for clues, only to uncover an unlikely plot that threatens everything. What the hell is a corrupt cop to do? Snake Eyes plays off as a '90s Jean Claude Van Damme action movie, replacing roundhouse kicks and leg splits with off-kilter cinematography and Ennio Morricone-styled suspense music and it's only actually the performing efforts of Cage and Sinise that really keep you interested.What's hard to ignore is the confusion over context and subtext, plot and subplot. Is this movie about Santoro solving the crime or coming to terms with the fact that he's a shitty excuse for a potential hero? The movie doesn't really have an ending, but that's not to say it's open to a sequel. The crime is solved and that's just the beginning of Santoro's woes, not that we care anymore.I liked this more fifteen years ago than I do now, but there's still no denying that Cage was at his best around this time. It's just a shame that De Palma wasn't, otherwise this might have been a much more credible movie. But it is entertaining when it isn't plain stupid! "},{"Title":"Technically impressive but pretty clunky","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is so close to being brilliant it's a shame it's a load of rubbish. The camera-work steals the show, and Brian De Palma has loads of fun doing a Hitchcock impression. It's really something to look at, especially in the first ten minutes or so. Unfortunately the writing is crude in terms of both story and dialogue, and while De Palma may have been going for an old-fashioned acting style here &#x96; solid with a bit of ham &#x96; the performances are pretty bad Stan Shaw seems to think he's in a parody of 'The Twilight Zone' and Nicolas Cage is punchable. Carla Gugino really seems to believe in it all, though, bless her heart.I liked this a lot when I first saw it at the cinema but it doesn't hold up at all. I can see now what I saw in it then &#x96; it's certainly stylish &#x96; but it doesn't quite come off. "},{"Title":"Money can't buy everything","Date":"14 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Personally I'm not a fan of Nicolas Cage. Maybe because his last movies was disappointing, but his older movies are not so bad. Whole movie was decent to watch. It had a good story and enough mystery in it to keep watching it. Cage has done a great job and Gary Sinise (you may know him better from CSI NY) maybe even better. Story keep you going, you get the nice plot twist, and a puzzle at the end. I'm not satisfied with the suicide at the end. I don't see the point why would he do that. From my perspective he had so many more other options to do. Ovearall movie was decent to watch, it could be better in some aspects but watchable. "},{"Title":"Snake Eyes is not one of De Palma's best","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Snake Eyes falls short of director Brian De Palma's best work even though his spectacularly inventive camera work nearly makes up for many of this films' deficiencies in plot and sheer believability. Nicholas Cage plays Rick Santoro, a crooked cop with a big mouth and an over-inflated opinion of himself. He's assigned to assist an old friend and Naval officer named Kevin Dunn (Gary Sinese at his shifty-eyed best) who's guarding the Secretary of Defense at a heavyweight championship bout in a crowded and manic Atlantic City casino. They're an unlikely match and polar opposites even though the script calls for them to be long-time best friends. Chaos ensues when the Secretary is assassinated by an unknown assailant and De Palma's fancy camera work involves viewers in a deluge of subplots and suspicious characters. The confusion doesn't prevent Cage and Sinese from trying to begin their investigation and fit the pieces together. Video cameras are soon employed to check out every angle of the casino and De Palma has his usual fun with the latest technologies. Unfortunately, Snake Eyes plays its hand too early and the bad guy comes out of the woodwork midway through the film. And where are the Federal Agents? A Secretary of Defense is killed and the crime scene is left to a crooked cop and a junior Naval officer? That implausible scenario is only the first of many that occupy the second half of the movie and quickly sink it to the bottom of the Atlantic. To add to the already convoluted plot, the assassination revolves around a flawed missile weapons system, a whistle-blower (Carla Gugino looking like a million dollars), a fixed fight (Stan Shaw taking a dive) and a megalomaniac Defense department official (John Heard). Reality is stretched well beyond the limit and all of De Palma's technical skills simply can't hide that fact. Cage's character, in particular, defies logic. His swift character change from cop on the take to moral sterling behavior isn't explained to any degree and just doesn't make sense. One moment he's mugging someone and in the next he's trying to save the world from corruption. At least Sinese's character tries to justify his actions although his excuses ring hollow. And hollow is what most viewers will feel after sitting through this shallow attempt by De Palma to emulate his hero, the great Alfred Hitchcock. "},{"Title":"not much room for suspense","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is not as good as the trailers made it appear.  The premise seems interesting an assassination occurs during a big, televised boxing match, and whoever is behind it is still in the building--and with the aid of security cameras, Nicolas Cage will track the killer down.  It sounds interesting, like a lot can happen...but not much does.  Cage's character, Rick, is shown to be a greedy pleasure/power-hungry jerk at the beginning, and De Palma tries to show this in an amusing way--but it struck me as sophomoric, childish.  The way Cage acts out his character's wild side is just plain goofy. The plot and action are interesting during the few moments before, during, and after the actual assassination.  But soon we know who's behind it all, and while that's partially interesting in itself, it's mainly a suspense-killer.  It becomes a game of cat-and-mouse, and there's no real mystery/suspense there, mainly just action and hide! hide! sorta stuff. I haven't seen/studied many Hitchcock films, but it seems to me that De Palma is trying hard to make a Hitchcock movie here.  And it just doesn't work--maybe back in the days of Hitchcock something like a 1st-person POV shot would be tricky and interesting, but in Snake Eyes, it just comes off as silly and contrived.  And the whole atmosphere of the casino is a drag--the boxing arena is interesting enough, but the rest of it detracts from any sense of mystery or suspense, and just fills it with a miasma of boredom in a flashy manner that comes off as garish, and not as visually interesting as flashy should be.  Once we learn the motives for the entire thing, it's obvious that the film is *trying* to explore Cage's character, which is a really boring way to go.  We're shown that he's a jerk in the opening scenes, then there's action, then at the end we're supposed to care about what he's like deep down?  It's done too quickly and simplistically, and the movie goes astray by neglecting the primary features of itself. The reason we're watching the movie is for the mystery, and the thrills of action & suspense it can bring.  So when we see how boring the bad guy and motive aspects are, it really doesn't matter what happens--the interest tries to occupy such a shallow, thin place that it is bound to evaporate quickly.  But I suppose it's worth watching for those moments when the mystery and suspenseful possibilities *do* seem deep enough to immerse ourselves in.  (Just don't be surprised when you're a gasping, beached fish by the end of it all...) "},{"Title":"Surprised, yet not surprised.","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  You could say that I was surprised to see such a turd of a movie come from the maker of The Untouchables, Scarface and Carlito's way. But I wasn't that surprised, after all, he did give us Bonfire of the Vanities and Raising Cain.I'm astonished that Cage and Sinise actually signed on for this one. It seems more tailored for actors like Michael Dudikoff, David Caruso or Lorenzo Lamas. Or even as just one of the films one makes when they see that a dead career has just been resurrected (White Man's Burden, Michael 1996, She's So Lovely 1997, Mad City 1997). How this project got off the ground is beyond me.Sinise was simply Jimmy Shaker again. His good guy on the outside, bad guy through and through character from Ransom played out in great exactness as a mirror image of the character from a far superior film.Cage is always good, however. But he didn't belong here. Jean Claude van Damm's Sudden Death was more suspenseful and came off like the Godfather when compared to this farce.The worst part of the film was the roll behind the end credits. I felt as though I was watching a gay porn flick or something as a slowly sweeping camera followed the activities of some hunky looking construction workers erecting columns and laying cement. I was waiting for the payoff. What is the point? I was asking myself. The camera finally comes to rest on a jewel sticking out of the cement. This was attached to a ring that was, in turn, attached to a bad guy who had ended up in the cement during the course of the movie. Big deal. It didn't enhance the movie any and frankly didn't fit the mood of the rest of the film. It came off as cheesy action thriller meets diet Coke commercial.In the immortal word's of MAD Magazine's Alfred E. Neuman, EEEECHHHHH!!!  "},{"Title":"A good thriller (to a point)","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had a choice when I got this video out Snake Eyes or What Dreams May Come. Snake Eyes was Blockbuster's Movie Of The Month so I chose it. And here's what I have to say about it This movie could have been a great conspiracy thriller. One of the opening shots (which goes for about ten/fifteen minutes) is very well timed and placed. At this point, it's pretty good. Nicolas Cage brings real energy into his role and you get caught up in the flow of his life as a sleazy cop at a high profile boxing match. The frequent flashbacks to where people are at what time during the opening sequence is clever and helpful (especially when it goes into split screen). Unfortunately, what ruins the effect of this movie is a revelation which is placed too early in, so from then on, it loses its momentum. It isn't a bad movie but it could have been better. Good for a lazy Sunday afternoon.  "},{"Title":"Excellent idea, average movie. Where is the suspense?","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A good overall movie, but it could have had some improvements. The movie was based on an excellent idea but poorly acted out, this was not the fault of the actors. The acting is quite good especially from Nicolas Cage, he portrays every emotion perfectly. The suspense in the movie is lost within the first half of it. But it is a movie that you should watch if you're an action, thriller movie lover. "}{"Title":"Exciting or predictable?","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film had the makings of a blockbuster. Great actors, decent plot, boxing! But it was a bit of a let down really. The first few scenes were excellent but the rest was so obvious. Watch it if you have nothing else to do and only if you have nothing else to do.  "},{"Title":"A lot of lights without novelty","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Brian De Palma has as usual a considerable skill in using the camera. I guess he is one of the best camera men. but I do not find any novelty in the movie, and also suspense is not at the same level of other De Palma direction. "},{"Title":"A bad plot and a good direction","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  At first, I have to speak about Nick Cage. He´s a very good actor with a lot of charm. He shows us a police officer who doesn´t want to lose his identity and his honour. The story of the movie has some mistakes and it is very difficult to follow this plot. Brian de Palma should only direct movies and he shouldn´t create a plot. Moreover you don´t see the money, which was used, in order to finance this film. But this movie has two strengths 1. The good direction by B. De Palma 2. The excellent camerawork by S. Burum The movie was OK, but not good because of the terrible plot. Nick Cage doesn´t also have any chance to bring this movie to a German box-office success. Thanks for your attention. "},{"Title":"Blind Script","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film starts very well. A great murder scene, with all its details richly exposed. Then we go to the investigations, and the film suddenly begins to disappoint us deeply. The public is held within the Hotel, and in an hour everyone is back to their normal lives, no one seems to have witnessed a murder during a fight shown on TV. The fighters are ridiculous, too fat to be taken seriously. The investigations leads us to another conspiracy (which thriller doesn't have it nowadays?). Then, we find out who the bad guy is(guess who?) midway through the movie, and from then on it's downhill.Nicholas Cage, which is shown as corrupt early on, dramatically changes his mind, turn down a million Dollars and challenges his best friend because of a girl he just met. The reasons why the girl risks her life are not believable, either. Then we have the end, which is the worst thing Brian de Palma has ever done. Where is the Director of The Untouchables, Dressed to Kill, Carrie and Body double?  "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I went into this movie believing that it was going to be boring and lacking suspense. But I came out of the cinema pleasantly surprised. It wasn't really action packed, but the movie itself was intriguing and short enough for me to maintain my interest throughout. The first 20 minutes were fantastic, and after that, it drifts off a little, but I never found it boring. The pace slowed down, but it never stopped. The storyline didn't make that much sense, but it made enough sense, and the gratifying visual style made it a lot more enjoyable to watch. I guess the final climatical scenes were a bit of an anti-climax, but from an overall perspective I thought it was worth it. "},{"Title":"It was ok","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I found the movie to be very disappointing and predictible. (a major failing for a murder mystery) Over all I give it *** of ***** "},{"Title":"Great suspenseful beginning, predictable end","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Snake Eyes was all hyped up to be a great thriller. It's not. At the  beginning it works really well. Cage is great, Sinise is wonderful,  Everything appears to be on its way to being a remarkable thriller. Then  the first half is over. The rest of the movie is incredibly predictable, I  knew who would do what and when. It was too easy. If you want a great  thriller, watch the first half only. "},{"Title":"great for suspense but wait for video","Date":"12 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While the plot was good the acting was that great.  If you know what kind of  roles the actors usually play(ie Cage usually plays the side of good) then  some of it is predictable. Having little plot twists here and there added  to it.while the movie was good, it wasn't great. see it at a bargain price  or wait for video. "},{"Title":"","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie grabbed and held my attention for about the first half.  Cage was  excellent as always.  He had an interesting character to play and did a  great job with it.  But about half way thru when the mystery was revealed,  the movie started to drag for me. I could tell by the way I started to  fidget in my seat.  Maybe I just have a short attention span. One measure I  use to judge movies is how much I want the movie to go on and how much I  want it to end.  I was ready for this movie to end about an hour into it.   The mystery had been revealed and I could predict the ending.  The  retelling of the story thru multiple eyes was an interesting effect(when  you were still trying to figure out what had happened) and yes, the camera  work was clever.   "},{"Title":"Interesting, but hardly memorable","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    Snake Eyes roars in like a lion, but morphs into a gentle (and  predictable) lamb by its close. Brian De Palma's keen directing is stunning  until the limp-wristed plot strangles the fun out of this movie. Even  Nicholas Cage, who is unusually bombastic in the first half hour, falls  prey to the sickly writing and canned action by the show's finale.      Conspiracy? I wish someone would have conspired to finish the great movie  they started.    "}{"Title":"","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is visually impressive, taking maximum advantage of the wide  screen.  Several of the essential plot elements though, seem extremely  unplausible, such as how did the local cop (Nicholas Gage) suddenly end up  with so much control over a national incident, and where was his police  force help?The movie's climax was a real haze, and I walked out feeling unsatisfied  with the overall plot and its resolution. "},{"Title":"Bad writing and bad acting","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This 1998 supposedly thriller is a big bore with bad acting from good actors. Plot is absolutely unbelievable and Nicholas Cage, usually an adept actor gives his worst over the top performance in this clinker. Add Gary Sinise and John Heard, also fine actors in melodramatic performances. I couldn't believe this came from Brian De Palma (writer and director). You can't escape bad writing. The women in this, unforgettable, are equally bad. Don't waste your money or time on this one. There are scenes that don't make sense. A plot that is so bad, one had to be totally ignorant not to figure it out. Cage's scene with the girl on the steps when told about Sinise's plot, says it's not possible as he is a commander in the armed forces and he'd never do anything like that. He even claims our young ingenue is lying. Please, give me a break. When he sees Sinise himself in elevator following the chick. "},{"Title":"Depth please!","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Nick Cage and it grieves me to say this, but it needs to be said this was probably one of his weakest films he's ever been in. Not his acting, but the film, which I had hoped would be at least a little more than entertaining, but turned out to be a depressing flop. There was NOTHING to it. No depth whatsoever. You immediately knew Kevin was in on the whole assassination plot, so there was no buildup to what ended up being the thoroughly disappointing excuse for a climatic plot twist. The scenes in the hotel were, I suppose, intended to be full of suspense, but were just dull and increasingly irritating; I think everyone wanted to smack that obese guy who kept trying to get in bed with Julia. (Who, I must add, was a stupid person to revolve around since all she ever did was whine and scream and kick at the door of the room that Cage locked her in.)   And what's up with the ending? They had Kevin cornered, than he turned to the wall and shot himself. Cage made some comment about snake eyes and and that was basically the end. My take 4/10. JUST for what they did to Cage after he was beaten up. I cringed every time I saw him. Kudos to the make-up department. "},{"Title":"Bland Thriller","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As a fan of Nicholas Cage (even in his more action packed films), I was excited to see this. When the credits began to roll, I couldn't help feeling disappointed. The pace was too fast and jumpy. The events happened so fast that it was unbelievable. I do believe this film would have benefitted from much more character development, especially with Rick (Nicholas Cage) and Kevin (Gary Sinise). The motivations behind each of them would have made the movie feel better. Also a better background of their friendship would have added more depth. I had a lot of trouble watching the earlier flamboyant and loud Rick turn into a serious police officer with a good head.  "},{"Title":"Good Conspiracy","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie on DVD because I had been meaning to watch it for sometime now and I finally got a break to do so. Nicolas Cage is a cop in New Jersey who has friends all over on the good and bad sides of society. At a high status fight, a conspiracy takes place against an attending government bigwig and everyone it seems is involved, even the boxers. And what a good conspiracy it is. Cage does what he can to solve the conspiracy and find out who is on his side and who is not. In the meantime he has to hide a girl who got tangled up in the conspiracy from those who want her dead. We see Cage play a different kind of role than the populous is use to seeing. One thing I liked about this movie is the fact that it doesn't end with the good guy getting the girl and living happily ever after&#133;at least not at first. This movie has good chemistry among the cast including Cage, Gary Sinise, and Carla Gugino. Snake Eyes had the same kind of suspense as The Negotiator another great conspiracy movie.  "},{"Title":"Visuals can't only make a movie click","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In my opinion Snake Eyes was a fairly decent attempt. The first half of the movie was amazing with some astonishing visual affects specially the assasination sequence which was shot beautifully(What Brian De Palma is really good at). In the second half the movie started lagging a bit and an extremely average ending made it even more disappointing. In does not generally happens that a movie with such wonderful publicity and later on such wonderful opening ends up like this. Specially when it is a Brian De Palma's movie.....I mean people expect more from him, as he is the man behind movies like The Untouchables and Mission Impossible. With a man like De Palma ins the directors seat one expects a more thrilling ride specially towards the end where this movie actually starts lagging. None the less it is a nice past time and I guess no one would feel cheated after they spend money to see this one......but with a few changes in the scripts climax the movie could have mad it to the top. Although the work of Brian De Palma, Nicholas Cage and Gary Sinise was still appreciated but I expect that in future we will get to see better work from there side.   "},{"Title":"More like an exercise than a movie","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie feels like the kind of flick a film student would make (which is very surprising considering the big names behind it).  The plot is by-the-numbers.  The direction is completely uninspired.  It surprises me that this movie was even released.  The studios must have decided that big names like De Palma and Cage would be enough to make money on this movie before word of mouth killed the film.This is a bad movie. "},{"Title":"worst kind of bad movie","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I don't think I have ever liked anything Brian DePalma has ever done. I think he is overrated. The Untouchables, penned by my favorite writer Mamet was a piece of great moviemaking, but every other movie DePalma has done has fallen flat.I quote Ebert when I say this is the worst kind of bad movie because I completely agree. Sinise is one of my favorite actors, and it was painful watching this. the worst kind of bad movie, Ebert explains, is the kind that starts off brilliantly for the first hour and then suddenly loses everything it built up and is unable to regroup itself. Like a figure skater, whose first mistake, half way through her performance, is tripping and knocking her head off, spewing blood across the shiny, white floor.It was painful to watch because the exact moment, I could name it but I won't for the sake of DePalma fans, I thought to myself, No, they wouldn't do that, this isn't going to happen... and then I noticed the camera linger on Nick Cage's face for too long when I realized, Oh my god, they are going to do that. That would ruin everything, don't do that. I like this movie. But they did do it. Up until that point, I thought the movie was great.Re-watching what we already saw through somebody else's eyes wasn't cheesey, I thought it was very effective, especially considering the fact that the opening scene was one of the longest steady-cam shots in film history. I thought DePalma was personally rivalling Scorsese's famous steady-cam from Goodfellas and even if he were, it was great.The movie didn't just get bad, it hit rock bottom in the matter of an instant. Once that happened, the rest of the movie lost all sense of logic, credibility and suspense. The characters developed up to that point and then stopped, the undeveloped, or de-evolved or whatever the word is (it happens so rarely in movies I don't think there is a word for it).Spoiler*******If you still want to see it, rent it and watch it up until the point where Nick Cage is standing in the television booth. After he figures everyhthing out, hit STOP, REWIND, and give it back to Blockbuster without watching the end. Or if you want to watch a rare example of character de-evolution, finish the movie and then email me and say, Yep, pretty bad. and I will understand. "},{"Title":"The Good, the bad and the damn right ugly","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This picture had some terrific moments, some bad moments and bits which were just ugly.Let's start with the Good The opening 20 minutes are technically fantastic, beautifully done, the camera becomes part of the story. Very well organized by the director and his DP.  The widescreen framing is pretty good, most of the frame is used extremely well.Now, the bad Horrible plotting, after 30 minutes, everything begins to get predictable, infact you won't care by the time the finale descends to your screen. There are some suspenseful interludes during the film but overall, the story falls flat. The director got so carried away with the technical stuff that he forgot about the narrative and plotting. And finally, the ugly Cage is way over the top, his performance was stupid. The screenplay was ugly in the last half of the picture. I didn't care what the dialogue was, it was ugly! The sets were ugly, the lighting just didn't work for me.Overall, a super start spoilt by a tedious and predictable plotting during the majority of the picture. Always watch in widescreen otherwise you won't understand the film.  "},{"Title":"Esthetics with bad ending","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this film until the end - de Palma reduced it to an ordinary film what could have been the thriller of the 90's. With a perfect start, the long intro and the cramped and panicky plot, this film could have been a lot better, if only the ending had been rewritten. It feels too ordinary, with such an extravagant beginning and mid-section, it just sinks.Too bad, but hey - Gugino's performance doesn't leave much to wish for. "}{"Title":"Good and bad- sometimes looks can fool you","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Adventure has never been Cage's strong suit- but playing characters caught between good and evil is his forte.  Though he is frenetic most of the movie, subtle things- like the tremor of a hand when fighting off his impulses- make the movie worth seeing.  Gary Sinese adds a lot to this movie- an implausible plot but some good acting "},{"Title":"Average Eyes","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ouch!!! I think it's not the best movie of Nick Cage, but it's not the worst. This movie has a lack of suspense. You know that the character of Gary Sinise is bad in the beginning. The ending is very bad... why the beautiful will fall in love with Rick Santoro??? It's always the same thing.My Vote 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Blah.","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A movie with real promise, but it failed. Rather than actually SOLVING the  mystery, Nick Cage's character casually questions two witnesses (out of  thousands) and watches a videotape, and the whole plot is solved. Combine  that with a pointless hurricane subplot and a lame ending, and you get one  of the most disappointing movies of the summer. It gave me a headache.  "},{"Title":"ugh.","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  if you feel like laughing at a movie, go see this.  very badly done.  it's a  shame that Nicholas Cage and Gary Sinise both had to go down on this boat.   those two provide the movie with a few strong scenes but it simply isn't  enough. "},{"Title":"What a letdown","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Going into this film i was more than enthusiastic, expecting a well made , well acted movie...after all the previews i had no doubt in my mind that  this would be a great movie, but boy was i wrong...the start of the movie  was somewhat poor, but it regain my enjoyment for about the first hour, if  that, but then it just went downhill ending in the saddest attempt for an  ending that i have seen in a looonnnggg time...i would not recommend this  movie to anyone... "},{"Title":"for the moment","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" De Palma's film are my guilty pleasures. It has that A class B movie feel - in a stage play kind of way. Not sure that made any sense but that's a pretty accurate reading of my feelings.his movie just takes me away... logic and all.. because it is so convoluted..you just sit there to breath in the dramatics as if you need oxygen.The opening sequence of swirls and pans, flash and dash, this and that, keeps you to your seat. That alone is worth the movie.To me, most of De Palma's films are all exercises of style, of set-ups and pay-offs (except Casulties of War and Blow Away).l.. but I haven't seen them all.All the more excuse to then.This snakes eyes is a mashed up lunacy of die-hard kind of 1 location paranoia show. The music is from Sakamoto and it's eerie. There some suspense but not a lot of tension as a who-done-it. And it shouldn't be view that way, but a character study - if I'm reading this right. More of a morality play - the redemptive arch of a corrupted character - played by Cage. Is that the way DePalma intented this to be ? "},{"Title":"A terrible thriller from Brian De Palma","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I am a fan of Brian De Palma; particularly his older stuff, such as Dressed to Kill and Blow Out. De Palma has a real flair for visuals, and this always shone through despite the fact that the vast majority of his older films were merely Hitchcock rip offs. Sometimes, however, I wonder what I see in this director; as while he's certainly made some excellent stuff, he's also made crap like Mission to Mars, The Bonfire of the Vanities and Snake Eyes. Snakes Eyes certainly had the potential to be an excellent little thriller; it's claustrophobic and the plot could have lead into an excellent mystery, but De Palma seems more interested in overhead tracking shots than actually telling a story. The plot focuses on an assassination at a boxing match. Corrupt copper Ricky Santoro has been invited to watch the action by his army friend, Commander Kevin Dunne, but soon finds himself in the middle of a murder mystery when the Secretary of Defence is taken out by an unseen assailant. After beginning an investigation, Santoro soon finds that the truth is buried deeper than he thought...Nicholas Cage has made a handful of good films, this isn't one of them, and it's not one of his better performances either. Cage overacts to such a ridiculous extent that it soon becomes painful to watch, and the fact that the plot takes many equally ridiculous turns doesn't really help much either. It's unbelievable just how many problems there is with this plot - there's actually more plot holes than plot points! De Palma doesn't seem to care about whether or not what's happening actually makes sense, just so long as it means he can move on to the next part of the film, and this soon gets tiresome. The way that De Palma uses metaphor is obviously meant to be intelligent (e.g. the bloody dollar bill on the floor, the whole 'snake eyes' thing), but it seems that nobody explained to him that this sort of thing only works if it's subtle! I had actually had more fun pointing out all the things that are wrong with this film than watching it, and that's never going to happen when watching a GOOD film. Overall, Snake Eyes is completely ridiculous, lacking in tension and interest and too stylish for its own good. I had fun laughing at it, but it's certainly not recommended. "},{"Title":"Brian DePalma and Nicolas Cage ought to be embarrassed!","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Sometimes you take a look at a movie's director and leading actor and assume it is going to be a good movie and you are completely burned. Well, this was certainly one of them. DePalma directing and Cage starring, wow, this movie can't possibly go wrong can it? Ummmm, the answer is YES! It was pathetic. The worst part about it was the boxing scenes. Stan Shaw, the actor that the plays the boxer Lincolb Tyler was horribly miscast. This guy was like 50 years old and it showed in his physique and face. I know there are some boxers that look that way but none are that old and 99.9% of them don't ever make it to a big fight like the one Tyler was supposed to be in. The other boxer wasn't much better. They went way overboard with the trash talking during the fight. Real boxers may talk trash but not at that level and not with their hands down. The first time they do it with their hands down they would get drilled in the face. The boxer actually turned his back and raised his hands to the crowd while Tyler was still on his feet. That would never happen. It was painful to watch that entire scene. After that scene, the whole movie was viewed in a different way the rest of the movie. On a lighter note, but still disturbing, I was sick of looking at Nicolas Cage's protruding and unwieldy mane of chest hair! "},{"Title":"How snakelike can you get?","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of the things that I've always liked about Brian DePalma's movies is how he keeps everything going and then tricks you; think Phantom of the Paradise, Carrie, Dressed to Kill and Carlito's Way (with Mission Impossible, it was clear that he was starting to go more Hollywood). Snake Eyes lacks any clever tricks. It seems more like an excuse to show off Nicolas Cage. It wasn't terrible - I will say that the movie had an interesting plot - just not worth seeing in the theaters; it's worth seeing if there's absolutely nothing else to rent in the video/DVD store. You see, a movie as predictable as this one just doesn't merit the kind of recognition that DePalma's other movies deserve (I haven't yet seen The Black Dahlia, so I can't comment on that one).Anyway, you'll most likely want to avoid this one. Also starring Gary Sinise, John Heard, Carla Gugino, Stan Shaw, Kevin Dunn and Luis Guzman. "},{"Title":"Great thriller.","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" From an incredible opening sequence (the first 12 minutes being told in one shot!), Snake Eyes (1998) is a high paced thriller, a film by master veteran director Brian De Palma. The cinematography is top-notch, with incredible camera moves that you have to see to believe, including auteur-ish De Palma diagonal shots. The acting is superb too with Nicholas Cage in the lead role as Rick Santoro, a shady police detective whose conscience walks a fine line between good and bad. Also superb is Gary Sinise, John Heard, and Carla Gugino. The score by Ryuichi Sakamoto also complements this top-notch film. An 8 out of 10 for me! "}{"Title":"Terrible Roll of the Dice.","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Atlantic City cop Nicolas Cage gets caught up in a murder mystery of the U.S. Secretary of Defense right during a heavyweight boxing match in Snake Eyes, a dry would-be-thriller from director Brian De Palma. Conspiracy becomes apparent very fast as an investigation is started by Cage and security officer Gary Sinise. But is everything the way it really seems? De Palma's better productions work on suspense, but Snake Eyes loses that possible asset very early on. Everything is figured out and explained much too quickly and we are left with a movie that has lots of dead time to it. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Visually a great ride &#150; shame the narrative didn't come along","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Atlantic City.  Local cop Ricky Santoro is corrupt and dishonest and in deep on the championship fight.  At the fight he is allowed to sit ringside due to his buddy Navy Commander Kevin Dunne, who is guarding Secretary of Defence Kirkland who is attending the fight.  In a whirlwind of action a sniper picks off the Secretary and wounds a young woman.  With the assassin dead, Ricky finds that the fight was thrown and begins to piece together a conspiracy that threatens to bring down his own world and challenge his morals.As everyone in the world knows, this film opens with a 20 minute tracking shot (that is really several well edited tracking shots).  This start is fantastic and is full of energy even if you don't know what's going on - and that sums up the film.  All the energy comes from the director even when the plot is full of holes and not particularly gripping.  The story is not that bad, but the more the conspiracy becomes clear, the less interesting it is.  Any scenes where the camera has to hold still for any time is duller than others.  The ending is clever and realistic, but feels too downbeat compared to the energy that has gone before - maybe the proposed ending of a tidal wave wiping out the casino as part of  the storm would have fitted the mood better!The director is the star here and De Palma shows that he can do it even when the material is a little soft.  Tracking shots, use of multiple cameras, the use of CCTV and the way the story is played back from different people's POV's all give the film a great energy and drive.  Cage is totally OTT but fits well.  Sinise is also good as Dunne and the support cast are generally good.Overall De Palma is having a great time and treats us to plenty of energy.  However he seems to forget about the story he's meant to be telling and eventually seems to run out of steam. "},{"Title":"Bad and boring...","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Nicolas Cage is probably one of the most overrated actors I know. I don't think i liked any of his movies... well, maybe Con Air, but it is Malkovich who steals the show in that one.For this one he imported his Faceoff character (when he acts all crazy) and the clothes too (when the movie starts he looks just like a pimp, just like Castor Troy).The movie is boring, and Cage playing the cool dirty cop who knows everything makes you wanna walk away... overactor would be the right word to describe it. Look for the scene when he's trying to outsmart the boxer, it made me feel sorry for De Palma.Gary Sinise is the only good thing about this movie. He's WAY more talented than Cage and it bothers me that most people have no idea who he is, while Francis' nephew is a movie star. What an unfair world...Save this one for one night you have absolutely nothing to do, and you might wanna use it as a sleeping pill... cause, believe me, this thriller will make you snore.  "},{"Title":"Stick a fork in De Palma.","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Brian De Palma really has lost his mind.  I bet he's just working his way up to eventually doing an entire movie in one take.Mr. De Palma, I don't want to see your $60 million art experiment.  I want you to take your Scarface Oscar and go home.Everything in this film has been done before, and better.  Nothing interesting about this movie at all. "},{"Title":"Nic Cage continues his decline...","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Nicholas Cage continues his sad descent into the world of wretched acting with this godawful thriller. The best thing about this movie was the trailer which made you think that it was going to be some kind of great film. Cage's horrid overacting made me want to demand my money back. Nothing rings true in this awful film. To be avoided at all costs. 3/10  "},{"Title":"disappointing weak thriller","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The expectations for this film is higher than what it actually delivers. But a weak storyline, weak links between scenes to move the plot forward unsettles it to a finale that is anti-climatic and unexiting.  An intelligent viewer will not appreciate this film.  A not-so-intelligent viewer will get entertained.  If you are a Nicholas Cage fan, it is worth seeing.  Otherwise, I would stay away from it.  Good actors, but  poor screenplay writers.  Cinematographically, there are some good shots, but average by today's hollywood standards, and nothing unconventional, unseen, or surprising.  Even the choice of showing the tail titles at the end of the movie don't make much sense, overimposed over scenes of worken in a construction crew, which, as far as I could understand, had nothing in common with anything about the story portrayed in this poor motion picture. "},{"Title":"Weird Shots","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Has Brian De Palma officially gone off the deep end? OK, Mission Impossible wasn't terrible, but it was far from great, and now comes Snake Eyes, not only his worst film, but one of the worst movies of the decade.It has one redeeming facet the opening twenty minutes. It's a continuous steadicam shot of Nicolas Cage walking through a big boxing arena before a big fight. The shot is wondrous and unique; it's just too bad the rest of the movie couldn't have been like that. Instead, the film proceeds into the terribly predictable terrain of a stale murder-mystery plot. Where is the old Brian De Palma when you really need him? Enough with these action-dramas; audiences today need a few dark laughs and a few great scares. Rated R. 99 minutes. 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Visually striking, content lacking","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  No question this was a clever idea and beautifully filmed. The opening sequence was an impressive piece of seamless film and, with a quality leading cast appeared to hold such great promise. But then it all fell in a heap. Why? Because nothing was developed in a clever or convincing fashion. Cage couldn't be related too as he bounced between good cop/bad cop and was constantly hyperactive. Sinise was somewhat ominous in his role but wasn't allowed to develop anything close to a sympathetic stance. And since nothing was made of the good guy turning bad or the bad guy struggling for redemption, there was essentially no character development. Added to this, there was no suspense. It was just too easy to work out. And there was never any doubt about the safety of the girl, even if you cared about her - which you didn't. In the end, it looked like they just wanted to wrap this film up and just as well. Very disappointing movie. Not because it was bad, but because it had the potential to be very good and wasn't. My vote 6/10 and that was mainly for the cinematography. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a Nicolas Cage fan but this movie was a disappointment.  It's weak and slow and at the end I regretted the time spent in watching Snake Eyes.  It's a real pity because the movie has an excellent group of actors.  They did their best but that was not enough.  "},{"Title":"Another miss by DePalma","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Is it just me or is this the worst performance Nicholas Cage has ever given? His good ole boy cop routine, high fiving and backslapping and loudmouthing it up came across as forced and contrived-- just awful! Yeah, yeah, people are drooling over the opening shot...but after that, the film falls apart. There are flashes of brilliance  in this whodunit mystery but overall it's such a poorly exected, horribly written mess, you just don't care. Cage has not had a satisfactory role since his Oscar for the fantastic Leaving Las Vegas. This film is an unsatisfying mess.  "}{"Title":"Falls up short at the end, but still pretty good","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I first heard about the teaming of Nicolas Cage and Brian DePalma, it sounded like a match made in heaven.  And for the first 2/3, it seems like that.  The opening 13 minutes, which is all one shot, sets the stage for what promises to be great entertainment.  Ricky, the corrupt cop Cage plays, is a part he can sink his teeth into or play in his sleep, and lucky for us Cage sinks his teeth into it.  The film is technically brilliant, as DePalma usually is(I especially liked the scene with all the monitors).  But while I didn't mind revealing the villain early on, I did mind that the last 1/3 is badly done, suggesting a re-shot sequence.  Overall, it's still pretty good, though. "},{"Title":"A real stinker!","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What an inept, preposterous, badly written movie. We're talking amateur hour stuff. And Nicholas Cage is truly awful. Overacting like crazy. Only Gary Sinise escapes with any dignity. I haven't seen such a crappy movie like this in a while. (Godzilla comes to mind......)   We get characters we care absolutely nothing about, over-ripe speeches, lazy attention to details, leering T & A shots of the only 2 actresses involved......What can I expect when that hack DePalma is involved?  Even the audience started to laugh in certain places. "},{"Title":"Monty Python might have saved it!","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Snake Eyes A film about corrupt people, made by corrupt people is likely to end up corrupted. Snake Eyes, the latest movie from veteran director  Brian De Palma is messed up horribly after a promising start with what looks to be a classic cop out to the profit motive. It shouldn't have happened. De Palma has made some classics including Carrie,  Carlito's Way, Wise Guys and Scarface but has allowed Snake Eyes to degenerate to the laughable, in spite of some great moments. We have a prize fight with 14000 fans in the arena and a high ranking U.S. defence department official sitting conveniently in the second row is assassinated. A long, flashy, impressive single shot precedes this which establishes Rick Santoro (Nicholas Cage) as a high ranking, devious, utterly corrupt, senior local cop. His old time, navy buddy, mate Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinese) is looking after the security of the politician and Santoro takes charge of the investigation, protecting Dunne's reputation and locking everyone inside the building. Then a classic good cop/bad cop dilemma presents itself, in an environment where at the telling moment I couldn't believe that the worm would turn. De Palma does triumph with his cinematography, creating a maelstrom of confusion in the arena before and after the assassination. There's a later scene where the camera wanders above the ceiling of a neighbouring casino as a search is in progress, a memorable presentation and there are also the De Palma trademark multiple images and shifts in point of view which are interesting. What lets him down is the story which he co-wrote with David Koepp (The Paper, Jurassic Park, De Palma's Carlito's Way and Mission Impossible). They give away most of the secrets far too early and the film makers even turn to product endorsements during telling moments! Nicholas Cage also overacts to a fault (no doubt with De Palma's encouragement ) gets beaten up and then wanders ever so slowly along a corridor, lurching along with a misshapen face just like Charles Laughton in The Hunchback Of Notre Dame. There's a hurricane roaring outside (apparently a tidal wave no less was in the original script!) and I was convinced that God himself was going to take his/her vengeance on the whole damned lot, as I suppose the tidal wave would have done, no doubt to the accompaniment of Notre Dame's cathedral bells. But then it became obvious  that a Monty Python big foot, with painted toenails, wouldn' t have gone astray, smashing down on the villains, and then the second half of Snake Eyes would have been revealed to have been truly the farce it was apparently meant to have been. "},{"Title":"its worth $4 .50","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I feel i need to start by prefacing that  i am a big Cage fan.  now having said that i enjoyed this movie.  Like i'm sure everyone has said  the first 20 minutes is great something that should be tried more in Hollywood.  It gets you into the movie early and you have to be prepared because they go through the diologue fast.  After that it seems to lose me some.  It stays on pace for awhile but then begins to slip revealing the  truth too early and a kind of dumb out come to it.  But then had a nice end to it all.  The fact that it loses you at the end isn't all that horrible considering it's a pretty short movie it's just too bad they didn't keep you guessing and lenghthen the movie a little. i give this a 6.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Fantastic thriller, unexpected!","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In the vein of great pieces of Hitchcok, Snake Eyes succeeds, it has a mystery from multiple POV's and an excellent twist, which is character pitch perfect. Sure, Nicholas Cage plays an unlikeable character, a dirty cop with a woman on the side, but that doesn't make the fact that his old buddy Cmdr. Kevin Dunne thinks he's the perfect pawn and all the while, Nicholas Cage's Rick Santoro goes from pawn to in control of a wild hellish situation by doing one thing he loves to do, impress people. And so, in the efforts to try and impress people, namely his old military buddy, he does exactly what Sinise's Dunne doesn't want him to do. He acts like a cop. He does his job, and along the, discovers a pretty good conspiracy that can relate to our times. All the flash and style of the film, from the extended opening shot to the angles, lighting, color and mood help surround these characters in an overwhelming sense of chaos and thrills. I've seen a lot of de Palma's work, and I still think films like Mission Impossible or the Untouchables or even Carlito's Way are better than this film, but it still does not fail to be a great movie. "},{"Title":"Couldn't keep my attention","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this movie mainly because I admire a lot Nicolas Cage's work, he is a great actor and has many great movies, and I thought this would be one of them, I was mistaken.The concept of the movie is good, but it gets so complicated, messes up and all that you just lose interest in the movie because it becomes boring!! At least that is what happened to me and my friend.  We had to get out of the movies early because we got so bored!If you are a big fan of Nicolas Cage, rent this one, but if not, avoid it! "},{"Title":"Preview was good, movie sucked.","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  That was the most disappointing part about this movie.  When I went in to see another movie I saw a preview for Snake Eyes, the preview looked very good. When I went to see the movie, I hated it!!! You find out who the villain is way too early into the movie. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of De Palma, a formal masterpiece.","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A completely new movie, where form and vision become the substance of a story of dissolution of a consciousness and of a world. Double characters and multiple points of perception, an opening scene technically stunning and artistically perfect, centered on an indirect perceiver (Cage) while everything happens on the background. Multiple endings (in every sense) and an extremely rigorous style up to the last image. Split screen sequences as a poetic synthesis of truth, and a completely new relationship between subjective and objective reality. Abstract cinema at its best, and a real post-modern nightmare. "},{"Title":"Leave it to Nicholas Cage to ruin a Brian DePalma film.","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe that is unfair to say.  Brian DePalma himself actually ruined this film.  The plot is hideous.  This is nothing more than a stylish art film to show off the visual ability of DePalma.  That is pointless, DePalma is well known for his vision, so why show it off with crap like Snake Eyes.Nicholas Cage is bad in this film, but to his credit he did not have much to work with.  Nick, Satan has told me the secret and now the world shall know.Snake Eyes  3 crows dead out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pants","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What a let down. After half an hour I was looking at my watch and wondering how long my popcorn would last. The ending was especially pants... Even the opening scene looked a bit cliched, Goodfellas did it better. And with no cuts... "}{"Title":"Horrible, just horrible","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My god, this is one of the worst films I've ever seen.  The script and plot are so thin that I was practically laughing the entire way through.  How many more cliched lines can a cast spit out ? That scene on the back steps w/ Cage and Gugino went on forever.  Wouldn't Sinese have thought to look in the stairwell ? Oh well, that would have been logical.  Sinese's makeup artist should never work again as he had some of the largest bags under his eyes that I've ever seen.  Who cares about the opening.  This movie SUCKS. 1/10. "},{"Title":"THESE EYES ARE BLIND!","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Brian DePalma can make some really great films like Mission Impossible but he can also make some really awful disappointments like Raising Cain and this weak, little movie called Snakes Eyes.The first half of the film is awesomely written and directed, but, as soon as the cat is out of the bag (and that comes sooner than you think), the movie fizzles into a shockingly disappointing failure of a film.  First off, the real bad guy is so easy to spot it's laughable.  Second off, does that girl in the film ever really DO anything aside from standing around and looking like a deer caught in a set of headlights for 90-plus minutes?!!  I never even got a name, but, then again, maybe she didn't have one.  Really, who cares?!  (In fact, DePalma might have actually thought the concept of a nameless heroine was a plus.)What it boils down to is this director's overpowering urge to BE Alfred Hitchcock.  Problem is, Hitchcock invented the style he used.  DePalma's different in that all he does is use the Master's fifty year old methods (split-screens, real-time photography,  passing through walls, etc.) that, by this point, have been imitated so many times that they don't really even register an impact on the audience anymore!Oh, well.  There's always that Mission Impossible 2 coming up, right?   "},{"Title":"Expectations dashed","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie begins extremely well. The first half an hour or so - Nicholas Cage's profile, the drama leading to the actual shooting, the beginning of the melee in the stadium, is taut and gripping - really superbly done. But then, the whole drama fades into nothingness. I am not a great fan of De Palma (the hell they raise about untouchables -- its just another action movie I thought) .. but this was really the pits.Some of the extremely lousy things in the movie  we know whodunit before we even begin to suspect anybody, thou's of spectators go from a mad rush after the shooting to enjoying themselves in a matter of minutes, the blonde wig's angle SUCKS, the eye-camera angle was stupid, the Cage-tracking scene was awful (why did they need the tracking device ?!), the final car-skid was childish, the ending was weird at best. All in all, one avoidable movie.  "},{"Title":"A Good film is, Snake Eyes","Date":"14 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Another good film for Nicolas Cage is the 1968 production of Snake Eyes. It is directed by Brian De Palma. And it is written by Brian De Palma and David Koepp. The cast includes Nicolas Cage, Gary Sinise, John Heard, Carla Gugino, Stan Shaw, Kevin Dunn, Michael Rispoli, Joel Fabiani, Luis Guzman, David Anthony Higgins, Mike Starr, Tamara Tunie, Chip Zen, Michaella Bassey, Paul Joseph Bernardo, Jemard Burks, Mark Camacho, and Desmond Campbell, Jean-Paul Chartrand, Chip Chupka, Deano Clavet, Tara Ann Culp, Kelly Deadmon, Frederick De Grandpre, Adam C. Flores, George Foumiotis, Christina Fulton, Kenneth Glegg, Sebastien Delome, Alain Goudern and Dean Hagopian. The story is that of an Atlantic City cop who solves an international espionage ring during a major hurricane. I gave it 8 stars for it frenetic pace and intrigue. Dale Haufrect "},{"Title":"Interesting assassination thriller","Date":"21 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Protagonist Rick Santoro is a cop in Atlantic City; he is not a hero; he takes bribes and shakes down crooks rather than arrest them. His friend Commander Kevin Dunne is almost his opposite; an upstanding naval officer who is in town leading the security detail of the Defence Secretary. Dunne is keen for everything to go well as his boss watches a boxing match&#x85; unfortunately it doesn't while Dunne is investigating a suspicious redhead shots ring out and the Secretary goes down. A second shot clips the woman next to him and as she flees Santoro sees that her blonde hair was a wig. Dunne shoots the assassin but he knows he messed up however Santoro assures him he can spin it so he looks good.At first it looks like a single terrorist is behind the crime but the investigation quickly suggests otherwise; the shooter fired just after the favourite hit the canvas in what TV footages shows was a dive. We soon learn that he was approached by the redhead and another member of the crowd shouted his cue to dive&#x85; clearly there was a conspiracy. It looked as though this was going to be a mystery but forty minutes in we learn who the chief bad guy is at it isn't much longer before we learn the wounded girl was in fact a target as she was blowing the whistle on company giving falsified data to win a defence contract. The question is will Santoro save her and expose the corruption or will he live up to his reputation and take the easy option.This is a solid thriller; not a classic but worth watching on television or picking up if you see it in the bargain bin. The story gets off to a good start and sets up an interesting mystery&#x85; it is just a shame that the bad guy was exposed so soon; it would have been better if we'd learnt his identity at the same time as Santoro. The action is well handled even if things get a bit cliché towards the end. Nicolas Cage is delightfully over the top as Santoro and Gary Sinise is solid as his friend Dunne. Carla Gugino looks good as the female lead although her character is sadly underused. Overall an entertaining way to pass an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"Worth the money to me.","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The movie had me hooked from the start, maybe I was easily led by the nose, if so, I enjoyed every minute of it. Of course it helped that this movie had some very good actors. I don't write reviews, I just give my humble opinion.One part of that opinion is about the way the CREDITS at the end of the movie was done. Bright White text on a scene in the movie, for me, easy to read, and the speed at which they were shown, excellent for me, not to fast and not to slow, really glad to see that for a change from the speed reader hard to read credits of so many other movies.I to liked the appearance of the jewel at the end. Watch for it! "},{"Title":"Great film but not great storytelling","Date":"23 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Snake Eyes is Brian De Palma's latest offering in a long line of pyrotechnically brilliant but often emotionally cold films. At various times in my life I have both loved and hated his films. I loved Carrie and still consider it to be his best film and more chilling than a dozen Exorcists; I loved Dressed to Kill in its day too though I am less fond of it as years pass; others, such as The Fury, Body Double and Scarface I still regard with great affection which probably sounds odd if you are in the slightest bit PC. (I think I liked him so much in days of yore because he was one of the few American film makers who really made what I consider to be film i.e. he used the medium, moved the camera, experimented with form, never stood still. Lots of other film makers (far too many) are happy just to let the camera follow the action or fill their films with iconic talking heads who appeal to celebrity-loving airheads but have little appeal to posterity or art.So De Palma is one of the true artists of film-making and what he has to say is always worth seeing. It is the emotional coldness which is sometimes frightening. David Thompson in A Biographical Dictionary of Film says There is a self-conscious cunning in De Palma's work, ready to control everything except his own cruelty and indifference. Nicholas Cage is the detective of dubious morals and Gary Sinise his apparently upright Navy Commander buddy. When the Secretary of Defence is shot dead at a Boxing match where both cop and commander are on duty the scene is set for a complex plot which unravels who shot whom and why. If you even consider that Nicholas Cage is really a bad guy then you haven't been paying attention to American movies of the last 60 years.The story is really just a device that De Palma uses as a backdrop to practice his considerable skills. The opening is apparently a single unbroken 20 minute sequence although when interviewed De Palma confesses it is three shots cunningly segued to look like one. Everyone knows about this shot of course and your mind is immediately taken off the story as you follow the swooping of the camera and wait for the first cut. It is dazzling to watch although I didn't really see the point of a lot of it. That the scenes around the boxing ring and the assassination are filmed this way makes perfect sense although the action as we follow Cage into the Arena would have worked perfectly well without the tracking shot. Straight after this opening sequence we have a series of flashbacks and different POV scenes which enable you to gradually piece the story together and demonstrate that De Palma can do this kind of thing much better than Tarantino can. And then we are into the home straight as Cage has to rescue the girl and do battle with the baddies. De Palma never lets up on the techniques though, using high camera angles, split screen shots and documentary techniques to mention just a few. You leave the cinema feeling that you have received a lesson in all the great cinema techniques of the 20th century and that is what is wrong with the film.Snake Eyes is a riveting film which anyone with an interest in cinema cannot fail to enjoy but it is ultimately let down by a story which can't quite match the on-screen pyrotechnics. When De Palm next gets a killer script, like the one he had for Carrie, then perhaps he will make another perfect film. He needs some balancing influence which will put his amazing talent to work and it is this lack of emotional and editorial control that I think leads Thompson to conclude He is the epitome of mindless style and excitement swamping taste or character. The judgement is too harsh. Whatever his faults, De Palma is still one of the most exciting and worthwhile directors we have working today. "},{"Title":"Masterful! Nicolas Cage is Exceptional, Yet Again!","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brian De Palma's 'Snake Eyes' is a Masterful Conspiracy-Thriller that grabs your attention from start to end. And Nicolas Cage is Exceptional, Yet Again! 'Snake Eyes' Synopsis A shady police detective finds himself in the middle of a murder conspiracy at an important boxing match in an Atlantic City casino.'Snake Eyes' is deliciously written & directed. The dramatic twists & turns take the film to dazzling heights! David Koepp's Screenplay is very, very engaging & offers tremendous shock value. De Palma's Direction is impeccable, as always. He's a MASTER at his craft! Cinematography is terrific. Editing is perfect. Art Design is fabulous.Performance-Wise As mentioned twice before, Nicolas Cage is Exceptional. The Academy-Award-Winner can never be doubted. Gary Sinise is efficient, while Carla Gugino is fantastic in her part. Joel Fabiani, John Heard & Kevin Dunn are good. On the whole, 'Snake Eyes' is a must watch. A Dazzling Experience! "},{"Title":"De Palma Does It Again","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brian De Palma has made some great movies i.e. Scarface, Blow Out, The Untouchables, Casualties of War etc.This one is up there with them.Nicolas Cage stars as an arrogant and cocky corrupted loud-mouth detective who wants to cheat his way to the top and become Mayor one day.He is on bodyguard duty for the U.S. Defense Secretary at a big boxing match in an Atlantic City casino when the DS is assassinated and the whole casino closed off for investigation in which he leads.What follows is series of events which drag Cage into a big political dangerous conspiracy which threatens his selfish ambitions and the livelihood he has left.Gary Sinise, Carla Gugino and John Heard add to the fantastic story particularly Sinise who is fine form.Certainly a modern classic that deserves to be watched at least once. "},{"Title":"De Palma's Sinister Noirish Conspiracy Thriller!","Date":"15 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Personally I think Snake Eyes is a superior film! Sorry that most just don't get De Palma. He doesn't make films for the Academy worshipping crowds. He makes actual works of art. De Palma doesn't make movies for critics either. Oh, sure, De Palma is 'flawed', but so are most, if not all, true artists. But, his 'flaws' mostly only show when he is working for major studio Hollywood films. But even then he is so far superior to anything general generic Hollywood can dish out, in my opinion. He is one of the last of a rare dying breed of filmmaker, in the same vein, style, and category of the likes of Godard, Felini, Antonioni, Lelouch, Kubrick, Hitchcock, Welles, Wilder, Bergman, and such. To truly get him and appreciate him, one must realize that his films go far beyond mere storytelling in the conventional sense, not making the typical plot-driven drivel, but visual feasts, that stun the senses, and tells stories visually, with his camera movement and style. And, Snake Eyes is one of those type of films, where the 'story' is in the camera movements, not necessarily the script. Keeping in check with so many common themes that have run consistently throughout De Palma's career (the trouble with the double, betrayal, conspiracy, etc), De Palma wastes no time taking viewers inside his noirish conspiracy thriller set in Atlantic City during a hurricane. His opening shot flows for over 15 minutes, uninterrupted, introducing every character you need to know in that short time frame. He interweaves between TV point of view to the actual casino in record breaking time, and in breathtaking fashion. Between the very first shot of the politician and his entourage, including two powerful characters in the film played by Gary Sinise as Kevin Dunne, a political figure played by John Heard, Nicolas Cage as Rick Santoro, perfectly cast as an over the top cop on the make, a sleazy news reporter (played by Kevin Dunn), a bookie that owes Santoro a dept (played by Louis Guzman), the boxer Lincoln Tyler (played by Stan Shaw), his promoter, and everybody else involved in the 'conspiracy', as well as everything you need to know about the story, whether seen or heard, are all shown to the viewer in that short time span. And, De Palma employs so many terrific camera angles and devices and tricks, that the film should be kept in a film school vault and studied every year for the next couple of decades. From a mysterious redheaded woman to a blonde who is revealed to be a brunette with a wig on (played by Carla Gugino), from following a bloody hundred dollar bill to a ruby red ring, De Palma sets us on the coarse, working from a great script by David Koep (who scripted Mission Impossibe and Carlito's Way), putting things right before your very eyes, and/or in your ears, just to have you questioning everything and everyone you see on screen. And, the dark humor/irony is delicious! Especially when Rick receives a phone call from a show girl, saying she's his lucky number seven right as the assassination takes place. The slogan Believe everything except your eyes was a perfect tag line for this 1998 classic psychological mystery, noirish conspiracy thriller from the Master of Suspense. Because, after the film is over, and you know the way the plot turned out, then go back and view it again, you see that De Palma shows everything you need to see in the first 15 minutes of the film, and it's all right in front of your very eyes! And, be sure to watch this film all the way until you see the words The End pop up to know just how sinister this story really is. Hint A ruby red ring in stone.?.?. And, when De Palma returns his camera back outside the arena, and the storm is raging, thus is the build up to a very awesome climatic scene in what is already established as a VERY noirish story/film. Awesome! I would rate it a LOT higher than just 5 stars if possible. Brian De Palma really hit a solid home run for his fans with this classic, exposing just how evil, ugly, and sinister the world of Atlantic City really is. And, the song at the end of the film By Mercedes Brooks, called Sin City is awesome, and the lyrics recap the story of the film. Definitely the best film Nicolas Cage has EVER been lucky enough to be cast in, and his best performance by far! Highly recommended! Thank you. "}{"Title":"Snakes and the rain","Date":"29 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A typical bravura piece from Brian De Palma, with some brilliant visual flourishes but let down by an all over the place storyline and most of all the lack of a big finish, which you so often get with this director. In fact it's interesting reading the IMDb notes to see that a grand finale involving lots of water was nixed, one would imagine due to budget constraints.Otherwise there are great ideas here that really thrill, like the multiple viewpoints of certain scenes, the playing around with notions of circular time, perhaps influenced by Pulp Fiction, the adroit handling of crowd scenes and the remarkably seamless transitions from set to set, often from above.Yes, the story itself is highly contrived and muddled, but at its heart is the old Hitchcockian theme of a central character, on this occasion Nicoas Cage's vulgar and corrupt cop Ricky Santoro, finding himself at the centre of a complex assassination of a high-level politician at of all things a World Heavyweight Boxing Championship fight and hooking up with a suitable damsel in distress, taking us all the way back to The 39 Steps. There are visual nods to Hitch (the Vertigo shot) and Kubrick (the hotel shots from The Shining) but many of the others are all De Palma's own work and they're a feast for the eyes. The story however lacks any credibility whatsoever and I'm struggling to understand just why Cage's character has to be so flamboyant especially compared to the rest of the cast as for me it throws the narrative out of kilter. The musical soundtrack was good however, modern and melodic while the video-tape clarity of the cinematography is excellent.All that said, there are more visual ideas on display here than any other ten directors combined could have come up with, which is surely why most of us fans appreciate the work of De Palma. "},{"Title":"Very good flick.  Plot twists and surprises not expected","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the most unintentionally funny movies I've ever seen. It didn't start out that way, but as the flashbacks appeared I couldn't stop laughing. Luis Guzman in Tyler's suite saying Tyler, Tyler,Tyler while shadow boxing and then backing into a wall,the flashback to the boxing ring with the challenger dancing backwards while shouting hey hey hey....that's funny stuff. Not to mention Here comes the pain baby....here comes the pain.! Also, the fact that Gary Sinise's character is named Kevin Dunne and the Lou Logan character is played by actor Kevin Dunn was too much to take. Overall, however, a very good film. "},{"Title":"Critique","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" No matter how good of a movie someone might think Director Brian DePalma's Snake Eyes is no one can conceivably get away with overlooking the fact that the entire movie is handed to the view in the first fifteen minutes. The first half of the film showcases the vantage points of many different people telling their stories to Nicholas Cage's character Rick Santoro. Whether it is true or false we see the assassination of the Secretary of Defense many different ways. We as the viewers of course make our own speculations as to what happens but they are brutally shot down by David Koepp as he did to his character of the Secretary only minutes before. Whereas your generic movie takes time to build up its characters over the course of the first act, Snake Eyes dives right in. Taking reverse action on things, you meet all the characters in their prime. They all slowly start to fade from full- fledged characters into where they should have been at the beginning of the movie. With all the excitement that is happening in the film, we the viewer might forget to look at what is going on in the background. Even though the whole point of a camera is for the director to point it at what he or she feels is the most important in a scene, which is not always the case in Snake Eyes. A few key scenes are like open-ended season finales on television shows. DePalma kept these shots wide and very vague as to what was happening - Mostly from the vantage point of Rick Santoro himself. In these wide shots you can see the reaction of people in the stadium and a lot of the time they are not responsive the way you might think they would be in this action-packed situation. All in all however, with the classic story of one man searching through a sea of vantage points, coming to terms with hard decisions, and a bloody one hundred dollar bill being a horribly symbolic for blood money &#150; The film is entertaining enough to not get bored with whats going on and will keep the viewers attention. That is until the last scene that simply bombs the rest of the movies mood until Nicholas Cage utters his final line. "},{"Title":"Stylishly and entertainingly predictable","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Briand De Palms is one of the master directors of today. And rarely will one of his movies be a total bomb or painfully bad film, although lately they haven't been adding up (*cough*, Black Dahlia) they are still a treat to watch. Adding to one of his lists is the Hitchcockian like thriller Snake Eyes, it had everything going for it. An over the top yet fun performance by Nicolas Cage, a sneaky and smart screen play, edgy camera work, and a restless atmosphere that echoes thriller classics such as Psycho. All is going well in this film resembling old mystery classics by putting minimal swearing, sex, drugs and a few scenes of startling violence all going at a steady and smooth pace. At this time a specific character resembles  Twist in the end bad guy , myself believing that De Palma was doing this intentionally to try to throw some of us off, what happens... the predictable bad guy is the bad guy. But it's OK seeing that all the rest of the film was good but too bad De Palma went with being predictable. In the end greatly stylish, well acted, great atmosphere, well placed camera shots, brisk pace,... Bad ending. "},{"Title":"murder at a boxing match","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Nicolas Cage is at his slimy and shady best as a corrupt cop who is caught up in the murder of a senior politician at a boxing match. Reluctantly he is forced to behave as a law supporter with the odds stacking up against him.He revels in this role and it is great to watch him wrestling with his desire to drop the helpless woman back in to danger and to get the hell out of there.The ending of the film is good where his true nature reasserts itself. There is a half-hearted attempt to create some romance between him and the woman but they quite rightly give that up as there is too much going on.It is a shame that this character was not given another run out. "},{"Title":"Great cinematography even if it had a tad cheesy ending.","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The movie was shot, written and directed with skill and devotion. I loved the long shots and multiple takes on a single event shot with several cameras at the same time. A pretty serious effort went into designing this movie.The ending was a bit cheesy and the movie would have easily gotten nine from me if 30 seconds of it would have been different.It seems that a lot of viewers didn't like that the main character was a bit on the shady side. I didn't mind. Nicholas Cage portrayed a sleazy cop well.What I really liked about this movie was that it was about exploring a single event. As the movie advanced, the viewer get's a more complete understanding of the situation. In the end, when the plot is pretty much clear, the director ingeniously starts refocusing the exploration on the characters.The movie was thus very well made, although a few compromises in the end to the Hollywood norms made the ending cheesy. "},{"Title":"A fair film... thrilling, if not anything else...","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I thought that Snake Eyes was a fair film.... definitely not worth more than the 98 minutes that it was given, but okay in that allotted time... I enjoy thrillers and this was well done to a given point...An interesting plot Nicholas Cage is a police officer who witnesses the assassination of the U.S. defense secretary in the crowd of 14,000 people who came to an Atlantic City boxing arena for a big fight... His best friend, Gary Sinise, is a military officer who becomes involved in the investigation. Sinise fires the deadly shots that kill the assassin (a Palestininan sniper who allegedly killed the secretary due to a suicide note pointing to anger over arms sales to Israel), and he is cleared as a suspect.... but could he be a suspect? Could he be involved in the assassination? Everyone and anyone in the 14,000+ crowd becomes a suspect as few witnesses know anything beyond the fatal shots that were fired during the boxing match...This was a fair film, not on par with some of Nicholas Cage's much-better work (Sinise has a good presentation as usual, however) but still worth it on a rainy day. Please feel free to email me with any questions or comments... "},{"Title":"good start,flat finish","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I finished this film I thought to myselfHOW COULD A FILM LOOK SO PROMISING AND BOMB SO QUICKLY? You have one of the greatest openings to any film ever and then gradually fall into a cliched abyss with predictable and bizarre happenings. I enjoyed Nicholas Cage's hyperactive cop for a while,but even he wore on my nerves after a spell. The film's opening sequence follows Cage through a casino in Atlantic City for nearly twenty minutes without a single edit. I respect this opening sequence because it's obvious you have to be talented to pull it off. Cage has to continually speak to several different people without a cut to breathe. He earned my respect for this as does De Palma for the cleverness to try it. But after this sequence happens De Palma wants to evoke Hitchcock and get way too stylish and this really brings down the film. It just falls apart slowly,scene by scene and I felt duped. The ending after our killer's climactic scene,I never felt more ripped off or sickened by a director's attempt to bombard us with meaningless drivel. This film could not leave me more unsatisfied because I really fell in love with the film and then so quickly felt like I was slapped in the face(or kicked in the balls). */***** "},{"Title":"clever camera work","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  and i mean, really, really, really %!&^8%$ clever camera work.  but it is as empty as a campaign promise, and it ain't enough for me.  the world is filled with interesting stories yearning to be told, and the cleverness syndrome avoids emotion and eats bandwidth better used.   why?  what gives?  not this flick.i love die hard, big stupid pictures can be cool, so it's not THAT, that,  this simply did not entertain.  unless you are as dry as a bleached bone i suppose.2/10 "},{"Title":"Snake Eyes spoils its own mystery only a half hour into the movie!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS (but, you find out near the beginning anyway)Snake Eyes is about a crooked cop (Nicolas Cage) and his security guard friend (Gary Sinise) who are two people of the thousands who witness the public assassination of a political figure.  The assassination takes place during a boxing match, and soon after Cage is trying to solve the mystery.That entire scene is entertaining, right until the movie spoils its own twist.  It shows us that Sinise's character is the killer, the only problem is that Cage doesn't find out for another hour or so!  Why watch a movie that is unpredictable to the characters and not you?Of course, trademark De Palma camera tricks and a pretty well-rounded cast make up for the lack of surprise.  Good thriller,  if nothing else, 7/10. "}{"Title":"Great camerawork. Woo-hoo.","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  * 1/2 out of ****Without Brian De Palma's visually stunning camerawork and maybe Gary Sinise's sinisterly effective performance, Snake Eyes would be little more than a straight-to-cable thriller.  But it was a theatrical release, seeing as it it's headlined by a first-rate cast, a somewhat respected director (De Palma's been getting scorched by the critics recently, more or less deservedly), and a fairly acclaimed screenwriter in David Koepp (who would follow this up with the far superior chiller Stir of Echoes).Nicolas Cage stars as Rick Santoro, a cop at a boxing match who, along with thousands of spectators, witnesses the shooting of the secretary of defense.  Santoro has everyone rounded up and kept in the vicinity of the stadium, not a problem since there's a hurricane brewing outside.  Meanwhile, Major Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise) has plans of his own, and Santoro's belief that there's a major conspiracy going on might just be for real.For about an hour, maybe a bit less, Snake Eyes is moderately enjoyable (worthy of ** to ** 1/2) fluff, moving at a fairly quick pace with a set-up that isn't half-bad.  Then De Palma struts his stuff in Rashomon-style, giving us first-person POVs during flashbacks and stories being told from different perspectives.  It's all for naught, since it's easily predictable who's lying and who isn't (for crying out loud, the villain is revealed less than halfway through).  De Palma's camerawork (split screens, aerial shots) is visually dazzling, but it can't hide the lack of plot that's at work.The last half-hour is the worst, climaxing to a resolution that's so inane, it has to be seen to be believed.  This isn't even to mention the horrible editing.  (Spoilers begin) You can clearly see a huge wave tipping over a police van, then the camera cuts to said van crashing through the building, just conveniently in time and place to stop the villian from executing witnesses.  Arrghh!  The original ending featured a tidal wave, which might explain the later dialogue where Santoro talks about he remembers almost drowning, which of course, makes no sense given that such a tidal wave never occurred.  This is one of the more blatant bits of filmmaking incompetence I've seen, De Palma should seriously be ashamed.I used to be fan of his and I actually did enjoy the much maligned Mission to Mars, but while his movies might still be visual stunners, they're coming up as losers when it comes to plot and characters (a la this film and the recent Femme Fatale).  Snake Eyes isn't his worst (that's either Fatale or Bonfire of the Vanities), but it signals De Palma's fading career.  "},{"Title":"Adequate, but unmemorable","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Snake Eyes is a stylistic triumph that is ultimately let down by a weak ending. Up to a point, it's a more than adequate thriller. A corrupt Atlantic City cop (Nicholas Cage) investigates the assassination of a respected politician at a boxing match. The more he looks, the more obvious it is that there was a conspiracy and cover-up. But who is behind it? And for what purpose? His only clue is a mysterious woman in white. His best friend is a naval officer (Gary Sinise) who is the only one he can trust (or can he?). The storyline is--quite frankly--pretty standard. There have been numerous other books and films dealing with government conspiracies and rouge members of the military and intelligence communities. Nothing special here. But the director's visual style makes it interesting--Brian DePalma doesn't let us down in this area. He employs some excellent camerawork to draw us into the story. The film begins with an unbroken, fifteen-minute shot that even its detractors have praised. The director made use of splitscreen in a memorable way when he did Dressed to Kill, and he puts it to good use here; along with flashbacks, multiple perspectives are shown, and at least one of them is unreliable (but who?)Alas, after a while, it runs out of steam. I can determine with certainty that neither DePalma or screenwriter David Koepp could decide on an appropriate ending for the story. The climax is completely strained and contrived, leaving us unsatisfied with the film as a whole. Also, much of the moral ambiguity is defused. When the film opens, we see a protagonist who is corrupt and opportunistic, having accepted many bribes in the past. However, by the time the movie ends, what was once drawn in shades of gray is polarized between bright white and pitch black. It's still watchable, but it makes you think, is that it? After the setup, it is not unreasonable to expect more, especially from the talent involved.Nicholas Cage is fun to watch, though he really overdoes it at first, threatening to turn his character into a cartoon. Later, though, he settles down and gets serious. Gary Sinise is adequate, but I never really found his character particularly interesting. The supporting performances are solid. John Heard plays an opportunistic reporter, Stan Shaw a prizefighter who has been manipulated by the conspirators. Likewise, Carla Gugino is good as the mystery woman whose motives (and loyalties) are not immediately revealed. Luis Guzmán has a bit part as a hood. In the end, Snake Eyes is just another generic thriller, a middle-of-the-road outing for the director and star, both of whom have done much better in the past, and will undoubtedly do so in the future.**1/2 (out of ****)Released by Paramount Pictures and Touchstone Pictures "},{"Title":"De Palma is a genius with the camera!!!","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film for the first time the other day, and I was blown away! Not only is the story mysterious and compelling, but the techniques De Palma uses are amazing!The first 12 and a half minutes is one big shot! That's incredible! And the split-screen sequence is very welcome, simply because the split-screen isn't used enough any more. As my brother, who watched the film with me, said, The split-screen hasn't been used effectively since Wood-Stock! I Agree with him. What a great film.That being said, it isn't De Palma's best. That would probably be The Untouchables. "},{"Title":"A very good film","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Brian De Palma does it again with an outstanding film. Nicholas cage  is one of the best actors also because he does his own stunts. The camera work deserves alot of recognition and respect! all on all a very great film... i think that this deserves a 8 out of 10by film fanatic "},{"Title":"Definitely worth it...","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this over the weekend, and it was good. A convoluted plot involving a senator's shooting at a boxing match, and Nicolas Cage in the middle of it all. Cage has here some of his neatest acting, and he is certainly becoming the guy who can really get the crap kicked out of him. Carla Gugino is a 'new' star I've been following since The One and she is quite good, both at acting and general charisma. Gary Sinise is a superb actor, worthy of great things. His emotion and conflict is provoking and admirable. Also starring David Anthony Higgins, Craig from Malcolm in The Middle. A good movie, definitely worth the rent. The concept is great. "},{"Title":"a hit and miss","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Nicolas Cage is well-cast as a crooked and eccentric Atlantic City cop dealing with an elaborate conspiracy involving a political assassination at a boxing match. Shallow thriller wants to be a slick murder mystery, but is barely able to run on the effectiveness of DePalma's clever camera tricks. Once you get past that distraction it's extremely hard to keep interest or sit through an unsatisfying ending. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Too busy for it's own good","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I imagine myself whispering into the director's ear. Slow down, DePalma. Cut back on the frantic directing! Give more time to character development and story.Snake Eyes follows a corrupt Atlantic City police detective named Richard 'Ricky' Santoro (Nicolas Cage) who is invited to the big boxing match in town by his military buddy Commander Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise). Of course, as it so happens in flicks like these, the United States Secretary of Defense is also at ringside. Not too surprisingly so he can get whacked. Now it's up to morally detached Santoro to figure out who's behind this conspiracy yarn.Allow me to make the obvious statement that, yes, I walked away from Snake Eyes kinda unimpressed. When the lights came up and the credits started to roll, I reflected on the rather generic feel to the whole thing. That only some flamboyant camera work set it apart. As for the cast, I liked seeing Cage playing a scum bag when actors and actresses are so protective of their on-screen roles and off screen image these days, but if you can't spot the bad guy ten minutes into this movie, it's time to turn in your movie viewing badge.Speaking of end credits, I enjoy when filmmakers add a little bonus scene over them (or after) rewarding you for sticking around, but seeing construction workers and a close-up of a stone pillar for five minutes isn't my idea of a treat. There's the ring. Yes, I get it. She's buried in there. Snake Eyes is a roll of the dice in the game of style versus substance and it's a losing one at that. "},{"Title":"Santoro for Mayor!","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've noticed a lot of critics have really nailed into this movie. I have to admit that being a big Nic Cage fan probably gives me a bias, but I have to say I think this movie got treated unfairly. Its not the best movie ever by a long shot, but in my mind its a firm 8 out of 10.The directing is superb, acting was good too, though I can see why some would find Cage a little extreme, but thats the character. I do admit theres a little inconsistency between the two halves of the movie. The first half being a directing tour de force with De Palma using every trick thats possible with a camera and then some. Then, (and this is where I differ from most of the comments already posted) the second half merely slows down a little, isnt quite as clever and stylish but nevertheless concludes the plot fairly well, the last scene was maybe uneeded but thats probably only because I like to be left wanting more.Actually, I think i'm gonna add another .5 to my score, make it an 8.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Started out so well, and the rest, oh dear...","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film started out so strong, the first 15 minutes were extremely well done with Nick Cage at his manic best, at this point I was wondering why the critics had been so down on this movie. Unfortunately the rest of the film was nowhere near the quality of the opening scene. The story felt weak and it ended up just a simple chase round a hotel type film with some vicious beatings thrown in there too. Gary Sinise was disappointing and I would expect more from an actor of his calibre, but I just don't think the material was there. In fact the only redeemable feature of the last 70 minutes of the film is the amazingly sexy Carla Gugino, who could definitely have a future playing femme fatales. "},{"Title":"keep watching","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  great film. loved every minute of it. keep your eyes open or you'll miss something. liked the cast and especially loved gary sinise's performance. he can convince you of his point of view. his rant against cage in the later parts of the film was awesome. cage as usual plays the role well. a good film worthy of, at the very least, renting "}{"Title":"Great directing & acting, weak story","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Brian DePalma sure packs a punch. The film is gripping to look at, hard to pull your eyes away from the screen. Also very well-acted, Cage and Sinise being reliable veterans, and Carla Gugino -- an Elizabeth McGovern lookalike -- delivers an appealing performance.Within 30 minutes, I realized that the conspiracy plot is far less intricate than I'd expected or hoped. As the clues are discovered, it all becomes pretty straight forward, dissolving into a standard chase and nonsensical conclusion. The film attempts to redeem itself with a gritty prologue, but blows even that away in the last 10 seconds.Enjoyable, but don't get your hopes up.  "},{"Title":"I could watch it, I just didn't care","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Showcasing Nicholas Cage's immense talent for overacting in an annoying way Snake Eyes is the kind of film you can watch peacefully without having your brain taxed too hard. This is a shame really as it's meant to be a suspenseful thriller with twists and turns a-go-go. The conspiracy itself is rather poorly explained with both sides failing to get their point across in an emotive, thought provoking way. Characters flit in and out without leaving any kind of mark on the film or raising any kind of questions and at times it gets a little difficult to follow who is on which side. The ending itself is also rather disappointing with little in the way of justice except for Cage's character. So all in all what seems like a nice little whodunnit (And whytheydunnit) ends up being a bit wet all round. De Palma's direction also seems rather amateurish at times, none less than in the final climactic weather shots (The hurricane that is meant to be banging at the door ends up making no difference at all to how the film ends) and in the 'lucky number' phone call (What was that about and how did he get any kind of clue from it??). At least Cage doesn't do his manic 'Shout every second word for emphasis' routine for the whole movie, just the first 12 minutes.  "},{"Title":"Even more disappointing when it's no longer unique","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  With a very so so plot, the only thing left going for this movie is the long scene at the beginning where there's hardly a cut in the picture as Nicholas Cage's character moves from one area to another.  That's it, after that, there's nothing left to hook the viewer.  This gets even worse as I saw an episode of The X-Files.  It's the episode where Mulder goes to the Bermuda Triangle.  That episode was divided into several acts and each act is taken on a single take without cut.  That was a very good episode.  After watching that, this film just keeps going lower in my eyes.The verdict 2.5 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Seeing is Deceiving","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  An explosive, highly entertaining action thriller, SNAKE EYES, teams hot academy award winning actor Nicholas Cage (Leaving Las Vegas;Face/Off)staring alongside big-screen favourite Gary Sinise (Ransom;Apollo 13).  Cage is an Atlantic City Cop who, along with an arena full spectators at the championship prizefight, is  eyewitness to a political assassination!  Determined to quickly solve the crime, he immediately launches an intensive investigation...then learns that a search for answers will only uncover yet more questions in an ever-widening web of conspiracy, intrigue and danger!  Master director Brian De Palma (Mission Impossible, The Untouchables) has combined riveting mystery with heart-stopping excitement to create a suspense-filled hit you don't want to miss! "},{"Title":"Good on the surface, but go any deeper and the flick falls apart","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Most of the elements in this film are in place, but something still seems empty. Despite excellent atmosphere and an original setting/plot line, Snake Eyes is predictable (without ruining anything, it's obvious Sinise is the bad guy) and nothing more than two hours of wasted time.	It's a treat for your eyes, but it's missing both a heart and a mind. "},{"Title":"Great Opening, fast paced ... but very mediocre","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The opening of Snake Eyes is fantastic. Cage is electrifying in the opening, and remains full of energy throughout the entire film.  He steals every scene.  Gary Sinise has been better, and his role seemed quite similar to other roles he has played - Ransom came to mind.  Although the film is very energetic, the plot is full of holes and doesn't seem to hold together all that well.  The cast is very good, as is the production design and the cinematography.  The 'climatic showdown' is one of the most manufactured Hollywoodised endings I have seen in quite a while.  Because the start was so good, you expect the film to hold up and continue to deliver the punches, but it seems to fall flat after a while - very much the fault of the script.  Still, it was mild entertainment, but I've seen much better. "},{"Title":"Maybe it's all a pack of lies...","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, maybe this movie is just a pack of lies designed by Mr de Palma to confuse us, but the fact is that the lie is brilliant. Perhaps I like being cheated with all the tricks a director can use, and de Palma uses here a large number of them. The result is probably poor in plot and weak in structure, but it's visually impressive, from the beginning to the end, and, sometimes, that's all a movie needs to hook you. "},{"Title":"De Palma back on course","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There's no shortage of technically ambitious directors out there, but you have to admit that nobody kicks it old school like Brian De Palma.  While the Finchers and Wachowskis of the world toil at inserting seamless CGI shots in their films, De Palma looks positively stone age constructing his absurdly long one-shot sequence for Snake Eyes.  Can you not love him for it?Myself, I was happy just to see him walking away from the tripish material proffered in Mission Impossible and back to something more thematically akin to Carlito's Way.  De Palma gets sniped for having poor conclusions in his films, all build up and no payoff.  Friends, the build up is the payoff. "},{"Title":"Watch the end credits","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For those of you who wondered about why they showed the construction workers in the end credits, watch the ENTIRE end credits. For those of you who can't be bothered I will reveal it below. SPOILER ALERT!! 1 2 3 4 5 Its really not that earth shattering. I was expecting something like this because it WAS a DePalma flick and he can't hide his misogynistic side too well. When the last worker moves his hand from the cement pillar, it uncovers the red jewel from the ring the woman in red was wearing. ie. her hand and the rest of her are attached to the ring. ie. they disposed of her body by burying her in the cement pillar. Earlier in the film you briefly see a body get dumped into one of the cement pillar molds. Just DePalma's way of taking one last jab at the audience.Elcabio "},{"Title":"Visually stunning, and a good script until the end...","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The visuals alone make this a worthwhile film to watch, but I also enjoyed the story, even if the ending was fairly lame.  A very talented cast makes the most out of an underrated script, and even though there was little suspense in the second half, the strong acting and great camera work kept me entertained.  The best part of the movie was unquestionably the LONG opening shot (if, in fact, it was all one take) that is something that I will remember for some time.  It's too bad that they tried to ruin the film with a really bad ending, but considering how much I liked the first 85 minutes, I can overlook this major flaw. "}{"Title":"panned but not bad at all","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  So, I went and rented this movie even after all the critics trashed and bashed it expecting the worst.  After Raising Cain I know how bad DePalma can be (also how flawlessly brilliant e.g. Carrie Carlito's Way). Turns out this is not a bad movie by any means.  Like all entertaining movies the point is not realistic plot developments..but the fun is in the telling of it.  So what about the silly ending...this is pure cinema with no pretensions about it...and the dialogue is not better or worse than most movies dropping off the assembly line (Die Hard series, Lethal Weapon and a million more).  I heard a rumor there was an alternate ending whereby a giant wave crashes over the boardwalk and washes everything away!  How much sillier and better that would have been!  Ok, folks it would have said, now I'm gonna wash away this hour and a half of fancy cameras, and stereotypical characters and ham acting and goofy plot twists etc.  Wash it all cleanly away...you'll be left with nothing at the end...snake eyes. "},{"Title":"Stylish and funny until the ending","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is highly entertaining.  It is not particularly suspenseful, but it moves at a fast enough pace that this doesn't matter.The deus ex machina ending to the main plotline is a little disappointing, but this is the sort of thing one expects from Hollywood these days.As for the bit after the real ending, others have commented that the movie goes on about 10 minutes too long-- I disagree; I liked the segment at the end, but that may only be because I was born in Atlantic City and am familiar with the area.I'm also not a big fan of Cage, but he does a good job in this particular part.If you're expecting a mystery or a thriller, don't watch this film. Viewed as a comedy-drama, though, it works nicely. "},{"Title":"Good suspense thriller worth renting","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Definitely worth your money to rent this movie.  However you may want to watch it a couple of extra times, it's quite confusing and you won't catch everything the first time.  great acting.  nicolas cage is one of the best. "},{"Title":"A whip-smart thriller","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie suffers from what I've come to think of as Broadcast News Syndrome.  You know the symptoms a movie comes to a satisfying conclusion, one you could gladly accept and feel good about, but then it goes crashing into an annoying and unnecessary epilogue.  Like Broadcast News, however, if you cut away the final five minutes or so before the end credits run, what remains is a worthy film.  In spite of this glaring problem, Snake Eyes is a whip-smart thriller that teases, reveals, suggests, hides, and tears at breakneck pace through a convoluted cover-up that would do the greatest conspiracy theorist proud.  Director Brian DePalma is an inconsistent master whose films are always a crapshoot; for every The Untouchables (undeniable triumph), there's also a Mission Impossible (slick, empty success), a Bonfire of the Vanities (dismal clunker) and a Raising Cain (guilty pleasure).  This film falls into the triumph category, although perhaps a qualified one.  Ably aided and abetted by dizzying, sinuous cinematography and Nicolas Cage's wild-eyed, no-holds-barred performance, it all comes together in an unsettling, exhilarating concoction that works. "},{"Title":"Oh come on people","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Brian DePalma's Snake Eyes is not the world's most intelligent movie, I'll give you that.  There are plotholes, there are some weak lines, and there is an element of unrealisticness to it. But I'm sick of people going to watch an Action Film, and expecting to get a superior story, without any cliches from any of the characters. Snake Eyes like most other action films is an enjoyable ride. It's entertaining, and plays out nicely. It also nicely intervenes a not-too-hollywood ending into a very hollywood movie.  Cage and Sinise give good, but not great performances. Cage is convincing as a sleazeball cop, unlike most others, I think he's been choosing roles wisely as of late, City of Angels excluded.  Sinise makes a good dirtbag. Overall, I'd give the movie 6.5/10 stars... go check it out..just don't expect The Piano cuz you ain't gonna get it.  "},{"Title":"Lighten Up People.","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is what movies are to be about. Entertainment. Good bad or indifferent. I enjoyed this film. I read the reviews & did not even want to rent it. But I did. (I am a real sick type person) It had some dumb scenes in it. But over all it is not the worst movie I have rented. Relax People.. Enjoy.... "},{"Title":"A Journey into the unknown... (a story P)","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  We were going to see Rounders... but because of the R rating, we couldn't get in... yes, it's sad, but I'm still being carded at movie theatres.  I wasn't carded in eighth grade, but now, in eleventh grade, I am being carded.Anyway, we bought tickets to the sci-fi action thriller (*a-hem*) Simon Birch.  We walked in, turned around, went to the bathroom, and went into Snake Eyes.  I wasn't expecting much... I expected it to be a Sudden Death (Van Damme) clone or something like that.But, I got something much better.While my friends (who love such movies as *throws up* Baseketball, Jawbreaker, and There's Something About Mary) hated the movie, I loved it. The action was pretty good, the plot was superb, and the acting was well done.The opening sequence was the best part... ... but the use of flashbacks was very cool, too.  I enjoyed the film (did anyone catch the ring during the credits at the end?) in the theatres and after I rented it, and I will most likely buy a used copy at Blockbuster or maybe even grab the DVD if I ever get any money.Snake eyes, dealer take all.-Dan, King of Mexico "},{"Title":"style over substance","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The first shot in this film is absolutely amazing.  The subtle genius of it can be overlooked by most viewers.  Judging by the low votes it's received, I'm correct on this point.  Because no one could ever appreciate that shot and not consider this at least a very good film .  I gotta admit though the story is very weak.  DePalma is still a genius.  And the music harkens back to  the Hitchcock films of the 50's, it's just terrific. If you love film, you should see Snake Eyes. "},{"Title":"A roll of the dice gets you Nicolas Cage at his best","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw the trailers to Snake Eyes I knew it was going to be really good. Not only did it have Nicolas Cage in it; it had suspense as well as a lot of plot twists. From the outset of the movie it kept me thinking about who had motives for the crime, is it a conspiracy, and how high does the conspiracy go if there is one. Nicolas Cage plays a NY police detective who is thrust into a murder investigation of a government official. Gary Sinise is excellent in this movie; he looks so sinister in this part. Sinise plays Cage's best friend; also a law enforcement officer, invites him to a boxing match where the crime occurs. Gary Sinise has an evil look in his face, which reminded me of his role in Ransom. Snake Eyes has a lot of great dialogue between the Nicolas Cage and Gary Sinise especially when the truth is uncovered, which really kept my interest; it also made me want to stick around to see what the outcome was. The way the writers weaved everything together following the unmasking of the true plot was great. I liked it because I haven't seen it done like this before. Snake Eyes was the type of movie that if you left the room you would miss something important; it was a very fast moving film. Snake Eyes is a spine tingling, edge of your seat, nail biting, film that rolls a 10 in my book.    "},{"Title":"2 ways of watching this movie.","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've seen this movie twice. First, at the theatres, I came expecting an amazing thriller with good acting and mystery. I left the movie with the same feeling as most others, the beginning was good, the body of the film gave away the ending, and there was nothing left to finish it off. The second time, I rented it, and already knowing the ending, watched the movie looking at acting and the visual masterpieces created ( e.g. the first 12 minute shot which never cuts out). I loved the movie. Gary Sinise is a fine supporting actor who carries his own weight. He blends nicely with the wild talent of Nicolas Cage who basically steals the show from the movie. Cage is the finest actor of this generation and is always fun to watch.  In conclusion if you're going to see the movie or have already seen it, watch it to see good acting. It sounds funny, but it makes Snake Eyes enjoyable and an overall good movie. Don't expect a good Hollywood ending. I just think it was made too realistic to be in a movie. "}{"Title":"Loved It","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've read many reviews of Snake Eyes from this site and from other sources, and the majority of them are bad ones. I have to say that I saw this film the day it came out (and got a free poster) and I enjoyed every minute. From the brilliant opening sequence (which has been praised in almost every review I've seen, good or bad) to the end I was engrossed in this film. It didn't matter that the villain was revealed early in the piece, as there was still a great deal of suspense generated in the remainder of the film. I left the cinema happy in the knowledge that my ten dollars had bought me a great 2 hours of entertainment. Snake Eyes was definitely one of the best movies I saw in 1998. "},{"Title":"Well, there's an hour and a half's worth of well-fashioned, conspiracy-themed entertainment involving the statutory array of politicians, TV reporters and military goons.","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The bent copper hands over a bloody $100 bill. I didn't want this one, says the shifty bookie. Why?, retorts the crooked cop. There's a blood all over it, he moans. Whoa, aren't you delicate.It's Cage again, this time in action-mode as a bent, two-timing Atlantic City cop. Donned in gear reminiscent of his Wild At Heart days, Cage's Rick (not that name again) Santoro is invited by his boyhood friend, Navy Commander Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinese), to a front row seat at a championship fight where Dunne is in charge of security for the U.S. Secretary of Defense.It's a windy night in Atlantic City with Hurricane Jezebel whipping around. However, the real trouble is brewing inside (sorry, sounds clichéd, but wait until you see the film), where defending heavyweight boxer Lincoln Tyler (Stan Shaw) is being pounded in the ring. Just as the bug guy hits the canvas the crack of bullets rings out and you've guest it, The Secretary of Defense is shot through the throat. Panic ensues and Rick, of course, is left to piece the assassination together.In lesser hands than Brian De Palma, this would be an exceedingly mediocre picture. However, the flamboyant director applies a box full of stylish tricks - cross-cutting splitscreen, point-of-view flashbacks, unreliable narration and an overhead, traveling cam that pans from room-to-room, unimpeded by walls - to keep the viewer interested. He also audaciously relates the assassination (along with the events leading up to it) from four points-of-view.Subsequently, the film is never less than visually impressive, but like De Palma's previous feature Mission Impossible, its characters are not sufficiently fleshed out and the ending is simply dreadful. So awful, in fact, it almost completely ruins the entire film.However, the acting is uniformly good, especially Sinese, without ever being particularly memorable. As for the plot? Well, there's an hour and a half's worth of well-fashioned, conspiracy-themed entertainment involving the statutory array of politicians, TV reporters and military goons. However, the ending is weaker than my left hook.Ben Walsh  "},{"Title":"A movie that makes you feel clever","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Snake eyes makes you feel clever. Very clever. Brian DePalma is the most underrated director today. This movie proves it. The opening scene is among the most impressive lessons of directing a film in the last few years or decade. The first 14 minutes shows that you're going to have a lesson of cinema. The scene (ATLANTIC CITY), the atmosphere (corruption, calmlessness), the environnment (tropical twister) and among all this  Nicolas Cage (Rick Santoro). The non-failure of the movie is not just due to the director Brian DePalma but also to Nicolas Cage. We can see him among this crowd with his clothes (check the shirt) and his golden phone. After these 14 minutes, a crime is made and Santoro's best friend, Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise) is responsible of it. Santoro will have to deal with 14,000 witnesses, the FBI and his reputation. Brain DePalma gives details in the opening scene that will help us to understand what happened, what should happen, and what can't happen. And all these details are related to Rick Santoro and the opening scene. Brain DePalma will play with these elements, as an artist, showing the different point of view of the characters, (subjectives) and the cameras (objectives). Brain DePalma shows the key elements but he doesn't underline them as if he wanted to make the spectator think by himself. A contrario, he gives little elements to help to see the good and the bad, which you only remark when you're out of the theatre. The colors shows what can be trusted or not. The blue is the good  Blue eye, ring, the 7 woman. The red is the bad  a ring, blood on the bill, the gloves of the boxer... snake eyes is a masterpiece that you have to watch several times to appreciate the construction, which records Rashomon (Akira Kurosawa) or Quentin Tarantino in another way. Advice  stay till the end.10 on 10. "},{"Title":"Great start - disappointing end","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's a long time since I've found myself being so enthralled by the opening sequence of a film.   I'm particularly glad I saw it on a big screen and sat near the front.   The adrenalin flows like blood in a slasher movie.What a pity that the plot doesn't live up to the brilliance of the opening sequence.   Once you work out what's happened it becomes both predictable and disappointing.Better see it anyway - I still walked out at the end feeling good. "},{"Title":"Imagine you're gonna see a bad movie, then enjoy it","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I've read the comments and thought I was gonna see a very bad movie. So I enjoyed it And it starts great, invisible cuts, like it is one shot, and Nick Cage like we want to see him. But then, there is no story left after 30 minutes. So there are flashbacks, same scenes from different points of view. And in the end...questions Why do the girlfriend and wife call so often in the beginning and later no more? Who called him, saying stuff about a lucky number? What was the motive again?  And when you are standing outside..........What was the movie again? "},{"Title":"I like it!!!!","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I can just say that it's one of the greatest films I ever seen.From phantom of the paradise to Snake eyes (without impossible mission perhaps!) i think that Brian De Palma is one of the best directors of the Century. "},{"Title":"highly underrated. this man is a genius.","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  that's all. it's quite incredible his only bad movie (Mission Impossible) was such a smash hit and nobody cared about this masterpiece. DePalma' s Cinema is all here (well, maybe not. there are no ESP characters that can lift knives and make 'em fly...).  "},{"Title":"Better than expected, yet far from perfect","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A very stylish thriller with some very cliché and some very cool experimental elements. Miles better than DePalma's MISSION IMPOSSIBLE, and nicely devoid of stupid action sequences.  "},{"Title":"Great director, but where is the plot ?","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Snake Eyes opens with an amazing shot, directly imitating Orson Welles's Touch of Evil. Brian De Palma shows that he is a great director, full of amazingly creative ideas, but how comes he forgot to find a good plot?  "},{"Title":"Good, but not the greatest","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  OK, besides the horribly bad ending and, at times, really laughable dialogue, Snake Eyes is pretty good. The plot is interesting (although much of it is given away in the trailers) and I like the way it's told by DePalma and Koepp. The acting was good by Cage, but I think much of the credit should be given to Sinise (one of the greatest actors--ever!) who really keeps the action moving swiftly. All in all, it was a good film, ultimately forgettable, but still, a good film nonetheless. "}{"Title":"Don't blink, you might miss the ending","Date":"18 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was real excited about seeing this movie. The trailer was good, it looked like a great thriller.  It fell quite short of being great however.  Cage's portrayal of Rick Santoro was excellent.  Brian DePalma made this one visually memorable as usual.  But the end was a major letdown.  Few people know that there was originally a tidal wave scene that was cut out of  the movie because DePalma feared Snake Eyes would look like a disaster movie.  However, very short parts of this sequence were left in the previews seen on TV.  Including, if i'm not mistaken, Cage's line I'm not going to let you kill her. In short, I was expecting a water filled ending that never comes.  It was the most obvious case of a scene being omitted that I've ever witnessed.  DePalma took out the wave scene and put nothing in its place causing the film to end quite ubruptly.  This was the only disapointment to an otherwise good thriller.  (MOTOWNZ MOVIE REVIEWS, Motown247@aol.com) "},{"Title":"Predictable but reasonably entertaining","Date":"18 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Four of us saw this movie last week.  One loved it; 2 thought it was okay, and 1 hated it.  I thought it was okay  predictable plot (same old good cop/bad cop story with the standard conspiracy stuff thrown in).  What redeemed the movie a little were the performances of Nicholas Cage and Gary Sinise.  I always love watching those guys, even if the movie is the same old tired thing. "},{"Title":"lamo plot kills good idea","Date":"18 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Don't be taken in by the sexy films of DePalma's past or Nicholas Cage.  This thing sucks. "},{"Title":"A fantastic premise, a wonderful opening, a disappointing movie.","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A movie that has such a great premise, such a dazzling opening act, and a  cast of Oscar Winners should not disappoint so grandly.  I guess the first  mistake comes in mis-casting.  Not mis-casting so much as obvious casting.   Has John Heard ever played anyone but the slimy toad villain?  And Gary  Sinise is too blatant as the best friend betrayer cliche.  Why are  directors so eager to let Nicholas Cage overact?  At least some reign him  in to a thin veneer of subtlety, but not this film.  Then with the dramatic  tension already thin, our doubts are confirmed too early.  And all this leaves us with is a mano a mano battle  with Cage that tastes stale after the anticipation of such high suspense  and mystery. "},{"Title":"The film wasn't half bad","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Actually, I thought that overall, contrary to the reviews, this was not a 1 /2 bad movie.  They certainly could have toned down old Nicholas Cage during the first 20 minutes of the film as I thought he was tremendously obnoxious AND they could have certainly rewritten the last 20 minutes of the film.After all that is said, the stuff in between the beginning and the end was well written and well acted on the part of all three main characters, esp. Cage and Sinise. "},{"Title":"Decent murder mystery","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    Cage and Sinise worked well together and every scene was filmed  exceptionally well. I enjoyed the film, but its major flaw, exposing the  culprit early, killed much of the mystery.   A strong mystery turned to a drama. Recommendable.  "},{"Title":"Good, but the end was the downfall","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Snake eyes was one of those fims that are great the whole time, but the end  is what kills it.  Brian De Palma being such a great director couldn't think  of a better ending?  I still think this movie was good and I recommend it  to any suspense thriller fan. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A movie with excellent plot twists combined with outstanding camera work.  "},{"Title":"Here comes the pain!","Date":"6 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" So, just saw the flick...What can i say. Floored, Smacked across the face, Ringed-out the theatrical rage that is Nick Cage, takes center stage, in this fiendishly sly, slick piece of cinematic bravado.So Castor Troy, or Sean Archer (the film never specifies), is a wise-talking, suit-wearing, money-wasting, boxing promoter from the wrong side of the tracks. Gary Sinise is the *spoiler alert* bad guy. It's the Heavy Weight final championship match of the world, the fight is hot. The Boxer, the one boxer, is obviously cranked up on horse.Suddenly, from out of nowhere, the Cage shouts here comes the pain, here comes the pain. All wild-eyed, beads of sweat spouting out of his pale baldness. Blood shot eyes. Coke, surely. guards flock around around him. Shot(s) ring out.*spoiler alert* One boxer hits the floor. LiterallyThe cop, Gary Sinise, much like later C.S.I. days, is a chain-smoking, ball-busting, evidence-looking pendejo-police from Chicago. A real hard ass.Suddenly everyone is a suspected murderer in the Pedo-like eyes of the unlucky astronaut! But most of all, the Ghost Rider. Through seeming acid flashback, the plot thickens. Sharply. It creeps up on you like a small black spider. The ending is a fireworks display of method acting and special effects. Nic realizes, like previous viewers of the film have since realized, Gary Sinise is, in fact, *spoiler alert* the bad guy. This was before Nicholas Cage's fall from fame, before his career became flaccid and sad. The acting is stupefyingly good. The passion portrayed is like the death of Christ, sans Willem Dafoe. The Claustrophobia the main character portrays is Like watching a wild-eyed Nic trapped inside a tiny little Cage. i Give this 10/10. Recommended for all fans of slick film noir, True blood and the film G.I. Jane*Bravo* *Bravo* "},{"Title":"Snake Eyes Is Snake Bitten!","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Snake Eyes is pretty crappy.Director Brian de Palma's provocative but misguided crime thriller about an opportunistic Atlantic City cop, the assassination of the Secretary of Defense, and poetic justice leaves nothing but a bad taste in your mouth. Awash in glossy production values, Snake Eyes leads off with a striking murder-mystery, then unaccountably changes tactics, sheds it mystery, identifies its villain, and has a finale that provides little relief.Snake Eyes certainly possessed potential. U.S. Naval Commander Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise) invited his old boyhood chum, Detective Ricky Santoro (Nicolas Cage of The Rock), to a heavyweight boxing match in Atlantic City on a stormy evening. Dunne has pulled rank to head up the security team around Secretary of Defense Charles Kirkland (Joel Frabiani). What neither Santoro nor Kirkland realizes is that they're being set up. When Dunne abandons his post to question a shady looking woman in red, an assassin kills Kirkland. The Secretary dies while Julia Costello (Carla Gugino), a mysterious woman-in-white, leak a military weapons scandal involving her unscrupulous boss Gilbert Powell (John Heard). Santoro is yapping on his golden cell phone when the bullets fly. Shoving Costello out of the line of fire, our protagonist manages to save her life.The gunfire erupts about the same time that champion boxer Lincoln Tyler (Stan Shaw) takes a dive to distract the crowd from the killing. Before Santoro can piece everything together, Costello flees. Losing her glasses in the turmoil, she spends most of her time bumping into things. Costello realizes that the villains want her dead, but she cannot escape. Not only does her poor eyesight hamper her, but the dying secretary's blood has also drenched her white outfit. Santoro quickly seals off the arena, so Costello cannot get far. Eventually, the FBI arrives and launches an interrogation of the 14-thousand fight fans who apparently witnessed the shooting. (De Palma shows the assassination from several viewpoints.Meanwhile, Santoro snoops around and what he finds shocks him. Lamentably, the filmmakers save the surprises only for the movie characters instead of the audience. As one of Gilbert Powell's workers, Costello has disguised herself in a blond wig so she can deliver proof to the defense secretary about the rigged tests involving the Air Guard missile. Before Kirkland can act, a Middle-Eastern sniper shoots him. Incredibly, Dunne guns down the shooter! Initially, Dunne has convinced Santoro that he is a good guy, until Costello reveals Dunne's true colors. When Dunne learns about Costello and Santoro, he makes Santoro an offer that nobody, especially Santoro, would refuse. Dunne antes up a million dollar bribe. Dunne reminds Santoro that he has been a corrupt cop, so why should he suddenly alter his attitude about looking the other way? Santoro's conscience confronts him, and his guilt gets the better of the Atlantic City detective.Happily, Snake Eyes abounds with technical wizardry. Indeed, veteran helmer De Palma knows his craft well. His film credits include Scarface, Blow Out, Carrie, and Dressed to Kill. De Palma knows how to make classics. Sadly, Snake Eyes resembles De Palma's more lackluster outings, such as Mission Impossible, Bonfire of the Vanities, and Wise Guys. Nevertheless, De Palma indulges in his usual signature screen trademarks, such as split-screen, overhead ceiling shots, and flashbacks, to tell an elaborate story. These neat effects serve only to complicate the already complex commotion. Snake Eyes opens with a fantastic, 15-minute Steadicam shot that shows Santoro in his element.Ace lenser Stephen H. Burum's widescreen cinematography mesmerizes you with it omnipresence. De Palma and Burum appeal to the voyeur in all of us when they take us behind forbidden walls to see what is happening. All of this wizardry is wasted, however, when the filmmakers attempt to be radically different. Evidently, De Palma and scenarist David Keopp tried to shift gears in the middle of the action. Starting up as an intriguing mystery, the story turns abruptly into a one-dimensional morality thriller. The big question in Snake Eyes is whether Cage's corrupt cop will blow the whistle on his old buddy or if he'll buy into the cover-up. To impale Santoro on the horns of a dilemma, the filmmakers had to shuck their mystery. Otherwise, Kevin Dunne wouldn't have bribed his old Rick.Cage creates another memorable character in Snake Eyes, but he registers as more of a hell than a hero. Presumably, De Palma told Cage to ham it up because Cage literally chews the scenery. Santoro emerges as a callous, obnoxious extrovert with everything to lose under fire. What happens to Sinise's character by the end of the film qualifies as another major flaw in a poorly conceived movie. Conversely, as whistle-blower Julia Costello (the only noble character here), actress Carla Gugino complains that she may be naïve about bringing down a corrupt weapons maker.The predominantly male supporting cast hit their marks with professional aplomb. Shaw is convincing as washed-up African-American pugilist Tyler, while Heard foams at the mouth as Powell, a member of the conspiracy to kill the secretary. Snake Eyes furnishes movie audiences with nobody to vicariously identify with, so you're left hanging. Ultimately, Snake Eyes amounts to little more than a grim, cynical melodrama where nobody wins. Filmgoers out for an evening of entertainment will feel like they have been cheated. Or as the characters in the film repeatedly say, Snake eyes . . . means you got nothing, Boy, were they right! "}{"Title":"Snake Eyes Audience wins. Well, sort of.","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In Snake Eyes, De Palma has made a film that is deeply immersing and one that makes sure you're giving it your unrelenting attention (at least until the last twenty minutes) that isn't on a really grand scale like in Mission Impossible. Snake Eyes is a relatively straight forward mystery, detective film; much like Mission Impossible yet unlike that film, it is compelling and interesting with characters we spend enough time with to grow to like and despise; with characters who drift in and out of the story and with camera work, setting and trickery more akin to a sports car commercial.The reason Snake Eyes is a good film is that it takes place in a rather extravagant setting, has a narrative that starts off as nothing and that escalates as the film progresses and combines good pacing and scripting throughout. This is sort of the film Mission Impossible wanted to be but that was all over the world with characters who you thought were dead but showed up later anyway and a film that was nice to look at but there was too much going on &#150; Snake Eyes is based in one location, a location that starts off as a utopia for gambling, sports fans and people looking for a break. There is colour, energy, bright lights from the gambling machines and enough product placement to suggest you are definitely in the Western world attempting to go from rags to the American dream in a second through one-arm bandits.De Palma prides himself on his camera work and split screen effect. Sometimes it hits, sometimes it misses but in Snake Eyes it hits dead centre. The opening take (which actually contains a few cuts) is fun as well as effective but very immersing &#150; putting you in the film. Also, the way multiple points of view are integrated into the film as different people's stories are being told is reminiscent of characters floating in and out of a multi stranded, non-linear graphic novel. Apart from the visual pleasantries most good films made in the post classical Hollywood era have; the film's story does hold up, albeit weak. There is something about government weapons and how one person's disagreement can lead to betrayal within the armed forces resulting in a lot of pain, death and panic in an instant - that instant just happens to be at a big money boxing match.The film and its narrative move along at a good pace &#150; twists are revealed when necessary and even when they are, twists in the form of further betrayal within that antagonistic group are very entertaining. My particular favourite scene or sequence involves a girl who everyone is looking for the protagonist police man because she's a witness and the antagonist backstabber because she knows who really did it; needless to say, the whole fifteen minute sequence revolving around her trying to escape them by posing as a loose girl just to get to the safe haven of a hotel suite is brilliant to watch as each side hunt her, she desperately tries to get to the room and the chief of security watches everyone's every move through CCTV.Like I said in the opening paragraph 'everything's good until the last twenty minutes' certainly comes into play in Snake Eyes. I read that the ending was changed but some scenes such as Cage's 'I thought I was going to drown in there' had me wondering what the ell he was on about but further reading says the first ending involved a tidal wave (all is suddenly clear); also, the whole following of Cage's character to the desired place by the bad guy followed by the way he is defeated from a winning position (thanks to the weather and his own stupidity) was disappointing. It's not all bad; at one point Cage must contemplate siding with the bad guy and as he does so, stares down at a blood soaked dollar note after being offered a price to stay quiet in return for actual bloodshed which was a nice piece of iconography. I would recommend Snake Eyes for its delicious visuals, fun yet entertaining plot and for its all round noir/crime-like feel that it has. "},{"Title":"On my All-Time-Favorites list","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I throughly enjoyed this movie.The first time I saw it Quickly, I was confronted with the Film Noir feel, and it didn't take long to figure out that there probably weren't going to be any innocent characters. Not my favorite genre, but it's grown on me, largely due to this film. I think that the way the director gives a multi-faceted view of events tended to amplify the mystery as I could see from several vantage points - sometimes at the same time on the screen - and yet hadn't figured out what was coming next.However the reason this movie made it into my small personal collection, is the way the characters evolve in your perception throughout the film. Cmdr. Dunne starts as the honored guest. McGahn (the announcer) pays a bribe for the story. Even naive Julia manages to survive by seducing a man to hide in his hotel room. I especially loved the way that Rick Santoro, who starts out a the slimiest and least sympathetic character, proves to be the only one with a line that he will not cross, though it costs him absolutely everything, while almost everyone else continues their downward slide. "},{"Title":"Only Carla Gugino is worth seeing in this film","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There was really only one good thing that spawned from this movie other than a total waste of talent and cinematography Carla Gugino. She was an unknown to me before this movie, and thanks to her ravishing appearance and stature, I will always find this film somewhat worthy of spending an early afternoon watching. The problem with this film wasn't just in its bad dialogue and story, but it just have enough depth to it. I mean, the alternate chronology is pretty cool and the opening sequence is well made, but the overall film just cracked at the seems. The ending brought it all down, and when it was all said and done, a crappy Meredith Brooks song destroyed any semblance of a film. And beyond that, there is very little to say. "},{"Title":"A textbook dud, not even bad enough to be good. Nick-o-meter 2/10","Date":"17 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I should probably give this a lower rating, because I've been more entertained by the badness of worse movies than I was by the weirdly uninteresting qualities of Snake Eyes. Not to spoil, but snake eyes is a completely gratuitous title.The story is all connected together, its not a random mishmash of plot holes and non-sequiturs like other worse Nick Cage (a.k.a The Rock), but for some reason it just lies there like sh#! on a peanut butter sandwich. Carla Gugino and her assets were about as exciting as it got. When the movie ended it was like well, hmm, I guess that was that. Nick, Nick, Nick, not at your best this time. Not at your worst (a.k.a The Rock) but not at your best. Yawn.HOWEVER, lots of cool (possibly gratuitous) steadicam work and some really long takes. Guess dePalma got caught up in the technical this time. "},{"Title":"Mission Implausible...","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A quick glance back at my Oscars archives will reveal that Snake Eyes wasn't even nominated for a Best Editing Academy Award in 1998, which is a sad, ridiculous omission. This might be because the ending is famously bad, but for all of the film's many faults, the mystery portion of the movie is crafted together with such directing and editing skill that it's a travesty that it should have been so overlooked. Of particular note is the movie's uninterrupted first shot. I don't know how long it is exactly, but it goes on for several minutes, which is an enormously difficult thing to pull off. It requires massive amounts of planning and preparation, and they pulled it off brilliantly here, reminding me of similar shots in GoodFellas, Boogie Nights, and The Player. But the real problem with the movie is that it gives us 90 minutes of an exciting thriller and then caves in to a cheap, contrived ending that only calls more attention to itself by coming on the heels of such an otherwise good movie.Brian de Palma's previous film was the brilliant remake of Mission Impossible, and while the action and pace of that movie were both well-suited to the director's biggest talents, in Snake Eyes he has pulled out all the stops and given us a movie where every frame is packed to the edges with excesses in color, motion, gestures, and noise. Not that this is a bad thing, of course. In fact, for the most part all of the visual chaos only makes the movie fascinating to look at even as we struggle to figure out what's going on. But man, it's just too bad about that ending. Nicholas Cage plays Rick Santoro, a detective and boxing fan who happens to be in the front row of a heavyweight champion fight where prize-fighter Lincoln Tyler (Stan Shaw) is defending his title. Hurricane Jezebel is pounding on the outside of the arena as Tyler is getting pounded in the ring by an over-confident, wise-cracking challenger. A heavy hit sends Tyler down to the canvas and then gunshots ring out. The Secretary of Defense, sitting a few seats away from Santoro, is shot in the throat and the whole stadium erupts into a panic. What follows is a multiple point of view presentation of the event, which shows us 20 minutes or so leading up to the gunshots and some time after, and then cuts back and shows the same time period but at different locations within the stadium. Santoro's best friend is Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise), who is in charge of the Secretary's security for the event. Not a good job to have when the guy gets assassinated. Sinise gives a subdued and collected performance, especially when compared to the exaggerated excess of much of Cage's performance, but the problem is that he and Cage have not a scrap of chemistry on stage. We're told that they have been best friends since childhood, but none of that comes through in their limited shared screen time, which pulls the rug out from a scene late in the movie that is supposed to be powerful and moving. Sadly, it's not.De Palma succeeds best in the way he presents the events leading up to the assassination from several different points of view, not the least reason for which is because we don't know which of them, if any, we can trust entirely, which makes the mystery element of the movie even more interesting. Stan Shaw deserves some credit for his performance as while he never for a second looks like a boxing champion, there is a scene in the ring where his eyes show a depth of sadness and remorse for what he has to do that might be the single best piece of acting in the entire movie. An extra layer of realism is also added as the movie takes us behind the scenes of a major prize-fight, showing us what the boxers do just before and after a major fight and a little bit about how casino security is handled. There is another plot below the assassination involving doctored missile test results and a subsequent conspiracy, but it really serves no other purpose than to give a reason for the assassination, which itself drives the rest of the movie. But unfortunately Snake Eyes is one of those movies that is really good and then hugely disappointing, leaving you with a feeling somewhere between regret that the movie wasn't better and just feeling cheated. "},{"Title":"Not Nick Cages best but still a good movie","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is not to hard to predict, but to those of us not trying to figure out the movie before its over, the movie is fun and exciting. The plot does seem a little thin in some spots (the end of the movie) but for the most part it is a good movie that does a good job at the capturing the viewer's attention. The plot is easy to follow, maybe a little to easy, but what makes this movie worth seeing is its constant action. This is not Nicolas Cage's best acting performance and if cheesy acting (time to time) makes your stomach turn then this is not the movie for you. All in all, this movie is worth watching once, but i wouldn't recommend purchasing it or showing it to a die hard movie Connoisseur. "},{"Title":"Starts of as a classic, but ruins it a bit at the end (spoilers)","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The main reason for me to see this movie was that I saw the actual Snake Eyes suit worn by Cage in the first scenes. It is in a store somewhere near the Kodak Theatre. Another reason to watch it was Nicolas Cage himself and the underrated Sinise. He's got a great face for movies like this one.The story involves detective Rick Santoro (Cage). We learn from the fantastic (long!) opening scenes he's not Mr. Morality. He gambles, has a girlfriend on the side and can be bought to look the other way. Very unlike his long-time friend, navy-officer and downright good guy (or is he?) Kevin Dunne (Sinise), who invites him to a boxing match. Dunne is there to protect the Secretary of Defence... but does a lousy job, since the man gets shot anyway...As Santoro tries to put the pieces together, he finds out that his friend Dunne is in it somehow, and he has to protect witness Carla, and keep her out of his hands. Which in the end, he does...It may sound like a standard conspiracy story, but this is actually a lot better. The first 60 minutes or so of the movie are really entertaining, exciting and brilliantly shot (npi). De Palma shows he's still a great filmmaker and Cage and Sinise are both perfect in their role. Visually stunning and nail-biting excitement in the hallways of the hotel when both men try to find the female witness. Good music in that scene as well. In fact, it may be one of the best scenes I've ever seen.Too bad the movie doesn't keep it up until the end. When Santoro finds out Dunne is part of the conspiracy, the next moment Dunne KNOWS he knows (boy this sounds like a Friends episode), and the movie loses some of it's touch. Maybe they could've done something more with that. But the worst part of the movie are the last 5 minutes, as we see Santoro's life in the next few months flash by. Pretty pointless if you ask me...But still, a really good, exciting movie, that could've gone somewhere up into my top 100 or something, but then lost it near the end. Still a solid 7/10. "},{"Title":"Beautifully structured","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you're one of those people who doesn't like Nicolas Cage, then this is the movie to avoid. If you ever have enjoyed his work, see this. It's his apotheosis. And in a good jacket too. But on to more important things - I love the structure of this film. The first fifteen minutes give us an extended tracking shot around a wrestling arena which ends with a gunshot. The rest of the movie is given over to re-examining the period of time covered in the tracking shot to find out who fired the bullet. And it's all covered in De Palma's superb direction.  "},{"Title":"Reaching high and falling deep.","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I think this could have been a good movie if only it had been kept simpler. The plot basically is that a murder takes place during a boxing match, the local detective must solve it and runs into a conspiracy involving a military arms deal. This is also where the movie fails, because the plot goes on to being just plain stupid.If instead the conspiracy had been about robbing the casino, you would have an ordinary gangster movie, and that might just have worked. But the movie tries to be something it can't be, and thus fails. "},{"Title":"Should Have Gotten More Props...","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" *****SPOILER ALERT!!! IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN IT, DON'T LOOK!!!***** YOU'VE BEEN WARNED!!!This is a perfect example of a very underrated film. Jimmy Santoro (Cage)is a crooked cop, a sorry excuse of a husband (He has a mistress), and is a complete sleaze. On the night of a big boxing match in Atlantic City, he changes into a human being, courtesy of a murder of a politician. There are a lot of twists and turns in this film and Gary Sinse (Wonderful as always)plays his buddy Kevin Dunne. Carla Gugino makes for excellent eye candy as Julia, who knows a lot of secrets that may make her dead.The saddest part? When everything that Dunne says to Santoro, that guys like him will crash and burn when exposed to the media. You cannot help but feel a little sorry for Santoro when what Dunne said comes true(And they show it very quickly how he turns from hero to villain in just a few seconds).I also feel sorry that the film wasn't a box office hit that it deserved to be. I thought it was an excellent film and a lesson on doing the right thing would you let things go the way it is or would you do everything in your power to change it, even though you may be dragged in the mud in the process? An interesting moral question and an interesting film. "}{"Title":"Snake Eyes is more thriller than action-adventure. Don't go in thinking there's going to be a lot of gun battles or chase sequences.","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's more mystery, who-dun-it type thriller, where you have to figure out who did what from the clues given throughout the film. Although this was more the type of movie where they didn't actually give you any visible clues, they just showed the scene again from another point of view later on, so the audience would go, ohh, I get it now... that's what really happened... Snake Eyes stars Nicolas Cage as Atlantic City cop Rick Santoro. Now Rick is the kind of guy who'll take a few bucks from you and look away. He's got a wife, and a kid, and a girlfriend. He drives an expensive car, and has aspirations of running for mayor. Everyone knows about Rick, especially his friend, Navy Commander Kevin Dunn (Gary Sinise). It's fight night at the Atlantic City Convention Center, and the Secretary of Defense is in attendance, with Dunn as the lead bodyguard for the night. But shortly after the fight starts, an assassin's bullet kills the Secretary, and all hell breaks loose. It's up to Santoro to figure out who did what and why. Without ruining anything, it turns out to be a few stories, seemingly having nothing to do with each other, that come together as Santoro figures out what happened, and learns a few things he really didn't want to know.I don't want anyone to think this movie was bad. It wasn't. It just wasn't as good as it could have been. Visually, it was very enjoyable. I love movies where they show scenes from different points of views. I love when they show a scene from one angle, then later on they have a voice over explaining what happened, and then they show that same scene from a different angle, just so you can see what you missed. So it was directed very well, and acted very well. But the plot was just a little odd and confusing. Well, not confusing, but it was just weak. Nothing people did came through with a lot of force behind it. Doctoring missile tests and killing the Secretary of Defense because he might cut spending to the Armed Forces seemed to be the main point, but it didn't really come through as I thought it should. And some other things seemed strange, like why would they have have Gugino's character lose her glasses and not be able to see? It didn't really serve any purpose in the story, it seemed like it was there just to throw some blurry shots in. And I really don't like it when the bad guy feels the need to explain himself to the good guy. I think a plot should be strong enough where you understand why he did something, rather than him having to sit there and spoon feed it to you. And when that explanation doesn't make sense, it makes you feel a little empty. I guess the other problem was, and I'm not bragging when I say this, I figured out who the real bad guy was before I even saw the movie. And then within the first few minutes, my guess was proven correct, even though they didn't tell you who the bad guy was for a little while longer. Overall, I'd say Snake Eyes was a decent thriller, but not great. It was a stylish film, with strong acting that deserved a better story. But still, not a bad one to go rent.  "},{"Title":"Keep on borrowing.","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Brian DePalma 's first quality has never been originality.Most of his movies are second-rate versions of -great,because De Palma has a good taste-works.Sisters was some kind of Robert Hossein's toi,le venin,phantom of the paradise and scarface are remakes of highly superior movies ,body double and dressed to kill are photocopies of Hitchcock's fifties and early sixties movies (It would be insulting to mention them here).The list is endless.Here the director copies himself;sometimes snake eyes recalls blow-out ,a commendable film,that stood the test of time quite well.The ingredients are the samepolitics , the power of the medias (especially TV),the video which recreates reality,etc.But ,to be honest,you should mention that,in the so much praised first scenes, influences are constantly in evidenceAJ Pakula's parallax view(the crime in front of a cast of thousand)is a good example.DePalma's movie has got all what's wrong in contemporary cinemaham (Cage is good ,but elsewhere),poor female part as almost always,waste of a very competent actor(Gary Sinise has never looked so ridiculous in his navy uniform),inept script(which consists in having the actors playing cops and robbers),gratuitous violence(the boxer using Cage as a punchball),plotholes galore (why for instance  did Sinise kill two of his mates?The spectator thinks that De Palma wants to impress the impressionable.Other anomaly;John Heard comes third in the credits and we only see him a few minutes.A few indeed. "},{"Title":"vintage cage","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Here we get to see Cage use all of his talents in one film. He gets to show off his cocky attitude while at the same time showing that he can be a bit of tough guy like in con-air. This film  focuses on a murder and a boxing match something that may seem like an odd combanation but as the movie progresses it makes more and more sense. I found that it was one of those films where although very remote you could say back and say to yourself you know this might actually happen. If you are a fan of cage this is one film not to pass up as i said it combines all of his best features plus there are a few schockers along the way to keep you saying cool or awsome  "},{"Title":"some words from a woman's perspective","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Reading the reviews of this film I believe one might actually be embarrassed to *like* this film.  But since I come from what is most likely a different perspective I thought I'd add a few words.I'm not a de Palma fan nor am I an avid critic of thrillers and whodunnits. Therefore, it's possible that I am naive to what many would consider obvious in terms of plot twists.  Having said that, what I found fascinating about the plot twists in this movie, and not at all obvious, is that, unlike many such films, these plot twists dealt not just with clever manipulation as to the what, why, and, where, but engaged one also in twists of character, which is an entirely appropriate effect when one considers the acting ability of cage and sinese.  This to me is the gem of the film, considering the character and motivations of the players involved, observing the choices they make, the choices that are revealed, and examining the ways in which our own reactions can sometimes mislead.  Had there been less convincing actors involved, this may not have shown through.Yes, the ending is uncomfortably pulled off - pretty flooringly awkward considering the finesse of the larger part, especially the first half, of the film.  It's what I've always called, in writing, a whiplash ending - too much too fast.  However, I do believe, in content, that the ending has something interesting to say, if you rewind a bit in your mind and give it some of the attention that the director does not.This film made me want to see it again, which is rare.  It is riveting, entertaining, unique in its use of styles and cinematography (as others will point out more authoritatively than I), and, most importantly for me, is not just about being smarter than you are.  I give it 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"good suspense","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie delivers in the areas of suspense, good acting, and proper settings. The majority of the action takes place at a boxing match with a hurricane whipping outside.Nicolas Cage plays a detective who, along with everyone else, witnesses an assassination at the match. As he investigates, he finds that things are not so cut-and dry, everyone and his dog seems to have something to do with it, and there is definitely a complicated conspiracy at work.Okay at best, but not wholly satisfying.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Excellent nail-biting action","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  SNAKE EYES had the the making of a very bad film in my opinion - don't ask me why I just didn't think I as going to like it. But how wrong could I have been. Nicholas Cage is explosive, as is Gary Sinise. The female lead is exquisite and the direction impeccable. The camera work throughout these famously long takes is astounding, and really adds to the excitement.Brian de Palma has had a few near misses recently, but SNAKE EYES represents what he does best. An excellent movie all round. "},{"Title":"An average thriller","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Snake Eyes starts of brilliantly.  The first 20 minutes are great, it is a shame that the remaining 70 are of such a low quality. The whole conspiracy is solved far to easy, the plot soon becomes very predictable and there isn`t much action to keep you from getting quite bored.  Nicolas Cage delivers a nice performance, but its not as good as his performance in Face/Off. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Brian DePalma rolls Snake Eyes to win over me","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Nicholas Cage and Gary Sinise comprise one of the best on screen duos that I have seen in a while.  Sinise is so sinister as Commander Kevin Dunne it made my skin crawl. In my opinion, this is his best role of his career because I feel that he looks and acts the part of a villain.  Cage was equally exciting and suspenseful as the crooked but honorable cop Rick Santoro.The storyline of this film is one to be commended because it made me think what the real motive was.Overall,  this worthwhile entertainment for the whole family to watch. "},{"Title":"It works","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, it works... Though I was disappointed when DePalma gave us the truth so early in the movie I have to say now that it was an interesting experience. Not too often you get the chance to see events depicted several times from different angles. This way you more or less get to 'study' the case as Nicolas does. This movie is far from being a failure and the metamorphosis of Cage from slick golden-cell-phone-and-bracelet toting cop to a true investigator on a crime scene is more believable than commonly said. "},{"Title":"Flawed but entertaining","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I rented Snake Eyes mainly because I am a fan of Nicolas Cage.I came away quite entertained by this movie, despite its flaws (the half-missing tidal wave scene for one). I was impressed by the cinematography. Though effects like a birds eye view of hotel rooms and such are not unique to this movie, they are nonetheless a breath of fresh air. This is the kind of movie where you just have to leave your brain (or at least half of it) at the door and sit back and enjoy  "}{"Title":"Interesting Likeable Movie, great shots, a few minor flaws","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie (7 out of 10 stars). Interesting plot, and fascinating camera angles. It's also different than most movies.  It's kind of like the movie Rashomon -- a crime is replayed through the eyes of many people.Probably my favorite scene was the opening -- It's a long continuous shot of Nicholas Cage walking through the stadium, thousands of people in this shot, lots of movement. I think it's pretty cool all the stuff they fit into that one long take. There were several other interesting shots in the movie. In particular the camera goes through walls and gives birdseye views of rooms.However, the movie would be better if the ending was different (It's a little corny -- random unrealistic fate ending). Also at the beginning of the movie they take away most of the suspense by showing you who the killers are.  Overall, this is a decent movie. I liked it.  "},{"Title":"Predictable and entertaining","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Having watched the first 30 minutes you know how the rest will be. The special effects and the flashbacks, however, are impressive and makes the movie worthwhile. Cage and Sinise stars as the two main characters with Kevin Dunn as an entertaining sidekick playing a would-be-journalist PPV-presenter. Okay if you need some mindless entertainment.. "},{"Title":"Gets better with time..","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Hey I watched Snake Eyes on DVD last night. This was my fourth viewing. I really like it now. Sure, it isn't Shakespeare and is superior to most of DePalma's other work, but it is a decent film. It's fun, and the opening is amazing. However, the potential was amazing, and the fantastic trailerluckily on the DVD made it seem like it would be amazing. Cage wasn't very good. But I blame David KeoppI'm sorry-he's a hack. Without Robert Towne re-writing MIa movie I love , it would suck, the screenwriter, for his mostly horrendous dialogue. NO ONE talks this way. No one is this dumb. This film really is a just a peek at what could be. I can see in Cage's character a struggle to do the right thing, which, in the hands of a good writer, would have worked. They should have had Scott Frank or Towne or just about anyone do a rewrite. However, the film is more entertaining afterwards. However, the killer's identity was obvious from the trailer, which shouldn't hav e been made so obvious. 3 out of 4  "},{"Title":"A job well done","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First of all.....i got really annoyed by that   boooo....i knew who the villain was right at the beginning....booo..this movie sucks Come on people, if the reason you go to the movies, is to find out who killed who (probably, because you feel more clever afterwards, eh ?), then i don't know why you went to see that movie in the first place (i knew who the villain was before i even saw the movie......SO WHAT ?!) - this flic is about something else, you know. It's about awesome visuals, great acting from NIC THE GOD and Gary Sinise (the next best actor to NIC), SMART storytelling, a really depressive musical score and really original directing by one of the most talented directors in Hollywood. I really liked this movie. It was something different, from all the same flics, that come out all the time. "},{"Title":"De Palma returns with unbelievably artistic photography!","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Housing one of the best opening sequences I've seen, Snake Eyes' 12 minute stedicam shot is awesome! De Palma's vision in this opening is quite remarkable, as we follow Cage around the hallways of the stadium (where he converses with many people along the way) and then into the main boxing arena where he meets his Naval Commander buddy, played by Sinise. And it's here that the main driving force behind Snake Eyes rears it's head, with the assassination of the Secretary of Defense (sitting right behind Cage in the front row). Now, we've got 14 000 suspects......what do you do? Interrogate every one of them? Cage has the tedious duty (for he is a local Atlantic City detective) of heading the investigation, which leads directly to the high ranks in the Military. The visuals here are amazing.....highly inventive photography that shows each main suspect's revision of the events. De Palma's direction of Cage in Snake Eyes is something to see too. His acting is extremely exaggerated, but it's very entertaining. Some of the shots, like an aerial view looking down as we pass over each hotel room seeing people inside is what impressed me. Even though the story and suspense lagged a bit (and the identity of the main conspirator is revealed about 60 mins into it)...De Palma's Snake Eyes is quite impressive. I was very much surprised.  "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable in spite of what others say","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen De Palma's Snake Eyes twice, and I enjoyed it more the second time than the first. Snake Eyes features several visually astounding moments including the oft-praised opening sequence, the bird's-eye-view of the hotel floor, and the awesome split-screen flashback sequence. However, my personal favorite is the scene in which the camera angle seamlessly changes from first person to third person perspective. It's the flashback scene where Tyler and his agent are in his room with Rick Santoro at the door outside. The scene starts out with us seeing from Tyler's POV, then as he turns to the mirror it moves out to omniscient third-person POV. Very, very smooth camera work in this movie. Sure the plot may not entirely hold water, but Snake Eyes isn't about plot. It's about style, it's about having fun. And that's what Snake Eyes is more than most movies of its genre.  "},{"Title":"A suspenseful film told in a diffrent style.","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Nicolas Cage stars as Rick Santoro, who is a crooked Atlantic City police officer  with connections and aspirations to become mayor.  Tonight is Rick's night at the Powell Millennium Casino and Boxing arena.  Detective Santoro has front row seats next to the Secretary of Defense (Joel Fabiani) thanks to his best friend in charge of protecting the Secretary, Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise).  Not five minutes into the fight however, Rick's exciting night is going to be a night that changes his life.  Motivated by money, involving Rick's best friend and an attractive female number cruncher the Secretary of Defense is assassinated.  The killing pulls Rick Santoro into a suspenseful mystery that slowly revels itself to him and the audience.I have not seen Nicolas Cage in a role that he did not do well with nor that I did not enjoy.  Cage and Sinise pull the audience into the film with their character's energy and evil.  Rick Santoro is  bouncing off the walls with a loud staccato voice yet knows when to get down to business and face the truth.  Even facial expressions by every character create an intense aurora in this film. Kevin has many evil glares and the audience can feel the heavy weight champion's distress and loss in the ring because of his eyes.  De Palma quickly introduces all these characters with an excellnet opening using a long uninterrupted scene.  The camera follows Santoro around, as though we were walking along with him.  From this fast confusing beginning De Palma keeps our hearts pumping with suspense.The plot line is solid and complex involving many characters and motives. What I enjoy is seeing such a huge complex story contained inside a hotel. One can understand and follow the plot on a first viewing yet still find more information on a second and third.  Every detail is important to Brian De Palma the audience must watch every inch of the screen to keep up with this thriller.  (Watch the red ring.)  De Palma's way of revealing the truth to us has an Alfred Hitchcock flare and is still unique.  A score by Sakamoto, that I would like to own, helps add intesity.  A neat scene was between Santoro and Dunne; a french horn solo motif for the hero that later added an evil string motif when Dunne came on screen.  Split screen shots, flash backs and creative camera work all help tell the story from different points of view and then tie them together.  The story telling technique reminds me of William Faulkner's style in As I Lay Dying. The film ends with an excellent and realistic ending where everyone gets what they deserve.  Oh, and don't walk out on the credits.In response to Ebert of the Chicago Sun Times, and Bob Grahm of the San Fransico ChronicleAlthough there is obvious Alfred Hithcock recreation De Palma still has a style all his own.  There is nothing wrong with an inspired artists adapting some tricks from an earlier one to continue creating good art.  In earlier film of De Palma I sense he is still finiding a stlye to work with with, as well as some talent.  I would also advise to Mr. Grahm to watch the film more closely.  Rick did not inspect the boxing tapes because he was only curious of the fight being thrown.  Santoro knew something was up when Tyler reacted to the shots that came so quickly after he faked a fall.  A clue no, Mr. Grahm?  We don't go to watch the camera work?  That's all we can see my friend.  Camera angles are a key to any film, Hitchcock was famous for them and De Palma has found some new ideas with them. "},{"Title":"Fantastic visuals yet again from Brian DePalma","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie, like Titanic, is enjoyable as a film for film's own sake - the opening long take is just brilliant. The story is not that outstanding, but just sit back and watch the production! I don't think the ending wasn't bad - sure, there are no thrills-and-spills, no Jerry Bruckheimer-style explosions and so on, but why should every movie have to end that way? Thumbs up to DePalma, Cage, and Sinise. "},{"Title":"Another style over substance effort from top filmmakerDe Palma.","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Atlanic City corrupted police detective Rick Santoro (Oscar-WinnerNicolas Cage) goes to the biggest night in boxing to seeing his favorite boxer (Stan Shaw) fighting at the Atlanic City Casino. But tonight, it's a special night since Secretary of Defense by guarded by his best friend Commander Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise) at full crowd of boxing fans. When an mysterious woman dressed in white (Carla Gugino) tries to give important information to the Secretary of Defense. Then the Secretary of Defense got assassinated and while the woman in white is shot in the arm. When Rick seen his friend killed the assassin, while he was supposed to the secretary of defense. Since he was flirting with the mysterious woman in red. Since there's many eye-witness at the fight. Rick decides to investigate by looking at the fight match and camera surveillance to find any clues. Then slowly Rick realized that some of the key witnesses and including his best friend are not what they seemed to be. Rick knows there's a bigger conspiracy going on than he knows. He needs to find the woman in white to get answers from her before unknown people gets to her and murder her.Directed by Brain De Palma (Carrie, Dressed to Kill, Raising Cain) made an entertaining, although not entirely successful suspense-thriller. The biggest asset of this film is the stylish cinematography by Stephen H. Burum (Body Double, The Outsiders, The War of the Roses). Which the cinematographer makes this movie looks much better than it is. De Palma, who's still has genuine eye moments of suspense by creating stylish shots of this not quite convincing premise. The cast do their best, especially Cage. Who brings plenty of energy to this picture and probably the most sympathetic character is played by Gugino, since nearly every character are corrupted. This film was nearly entirely shot on the old NHL Hockey Forum of Montreal. Anne Pritchard's production designs (The Art of War, The Convenant, Femme Fatale) are certainly impressive as well. Like most of De Palma, his movies always looked good on the big screen. Since Snake Eyes, it is a must see in Widescreen. The picture certainly lacks punch during the last act, where the ending could have been much more (The original ending was cut during post-production). Overall, Snake Eyes offers good entertainment that only falls short of a real knock-out film. From all it's fans, it is worth seeing. Screenplay by David Koepp (Carlito's Way, Jurassic Park, Spider-Man). From a story by the director and Koepp. Panavision. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Eye-Popping Mind-Boggling Superslick Atlantic City Assassination Thriller","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Rick Santoro is a hustling detective in seedy Atlantic City. During a stormy night, he is at an all-star boxing match also attended by the Secretary of State and a billionaire tycoon, where the security supervisor is a Navy pal of Rick's, Commander Kevin Dunne. During the fight, the Secetary is assassinated by a sniper, a mystery girl goes missing, Dunne is acting strangely and Santoro is the only one who can figure out what's happening ...This is an absolute doozy of a thriller, deliriously entertaining, brilliantly directed, terrific fun and with a pair of absolutely outstanding performances by Cage as the slimy-but-noble Santoro and Sinise as the noble-but-slimy Dunne. It starts with a thirteen-minute shot which (despite using some invisible cuts) can only be described as jaw-dropping. Several movies have stunning opening shots (Touch Of Evil, Halloween, The Player, Charlie's Angels, DePalma's earlier Bonfire Of The Vanities, etc), but this one beats them all hands down. It features so many complex moves, thousands of extras and a dozen different subplots all firing off at once; it's just impossibly good, and when it does finally cut - at the point of assassination - the effect is simply masterful. Only a director of DePalma's brilliance could pull this off and then sustain the visual flamboyance for the rest of the picture without ever being pretentious or confusing. This is one of the few movies that really show what movies can do - how stories can be told visually with the maximum drama squeezed out of photography, editing, juxtaposition, performances, effects, the whole bag of tricks. But this is not just some film buff's treat, it's also a fabulous thriller treatment by DePalma and David Koepp involving a military cover-up, a whistleblower, a staged assassination in front of thousands of eye-witnesses, a heavyweight champion on the take, even an old buddies reunion theme thrown in - it's got everything. Even better, the two leads are sensational. Cage's often overenthusiastic mugging is harnessed to great effect here as his playboy image is slowly worn down to doubt and fear, and Sinise - surely one of America's most underrated actors - is precision-perfect as the stiff-backed, thoughtful, implacable military man with an increasingly sinister agenda. I love the way this film twists the standard hero/villain clichés (a bad good guy and a good bad guy), not only blurring them together, but intersecting them in all sorts of unusual ways. Their confrontation scene halfway through the movie, when Cage finally realises the blood on his hands, sparks with energy. Gugino is terrific in the lynchpin role (for more of her, check out Robert Rodriguez' Spy Kids movies), Shaw is so good that in ten minutes he does more with the run-down boxer role than Stallone or DeNiro ever did, and there are great little bits from Starr and Tunie. I like all sorts of films. I like Godard films where people sit around out of focus and talk about Marxism. But I reserve my greatest admiration for the sheer pleasure to be derived from a brilliantly planned, exquisitely crafted and beautifully executed piece of film-making skill, which is what this is. With outstanding camera-work by Stephen H. Burum and editing by Bill Pankow, this is a thriller to be enjoyed over and over again. Unmissable. "}{"Title":"The movie spells paranoia.","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's all about cameras everything is being monitored at all times, no details are able to escape.There is the box fight that shows to be fake in slow motion. There is the total surveillance of the casino that catches the mysterious lady, albeit her change of hair color. There is the hidden surveillance camera in the zeppelin that discloses ALL the details. There is the monitor that informs Rick Santoro of the camera team nearby, thus saving Julia's life. At last, there is the steady white gaze of the TV camera, captivating evil Commander Kevin Dunne, giving him only one option.And this all within a claustrophobic atmosphere of 14.000 people caught in a casino complex in the middle of storm.Watch the movie, but remember it's all about cameras. The plot is fine, the acting is great, the morals are lame, but at the end it's all about the cameras anyway.It's well-placed irony that the only winner of the movie is the newborn TV host. "},{"Title":"De Palma revisits the Kennedy assassination (again)","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The themes in Snake Eyes are reminiscent of 70's political thrillers, and even De Palma's own films (Blow Out). A political assassination is the subject of the first scene, an epic and virtuoso single shot. This is subsequently reconstructed using flashbacks and a multitude of De Palma tricks, including split-screen.The film may disappoint viewers expecting a 'whodunnit', because this convention is thrown out in favour of a short running time and suspense. The fluidity of the camera compliments the impact of set-pieces and it glosses over some unmemorable performances. Cage hams it up as he often does; Sinise is passable as his co-star; the leading lady is a bit bland. However, memorable turns by John Heard, Michael Rispoli and Luis Guzman in character parts compensate.Not everyone's cup of tea but highly recommended for De Palma fans and anyone who likes suspense thrillers or political thrillers. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I thought this film was brilliant. A solid performance from Cage and a great one from Sinise. The latter has always impressed me and I have developed a great respect for Cage's acting talent - anyone who has not seen Bringing Out the Dead must rent it soon.The story and plot were solid enough but the real winners are the direction and cinematography.I do not understand where the other commenter got his impressions of this film but 'different strokes fro different folks.' Anyway, I would recommend this film to anyone who likes cool anti-heroes played by likable leading actors, and enjoys a nice mystery romp. "},{"Title":"A movie that makes you feel clever","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Snake eyes makes you feel clever. Very clever. Brian DePalma is the most underrated director today. This movie proves it. The opening scene is among the most impressive lessons of directing a film in the last few years or decade. The first 14 minutes shows that you're going to have a lesson of cinema. The scene (ATLANTIC CITY), the atmosphere (corruption, calmlessness), the environnment (tropical twister) and among all this  Nicolas Cage (Rick Santoro). The non-failure of the movie is not just due to the director Brian DePalma but also to Nicolas Cage. We can see him among this crowd with his clothes (check the shirt) and his golden phone. After these 14 minutes, a crime is made and Santoro's best friend, Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise) is responsible of it. Santoro will have to deal with 14,000 witnesses, the FBI and his reputation. Brain DePalma gives details in the opening scene that will help us to understand what happened, what should happen, and what can't happen. And all these details are related to Rick Santoro and the opening scene. Brain DePalma will play with these elements, as an artist, showing the different point of view of the characters, (subjectives) and the cameras (objectives). Brain DePalma shows the key elements but he doesn't underline them as if he wanted to make the spectator think by himself. A contrario, he gives little elements to help to see the good and the bad, which you only remark when you're out of the theatre. The colors shows what can be trusted or not. The blue is the good  Blue eye, ring, the 7 woman. The red is the bad  a ring, blood on the bill, the gloves of the boxer... snake eyes is a masterpiece that you have to watch several times to appreciate the construction, which records Rashomon (Akira Kurosawa) or Quentin Tarantino in another way. Advice  stay till the end. 10 on 10. "},{"Title":"Too bad nobody else thought it was as good as I did","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Doubtless this was out in the US about six months ago (this was written just after the film appeared in the UK), but if you missed it then try to remedy matters as swiftly as possible. This is a very good film indeed. A must see, one of the few this year. Ignore the fact it falls apart at the ending.On the face of it the story is a fairly standard conspiracy thriller, with Nicolas Cage as brash, slightly manic, corrupt cop Ricky Santoro. During the course of a championship boxing fight, Ricky witnesses the assassination of the head of military procurement who is under the protection of Ricky's oldest friend, Gary Sinese as Kevin Dunn. As time passes - and the film is shot almost exclusively in real time - it slowly dawns on Ricky that his oldest friend has betrayed him, and is deeply implicated in the killing. Fairly predictable stuff, but the execution of it almost defies description.The story unfolds by way of exceptionally clever use of camera angles, so we first see Ricky's view of the truth, then a construct of a lie offered as truth, and finally the real truth about events. The obsession with the use of the camera as a dispassionate witness becomes apparent in the opening scenes, which are breathtakingly shot in one single take, done on hand-held steady cam, lasting the best part of twenty minutes. Ricky is seen, gold mobile phone glued to his ear, making his way through the crowds at the boxing match, laying bets, chasing a defaulting petty crook, calling his wife, calling his mistress, hitting on a cheerleader, trying to meet the champ, and finally plonking his Hawaiian shirted noisy self next to the starchy and restrained Admiral Dunn. Dazzlingly well done.Art imitates art even further when Ricky is later tracking a witness through an Atlantic City casino by use of the hi tech security camera system. Confusingly we end up with Ricky and the witness appearing on several television screens at once, so they seem to be almost touching yet neither can truly see the other. Unbeknownst to Ricky, we also see Kevin after the same witness with murderous intent. The chase eventually evolves into a menacing scene in a labyrinthine hotel corridor, where we know where the witness is, but neither Ricky nor Kevin do. We see the corridor as Kevin sees it - through his eyes - then a fast and clever angle change shows Kevin as the corridor 'sees' him; I nearly fell out of my seat it startled me so much. And to add further to the blurring of reality (no pun intended here) we also see the world through the eyes of the witness, who, spectacles broken in the melee after the assassination, has only a myopic view of what is happening now, but knows clearly what happened earlier.Acting and actors. Nicolas Cage is a star and can do no wrong for me, though I suspect non-fans may have trouble identifying with the brash noisy braggart that is Ricky at the start of the film. Gary Sinese's character of Dunn has been described in some circles as reptilian, but believe me this besmirches the good name of reptiles. I don't know the female lead (gasp!), though she is vaguely familiar, but was absolutely right for this part of Julia Costell, a whistle blower caught up in events she cannot even begin to comprehend. (I just cheated and went into IMDb to find she is Carla Gugino, but her film history left me none the wiser to be honest).Influences. A bit of Hitchcock I suppose. I was also reminded of Blow Up, and there was a hint of The Conversation, in that increasing paranoia is caused by technology revealing truth and lies, but only slowly and unwillingly.Overall, a film that could have ended up so self referential it turned itself inside out, but Brian de Palma manages, somewhat uncharacteristically it has to be said, not to make the whole thing too clever clever.A cracking good night out.  "},{"Title":"Artsy-Fartsy!","Date":"7 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you get past the occasionally interesting use of rolling, weaving camera shots and alternating points of view, you'll find Brian DePalma's Snake Eyes a drearily old-fashioned movie. Old-fashioned, as in we've seen this gory, artsy stuff before (and quite often done better). Nicholas Cage hyper-acts, Gary Sinise delivers constipated snarls, and Carla Gugino wears tight clothes, but nobody looks terribly interested in doing a convincing job in this onion-skinned political/corruption/assassination muddle.My suggestion is to enjoy the camera fancy-shmancy until you get bored, then pop open a book.You can imagine your own camera work with a book. "},{"Title":"Under-rated thriller from a first-class director - 76%","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The joy of having a Sky+ box is that all of those niggling movies you've waited ages to see, you can now record and watch at your leisure. And this is another one that has somehow remained on my To See list, although I'd be lying if I said that I could live without it. Still, it would be a shame to let precious hard disk space go to waste so I indulged myself with this glossy, too-clever-by-half thriller from one of Hollywood's great directors. And in spite of its lead actor tearing his way through the film like a whirling dervish, I still managed to enjoy it.On a dark and stormy night in Atlantic City, dirty cop Ricky Santoro (Nicolas Cage) is present at the last big fight being held at a casino before demolition. With his military friend Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise) by his side, Santoro is witness to the assassination of Defence Secretary Charles Kirkland (Joel Fabiani) and takes it upon himself to solve the case - seeing as the TV cameras are already there, there's surely opportunities to be made. But as he digs deeper, Santoro discovers a murky conspiracy seemingly involving everyone from the glamorous blonde sat next to him (Carla Gugino) to the boxer flat on his back in the ring (Stan Shaw)...There is plenty to enjoy in Snake Eyes, the first of which is the opening scene when the chaos begins to ensue. Being a long, single shot reminiscent of Hitchcock's Rope that has all the detail and clues you'll need to solve the case offers you a tantalising chance to figure out what's going on. Sadly, the case isn't that hard to crack because the principal baddie is quite easy to spot which does take the edge off somewhat. The direction and cinematography is quite brilliant - split screens and flashbacks gel perfectly well with each other as the story progresses but don't feel thrown in casually like they were in Duplicity. The story, despite the culprits being obvious, is a winner up to the very end which feels badly written in haste and somewhat at odds with the professionalism that went before it.The biggest problem, however, is Cage who acts like some random coke head has been let onto the set and told to go completely nuts. Santoro never feels much like a hero so at no point do you start to sympathise or root for him. Most protagonists in most movies do their deeds out of a sense of justice or kind-heartedness but with Santoro, you only ever feel like he's doing it for the money. But aside from a dodgy ending and a loose cannon for a lead, Snake Eyes remains a decent thriller that I'm glad I caught. I'm surprised that it has come in for harsher criticism - maybe De Palma's reputation precedes him and people were expecting another Scarface or Carlito's Way. Snake Eyes is no masterpiece but it certainly isn't as bad as some have said. It's a good movie but one that misses out on greatness. "},{"Title":"Acceptable thriller","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Several people I (used to) know thought very little of this movie, so I had some serious doubts about seeing it. But it's by no means the disaster I heard it would be, and is in fact a quite watchable, if flawed, movie.First, there's Nicholas Cage. Normally, when he plays a nice guy (The Rock, Gone in 60 Seconds) he gets on my nerves really quickly, but since in this movie he actually has to play a very annoying character, I somehow like him a lot more. Gary Sinise definitely steals the show, though.The best thing about this movie is clearly the suspense. Brian de Palma is of course responsible for some of the tensest scenes in movie history (for example in The Untouchables, Scarface, Carlito's Way) and this movie is no exception the opening sequences is great, creating a sense of impending danger, and several other scenes are very suspenseful as well. Thumbs up to Mr. de Palma for this!Which brings us to the story. While it certainly isn't completely awful, I couldn't help but find it a bit unconvincing. Some parts are clever, but some are a bit too far-fetched and the story has a very strong feeling of been there, done that, and the plot twists aren't very surprising. It's no Usual Suspects, but it gets the job done.Snake Eyes is a watchable and entertaining thriller, with good camera-work and some very suspenseful scenes, that mostly make up for a slightly unsatisfying story and the presence of Nicolas Cage.*** out of ***** stars "},{"Title":"A joy for the De Palma fans, for most others it's just another confusing thriller.","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Just like with Femme Fatale was the case, the opening sequences of this movie is more legendary than the actual movie itself. The opening sequences of this movie lasts for about 13 minutes. It seems like its one big long take but there are some hidden cuts in it. Most people that are really into movies will notice some of the cuts. De Palma uses some good editing tricks and crafty cinematography. It also makes the opening the highlight of the movie. Of course you can wonder if its really wise and good for a movie to have its best moment in the beginning. Everything that comes after it just doesn't match up to it and it might very well be the reason why this movie disappointed many people.I really like it how the same events are told throughout the movie from different viewpoints. It sheds now light on the truth and helps to unveil the story and plot. That's some great film-making! It also makes the movie a very original one in its sort.Yes, the movie gets at points hard to follow, mainly because it isn't always credible what's happening on the screen. Nevertheless, I remember the first time I saw the movie that the twists in it surprised me and the story was a great mysterious one.Nicolas Cage and Gary Sinise are really strong actors in this movie. It takes some skill to handle all those long scene's without messing up and staying consistent. Especially Gary Sinise is great but I think that Nicolas Cage is also under-appreciated in his role. You are supposed to sort of dislike him, I mean he really isn't a clean cop, and that's what I like about the character and Cage's his performance.I also enjoyed the musical score by Ryuichi Sakamoto. It's totally overblown and out of proportion but it suits the movie and its style really well. Same of course goes for the cinematography.It's basically a very stylish and originally made movie, like you would expect from Brian De Palma. It's obviously not his most expensive movie because most of the movie is set at one location and it also isn't the longest movie around. It makes this an enjoyable 'small' De Palma movie that's also perfectly watchable for the general public. The movie is made in the sort of style they also used to make '40's movies in. I especially like the use of shadows in this movie. De Palma is, as far is I know of, the only director who can successfully implement '40's movie-making style into modern film-making. It's a good looking movie with a style that captures you and sort of makes you forgive the inconsistencies and flaws in the story. However if you also look beyond this style you'll notice that the story and its thriller elements are all quite standards and nothing really really. Just the way it all is dressed is new! So yes, it's a case of style over substance, like often is the case with De Palma movies. But as a fan I really aren't complaining about this!Most recommendable to the De Palma fans but other people should also be able to appreciate the style and craftsmanship of this movie.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"one of the most refreshingly original films I've ever seen","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The camera work is fantastic. It mimics the frantic pace of the characters. The story had a restlessness and uncertainty that was not only conveyed in the story, but in the camera work as well.If you don't like spoilers, suffice to say, it does not have a Hollywood ending -- but read no further.I'm amazed at how negative some of the others comments are. The only explanation I can come up with is that they hate the film because it violates so many clichés about films and about how stories should be set up and how they should unfold and how they should end. A bad cop reluctantly becomes a hero. I've never seen a movie that goes past the happy ending to when the hero faces corruption charges -- with happy endings normally all past sins seem forgotten. The ending was the best part. And that last scene was priceless not just for joke about pirates (only change is that the lights are brighter), but for the uncertainty of it all -- maybe they'll find happiness after he gets out of jail. It also violates the rule of good guys and bad guys with the a corrupt cop as the (reluctant) hero -- who redeems himself, and the bad guy fighting for something he believes is good for his country (some missile defense thing). The bad guy is not your typical psychopathic killer bent on world domination or destruction. I also liked the fact that the bad guy was not killed by the hero, but killed himself (I think -- it seems to be a exit wound) when he is caught in the spotlight by the police (a Shakespearean ending). As for having no surprise, I can't say, because I first caught the film halfway through so when I did finally see the whole movie, I knew who done it anyway, but I think there is real tension in the scene where Rick is struggling down the hallway followed by Kevin with his tracking device, pistol, and silencer.The only real logical flaw in the film is that Kevin Dune kills off some of his co-conspirators -- how could he get away with that and still command the loyalty of his other co-conspirators. But it also serves a dramatic function of telling us just how dangerous he is. The scene reminds me of Macbeth steeped in blood thus far, he just pushes on the path and adds to the body count of acceptable losses.On a minor detail you CAN place a bet on don't pass and win if someone throws snake eyes (in craps, you win if someone throws a 2, 3 or 12 on come out roll). So much for snake eyes the house wins. More money is lost by sevening out on a passline bet than by rolling a snake eyes -- but I suppose that snake eyes is a better name than sevening out. "}{"Title":"starts off amazing...","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Snake eyes is one of the better movies De plama  has made in a long time. Crap I hated mission to mars and mission impossible was nothing special. David Koepp is one of my favorite screenwriters so I happy to see write another cool movie. The film is basically structured like Kurasawa's Roshamon (Hollywood recently ripped that film off with Basic) but set against a casino and a boxing match. Throw-in a murder of a politician in front of hundreds of people, conspiracy and a dead beat cop with his chance at redemption.Wow cool film. Underrated for sure. Worth a watch for fans of creative thrillers.******spoilers********Now that said I think the film is really cool and creative but the ending was not as strong as the rest of the film. A little implausible and cheesy compared to the excellent set up. Still worth a watch. "},{"Title":"This film rolls a 10","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw the trailers to Snake Eyes I knew it was going to be a really great movie. It had Nicolas Cage, suspense, and many plot twists. From the outset of the movie it kept me thinking about who had motives for the crime, is it a conspiracy, and how high does the conspiracy go if there is one. Nicolas Cage plays a NY police detective who is thrust into a murder investigation of a government official. Gary Sinise is excellent in this movie; he looks so sinister in this part. Sinise plays Cage's best friend; also a law enforcement officer, invites him to a boxing match where the crime occurs. Sinise has an evil look in his face, which reminded me of his role in Ransom. Snake Eyes has a lot of great dialogue between the Nicolas Cage and Gary Sinise especially when the truth is uncovered, which really kept my interest; it also made me want to stick around to see what the outcome was. The way the writers weaved everything together following the unmasking of the true plot was great. I liked it because I haven't seen it done like this before. Snake Eyes was the type of movie that if you left the room you would miss something important; it was a very fast moving film. Snake Eyes is a spine tingling, edge of your seat, nail biting film that rolls a 10.  "},{"Title":"More entertaining than many in this genre","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Gary Sinise was totally convincing as the villainous patriot, and Cage was perfect for the role of a useless, selfish cop bent on having a good time only. Very exciting and fun film to see; better by a lot than the silly Con-Air, a goofy Diehard Goes Airborne throwaway. "},{"Title":"the funnest, most entertaining movie of the year","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The sort of backlash recieved for this film was shocking. Not since Bonfire Of The Vanities has a film be hung out to dry as much as this one. What is left out of a lot of reviews is the essential GOOD in this film. A visual style unrivalled by directors of his generation, matched with fine turns from all involved, with Nic Cage's gloriously over the top cop contrasting excellently with Gary Sinise, underplayed villain to great effect. Most people felt let down by the ending of this film because it didn't conform to a big hollywood ending. Instead of the obligatory chase and cheesy ending, we were given a more realistic ending that the plot had genuinely worked for as opposed to some sort of crass cop-out. A great, misunderstood movie, and well worth anyone's time.  "},{"Title":"Sometimes life is a gamble.","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Get a good grip and hang on. Director Brian De Palma gives us another one of those fast paced suspense filled thrillers. And what about Nicolas Cage? Does he love to act or just show out? I think Cage is very good at what he does and is manic enough to get your undivided attention. Cage plays a highly visible Atlantic City detective Rick Santoro who is not too good to shake down drug dealers in order to buy gifts for female companions and most of all fund his illegal gambling habit.Santoro finds himself riding out a hurricane at a boxing arena where he has money bet on the champ(Stan Shaw)who just happens to be one of his former high school classmates. Oh no! It looks like the champ has taken a dive. At the same time his best friend(Gary Sinise)is a Pentagon security chief who is guarding the secretary of defense who happens to be in the arena. Sauntering in is a beautiful mystery lady(Carla Gugino)who is somehow involved with the shooting of the defense secretary. The mercurial detective now juggles three things finding out why the champ took a dive; the identity of the mystery woman; and who in the hell shot the secretary of defense. As Santoro starts putting the pieces of the puzzle together he finds out that his old friend(Sinise)is not the straight ahead guy he used to be.SNAKE EYES will have your knuckles turning white or maybe blue while hanging on the edge of your seat. Just enough violence and blood to excite and give a jump start to the many of plots. And how confusing can an ending be? What does it mean? Pretty decent movie and real good movie if you like watching Cage end up a bloody pulp.  "},{"Title":"WOW!!!!!!!!!","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw the trailers to Snake Eyes I knew it was going to be a really great movie. It had Nicolas Cage, suspense, and many plot twists. From the outset of the movie it kept me thinking about who had motives for the crime, is it a conspiracy, and how high does the conspiracy go if there is one. Nicolas Cage plays a NY police detective who is thrust into a murder investigation of a government official. Gary Sinise is excellent in this movie; he looks so sinister in this part. Sinise plays Cage's best friend; also a law enforcement officer, invites him to a boxing match where the crime occurs. Sinise has an evil look in his face, which reminded me of his role in Ransom. Snake Eyes has a lot of great dialogue between the Nicolas Cage and Gary Sinise especially when the truth is uncovered, which really kept my interest; it also made me want to stick around to see what the outcome was. The way the writers weaved everything together following the unmasking of the true plot was great. I liked it because I haven't seen it done like this before. Snake Eyes was the type of movie that if you left the room you would miss something important; it was a very fast moving film. Snake Eyes is a spine tingling, edge of your seat, nail biting film that rolls a 10.  "},{"Title":"Greatest Suspense Ever","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was disappointed that Snake Eyes got such poor ratings. I thought the movie had a great new aspect of suspense film-making where Rick Santoro (Nicholas Cage) talks to each suspect and they describe the fight through what they saw and the film-makers gave you a first-person view of what they described including different angles of the people which I just thought was really cool and unique. The scene where they take out The Secretary of Defense is really awesome with the slow-motion and the views and everything I just seemed to stand out of other movies. Even after seeing the cool visuals affects of the special effects king The Matrix I still had great appreciation for the carefully layed out visuals and camera-angles of this seen. Nicholas does a remarkable job at acting in this movie, if you think he can't act notice how much of a different character he plays as Rick Santoro then he did on the movie Con Air. Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise) who plays in the movie Forrest Gump also did a great job and I like that actor myself. All and all, Snake Eyes is a great suspense flick and a the best suspense movie I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Nicolas Cage is brilliant","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was great from start to finish nicolas cage was great in this movie so was gary sinse this is probably one of my favorite movies of all time because I love the suspense the story everything about this movie Brian De Palma knows how to direct. "},{"Title":"Typical DePalma -- but I liked it. (Mild spoilers. Very mild, seeing how you'll guess 'em straight away.)","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  DePalma has a good visual eye. The opening of SNAKE EYES is a cleverly-staged sequence that seems to be one long tracking shot. It's actually three, superbly spliced together.Figures. I like DePalma's style but as a fan I can admit that he's fairly lazy when it comes to some aspects of film-making. Has Scorsese staged this, there would be no cuts. He would find it to be cheating. He likes the authentic nature of the shots.DePalma just goes for what looks best, whether it means cheating or not. P.T. Anderson's BOOGIE NIGHTS opens similarly -- the difference, of course, being that he didn't use cuts during his tracking shot. Either did Robert Altman.De Palma did.Who cares, though, really, because it's still really good to look at -- and seems authentic.The movie's worst traits are the typically excessive DePalma crap -- Cage is worthy but gives such an over-the-top performance, it's hard to warm up to him. He's not a nice character. That has worked in the past but the script is so thin that it doesn't give much depth -- his character would have worked brilliantly in another, longer, more engrossing movie.The villain is poorly played by Sinise. We guess he's the villain within ten minutes. We know within thirty. We spend the rest of the movie watching Cage trying to figure out.Why?Why didn't DePalma choose to add some more mystery, not reveal the villain, and keep his audience entertained?Why didn't he flesh out the characters, tone down the bright excessiveness of the movie (think of RAISING CAIN set in the '90s), why didn't he cast better co-stars, why didn't he spend more time on plot rather than staging a fake tracking shot?Because he's DePalma. That's why.The movie is flawed, as per usual. But you know what?I enjoyed it, for what it is.Still think it could've been a lot better, but as the Ghostbusters say...watch'a gonna do?  "},{"Title":"A very good film! It deserves alot!","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What a great movie! Excellent acting by Cage and Sinise!Great color,great and yet usual camra work,great suspence,and awesome music! I just love those following scenes with Cage and Sinise! As a big Boxing fan I was pleased how the fight in the ring was performed. Snake Eyes is a terrific film that delivers it it all!  "}]