[{"Title":"Probably not the best advertisement for Superior, AZ","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"66 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my favorite Oliver Stone films. It has everything (cheating incestuous sex, chopping off digits, a dumb hick mechanic, a blind native American who wants Dr. Pepper all the time, etc etc etc) that a well-rounded movie needs, plus it was completely done in a comic fashion. It is closest to Stone's other film Natural Born Killers by way of stylish camera shots and the addition of comedy into a dramatic setting.Sean Penn brilliantly plays the lead character, whose car blows a radiator hose out in the middle of the Arizona desert, and the closest town is that of Superior, AZ, a dirt-road town with barely 1,000 people living there, if that. Penn goes through hell from the beginning when random characters in the city want something from him and in return, it drives him to try his best to get the hell out of Superior. Everything during his days in Superior is centered around money and the fact that he has hardly any. So he gets schemed into murders, and he gets whatever little he has taken away from him (his train ticket gets ripped up by the local hoodlum, TNT, again brilliantly played by Joaquin Phoenix, and he has several full bottles of beverages broken for different reasons). Therefore, he's constantly running in circles to get out of this town.There is an all-star cast (back then, and now) of actors Jennifer Lopez (a better singer than actress), Nick Nolte, Joaquin Phoenix, Billy Bob Thornton (the best among the bunch as the hick mechanic), Sean Penn, Claire Danes, Liv Tyler (only for a second in the train station), and Jon Voight...all packed into a nice DVD. The music had that comic, light-hearted side to it (with the country sound of a jew's-harp played over violin or whatever, etc) which helped you to see the irony that is driving him to madness in this town. Again the camera shots were awesome, and they had that Oliver Stone quality of the 90's where he would switch frames with the villain of the movie with an animal skull and switch the point-of-view to see what the actors are seeing, and so on.I didn't like the ending so much. I kind of wanted things to resolve themselves, but instead, things just keep on falling into the bad-luck-category of his life. I also hated Jennifer Lopez's delivery of lines (just like in any other movie with her...The Cell, etc) because they feel so fake and put on that you know the director was just looking for T&A for the film. Also she doesn't play a native American very well. She has a thick accent straying too much towards Latino that you don't pick up on any cultural change until you get the story.Overall, though, (bad point aside) it is a brilliant movie that is easy to watch if you like the other Stone films. I had to give it a 9/10 for great performances, great music, awesome story, and everything in between. Go out and buy it if your a fan of any of the actors listed above, or if you are trying to find a great weekend film with friends. "},{"Title":"Dark, gritty and some very nice images","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"55 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" U Turn seems to be a movie that not many people have enjoyed and I really wonder why that is. I'm not saying that it was the best movie ever, but it sure deserves better than what most people over here say about it.The story starts with Bobby Cooper (Sean Penn), driving somewhere in the middle of the desert in Arizona, on his way to pay the bookies that have already taken two of his fingers because he was too late to pay them. His car breaks down and the only option that he has is to leave the main road and to go to a small, dusty town called Superior. In this town live all kind of weird people. A blind Indian who doesn't do much else but drinking Dr. Pepper on a bench, next to his dead dog; a dumb garage owner; a young macho, called T.N.T, who seems to come straight from the fifties and his nymphomaniac girlfriend... Bobby Cooper wants to get out of there as quickly as possible. But he has one problem. He's got no money because he was robbed and the mechanic charges him an enormous price for the repairs. He can't do anything else but to stay in the village, to try to live with these weird people and to stay out of the hands of the bookies until he has found some money...I must say that I was quite surprised by this movie. The way everything was shot is really well done and the music (composed and selected by Ennio Morricone) gives it all an extra touch. Even all the acting was very convincing. With people like Sean Penn, Billy Bob Thornton, Joaquin Phoenix and Nick Nolte I don't expect anything less than a good performance. But it has to be said Jennifer Lopez, who certainly isn't a great actress, was actually pretty good in this movie.All in all this is a very good movie, plenty of dark humor, good acting and some very nice shots. Personally I think this is one of Oliver Stone's finer movies and that's why I give it a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"A grim but comic confection.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"51 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In U-Turn, Oliver Stone narrows his focus from the broad-canvass projects he typically produces.  Those seeking the knowing profundities of JFK or Nixon will be disappointed. This is a genre picture of the desert southwestern potboiler variety, a much-updated Painted Desert kind of film. Lots of bad luck, scorpions, whiskey, sexual perversity, bullying, greed, lots of sweat and very little shaving.  The basic questions begged by a movie like this one are these  Who will have sex?  Who will live?  Who will die?  And who will end up with the money?  By the final reel, all these questions are very satisfactorily answered.  For a picture of this type, U-Turn is very good indeed.Sean Penn is smashing, Nolte has never been creepier, and Jennifer Lopez is, er, extremely effective in this film's only real female role.  John Voight, buried in the role a mystic Indian, is most entertaining.  And we get another patented oddball performance by Billy Bob Thornton that is absolutely worth the price of admission.  For good measure, Juaquin Phoenix and Claire Danes deliver a too-brief but electrifying turn as a young couple adept at creating trouble.  As if Sean Penn, in this picture, didn't have enough already.Sure, the predictable desert atmospherics are a bit overdone. But the solid script by John Ridley, the letter-perfect performances, and Stone's sure directorial hand make this one of his better films.This movie is out of the theatres, so one word to you parents about U-Turn.  This is not one to watch in the presence of the kiddies. It contains very graphic and violence and sexual material clearly unsuitable for young folk or the sensitive soul of any age.But if you like your film noir with sand and scorpions thrown in for good measure, this is a sure-fire rental that will leave you fully satisfied. "},{"Title":"Modern noir with a dark twist...","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"44 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brilliant & hallucinatory cinematography, impeccable use of music, and a handful of dark, edgy character sketches all work together very nicely to make this bleak, dark-humoured desert noir an overlooked highlight of Oliver Stone's career.  The highly evocative atmosphere plays out against the Arizona desert in a way that (in addition to foreshadowing some of the work done in Terry Gilliam's own twisted little masterpiece 'Fear & Loathing in Las Vegas') seems to mirror, in a more subtle and tasteful manner,  much of Stone's work in 'Natural Born Killers'.  However, rather than hitting us over the head with whatever socially charged 'message' he may have been attempting to convey in that film, here he is simply content to let it build up a thick and steamy ambience that moves our hapless comrades on towards their own impending personal apocalypse. Nick Nolte, Sean Penn, and Jennifer Lopez all turn in great performances and Billy Bob Thornton's eccentric character sketch elevates what may be defined as a bit part to a far more relevant status.  Modern noir with a few dark twists and a taste all it's own that's well worth digging into...for those who have a taste for this kind of thing, if you know what I mean.   "},{"Title":"Black humour of a kind rarely seen in mainstream Hollywood","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As usual before adding my two ha'porth-worth of comment, I looked at other comments (including Roger Ebert). And, although I didn't read all of them (there are very many), I was surprised that none I read seemed to pick up what was perfectly obvious to me this is a very funny film, but done in a deadpan style. So deadpan, in fact, that I'm not surprised that might be news to many. I have, coincidentally, recently been buying up on DVD quite a few classic film noir (Build My Gallows High, The Strange Love Of Martha Ivers) and like everyone else thought that the era of film noir had come and gone and that such films were no longer being produced. Well, blow me if I'm not very wrong this is quintessential film noir (though done in colour and with the proviso that most film noir is not intended to be funny). It would be pointless to recount the plot, but if you liked all those classic Mitchum/Bogart/Van Helin/Edwrad g Robinson etc films, you will love this. Sean Penn never disappoints. By the way the very final twist in the plot had me laughing out loud. Go for it you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Sordid tales in a little town of the southern USA.","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A marked gambler (Penn) on the run, comes to a little town in the middle of nowhere, south USA. A town filled with very unusual characters, sordid secrets and strange opportunities, that seem very appealing to this Pat Poker on the run, which desperately needs money to pay the idiotic, redneck town mechanic. Penn and Nolte are at the greatest level, and Lopez fills the requisites of her character. Beautiful piece of writing, with surprising plot twists which make way to a most brilliant ending, Stone style despair. A very misunderstood work by this brilliant, all-American director. Another piece of genuine America, with all her virtues and even more flaws, seen trough stone cold eyes... "},{"Title":"Oliver Stones' best film by a wide margin.","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"32 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  U Turn is a great film. Of course it borrows from other films, so what? Sean Penn turns in a great performance as does Nick Nolte, Billy Bob Thornton and Jon Voight.Jennifer Lopez does her best to keep up with the seasoned professionals and by and large succeeds. As the story unfolds we get some great cameo performances from Voight and Thornton, whilst Penn pulls out all the stops. The twisting noir-ish plot succeeds in keeping us enthralled for the duration. None of the characters are particularly likeable which could be a problem in certain circumstances but in this film it just serves to make us enjoy their various fates. If Stone were to make smaller scale films like this instead of overblown rubbish like Any Given Sunday, Natural Born Killers and The Doors he might just find a more willing audience. "},{"Title":"Gritty and brutal, but entertaining as all hell.","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  `U Turn' is an assault on the senses. But then again, what more can one expect from director Oliver Stone whose innovative brand of filmmaking is often filled with characters that are violent, insane, heroic, and even bizarre. `U Turn' has many characters played by big name actors that intertwine themselves around a central character, in this case, played by Sean Penn (`Casualties Of War'). Ultimately, a film about getting away with murder, `U Turn' is an intriguing blend of story, violence, and strange people.  	`U Turn' takes place during a hot day in Arizona where we meet our principal character, Bobby (Penn), who is on his way to California to pay a debt to the mob that has helped him in one way or the other. When his car breaks down, Bobby is forced to have a redneck, roadside mechanic, named Darrell (Billy Bob Thornton), fix it. While his car is in the shop, he ends up walking into a local town where he meets some very eccentric people from a blind vagrant (Jon Voight), a drunken sheriff, a hillbilly and his girlfriend, to an exotic woman who sticks out like a sore thumb against the simplicity of the town. Every person he encounters ultimately leads to a conclusion that he could never have expected.  	Robert Richardson whose superb cinematography has been used in several films of note filmed `U Turn' masterfully. Richardson's craft with a camera can be seen in such other movies as `The Horse Whisperer,' `Snow Falling On Cedars,' and `The Four Feathers.' With its rough cuts, non-steady cam shots, and scenes filmed as the sun glaring down on the actors, Richardson's work gives a harsh and nauseating feel to the film. 	Stone's direction was excellent. He's an admirable director in that he doesn't follow the mainstream concepts that are commonly seen in most motion pictures. Watching a Stone film is like watching graduate film students show off their work-it's fresh, energetic, and exciting.  	`U Turn,' undoubtedly, has some of 1997s best performances. Penn is outstanding as a guy who just keeps happening on the wrong place at the wrong time. Jennifer Lopez is surprisingly good in her performances as the wife of a real estate salesman. Lopez seems to have some talent on the screen&#133;unlike her singing career. Her performance in another offbeat movie, `Out Of Sight,' was also good. Nick Nolte is as Nick Nolte does-he's rough around the edges, perverse and violent as the real estate salesman who seems to rule over the sleepy town. Other performances of note are that of Thornton has a slack-jawed yokel mechanic. Joaquin Phoenix (`Signs') as a hillbilly and his simple-minded girlfriend, played by Claire Danes (`The Hours') give the film a hysterical notch.  Other points of interest in the film are the score, composed by veteran, Italian, film composer Ennio Morrcone (`Mission To Mars') whose music adds a humorous atmosphere to the irony of the film. All in all, `U Turn' is a film that is gritty and brutal, but entertaining as all hell. ***1/2  "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"25 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say this film was sort of what I thought it was... I really enjoyed it!I've seen Sean Penn in a few films now and they're all good. Oliver Stone is one of the finest men in film production. It's visually stunning, loads of mad camera pans and colour blast-outs! The supporting cast are great as well. Billy Bob Thornton looks nothing like him and is away with it, Jennifer Lopez is attractive an alluring, Nick Nolte is totally convincing and great as the wicked husband, Joiquin Phoenix is mad as TNT and possibly the best is John Voight as a blind homeless person!A great film with a good ending... although I wouldn't like to be any of them!A good 7/10  "},{"Title":"Billy Bob Thornton And Joaquin Phoenix Stole The Movie, With What Little Parts They Had.","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"27 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" U-Turn is about a man named Bobby Cooper (Sean Penn) who is on his way to pay a debt to a gangster when his car breaks down in the small, redneck town of Superior. There, Bobby is taken advantage of by the good IL' boys in every way possible, from the dirty mechanic to the town sheriff. He meets a beautiful girl named Grace (Jennifer Lopez) and falls for her, and she seemingly falls for him as well. From here, there are twists and turns in the plot all the way to the very end of the movie.Sean Penn was decent as Bobby, but seemed a bit week and was taken advantage of a bit too easily. I guess that was Bobby's character so he did a good job. Jennifer Lopez did not have as big a part as I thought, but she did OK with it. Nothing spectacular, just OK.The characters that stole the movie, in my honest opinion, were Darrell the mechanic (Billy Bob Thornton) and Toby N. Tucker (Joaquin Phoenix). They had the redneck stereotypes down pat, especially Thornton.This movie was a decent little thriller. I am glad I did not see it way back when it was in theaters but it is OK for a rental. I give 7 of 10 stars. "}{"Title":"Somebody get me a scriptwriter!","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  U-Turn is less a movie than a sequence of scenes, loosely connected by common characters.  It begins with Sean Penn arriving in a small Arizona town, on the lam from a loan shark and missing several fingers.  During the course of the movie, various things happen.  Penn's character connects with a feisty young Latina who may or may not be having sex with her father. Claire Danes puts in a brief appearance as a hick stereotype, as does Vince Vaughan.  Things happen, in no particular order and for no particular reason, for a good six and a half hours.  Finally, the film ends, having boldly ignored such niceties as character development and story arc.  A muddled, boring, overlong mess of a movie. "},{"Title":"great cast (oh yeah.. the film too!)","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  although some may hate the film for its darkness, you can't dismiss the great talent of the cast. Sean Penn was amazing as his constantly tormented character, Billy Bob Thornton was almost unrecognizable and his character soon became just as equally easy to hate, Claire Danes was funny You killed him! I almost died laughing.. but perhaps the BEST part of the movie was the sadly short but scene stealing role by Joaquin Phoenix! I actually bought this movie (as a DVD too!) JUST because he was in it.. in fact i was on a hunt for Joaquin movies.. and i am glad to say that I wasn't disappointed. He is not only an amazing actor (and scene stealer ^__^) but also able to be funny as hell! (Toby N. Tucker!) He also really gets into the roles (he shaved TNT into his hair for christ's sake! ).Thankfully though I really liked the movie. It is dark, but that doesn't make it a bad movie, ONLY a movie that people who hate dark movies obviously wouldn't like. And that's all there is to it. (**SPOILER**) I admit I was disappointed when Bobby died at the end.. but at the same time I was also relieved. You can't for one second think that with all of his bad luck and bad decisions that he's gonna live happily ever after.. It went with the whole dark theme of the movie. I also want to say that movies are SOO much better when you have NO idea what you are about to see. Your mind is untainted and unbiased on what is going to happen/how good it will be/etc. and you really get to judge it on your own, based on your own likes and dislikes. I had no idea what I was going to get when I bought this movie (other than Joaquin Phoenix ^_^) and it made the sick twisted plot of the movie that much more surprising. It really is a weird movie, but at least it's good at what it does. "},{"Title":"Masterfully made film about garbage","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oliver Stone has an incredible talent for creating film.But he insists on cranking out meaningless work. It's like looking at a Van Gogh painting of a pile of poop. It's a great looking , masterfully done pile of poop. But in the end, it's still just a pile of poop. "},{"Title":"Like Tarantino, only worse.","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Sean Penn is stranded in a strange city where everybody seems to realize his problems and his struggle, and insist on being particularly mean to him, just for the sake of being mean.It is a lot like Chevy Chase in National Lampoon's Vacation or Griffin Dunne in After Hours, in the sense that we watch an incredibly hapless main character go through an incredibly terrible day and we're supposed to call that entertainment. Except that instead of a comedy this one is a mean and boring excuse for a thriller where everybody is weird and bad-ass, so the whole thing reeks of Tarantino or any of those awful El Mariachi sequels.There are indeed several twists in the plot, but all of them are predictable and absolutely unable to make the film a little interesting. The end doesn't even try to make up for the rest of the experience. It's just as dull and silly.The only good thing I can say about this film is that the cast is very good. There are lots of good acting, but the story and the overall atmosphere is so brain dead that I couldn't really enjoy the acting.I always found that Oliver Stone's movies were excessively long-winded and pretentious. Now I read here at IMDb that he wanted to make a small film that he would enjoy seeing as a teenager. So he is definitely a major idiot, and I will never see any of his movies again.I give it 3 stars, for the acting. Maybe the actors deserved more for the acting, but they also deserve a penalty for signing up such a bad script. "},{"Title":"A Disturbing Film Made For In Actors To Have Fun With...","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps I'm a bit biased in that I'm not the number one fan of director Oliver Stone. But this is just another movie where a bunch of the current hip players in Hollywood get together for some good ol' low budget fun and curse, kill, maim, and screw one another 'till the cows come home. A few years ago, and done with unknowns, this would have been interesting and, yes, entertaining. But done again and again, with increasingly bigger name stars and directors, it becomes pompous and somewhat annoying. If Mr. Stone or Mr. Penn or even Miss Lopez need the tiny paycheck that a movie like U -Turn offers, why not do some short stints at a local community theater? Or do an appearance at a book store or video store if they don't wish to squander their wide acting range abilities. But I suppose the wanna-be independent film format is for obvious reasons more appetizing they get their names added to one more credit list.    "},{"Title":"If I ever meet Oliver Stone.....","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If I ever meet Oliver Stone, I am afraid I am going to beat him over the head with a heavy object, until someone drags me off of his lifeless body. The whole time, I will be repeating the same word over and over - U-TURN! U-TURN! U-TURNI believe Oliver Stone is one of the great directors of his generation.  I love off-beat movies, especially those that use dark humor and feature seedy, amoral characters.  Everything about this film seemed like it would be a winner.  That is, until I actually saw it.Words can not describe how horrible this film is. The script is pathetic, the acting is offensively poor (especially Sean Penn), there is no pacing to speak of, and what little humor there is suffers from miserable timing. But I could have forgiven all of these flaws, had it not been for the hatchet job of directing turned in by Stone.  Oliver Stone is very gifted, but it seems like he just can't help but show off sometimes.  This film was a montage of Stone's worst moments. A great director is one who can create compelling images, while making those images seem to naturally flow together into a coherent story.  Throughout this film, I got the distinct impression that Oliver Stone was sitting next to me, nudging my shoulder every five minutes and saying Did you see that!  I'm a great director, huh?  Just wait to you see the next neat trick I do!  It reminded me of the effort of an arrogant first year film student, not the work of a seasoned, award winning professional.Billy Bob Thornton and Claire Daynes had a couple of humorous moments, but they could do nothing to stem the tide of this disaster.  Oliver Stone should be ashamed of himself.If you want to watch an Oliver Stone film, watch Salvador or Platoon. Avoid this movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"What happens if Spicoli, Selena, Karl Childers, Jack Cates, Joe Buck & the dude from Southern Comfort make a movie directed by O. Stone?","Date":"24 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Not as much as you'd think. It had a chance to work, but ultimately fizzled.I finally got around to watching U TURN, a full 15 years after it came out and sunk at the box office. You never even see it playing on cable, so I had to rent a copy. I just recently watched Stone's latest, SAVAGES, which I did like, but the American public apparently didn't. Anyway,I thought I'd catch up on missed Oliver Stone movies, and this was first up.This movie had a nice look, the acting decent, and the story was OK (for the first hour anyway), but then the drag out, double-crosses (and triple crosses) just seemed to go on forever. It should have been better, but I just can't figure out why it wasn't. I really wanted it to end soon after Nolte took the direct ax shot, but we still had another unseen plot line to develop with Boothe.Cameos by Julie Hagerty, Laurie Metcalf, and a blink & you'll miss her Liv Tyler were helpful, J. Phoenix always brings it, and the Russian guys were amusing. However, only Penn's scenes with Billy Bob really seemed to hit with some punch. I've always liked Thornton, even when he's sleep-walking through his blockbuster paycheck roles.Anyway, I say take a pass on U TURN, as it's too long and the payoff just ain't worth the wait. "},{"Title":"How to turn unexpected into predictable","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Recap Bobby Cooper is a small time crook that has fallen on hard times. Or so he thinks. He is in debt to Russian mafia, but has managed to get the money and are on his way to Las Vegas when his car breaks down in the middle of nowhere. He turns of the interstate and stumbles in to a small town. And if he thinks he was in a pinch before he doesn't have to wait long before everything goes out of control. Everyone has their own agenda and Bobby soon finds himself in not one but two murder plots where a married couple wants the other murdered. All along he needs to get along a more or less crazy set of characters that seem out to get him.Comments The tagline expect the unexpected sums it up pretty good actually. This is a thriller that twists and turns and changes directions, and has got so many surprises, that it quickly got very predictable. You just had to expect that the opposite of what the story wanted you to believe to be more than one step ahead of it. If you do want a surprising end, or a twist in a story to augment the suspense, you can't overdo it. If you do you get the exact opposite result from what you aim for. A fine and experienced director like Oliver Stone should know this, but he went completely overboard here.The movie sports an impressive cast, both of then solid veterans and actors that has gotten great careers since. You can see veterans like Sean Penn, Nick Nolte, Jon Voight, Powers Boothe and Billy Bob Thornton in prominent roles. Then pretty new Jennifer Lopez plays the female lead and you can see Abraham Benrubi, Claire Danes and Joaquin Phoenix in small roles, but still making their own mark. Their addition to the movie is more important than the screen time they're given, as their characters are important to get Bobby in the right mindset. That is desperate. And especially Danes and Phoneix give good over the top performances for psychotic characters. And if you pay attention you can catch Liv Tyler in an extremely small role.So there is actually more reason to watch the movie because of the cast list more than the story. The story was pretty average, not very successful at all at being either surprising nor suspenseful.5/10 "},{"Title":"weird","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Extremely strange film about a drifter in debt who gets stranded in a bizarre, backwater town where everyone seems to have a few screws loose. Sean Penn is good as he heads an all-star cast and the film unfolds in typical Stone fashion, but the finale leaves you wondering what the point of it all is. Watchable, just very, very strange. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm ashamed to say that even though I'd seen this film in the video store for years I haven't gotten around to renting it until a few days ago. Well, I've seen the film now and it was better than I expected. U Turn is a very entertaining, funny and violent film. Sean Penn is great as always, Lopez surprised me by actually doing a half decent job acting, something she hasn't done in any of the other films I've seen her in (with the exception of Out of Sight... maybe). I have to say, though, that the characters that make this film entertaining and sometimes even hilarious are Billy Bob Thornton's disgusting mechanic and Joaquin Phoenix's violent TNT. It was so funny to watch Phoenix's face every time the sheriff turned up. Hilarious. (6/10) "}{"Title":"Red Rock West anyone?","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is totally unoriginal, uninteresting, and Stone's stylised direction becomes downright laughable after about the third or fourth montage of images. And what is all that about with Jon Voight? Is this film supposed to be a self-parody? Sean Penn is okay and Jennifer Lopez is convincing enough but, hello!!! Script, plot...anyone there? Just see the vastly superior Red Rock West with Nicholas Cage, Dennis Hopper, and the marvelously pure evil J.T.Walsh. "},{"Title":"Take a u-turn away from this one","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A sad and pathetic overture in  the life and times of Oliver Stone.  Sadly, after making so many  great films to this point, Stone  was forced to rebuild his career  after creating this crummy film.  Having enjoyed Sean Penn's  movies in the past, this seemed  a real departure for him. There is  very little to say about this film,  except it help Stone wise up and  create Any Given Sunday. "},{"Title":"Some nice effects, but still a very bad film...","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oliver Stone brought us Natural Born Killers, Platoon, JFK and other good films. But ''U Turn'' is surely one of his worst. Even though the acting is quite good in general (Sean Penn is a very good actor, and Billy Bob Thornton is fine too), Jennifer Lopez was getting on my nerves. She was a whore, a killer, a disturbed person at the same time...and she isn't made to play none of the above roles. And I almost smashed the TV when the film was almost finished because I can't stand her voice, especially in this film. So, the story is quite simple, but it changes at the middle of the movie. They forget the whole story and build another cheaper one, involving killing Grace's lover (who is her father!!!!.......???) and stealing his money to finally go live in Mexico....this is what happens to a scenarist in lack of originality. Anyway, you can see some weird camera effects in some scenes, which is the only good point of this crap. We recognize Oliver Stone in the way it is shot, but the rest is deceiving...without forgetting the hole that is normally not present in an Oliver Stone film....the moral....there was nothing to learn in this film, except that even a director who brought you good stuff can easily deceive you...and I already knew that....so avoid this, it is bad....I give it 50% and I'm still generous..... "},{"Title":"yet another indication that Stone's career has taken a U-turn","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A very promising cast, interesting plot twists and an exceptional performance by Billy Bob Thorton couldn't save this film from the heavy-handed and predictably methodical directing style of Stone.  The story is, at it's best, decent, and the now trademark Stone imagery begins to grate on the nerves after a while.While there are some redeeming qualities to this film it is little more than a talent drain and a canvas of misfires.  "},{"Title":"Stupid People","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this movie and I almost couldn't finish it.  The people are just so stupid that it gets on your nerves.  I mean really, if you had a sack full of money like Sean Penn's character has, would you move more than two feet from your car and gun?  And I'm not even going to start on why he would listen to Jennifer Lopez's character about anything.  Stay away, stay far, far away. "},{"Title":"What the hell happened to Oliver Stone?","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oliver Stone is the best - hell, maybe the ONLY - political filmmaker in Hollywood right now, but I guess after the beating he's taken over great films like PLATOON, JFK, and NIXON, he decided to retreat into the world of film noir.  Trouble is, the technique he uses so well in his political films seems overheated (like it did in NATURAL BORN KILLERS), and I get bored real quick.  It really seemed like he was spinning his wheels, and that's sad, because he's a talented filmmaker.  The actors were all playing caricatures and competing for the Look Ma, I'm Acting! Award, except for Sean Penn, who deserves better. "},{"Title":"Do you like watching a guy get kicked in the balls for 90 minutes?","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I used to be a huge Oliver Stone fan loved the Doors, JFK, NBK, just about everything except for The Hand. No more. U-Turn has to be one of the biggest disappointments. Trying for a genre film with black comedic moments, Stone fails completely. The viewer watches Penn's character with anticipation, waiting to see what's going to happen, how is he going to make a positive transition...well, it never happens. The guy gets kicked in the balls -- figuratively -- for the entire length of the film. That's what this damn movie is all about. If that's your bag...  "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't been much of a Stone fan in recent years, but I rented this movie because I like Sean Penn and the trailer looked good.  The movie has a bunch of great attributes, but in total I found it tiresome.  The cinematography is excellent, as are the performances given by Nick Nolte, Billy Bob, Claire Danes, Joaquin Phoenix, and Jon Voight.  For the most part, these actors had small roles that could be camped up and they provided relief from the Sean Penn/Jennifer Lopez driven scenes.  They are both good actors who did what they could with what little they had, but I didn't care what happened to them.  There was very little character development, which is surprising what with all of the flashback shots each of them had.  After I figured out that I didn't care what they said or did to each other, the What bad luck is going to catch up with Bobby in this scene? line of questioning became tiresome and I started fast forwarding through much of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Toby and Jenny - The only Entertainment","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a major disappointment, but with a fantastic cast.  I didn't know what to expect when I saw this movie, but I wanted to throw it out the window when I came across the first scene of the dead animals.  It was Unnecessary to see Bobby (Sean Penn) running over an animal.  Was that needed?  Grace (Jennifer Lopez) got on my nerves, didn't like her at all, the performance from Jennifer Lopez weren't all that great either.  This movie all in all, was boring.  What was good about it?  Only one thing, Toby (Joaquin Phoenix) and Jenny (Claire Danes).  The only form of entertainment of this Movie.  Joaquin surprised me with his small, but outstanding performance.  Joaquin and Claire - YOU MADE THE MOVIE!  Only with 3 scenes Unfortunately. Otherwise this movie made me sick.  It was degrading.  I gave it a 3.  That goes to Joaquin and Claire! "},{"Title":"anti-soda pop film and the third jake","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Every time Sean Penn seems about ready to enjoy a swig of some carbonated heaven, hell unleashes another round of trouble. It is not so much that u-turns abound, the plot is not so much twisted as continually pulling the rug out from underneath the audience.Perhaps the book connects the dots a bit better, the film relies heavily upon interesting character exaggerations, along with Ennio Morricone (woo hoo!) and Oliver Stone's splashy style.The color of the film is sweltering as the Arizona sun. There is an outstanding shot, looking up at Penn walking that is then overlapped with a dilating image of the sun. That really stuck with me, very effective. Additionally you get Stone'd with his patented (you can't even call them jump-cuts) slap-cuts. Often in the midst of a barrage of them we also get a camera reeling from side to side. It's as if the camera is sharing the brunt of kicks, cuts and punches that Penn endures.I wanted to find a deeper level to the film, at times I would think it was a permutation on some Greek myth. A trip to hell, a blind man who sees all, betrayal and rape. Or maybe there is an Apache legend at the root of the film, we get allusions to that culture but nothing more. Again the book may have been able to spend longer in the sun than the camera crew and we the audience could.You could joke that this is another Oliver Stone film about conspiracies, but these are personal not political conspiracies. We often wind up with a conspiracy of one, which I reckon is just a lie. Ultimately enough lies are revealed with little or no foreshadowing that you just don't care about the story.But you may well care about the actors. Just read the cast listing, that's a pretty amazing bunch.The DVD I rented had no extras. So I'm not sure what happened to Liv Tyler, but for pretty much everyone else involved, this must have been what Halloween was to us as kids. A chance to adopt a crazy costume and run with it.While others here did not, I definitely enjoyed Jon Voight and his almost 50% Indian blind mystic with dead dog. Or maybe not Indian, not-so-blind mystic with a live dog? A Clare Danes, just the way she walks/skips is a kick. Jennifer Lopez, before J-Lo commodification, is a devilish dish with a deathwish. There is a point where she gets slapped by Sean Penn and her reaction is riveting. Joaquin Phoenix, Nick Nolte, Julie Hagerty, Aida Linares, together they made the freak show in Twin Peaks look like Mayberry RFD. Sean Penn of course is a tremendous actor, and he almost creates a character we care for. The slap-cuts of him as a tennis pro in California may be the funniest moments in this film. He seems to be destined for desperation, but we get a vague feeling that he's trying to fight that off. He's not the cocksure hard-boiled Jack Nicholson of Chinatown (he gets his fingers not his nose stuck in some pincers), nor is he simply a soft-boiled mealy mouthed punk. He's somewhere between the frying pan to the fire, and can't even get an ounce of product placement soda on his way.If you love any of the actors in this, you'll probably want to check the film out...but expect more style than substance. Just the title of the book this is based on makes me think there was a lot more to the story that did not make it to screen. Some of the poisons that run through the story are more toxic than Dr. Pepper. I look forward to reading Everyone Smokes in Hell to see what Ridley did in that.5/10 "}{"Title":"How could it go so wrong??","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The cast of this film is amazing, along with a great director, so how did this film turn out to be so unwatchable? None of the blame lies on the actors, although you do wonder why they would sign up for something with such a bad screenplay! Loathsome characters, dire setting, badly edited and way too drawn out. The soundtrack doesn't help much either, creating a horrible atmosphere. I believe this is Oliver Stones attempt at a Quentin Tarantino move, but fails on so many levels. It's actually depressing to think about, knowing that I wasted two hours of my life watching it. I would love to meet Oliver Stone and beat him over the head with the DVD I wasted £3.99 on. "},{"Title":"Stone throws everything onto the screen","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bobby (Sean Penn) is on his way to pay off a debt to a gangster who has already taken two fingers. His car breaks down as he pulls into desert outpost Superior, Arizona in the middle of nowhere. He leaves the car with Darrell (Billy Bob Thornton) the mechanic. He hits on Grace McKenna (Jennifer Lopez) but she's actually married to Jake (Nick Nolte) who catches them kissing. After punching him, Jake drives him back to town suggesting a scheme to kill Grace. A robbery at the store ends with his bag of money shot to bits. Darrell has his car ripped apart and wants $150 for the trouble. He calls the gangster who is not happy and sends a thug. At the diner, he talks to Jenny (Claire Danes) which provokes her boyfriend Toby N. Tucker (Joaquin Phoenix). Bobby goes to Jake with a proposal.Director Oliver Stone is throwing everything onto the screen but not enough of it sticks. He fills this with crazy characters. The music and sound is deliberately wacky. He's trying so hard that it almost hurts to watch this. The style is so random that it all gets a bit tiresome. The characters are not compelling and Sean Penn doesn't make me care about his character. The temperature may be hot but there is no heat about any of this. "},{"Title":"T.N.T (Totally No Turn)","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Wow. What a weird movie. And from Oliver Stone no less.But what a cast! Penn, Nolte, Lopez, Boothe, Voight, Thorton, Phoenix, Danes...etc.I expected a little more intensity from Penn. he seemed to weak and easily manipulated. But his character seem to demanded him to be that way.Nolte as the dirty old man who is and has been basically raping his step-daughter Lopez, was OK. He seemed very thin back in 1997. maybe the role demanded it.Lopez as the femme fatale per say did OK also. Her scenes of making love with Penn and Nolte just did not seemed convincing at all. But still, she held her own with the these two heavyweights of the cinema.Boothe was once again doing yet another part as a sheriff. But I felt he was wasted as usual. he really didn't have much to do but just get killed.Phoenix as T.N.T was a treat. he seemed to remind me of a young Ray Liotta. Intense and psychotic at the same time. All for the love of a woman. He was one of the memorable characters of the this unusual film.Danes was wasted as his girl who really wants to leave this hick town and leave with Penn. Thus inciting Phoenix's jealousy big-time.Thorton for me stole the picture along with Phoenix. Thorton's 'Darrell' embodied the true redneck nightmare one can encounter in these small one-horse towns. He's scary and funny at the same time. A real complete treat of casting here for Billy Bob.Voight, I did not recognize at 1st! that's how much i was paying attention. But it's because I was focusing on the other characters in the film. Voight's blind guy was somewhat memorable once you know it's him under that makeup.Julie Hargerty's waitress was OK but her scenes were way to short to appreciate them, plus she was somewhat exemplified a little exaggerating as a typical redneck town waitress.Laurie Metcalf fared a little better as the Bus Station Clerk giving Penn a hard time for not having the exact amount to buy a ticket for the bus. But again her role was brief. good but brief.Abraham Benrubi as a biker/thief was also way too brief and was also wasted. he could have been an interesting character, but was blown away way to quickly. And by a little old lady no less! I would have had him cast as the Russian enforcer who shows up at the town looking for Penn. But alas I'm not the writer of the film. Shame. But the two stars that I have no idea why they were in the movie at all because their roles were so inconsequential, that any bit-extra actor could have done their brief cameos!! I'm talking about the great Bo Hopkins and the lovely Liv Tyler. Hopkins cameo just didn't make sense to me. He's in the diner when Penn encounters Phoenix and Danes for the 1st time, but he is just a simple customer in the background!? What the hell? I believe he didn't even have any lines!? I think Stone could have put him to better use as the sheriff of the town. And had Boothe as the mafia guy that Penn owed money to.But the worst cameo was Tyler's blink or you'll miss her as the customer behind Penn at the bus station wanting to buy a ticket and Metcalf's clerk is so distraught over Penn's emotional outburst, that she closes for the day leaving Tyler like what the hell? Exactly. what the hell Stone? What was the point of even having her in the bit scene? I guess we will never know. just like the point of this exaggerating pulp nonsense. "},{"Title":"Did somebody say Red Rock West???","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Just like Richard Donner and Mel Gibson ripped off the Michael Ironside film Mind Field when they made Conspiracy Theory, Oliver Stone almost completely plagerises John Dahl's Red Rock West with this nasty, overlong film. Sean Penn gets involved in murder plot, and can't seem to find his way out of a dead end town. These plot points are absolutely, without question, stolen from the aforementioned film. However, it must be said, u-turn is a very well performed movie. Billy Bob Thornton and Sean Penn are always great, and a grizzly Nick Nolte, and sexy Jennifer Lopez are also solid. The cast is better than in Red Rock West, but that doesn't make it right. Stone stole someone else's idea, and he also goes overboard with the flashy direction and imagery. Not bad...but not original. What a pity. "},{"Title":"Didn't I see this already?","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  About half way through this film I found myself wondering why Stone remade Red Rock West.  There were a few small changes but the essence of the film was the same small town, odd-ball characters, kill my wife plot, inability to leave...  Checking here I find it wasn't a remake at all!  Now, I always enjoy what I call Bad Day films; where the main character just can't get a break (ie After Hours) and I was amused and entertained by this one.  But I felt it lacked the humor so well done in Red Rock West.  (The cast in that is just as good Nick Cage, Dennis Hopper, Lara Flynn Boyle. Cage, when asked, said this was his favorite film)  It perhaps ran a little too long as well.Who's ripping off who?  Red Rock vs U Turn rent em and decide for yourself.  "},{"Title":"Wow! lets see that again!","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed the over the top acting of Billy bob in this film .It has more twist and turns that will make your head spin .I love Jeniffer Lopez she is a screwed up girl in the head that totally turned off my friend who is in love with her.Stone is a master that takes the envelope of film making and pushes it to the extreme ,its a wild ride with a great ending it will put you on the ground with laughter.  "},{"Title":"Black comedy at it's most cruel.","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  U-Turn, in my opinion, is Oliver Stones' best work in the '90s. As more of a black comedy than a drama, the movie really does capture Bobby Cooper's (Sean Penn) disdain (the jump cuts work really well and the soundtrack spins some of the most ironic tunes in contrast to the movie's theme...not to mention doom). Even though not exactly an 'actor's movie', there are some excellent performances especially by the unrecognisable Billy Bob Thornton as the weird mechanic who actually personifies the modern term of 'horror'. No actors are wasted at all, in my opinion, even Sean Penn shines as bright as the Arizona sun his character is in and I was particularly surprised with his tormented performance as a man stranded in the middle of nowhere, a fear I suppose everyone has deep inside...he's perfect for the role. Rent this video on a hot and sunny summer's day for best results.  "},{"Title":"Twisted and stylish neo-noir comedy","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Inclined to dislike much of Oliver Stone's work, I did not appreciate U Turn until the second viewing, where I found myself reading the film as comedy and appreciating the excellent timing of the brilliant Sean Penn.  Capturing the feel and look of heat better than any film since Do the Right Thing, Stone stylistically echoes his dreadful and idiotic Natural Born Killers, but ultimately makes a film one hundred times more entertaining.  Drawing on the unluckiest-guy-in-the-world premise of a small timer whose vintage convertible breaks down in the most deranged small town imaginable, Stone milks the downward-spiraling results by throwing a menagerie of crazies at our hero, compounding his disaster and our enjoyment.  Billy Bob Thornton, John Voight, Claire Danes and Joaquin Phoenix get plenty of juicy opportunities to bounce off of the incredulous and deadpan Penn.   "},{"Title":"Superb directing/acting Meanders like real life!","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Not the usual dispensable Hollywood formula flick, this film oozes with originality and superb camerawork, even the film stock used is appropriate. Great performances from a very talented cast. The best news, no overrated actors like Tom Hanks or Matt Damon. "},{"Title":"A Twisted Tale Of Lust, Murder & Treachery","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" U Turn is often over the top, surreal and comical and Oliver Stone's style of direction plays along with these qualities perfectly. In everything he does, he favours excess over subtlety and utilises a variety of quick and often disconcerting visual techniques to create the hallucinogenic backdrop against which this twisted drama is played out. A collection of highly eccentric characters and some extraordinary performances from a star-studded cast also adds greatly to the enjoyment of watching this interesting treatment of a standard film noir plot (which bears a strong resemblance to Red Rock West).Bobby Cooper (Sean Penn)is a drifter who's driving to Las Vegas to pay off some gambling debts when his car's radiator hose blows and he has to make a detour to the town of Superior, Arizona to get a replacement fitted. Whilst his car is being repaired, Bobby goes into the town centre and almost straightaway, meets Grace McKenna (Jennifer Lopez). She's an attractive woman who needs assistance to carry some newly purchased drapes back to her home and Bobby is pleased to help. They start to get friendly and just as Bobby has his arms around her, Grace's husband Jake (Nick Nolte), arrives and punches Bobby to the ground.A little while later, after Bobby's left Grace's house, Jake offers him a significant amount of money to kill his wife because he's tired of her games. Bobby doesn't show any interest in the offer at that time but does later, after he loses all his money in strange circumstances after unintentionally getting caught up in a convenience store robbery. Before Bobby can go ahead with the planned murder, Grace persuades him to kill Jake so that they can steal her husband's money and go away together. They go ahead with their plan but a series of complications follow and eventually lead to a very tense and unpredictable end to the story.Bobby Cooper is a typical noir protagonist who suffers a misfortune that leads to a whole series of other problems, which all inevitably become more serious and dangerous than the last. This ex-tennis player with a gambling problem had already had two fingers cut off by the gangsters to whom he owed money before he arrived in Superior and the bad luck he suffered when his car broke down was exploited by the unscrupulous mechanic at the local garage who kept raising the cost of the job and threatening Bobby in various ways. Bobby's attraction to Grace got him caught up in a web of lust, murder and treachery and random misfortunes led to him losing his money and becoming trapped in this desert town with no means of escape. His awful predicament is then made even worse by his certain knowledge that the gangsters who want their money back know where he is and are coming to get him.Sean Penn is wonderfully intense and conveys his character's sheer desperation with immense power and conviction. There are also, however, very memorable performances by the rest of the cast who all look as if they're having a lot of fun in their roles as some of the most weird and devious people imaginable.Billy Bob Thornton stands out as the malevolent mechanic with a disgusting appearance and Nick Nolte is suitably gruff and repulsive as a man with an appalling past and no morals. Jon Voight makes a big impression as an allegedly blind Vietnam veteran who's a beggar with a penchant for making philosophical pronouncements and Jennifer Lopez is very good as the femme fatale.This neo-noir account of one man's nightmare contains so many elements that are recognisable from other film noirs that it ultimately becomes a glorious pastiche in which its many moments of dark humour act as a marvellous counterpoint to all the evil and violence that are prevalent throughout the whole story. "}{"Title":"A Wild Ride","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What a wild ride this is with a sleazy, quirky assortment of characters. Billy Bob Thornton is a hoot as the gas station attendant. Jennifer Lopez is as hot as ever. But everybody is watching out for everybody in this noire classic. There are twists and turns galore and we never quite know what is around the corner. Expect the unexpected. It's got a great assortment of stars, who all play their different roles to perfection in this desert saga of intrigue, bloodlust and murder. Yes the bloodlust can get carried away at times, but it's still a great watch. It's also got humour and a great wrap-up at the end! "},{"Title":"An Oliver Stone Version of A David Lynch Film","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've never liked Lynch's movies, like Blue Velvet and Wild At Heart. They have a surreal, nightmarish quality, and the characters are typically weird in a similar way. Though U Turn has Lynch qualities it's a fine film, possibly because the director's vision is not rooted in grotesques like Lynch's! Also, this movie boasts elementary qualities a good movie needs strong plot, interesting characters, terrific performances, and attention-capturing visuals.You won't find any Wizard Of Oz characters in U Turn like in Wild At Heart, or Dean Stockwell made up like a trannie and miming a pop song as in Blue Velvet. Instead you'll find an isolated desert town populated by one weirdo after another, all played with tremendous ability by a top-notch cast. There's Jon Voight, almost unrecognizable beneath the vagrant look and Hispanic accent. There's Nick Nolte, one of cinema's accomplished chameleons, as repulsive a character as I've ever seen (watch the film for more details). There's Joaquin Phoenix giving us a preview of I Walk The Line (and Johnny Cash is on the soundtrack!). There's Jennifer Lopez not only showing her many enticing curves but a pretty respectable ability to act in her femme fatale role.Though I'm not a Sean Penn admirer I have to admit he does well here as a shady drifter whose vintage car breaks down in a desert small town and keeps him from leaving because he just can't seem to come up with the money for the repair. Despite the drifter being no upright character I found myself rooting for him, hoping he'd be able to escape that town! He goes through a variety of heated, well-acted responses to his repeatedly lousy luck--dealing with the muddle-headed mechanic played by a creepy Billy Bob Thornton, being attracted to the alluring wife of the town's big kahuna (Nolte), having an immature kid (Phoenix) try to provoke him because the girlfriend actually spoke with him at a cafe counter. For my money the bus ticket scene is Penn's best in the film. His hysterical desperation is both funny and touching.Let's not forget Stone's visuals. The photography is great, and the scenes telling the characters' pasts are slipped in at just the right times. They reveal much in literally seconds' time. The shots of the vultures are pretty foreboding. Stone's visuals are a big part of the reason why U Turn works.A word of caution this movie has some gore and brutality. Despite that, the plot is a kind of modernized Double Indemnity or Lady From Shanghai with a possibly surprising finale. Also, there is lots of humor to the story. You'll find yourself breaking up at almost everyone's flat-out grotesque weirdness. "},{"Title":"No U-Turn","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I saw U-Turn, I didn't know what to expect. I guess I was looking forward to a good scary suspense flick. But then I was very surprised and found that the content of this movie was far greater and more interesting than just trying to scare the audience. This movie is showing emotions of fear, but also faith, commitment, sadness , and love. The end was so surprising, I gotta see it again. And I will watch it from a totally different perspective (this is a very rare quality for any movie), and I will enjoy it just as much, or maybe even more. I tried to detect fallacies in the story. I couldn't find one. Plus, for those who appreciate great music, the soundtrack only helps to heighten the experience of the film I wish I could say all the things I liked about it but that would spoil your experience. So take a night off and go see U-Turn. Sit back, relax, enjoy, and let it scare you. It's Miller time. "},{"Title":"Because They're....Unimaginative?","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" On the first viewing, this struck me as an overwrought film noir with the tragic overtones slathered on heavily. On second and further viewings, it struck me that seen as an extremely dark comedy, it's hilarious. The so-called comic relief becomes the entire point. Now every time the horns of Ring of Fire announce Powers Boothe striding in to the rescue, I'm ready to bust a gut. The supporting players become either Sean Penn's comic foils or high-strung straight men. Speaking of which, this movie really marked Jon Voight's transition from washed-up blonde leading man to a truly quirky and interesting character actor. My only complaint is that a theme from Ennio Morricone's score kept running through my head before I could remember this is the movie where I heard it. "},{"Title":"Tragicomic page-turner episodes keep you glued to the end","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The film was recommended for its views of an old moribund mining town of Superior, Arizona, despite its content. But we found it to be an Odyssey of a poor sap whose U-Turn got him deeper and deeper into more and more morbidly irresistible situations. Who can he trust? Can he survive the passionate appeal of a seductress with her own agenda? Long after we enjoyed the geographical background scenery we were gripped by the tragicomic sequences and the need to know what or who was happening to whom next. Want action and like antiheros? Enjoy dusty Western locales? Want to console the abused beauty J-Lo? Bored with too-obvious movie characters? If your life gets predictable and you want a change, see U-Turn. "},{"Title":"The Bomb","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I love dark humor. I can't believe that I haven't commented on this movie earlier. How could I forget a masterpiece? This was Oliver Stone's (aside from Natural Born Killers)  most innovative, articulate and unconventional piece of work I have seen. I was very pleased as the credits rolled. And I can't even give you a summary of the story. Just go rent it.This movie was based on artistic merit and the actors did an excellent job as they executed their roles with such delicacy and ease. My hat off to the writer in which this movie was based on. You felt and understood each of the characters as wacky as they were. Lets see, it was an all star cast with Voight, Boothe, Nolte, Thorton,Pheonix and that skinny girl. Even Liv Tyler was in this. This is one of those movies where time is a factor working against the character in need of a resolution but is restrained with a host of bizarre circumstances such as a busted car pipe, a Russian gangster on his tail, a beautiful but dangerous beauty with a complex past, a U-turn, and a host of other goodies for the plot storyline. Once again classics like Memento, The Usual Suspects, When a Stranger Calls, and American Beauty place you in the story. How innovative and unique. I initially came in clueless of what this movie was really about but, I liked Sean Penn, and Jennifer Lopez when she was just Jennifer Lopez. The previews were brief but interesting about seemingly simple events that take a turn for the worse. Sounds trite to say this but, I loved this movie. "},{"Title":"one of the best ever stone movie","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hi all Im french and not fond of hollywood movies but Oliver Stone's movies have always let me with this feeling i like about watching a movie... I remember when this movie first came out in the cinema, really bad critiques, but i never trusted the critiques(good or bad). I decided to go and see it and this was one of my best moment i never encountered. This movie is for me a great achievement of stone... The colors are really artistics, as in most stone movie but id say this one is bit ahead.Camera shooting are so beautifull, and the music... The story is quite bloody but funny in the meantime, and well acted by lopez and penn. Definetely it is my favourite Stone movie with platoon. Enjoy life all of u Alexis "},{"Title":"Oliver stone gave Nixon a bad name when he did this movie","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is weird. He was doing an experimental film out of this one. You notice in this movie the camera tricks. Tinting,floating shots,tilted cameras, rear and back visual projections,plus quick cut editing, mismatches, odd captions, illogical transitions with the periodical angles and rhythm of editing. Thanks to Hank Corin and Robert Richardson "},{"Title":"Incredible...Oliver Stone's Best.","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  U-Turn is a truly amazing movie. Sure, it has the normal Oliver Stone stuff, like graphic violence, strong language, and explicit sex. But those are just some of the pluses (hehehe). However, the best quality to this movie is the un-predictable plot. You never know what our main character, Bobby, is going to have happen to him next. I strongly recommend this film. But those of you who are offended easily, stay away...stay FAR away.  "},{"Title":"Is Stone falling?","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I once watched mr. stone commenting on Hitchcock and strangers on a train. His summary of Hitchcock's work was this complete sacrifice of content for the sake of form.Now we see that Mr.Stone's own movie(not film, of course) -U turn - not only is devoid of any appreciable content, but also - In spite of arduous work by the excellent actors to make something out of it-has many flaws in technique and style.Where the movie is not boring , it is disturbingly aimless . I have a lot of respect for Mr. Stone , and I hope He is not going where he appears to be going. "}{"Title":"Dark Comedy Film Noir served with fineness","Date":"1 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Compelling characters & cast drive film noir into excellent sunset.Have you every felt down on yourself. Nothing goes right during the day? Hmmmm? SEE his movie.With twists and turns along the highway of deceit and corruption, this is a great film to watch. With great dialog, acting, characters, and sound track/score I can't understand why this film didn't make more money at the BO.This dark comedy film noir is a character and cast buffet of delightful snacks. Imagine a town with Hero on the run from the mob stranded in town, the local filthy, goofy rip-off backyard mechanic, a ultra hot sexy femme fatale, tough local sheriff, really crusty old local perverted rich guy, crusty old poetic blind man, cranky & flirty troublesome young couple, Russian mob hit man chasing Hero.Stir, simmer for two hours add Ollie Stone. Yummy! a great stew to be savored with a nice glass of Cabernet SauvignonGuys will need a cold shower after watching femme fatale Grace seduce Bobby while she is hanging her new curtains. (Does the carpet match the drapes?)EXTERIOR DAY &#x96; JUNK YARDDarrell convinces Bobby that it will be hard to fix a blown radiator hose on his 1964 ½ Mustang. (Great Scene) "},{"Title":"More Sarcasm Than Tragedy","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Watching JFK director Oliver Stone's movie U-Turn is like gawking at a gory accident. You know that you shouldn't stare, but the attraction of the mayhem is just too hypnotic. Everything that takes place in U-Turn qualifies as both gory and accidental. None of these grisly characters is remotely sympathetic. They bare their rotten-to-the-core, maggot-infested souls at every turn. Never do they fail to betray a trust. Not even the designated hero, played by Sean Penn, possesses any redeeming qualities. Disgusting and repellent as U-Turn appears, Stone casts a cinematic spell over this sow's ear and transforms it into a silk purse. Sprawling amid scenic, sun-drenched Arizona, U-Turn resembles visually a modern-day spaghetti western with its parched terrain, its grainy images, and its eccentric Ennio Morricone soundtrack. Morricone, you may recall, scored something like 60 Italian oaters. Anyway, his operatic music bristles with the kind of thorny twangs that accent character and underscore atmosphere.Scenarist John Ridley adapted his novel about murder and incest entitled Stray Dogs. This saga is as recklessly amoral as they come. You'll probably recognize the other movie genre with which it collides. The 1940s film noir genre featured doomed characters wallowing helplessly in a bottomless quicksand of tragedy. Guided by motives and instincts less than charitable, these characters displayed no qualms about selling out. Movies such as Double Indemnity (1944), Detour (1945), and Out of the Past (1947) and more recent efforts like Red Rock West (1993) epitomize film noir. More so than even these movies, U-Turn festers like an unsightly pustule and let its loathsome elements disperse in all their unsavory glamor on the big screen. No, U-Turn doesn't celebrate the human spirit; it destroys it. It's a movie where everything goes as wrong as it can go.Things have been going wrong for Bobby Cooper (Sean Penn) long before we see him cruising though the steamy desolation of Arizona in a 1964 red convertible Mustang. He plans to pay off his debt there to a nasty Russian loan shark. This $30-thousand debt has already cost him the last two fingers of his left hand. Bobby used to be a tennis coach, so you can see what irreversible damage this ritual mutilation has had on him. Somewhere in the desert near Globe, Arizona, Bobby's Mustang overheats. His radiator hose blows so he wheels into Darrell's garage. One look at Darrell (Billy Bob Thornton of Sling Blade), a grimy, motor-oil encrusted redneck mechanic who exposes his navel for all to see, and Bobby fears the worst. Since our protagonist cannot afford to take his car elsewhere, he leaves it in Darrell's greasy hands. One thing you can say about U-Turn is that it loosens a motley crew of characters. You would never eat dinner with any of these scum bags. You don't feel much sympathy for them either because they are all such pathetic wretches.Bobby runs into the beguilingly seductive Grace (Jennifer Lopez of Anaconda) on her way to hang drapes. He convinces her to let him lug her load. Later, at her palatial ranch house, Bobby makes a pass, and Grace reciprocates. Bursting in on them comes Grace's squinty-eyed husband Jake (Nick Nolte of North Dallas Forty). He drops Bobby with a knuckle-sandwich to the nose. Afterward, when Jake and Bobby get to acting like pals, Jake tries to persuade Bobby to kill Grace. Jake has a $50-thousand insurance plan on her. Bobby refuses. He is only waiting for Darrell to fix his ride and then he is out of there.Each scene in U-Turn is a visual tour-de-force. Some of the images are particularly haunting. Grace tells Bobby about a fortune in cash that Jake has stashed in a floor safe. Stone shows us a high-angle shot of a naked Nolte sitting on the floor with a raven perched on his shoulder as he counts his loot. The scene on a mountain where Bobby nearly pushes Grace to her death has a breathless, high-wire quality. Stone knits the exposition (stuff you need to know about the characters and the plot) seamlessly into the action. During a shower, Bobby relives the painful memory of having his fingers clipped off in a storm.The performances are magnetic. Sean Penn has never been more expressive as a jinxed gambler who swears his luck is indestructible. Nolte is incredibly lecherous as Jake. Gaunt, with fuzzy whiskers that match his cropped thatch of hair, Nolte appears straight out of chemotherapy. Lopez exudes a warm, sensuous sexuality that has the wail of the sirens calling in it. Powers Boothe plays a suspicious, hard-bitten sheriff who doesn't like what he sees going on between Bobby and Grace.Oliver Stone said he wanted to produce a movie with no political agenda. I wanted to make a film that would be judged on its merits as a movie and not be debated because of whatever political or social 'message' someone might want to read into it or impose on it. As off-beat and amoral as U-Turn emerges, perhaps the controversial director should have given more thought to his intentions. U-Turn seems as much of an indictment of contemporary American society as Platoon was about Vietnam. U-Turn, however, is played more for sarcasm than tragedy. "},{"Title":"Some days nothing goes right.","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oliver Stone directs this dramatic dark comedy about a small-time hood(Sean Penn)on the run with mob money. On the way to Las Vegas his car breaks down in a desolate little town Superior Arizona where the locals tend to welcome their guest with doses of sex, infidelity and murder-for-hire. Quirky, dark and humorous and full of off beat characters. Also in the cast areNick Nolte, Powers Boothe, Jennifer Lopez and Billy Bob Thornton. Even smaller parts are filled by Joaquin Phoenix and Claire Danes. Some comical relief comes from the old blind man played by Jon Voight. John Ridley's screenplay has you feeling sympathy for a character who probably has never deserved any. Fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Toby N. Tucker","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While my two sisters watching this movie, I was listening to music. But I began to pay attention to see this one where Toby N. Tucker and his girl-friend(Claire)came to screen.This psycho couple was the reason I endured this movie to end. Joaquin Phoenix was hilarious. I'd never realized that he's so talented in even comedy. To me this movie was painful to watch except this psycho cute couple.  "},{"Title":"Sort of good but not really","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm a huge fan of Oliver Stone, he's one of my favourite directors, but I've never been so on-the-fence about any of his movies. U-Turn has many good qualities, and also many bad qualities, too. I loved all the scenes with Bobby's interaction with the crazy townspeople, and I couldn't help but be amused when something bad happens to him. But the actual plot is stupid. The twists, turns, and double-crossings were so ridiculous that it seems like it's just spoofing a bunch of movies with those kinds of plot lines. It likely was the intention, but that still doesn't make it right. It's highlight is mostly the great cast and great acting.U-Turn is definitely at the bottom of the list when it comes to Oliver Stone films, but if you've seen 'em all, you might as well see this one, too. After all, there are plenty of fans of the movie, and I sort of thought it was good....and kind of liked it. But I know Stone is above this and I expected more.My rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"Something of a Mess","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A young punk drifter (Sean Penn) heading to Vegas to pay off his gambling debt before the Russian mafia kills him, is forced to stop in a Arizona town where everything that can go wrong, does go wrong for him.What the heck is this? We have a decent cast, from Sean Penn to Joaquin Phoenix to Claire Danes (to name a few). A director (Oliver Stone) who is not perfect, but has made generally good films. And yet, this is sort of a mess.Stone lets his artistic creativity go wild, with disastrous results. The camera angles and shots are goofy, and the plot is a bit too weird. While it seems like a metaphor for purgatory (or something like that), it comes out just being something of a poorly-mixed goulash. "},{"Title":"Stone's U-Turn.","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" U-Turn (1997) Dir Oliver Stone / Cast Sean Penn, Jennifer Lopez, Nick Nolte, Powers Booth, Billy Bob Thornton A definite mess by director Oliver Stone with stylish shots and editing but no real focus. It seems to address bad decisions that result in fatal consequences. Sean Penn plays a gambler who arrives in a small town. When the money suffers a shotgun blast he frets over the possibility of losing more fingers than the two he already lost. He meets a woman who is being abused by her husband and she makes him a cash offer for his death. Her husband makes him the same offer regarding his daughter. No plot forming but rather just a series of often pointless mishaps. Director Oliver Stone is not focused here despite the fact that the film is well made technically. It isn't focused like his work in Natural Born Killers. Penn displays his desperate anguish as someone caught between the mob, and committing murder and leaving it obvious that there is no positive outcome. Jennifer Lopez as the seductive vixen with a venomous offer provides tension. Nick Nolte plays her sadistic husband who makes an offer of his own. Powers Booth plays the sadistic town Sheriff who also shares a past with the Lopez character. Billy Bob Thornton plays a mechanic who is as strange as everyone else in this film. While the film is somewhat entertaining, it serves as a complete u-turn for Stone. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Only worth watching for Billy Bob...","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A cast-ful of talent wasted on this tedious bit of desert pseudo-film-noire. The plot's been covered at length here so just a few thoughts 1. All the bills in a bag full of money are ENTIRELY DESTROYED by one shotgun blast? Really? This is a critical plot device because the whole movie depends on Sean Penn becoming penniless and trapped inside Superior, Arizona. And what happened to all the money debris that was floating around this store after the robbery? Oh, note that 3 $100 bills did survive because Penn gives those to the shop-owner so she'll keep mum about his presence during the robbery. C'mon, he could have least picked up the pieces and pasted together enough money to pay for his car repair ($200) and get the heck out of Dodge. 2. Billy Bob Thorton is a hoot, as usual when he plays ugly, disgusting characters, which appears to be his natural forte. Covered head-to-toe with grey oil stains and smiling through hideously rotten teeth, he's the only major character in this film that we do NOT see enough of. He's got some great funny lines, too, like at one point when Penn calls him every name in the book, he responds with Are those insults? Are you insulting me? Penn gets what he deserves with the rude, insulting treatment he renders to the only guy for 50 miles who can fix his broken radiator hose.3. A young Claire Danes is enjoyable to watch as the teen-aged girl friend of an obnoxious and blowhard Joaquin Phoenix, who gets his butt kicked by Penn after accusing Penn of coming onto his girlfriend. These secondary scenes are actually more enjoyable to watch than the main action.4. As for what happens to Penn's character in the end... all I can say is Stupid Is as Stupid Does. "},{"Title":"Driving under the influence","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Oliver Stone's film is full of quirky characters and does a U-turn from being a complicated little thriller into the realm of black comedy.Stone turned up the irony knob just a little too high in U Turn; no one wins and everyone meets an end that has its own ironic twist.Sean Penn plays Bobby Cooper, an unlikely tennis coach who is driving across Nevada with a bag of money. He needs to repay a debt to criminals who have cut off two of his fingers to expedite the repayment. He takes a U-turn off the main road when his prized, 1964 and a half Mustang Convertible bursts a radiator hose. He ends up in Superior, a dilapidated town 200 miles from Phoenix.Bobby leaves his car to be fixed at a repair shop on the edge of town run by the disgustingly dirty and dentally challenged Darrell played by Billy Bob Thornton.He meets Grace McKenna, Jennifer Lopez's character, who invites him home to help her hang curtains. When Grace's husband Jake, played by Nick Nolte, finds them together, he punches Bobby. Not your typical hero, Bobby falls to the floor whining. He can't take a trick. Robbed, beaten up, conned and used, he has little control over his life. Even his mother hangs up the phone when he rings her for help.Although Jake initially dismisses Bobby as a wimpy, pipsqueak, he offers him money to kill Grace, noting of Bobby's character, You're a man without scruples, also telling him not to be offended because, A man who's got no ethics is a free man. At first, Bobby refuses the offer, but after his fortunes plunge even further, he has second thoughts and agrees to kill Grace, leading to more double and triple crosses than it would be thought possible to cram into one movie.As Bobby becomes more involved with Grace, he discovers that she is also Jake's daughter &#x96; a U-turn into Roman Polanski territory. However, the surprise twist in Polanski's Chinatown is just more plot overkill in U Turn. Eventually Bobby and Grace plan to get rid of Jake and take his money.Grace McKenna is very much sought after by men in this movie; an interest that proves fatal to all of them. However, Bobby Cooper is not quite besotted enough to want to share Jake's money with her, and they try to outmanoeuvre each other at every turn. The most ironic twist of all is reserved for Bobby when he is virtually the last man standing.No tricky camera angle is avoided in U Turn, and like so much else in the film, this is overdone to the point that you almost expect every scene to be reflected in someone's sunglasses or viewed between the cameraman's legs.Despite its pretentiousness, the spectacular cast and the outrageous plot keep you going until the end &#x96; even if that ending is a bit of a letdown. "},{"Title":"U Turn","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" With a very good looking cast, and directed by Oliver Stone, I could see no reason to miss this black comedy thriller. Basically drifter Bobby Cooper (Sean Penn) has his car break down in the desert while on the run from some bookies, who took two of his fingers, and he is trapped in a small deserted town full of strange people. Bobby can't wait to leave when mechanic Darrell (Billy Bob Thornton) has fixed his car, but then he meets and gets very close to married Grace McKenna (Jennifer Lopez). When he finds he doesn't have the money to pay for the full repairs, Bobby considers the offer from Grace's husband Jake (Nick Nolte) to kill her, and then later, she hires Bobby to kill him. The stakes are getting higher and higher, and the film gets more and more violent with the fight for the large sum of money that Jake has and they try and get away with, which in the end, none of them do. Also starring Powers Boothe as Sheriff Potter, Claire Danes as Jenny, Joaquin Phoenix as Toby N. Tucker 'TNT', Jon Voight as Blind Man, Airplane's Julie Hagerty as Flo and Liv Tyler as Girl in bus station. I wouldn't have guessed it was low budget, considering the amount of good actors, but on the other hand, I can see it with the amount of violence and quite a simple but effective concept. Very good! "}{"Title":"Great ingredients, so-so meal; call it Film Blanc...","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's an interesting ride, U-Turn is; but the incredible talents of just about everyone involved in the film don't live up to the potential.The individual performances are suitably over-the-top (for the most part) - in fact, the only characters in the entire film that seem even remotely normal are the guys that hold up the groceria. They act just like you'd expect hoodlums to behave (but in the end, they are little more than props). None of the other characters act like you think they should. First impressions of each one are quickly destroyed, only to have it shattered as you progress deeper below the surface. The only problem is that the chocolatey center of this celluloid Tootsie-Pop isn't all that tasty. The shocking revelation toward the end was so obvious to me from almost the very beginning that I found the on screen reactions to it to be too comical to be believed.I would say that Sean Penn has never been better, but I think that's true for almost every film he is in. He's the straight man, for the most part, and the film revolves around him (revolves doesn't quite say it? Better to say spins wildly out of control around him).I'd have to categorize it as Film Blanc; a good Film Noir tale, but almost completely outdoors in the bright sun. It has all the traditional elements, but it still doesn't quite come together. Film Noir works best in the shadows...U-Turn is to Oliver Stone what Wild at Heart was to David Lynch. In both movies, you're left with a distinct flavor of What the Hell?If you liked Natural Born Killers (which I did), you will probably like this film a lot; which is not to say it's much like NBK at all, but it's in the same vein. And in the end, J.Lo does get her wish of becoming a bird and flying away... but I suspect not in the way she intended, and the final shot seems to point to this interpretation.Technically, the film is stunning. The visuals, the soundtrack, the performances, the direction, the flow of the story... but it's like taking a very long trip in a really great car, only to end up in an extremely dull place that just wasn't quite worth the time or the drive (which, now that I think about it, is a very good way of describing the movie - in more ways than one).6/10  "},{"Title":"Were they making this up as they went along?","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While I found this to be entertaining, it's nothing more than a time-waster if you're expecting something with more substance or social commentary. I expected something more from Stone, but this was purely fluff for the sake of entertainment.Not that there's anything wrong with that but it was highly derivative of other road type movies like Red Rocks West and Kalifornia. What's worse, their were no characters I could identify or sympathize with. As a result, I found it to be pretty forgettable. I watched this last night on TNT and it wasn't until it was half way over when I realized I had seen it before.It seems as if they were making this up as they went along. It leaps from one outrageous scene to the next while becoming more and more improbable. And there's very little background on any of the characters, including Penn. Why does he owe those guys all that money? Maybe I missed that part, but I think the characters should have been more fleshed out. Instead, they're stereotypes and cartoonish.Anyway, if you're sick in bed and have nothing better to do, it might be fun to watch, just don't expect too much. I give it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"So Oliver Stone","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I had never heard of 'U Turn' before and only really bought it for one reason, Sean Penn, but upon watching it I was drawn into the world of Oliver Stone once again. After recently seeing 'Natural Born Killers' for the first time I was instantly blown away with just how specific Oliver Stone is in his films. The look, sound and feel of both the films seemed to connect and interlock so well it was almost I could see Mickey and Mallory driving across the desert at the same time. As for 'U Turn' I could only see one main flaw, Jennifer Lopez, I didn't believe anything that she said and did from start to end. Where every other character seemed to naturally grow and develop, Grace McKenna/ Jennifer Lopez just seemed to add more and more complication to herself, to the point where I know longer felt I knew anything about her. The only part of her I knew for sure was that she likes to play games, although this was a key point of her character, in my opinion I felt that she needed more in order to make me feel sorry for her when she met her decline at the end of the film, cause personally I wasn't bothered by it. "},{"Title":"Not Stone's finest work, but it's edgy - spoilers","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What does a big-time city slicker do when his car overheats in a down-on-its-luck town in the middle of the Arizona desert? Everything.`U Turn' illustrates just how bad a day can go when you're Bobby Cooper (Sean Penn), a man who has to deliver $30,000 in cash to a crime syndicate or else. This dark comedy/suspense maroons Bobby in the worst places, keeping your pulse high for the entire ride.Bobby, anxious to take care of business in Las Vegas, busts a radiator hose in the midst of a hot day in Arizona. He pulls his '64 ½ Mustang to the only repair shop for 50 miles. The seemingly dim-witted Darrell (Billy Bob Thornton) runs this threadbare establishment; he seems to make the majority of his income swindling unsuspecting out-of-towners with ever mounting repair bills.Realizing he has to stick around for a while, Bobby goes out in search of something to eat. Here, he meets a slew of local yokels, and one ravishing Grace McKenna (Jennifer Lopez). Unfortunately, his sexual romp with Grace lands Bobby in the sights of her husband, Jake (Nick Nolte). But after apologizing for a brief session of fisticuffs, Jake makes Bobby an offer he can't refuse kill his wife for a cut of $50,000 in life insurance. The offer looks all the more tempting when a robbery gone awry loses the cash Bobby was intending to give to his associates. Unfortunately, Bobby can't manage to pull off the murder and he gets caught in Grace's endless cycle of lovers. If that weren't enough, he has runs in with local tough guy Toby N. Tucker (Joaquin Phoenix), locally referred to as TNT, with a nasty jealousy case over his girlfriend Jenny (Claire Danes). Top it off with an insightfully blind Vietnam vet (Jon Voight) and a crooked cop (Powers Boothe) and you have a recipe for a top-notch plot full of bizarre turns. The funny part is no matter how hard he tries and how many chances he gets, Bobby just can't manage to get his money and get out of town. Rather, he becomes the hit man of choice for everyone needing to dispose of a spouse.Oliver Stone's suspenseful direction shines yet again. His masterful camera work visually transforms this from an average cinematic showing to a dynamic feature. He contrasts the Ansel-Adams-like desert scenery shots with the desolation of the shantytown. He effectively uses flashbacks, explaining Bobby's and Grace's backgrounds. Other visual elements abound. Buzzards and crows wait for ensuing carnage. The desert heat's sweat and stink roll off each character's forehead with each painful close-up. You might want to take a glass of water with you.But the main strength of this movie lies in its cast. Names like Sean Penn, Nick Nolte, Jennifer Lopez, Jon Voight and Billy Bob Thornton rarely end up in the same film together. But it's not just the reputation they carry; it's the characters they portray. Perhaps most humorous is Thornton's depiction of the crooked mechanic Darrell. Of course, Penn delivers a believably slime-ballish Bobby-a character you love cheering against. Jennifer Lopez, however, probably tires of her roles as femme fatale in her hackneyed performances. But the couple of Claire Danes and Joaquin Phoenix add some much-needed comic relief as the unpredictable slack-jawed kids.For $3, this film should serve a couple hours of above average suspense and long list of Hollywood names rivaled only by movies like `The Royal Tenenbaums' and `Magnolia.' You shan't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Didn't really live up to its reputation!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Even though I watch way too many films, and try to see every single mainstream film that is considered worth watching, I had never seen U-Turn.  Having heard so much about it, not to mention seeing the trailer hundreds of times, I was expecting a great movie.  It didn't live up to my expectations.  It is a good movie, there is no doubt about that, but I felt there were too many holes in the storyline, and Sean Penn just a bit too pitiful for my taste.  ****WARNING SPOILER*****What didn't fit was this thing about getting the car.  Sean Penn was already on the wrong side of the law, and he was considering murdering someone to get out of town (i.e. to pay for his car).  Why didn't he just steal a car, or rob someone?  And on top of that, when his money is shoot to bits, he doesn't even try to salvage most of it, but only grabs handful of dollars which he gives mostly to the shopkeeper.  Furthermore, he promises Jennifer Lopez character to get her out of town, but that they first have to get money for his car.  I'm sorry, but she already owned a jeep.  Why didn't they just take that vehicle?   There is not much to criticize or compliment about the acting.  I felt it was average performance, with some inconstancy among most of the characters, though Billy Bob Thornton was great.  7/10  "},{"Title":"A carbon copy","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A carbon copy of Michael Williams movie Red Rock West. A tighter and more expensive production but still a copy, see the original instead. Its difference from Michael Mann's LA takedown and Heat, where Heat is the copy, the original is much better. The only thing that's better in U turn is JoLo. "},{"Title":"Fascinating and hard-edged.","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The breakdown (the scores are out of four stars)TECHNICAL **** - It's Oliver Stone behind the camera. Fantastic cinematography, inventive optical effects, and generally awesome special effects.ARTISTIC *** - Stone is a showoff director who loves to milk a camera for all it's worth, and this is what makes him controversial. Some like it, some don't. I love his directing style, and that's why his movies appeal to me. Basically, the whole movie is shot from unusual camera angles, sometimes in handheld, sometimes in Steadycam. There's also an abundance of optical effects like blurring (radial and otherwise, fast zooms, and the like). The acting is generally good, but nothing to write home about. Penn is as great as always, Nolte is pretty good, Lopez is good. It also helps that even the less important characters are played by good actors, so there's really no acting crime here.STORY ***1/2 - A twisted, violent, raunchy film-noir with some sick twists, it's pretty complex, and pretty interesting. The characters are all fascinating in a weird way, and you can be sure that they're pretty much all twisted and sick. My only complaint is that the story lacks a certain rythm, but it's still very fascinating.OVERALL (not an average) ***1/2 - Basically, if you like film-noirs, if you like dark, twisted plots, and if you like Stone's style, you'll like this movie. "},{"Title":"Sardonic But Condescending (As Usual)","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Divested of his usual fringe politics, Oliver Stone's shock theater-style of filmmaking serves him reasonably well in this hothouse noir that takes place in Arizona. Aided by a well-written screenplay by John Ridley (adapted from his novel Stray Dogs, unread by this reviewer), Stone's hyperdriven and garish storytelling is suitably matched to the darkly funny--if irrelevant--plot about a drifter (Sean Penn) trapped in a nightmarish town where murder is the only economically feasible way out. Stone clearly wants to let loose with the material, and he does occasionally, but it's his nature to take things far too seriously and his usual condescension for his characters eventually comes through. Still, it's consistently sardonic enough to be compulsively watchable, if not enervating. The acting is uniformly excellent (the celebrity cast is huge) with Jennifer Lopez a revelation and standout. "},{"Title":"Oliver at the gates of wonderland","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I don't have great consideration for Stone, and the vast majority of his films. He seems to be one of those dull guys who only talk to be heard, who only find significant that other people are around so they can agree to what he's saying, nod affirmatively, and giving him the standing ovations his bright intellect deserves. Actually i think there is a huge number of directors (and other artists) who fall into this kind of personality category. I suppose always trying to form an opinion above the average minds makes them think they are themselves different than the ordinary masses. Well sometimes they are, and thus justify the arrogance Wenders and Tarantino (sometimes). Others are just dumb egocentric personalities. Stone is one of them. All his political babbling are conspiracy theories he seriously portrays as unquestionable truth. Platoon was a great experience, but other than that there is not much to see.This film, however, deserves some credit. Oh, Stone's personality is here, and that waists the experience in a great portion. But there were interesting people working here, and risks were taken, even by Oliver. So although this is, after all, a failure, i think it is a worthy one, almost glorious, because there was ambition behind it, and true commitment to get there.This is a Coen set up, one where the ordinary world provides us with bizarre answers to odd situations. We start, just as Penn, outside of the world. At the beginning we are literally driven to that crazy physical set, and also literally left stranded there. And apart from the story that links Penn to Lopez to Nolte, all the surrounding characters exist to guarantee us that the world is tricky, bizarre, and untrustable. This is absolutely cinematic, and it is the greatest attempt made here. The Coens are the current masters doing this, already were back than. Penn does a great job, as usual, in this case playing the ambiguity of feeling outside that crazy world and letting himself get sucked into it. Whatever works here certainly has to do with him. Jennifer Lopez can't really act, but actually i think that played in favour of the film here, because by not controlling her acting, she didn't allow us to see through her, and that's a good thing given the story. She's also, of course, a physical character, her body counts. Phoenix, Danes, Billy Bob, Voight. Each episode that involves them depends on them as actors, so this is a film about acting, even if Stone wouldn't want that so much.What ruins this is to see how Oliver Stone collected so many visual tricks, and uses them all indiscriminately, at every moment. All those editing tricks, of splitting what you hear from what you see, plus the film tricks that change colours sometimes. Stone thought that would be enough to grant the film the mood he wanted. Actually some of them might actually be very powerful, but they require a sensitive mind to use them, not someone who stares at a mirror while he conceives his work. Stone had a good shot, he could have made us really cross into this world, but he blew it because he wouldn't erase himself from the film, he could allow this to be fully a collective effortMy opinion 3/5http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I heard that all bad reviews from the critics, I thought that this one will be one of the worst films Sean Penn ever made but as tag-line says expect the unexpected. This film needed more attention. I guess it is the most original work of Oliver Stone, plot is very original, acting performances were also brilliant as well as the script. It is probably one of the funniest films that Sean ever made. Film has some twists and sex scenes that features Jennifer Lopez. It is the only film she shows her breasts clearly and this is a plus point. By the way, film has ensemble cast including Joaquin Phoenix, who portrays one of the hilarious characters in the film.I recommends U Turn to everyone, it is such a great black comedy and I don't know what's critics problem with that. Watch that! You'll like it! "}{"Title":"Modern Noir ruined by Director Intrusion","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Oliver Stone is guilty of Director Intrusion. The film could have been an interesting twist on the old noir premise of a stranger in a small weird town hired to do murder for a jealous husband which then becomes a triangle when he falls in love with the young wife. But the way this is edited with a million different shots and angles and diversions (kind of a fall-out from Natural Born Killers), it leaves little to the imagination. We get too much of what we don't need. I would rather be sucked in by the characters then by the director wanting to make something creative. Oliver Stone must have been suffering from director's mid-life crisis. He tries too hard, which is a sin of directing; he - the artist behind the canvas - shouldn't be in anyone's mind the actors and the story - the painted portrait - are all we need to center on. But it was difficult in this film. Sean Penn seemed kind of listless (maybe because Stone's camera tricks got him lost in the mix); Nick Nolte was good but looked like an anorexic Ron Pearlman and seemed like he was imitating a villain; Jennifer Lopez was tough as nails and sexy and to my surprise acted better than either of the male leads. The stand-out is Joaquin Pheonix as a white trash teenager defending his honor, that is, his flirtatious girlfriend played by Claire Daines. If you blink you'll miss a wasted cameo with character actor veteran Bo Hopkins. Julie Haggerty appears as a waitress; Jon Voight as a white/blind Indian with a dead dog that somehow comes back to life; Powers Booth as the town's sheriff; Billy Bob Thorton as a scruffy mechanic who is a fan of the game Twister and the alternative band Ween (one of their country songs is playing on his radio); and Liv Tyler appears for about ten seconds in a bus station. All these appearances leave us with nothing to feel, except that the director himself wanted to be remembered more than the story. Oh well, at least it wasn't a Quentin Tarantino story he messed up this time. "},{"Title":"hilarious characters, a great cast","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A great movie with unexpected twists and turns spiced up through a big portion of black humor! It carries definitely the typical stone signature although it might be an 'unusual' movie for him because of all the grotesque, surreal comedy! Good entertainment from the beginning 'til the end! J-lo's strongest performance in front of a camera! Sean Penn's playing as usual sublime!This character suits him perfectly! Nolton and Billy Bob kick ass and there's even a guest star appearance of Liv Tyler! Sweet! A must see for Penn fans and anybody that's into Stone movies! If you're not into sordid freaky characters, mind twisting turnovers, black humor and gross,hilarious violence, I strongly recommend you to avoid this masterpiece, you'll just waste your time! "},{"Title":"Big time talent and OK story","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Nobody can argue Stone's talent as a director. The guy just shoots really neat looking films, full of quick cuts and haunting music. Even in films of his that I did not really care for, like NBK, I still believed the films were incredible to look at. U-Turn is no exception, it is beautiful to look at, full of great Southwestern shots and scorpions and junkyards, etc. Moreover, you have major league actors like Sean Penn, Nick Nolte, Powers Booth, Billy Bob Thornton, and Joaquin Phoenix. The comedy is sprinkled throughout the film, along with some rather dark subplots, I mean, really dark ones. I thought that the film maybe dragged a tad towards the end, but it was such an ambitious project, that you have to admire it. I give it an 8 and strongly recommend it for people that really want to be transported to a surreal world, the one that Sean Penn must endure and nobody else would ever want to visit. Good stuff from Mr. Stone. "},{"Title":"Misjudged Mess of a Movie","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'd been meaning to catch this thriller for some time as I'm quite a fan of Sean Penn's screen work; however, this misjudged mess of a movie was a major disappointment. Penn plays Bobby a man with gambling debts who finds himself stuck in the small American town of Superior, Arizona, when his car breaks down. This seems to loudly echo John Dahl's superior 1992 thriller 'Red Rock West', but lacks all the style, ingenuity and subtle dark humour that made Dahl's modern-day film-noir such a delight. In comparison, Oliver Stone's film feels clumsy, tacky and, though it obviously aims for black comedy, devoid of any genuine wit. It's hard to believe this is made by the same man who brought classics like 'Platoon', 'Salvador' and 'Born On The 4th Of July' to the screen. The characters are all overblown and cartoon-like, and the impressive cast &#150; including Jon Voight, Joaquin Phoenix, Billy Bob Thornton and Claire Danes &#150; is largely wasted on a script that tries too hard to be witty and clever. Yet for all the plot-twists and contrivances it strives for, the material here only comes across as tired and predictable. "},{"Title":"Great performances... You mean even J Lo???  Well...","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really liked this movie.Whoever cast this movie did a great job Sean Penn, Billy Bob Thornton, Joaquin Phoenix, Claire Danes. Not only that, but you'll actually get to see Nick Nolte AND Jennifer Lopez give good performances as well. Almost seems like that should've created a tear in the space-time continuum, but for whatever reason it didn't. Many movies that have a collection of well-known stars don't work. This one does, probably because most of the actors aren't just Hollywood Stars, but also very good actors as well, such as Penn, Billy Bob, and Phoenix.Oliver Stone directed it, but thankfully didn't get in the way of the movie, like he sometimes does. The cinematography and locations all worked well and added to, instead of detracted from, the film.There is also an intense sex-scene with J Lo & Penn.If you're a fan of J Lo, you'll probably love this movie. Even if you're not a fan of her, like myself, you will still have an enjoyable movie-watching experience. "},{"Title":"Very Funny Satire of Noir Films","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Completely inappropriately for family entertainment, my whole family watched Oliver Stone's U-Turn on premium cable last night and loved it (the script was written by the book's author John Ridley but who knows what Stone did to it).This got panned by critics and lasted in theaters maybe a week. It's a satire of film noir (sort of a send-up of Chinatown including many references to that) the way that John Huston's marvelous Beat the Devil was a satire of intrigue movies.We were hysterical laughing. I thought the kids would wander off to watch basketball, instead we were all riveted to the screen.Terrific cast - Jennifer Lopez as the femme fatale (in all senses of the phrase), Sean Penn (not playing the bad guy - he looks sweet compared to everyone else!), Nick Nolte being warped, and cameos by Claire Danes and Joaquin Phoenix as bimbos, Julie Haggerty as a tough waitress.Very bloody, very 4-letter words, pretty explicit.Who knew that Oliver Stone had a sense of humor? (except for cameos in other movies on conspiracies) (originally written 3/28/1999) "},{"Title":"Unexpected entertainment this movie!","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In spite of the fact that i'm not a big fan of Oliver Stone,i really enjoy this movie!When i first heard of it i was amazed by the variety in the top cast-and i should be!The interpretation of Nick Nolte,Seaun Penn and Billy Bob Thorton are fantastic they all have a crazy-paranoiac style,their characters seem to be ready to do anything to get what they want!I also must say that Jennifer Lopez gives a great performance instead of her other movies!Personally i liked this movie because it is something else,reality seems so different than what we know and and nothing is what we first assumed it will be.Stone's direction is suitable and his shots help the viewer to get into the atmosphere of the place and time.Anyway i recommend it to everyone(fans and not of Oliver Stone)who like adventure,reversals and mysterious types of antiheroes! "},{"Title":"Brilliant.Darkly-Comic Story.Rude Violent.Oliver Stone's another best movie!","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When Oliver made the one of the greatest war movie ever madePLatoon,I amazed with all the parts within this film.It was one of the most wonderful and amazing cinematic film in movie landmark.I wondered he made another great movie again.Then,he proved!He made lots of thousand Grateful,Genius and strong-idealism with art of violence,anarchism and brutal.Until,he made it at 1997U-Turn as one of his typical movie.I fell in love with this movie first time i watched it!I was just can sayIt was the one of the smartest and most brilliant criminal mystery film ever!I Loved it!Oliver Stone gave every player as the unique and stunning characters.Sean Penn seems cold-heart typical guy with his mysterious looks as Temperament-confused and stressful Bobby the explorer guy.Jennifer Lopez looks most deadly-Psychotic woman ever as a femme fatale Grace.And also The Extraordinary-Incredible performance Nick Nolte as Jake an obsessive,false and evil Incest Father.Plus it supported by lots of multi-talented Shinning star like Claire Danes,Billy Bob-Thornton,Joaquin Phonenix,etc.God!You deliver Oliver Stone as one of the most genius and exceptional person ever known in whole world!Loved it!Liked him!Can't wait his new projects!Viva Stone! "},{"Title":"An awesome favorite of mine from Stone!","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is absolutely awesome. I thought the style of directing fit it perfectly, and the actors pulled it off. Sean Penn was great in his role, Jennifer Lopez gave a good performance in this film early in her career. Nick Nolte and Jon voigt were good in their roles. Joaquin Phoenix was great in his small role as a local tough guy. The plot was well constructed concerning a gambler whose car breaks down in a small town called superior, Arizona. Billy Bob Thornton gives the films most memorable performance as a redneck mechanic. This is the best Oliver Stone film I have seen and one of my favs, 10/10. #38 on my list of all time favorite films "},{"Title":"Expect the expected","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Somewhere online the way in Oliver Stone's career he decided to stop making stories and start making cinema. He began experimenting like a student film maker but with a Hollywood budget and cast.The results are not always great but they are always intriguing.U-turn is one of these movies (Natural Born Killers and Any Given Sunday are other examples where he throws out the movie makers handbook to try something compelling).Bobby Cooper is that sort of guy. He wears a cool jacket, drives a cool car and tries to cool. Unfortunately when you are driving through Arizona things get hot, especially with a busted radiator hose.So he ends up in the town of Superior. Where things go from bad to worse, to murder, betrayal, sex and ... well you get the idea.The plot twists come on thick and fast, so much so that some of them I couldn't predict (though most were obvious). It is the style of film making that matters here.I like the feeling of disassociation the feel gives, which is common for people who are tired and in a strange location. Also, while many of the characters are real bastards, you don't really hate any of them. They are part of the scenery of this location.Not the greatest story, but something different from the land of Holly. "}{"Title":"Wake Up!  Get out there.","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Few movies are as vibrant and alive as this one.  If you can't follow it then get off the phone!What else do you need sardonic humor, a simple plot, good character development from a montage of intense characters played by great actors (even, J Lo is cast right . . . you'll see.)  All the players really reach to meet their roles.No review of this movie has to be too long.  The show is captivating, magically humorous in it's life, and always surprising.Been to the desert lately?  You probably won't have as much fun.Don't expect Lawrence of Arabia, that's been done already. "},{"Title":"Most underrated Oliver-Stone-Movie.","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think U-Turn is one of the best movies of the 90´s. Sean Penn gives his best performance since Dead Man Walking, Jennifer Lopez is unusually good and the way Stone makes his movies is brilliant. A really good neo-noir and I would like to say that Nick Nolte is near to look like a poppy. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Oliver Stone picture!","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"    I really like the desert look of this movie, and it`s fascinating to follow Bobby Cooper`s encountering to several strange characters, like Jake McKenna, Grace McKenna, Toby N.Tucker, Blind Man and the Mechanic. Maybe not a classic, but most definitive a personal favorite. By the way Jennifer Lopez really looks good and sexy in her role Grace McKenna!  My rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"This is why I love Stone...","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   This is one hell of a movie. Even months after seeing it on cable I can still recall almost everything. U Turn's thankfully much more watchable and less abstract than Natural Born Killers, but it has a bit of the same atmosphere. If you like Oliver Stone's films in the slightest, and you haven't seen this one, pick it up sometime soon. It's thought-provoking, humorous, and trashy all at once. Like any Stone film, all of the characters are completely insane except for the main character, who's slightly less crazy than the rest. Definitely make sure you've got a few hours to kill, because you won't be turning this off after you start it. "},{"Title":"An Incredibly Funny Film out of Pity for the Characters","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a funny movie!   What a cast of actors.   It shows.   U-Turn is a movie about your average sex, money, and betrayal get-up but it's very well made.   Sean Penn and Nick Nolte are great!   The different personalities is what creates certain confrontations and makes it funny. So many tag lines can be applied to this movie!   Name one and it'll be there!   Different motives are revealed throughout the movie but aren't necessarly the real ones which leads to greed and betrayal.   I felt myself even getting frustrated because the movie sucks you into it, you get so much into the characters that you feel what they do.   An example would be Sean Penn who you feel so sorry for during the film that you'd want to cry and laugh at the same time.   A great film!  "},{"Title":"Entertaining and engaging","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a rare gem. It's not for everyone's taste, but for me it's one the best movies ever. Basically, it's a modern film-noir with dark humor. You can just sit back and enjoy it. But if you look more closely, it's an economic discussion of the morality of modern urban man, economic because a whole bunch of opposites get thrown together urban-rural, male-female, man-animal, exploitation-empathy and so on. Sean Penn is fantastic as the guy who continually fails to do the right thing. The other actors are also at peek performance. Even Jennifer Lopez manages to act. She represents the exploited and lost qualities  native, female, hope...If there is anything bringing the film down at bit, it's the smugness of both directorship and script. Often they are too laid-back, tricky and too much in control of what's going on. This makes the movie more of a pastiche than the real, hit-me-where-I-live thing. But it kind of goes with the territory if you're making a film noir today. Also it's part of the urban decease that this movie condemns, and it's up to the audience to provide more decency, empathy and a way out.I am not a fan of Oliver Stone, and don't care much for his other movies except Salvador, but this one he succeeded with. "},{"Title":"Great and promising start, but as a whole a disappointment.","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oliver Stone is very promising name when it comes to film making. He can direct and write very important and also artistic films such as Platoon. U Turn is directed by him (but not written) and it stars many professional actors like Jon Voight, Nick Nolte, Jennifer Lopez and Sean Penn. The beginning of this black tragedy is very promising and interesting as our protagonist Penn arrives to that little town, Superior, Arizona, and takes his car to garage. He needs the car to be fixed and leave the town as soon as possible, because he has to pay money back to some gangsters. The hot day has just begun, and now he'll have to wait that the car becomes fixed. But immediately strange characters appear and nothing seems to work and go right in that city, and the day becomes a living hell to the protagonist...There are great characters in the film, such as Voight as blind wise cracking man, Billy Bob Thornton as irritating gas station owner, Lopez as mysterious and charming female and Nolte as his husband. Each of them are more or less freaks (almost David Lynch style, but not quite) and Penn cannot stay out of trouble, mainly because of the ultra-beautiful Lopez. As I've said the film starts promisingly as we wonder what is going on in that city and how will Penn get out of there, but soon the film fails and becomes almost unpleasant to watch because the characters are so damn cold and almost unemotional. Nobody seems to be able to communicate without violence and all the characters are either crazy or cold and unable to love or care. I can't see what's the point in this film because there is no conclusion or statement, and all there is is death and hate for each other. This definitely is not Stone's masterpiece, and if you think this director can't make important and emotional films, watch Platoon. One theme here is that old one that inside every human being there is an animal and thus our stupid acts and the film's characters' acts can be explained and understood, but not accepted. Also, the film deals with the subject matter of greed and greed for money in particular, but not as effectively as Fargo does, for instance. U Turn unfortunately fails to be significant film and is after promising start a minor disappointment. Jennifer Lopez is of course beautiful and she is nice to watch but her character should have been much more developed and explained, as all other characters, too.I have to mention that technically this film is almost brilliant as Stone plays with same techniques as in Natural Born Killer, but not quite as much as in Killers. There are fast edits, black and white, weird camera angles and disturbing camera movements. Stone is genius in using these techniques and thus this film is not all bad and is interesting to watch, but inside, as mentioned, there is not much. It is great that he has these fresh and personal techniques in his films and when he adds a great story and content in his films, they become masterpieces.For Stone's fans this is recommended, but considering what Stone has done before, this U Turn is pretty lame. 6 stars out of ten. "},{"Title":"a great movie...with some great twists...","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I stumbled across this movie buried in the DVD section, and it wassurprisingly good!  The cast is quite large and talented...from themain characters to the bit parts.  As an added bonus, you get to seeJ-Lo in all her glory...if you know what I mean.  The movie is a littlelong, and the twists in the plot tend to get a little extreme towardsthe end...but it's well worth a rental.  "},{"Title":"Strange and not for everyone","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bizzare twisted tale from director Oliver Stone. A tale bout a town from hell and the poor guy who wonders in. Sean Penn is good in the lead as the deadbeat loser. Nolte is great playing a brutal old man whos none to fond of his wifes habits.  Good support from Billy Bob Thorton & Powers Boothe. The strange camera angles & odd story make for a movie not for everyone. I loved it. "},{"Title":"devilishly twisted noir gets the oliver stone touch","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oliver Stone could make a sow's ear at least look like a silk purse and he proves it with his superb rendition of film noir in U-Turn.  Like the Coen Brothers' Blood Simple this movie continuously astonishes as the viewer wonders what outlandishly awful thing will happen next. Beau coups credit to fantastic performances by Sean Penn and Jennifer Lopez as a really messed up drifter and the femme fatale he falls for when he finds himself stuck in Superior, AZ. Jon Voigt is also commendable in a supporting role as a blind wise-ass wise man, who see everything far more clearly than the sighted fools around him.  A bevy of other noteworthy actors such as Joaquin Phoenix, Billy Bob Thornton, and Powers Boothe also turn in spot on performances in supporting roles; but the acting accolades really belong to the leads here for working their way through a story that puts them through the emotional and the physical wringer. John Ridley's script is so dark it's frequently comic in the grand guinol sense, but the star as in any Stone film is his masterful cinematography and editing. It might also be said that Stone make superior use of his AZ setting if folks will forgive the pun. Though the story is too slight and many moments are too cringe inducing for this to be a normal A movie, but this is about as good as B gets. "}{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was expecting the worse, but pleasantly surprised. U-Turn is a film that divides the audience, some see it as pointless, but I see it as a fun twisted little film with interesting ideas.Sean Penn is brilliant, his performance is excellent, I actually cared for the character. Lopez is okay, Nolte rocks, Thornton is fantastic as usual, Phonenix and Danes are wonderful.Not Oliver Stone's best film, but very enjoyable. His direction is energetic, keeps the frames interesting.Watch the composition in wide-screen as intended by the director. "},{"Title":"What great characters!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie should not be missed by anyone who watches more than a few movies a year. This is a movie fan's movie. I have seen few movies that were better cast or with more memorable characters. A great movie allows you to escape into the world of the characters in the film and feel what they are feeling.If you watch this movie DO NOT hit the pause button or watch half at a time; you will lose the pulse of the characters. Some really good movies like this one are best enjoyed when you cover the clock and just relax.I don't expect this to be the greatest movie you've ever seen, but I bet you won't soon forget these characters.So many times the idea is to get as many big-name stars as you can so that people will be drawn to see the movie. These actors and actresses were cast because they have awesome talent.You may not love the script or the movie may be a bit dark for some, but rarely will you see a movie with this many good performances by this many talented actors and actresses.  "},{"Title":"Hard Times Befall the Scum of the Earth","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  U-Turn really kicks a*s!  It starts out as a motor-tour of the Southwest states, but quickly escalates into a really bloody and dismal film.  This dismal stuff, I love it!  I liked how the movie looks like it was shot in two or three colors( mainly yellow, poopy brown, and red).  The use of Its a Good Day by Peggy Lee was twisted.  Is that irony, Oliver?  This was some of Sean Penn's best acting, and Jennifer Lopez was one spooky chick!  How to pick up women; have your car break down, and harass the first foxy Latin chick that walks by.  The movie looks like it uses loudness and over-acting to avoid any plot, but the plot's there, it just feels insignificant next to all the bloodshed.  I loved the dizzying arrays of camera angles, and the silly Ennio Morricone music.  You can vacation with Sean and Jennifer, but don't take your American Express card. Rating 10/10 (I'd like to thank the editors, because those quick cuts made my pulse race!) "},{"Title":"U turn to hell","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bobby Cooper (Sean Penn) is driving on a hot day with the money he owes to the guys who broke two of his fingers.Suddenly his car breaks down and he gets in a small town somewhere in Arizona.It's a town where the word normal is unknown.Billy Bob Thornton plays a nutty mechanic called Darrell whose job is to fix Bobby's car.It takes longer than expected.Nick Nolte plays Jake McKenna who asks Bobby to kill his wife Grace (Jennifer Lopez) for money.Grace asks Bobby to kill Jake.In town Bobby also meets an eager young woman Jenny (Claire Danes) who is all over Bobby.Joaquin Phoenix plays her jealous boyfriend Toby N. Tucker.Powers Boothe plays sheriff Potter.Jon Voight is the blind man with lots of wisdoms.Bobby's number one plan becomes to get out of the town.But it's not that easy.Oliver Stone's U Turn from 1997 is brilliant dramatic thriller with black comedy.The actors are excellent.U Turn is a movie with lots of twists that keep you interested till the end of the movie.There ain't fear of boredom in any point.Make a u turn to see this movie fast.It won't disappoint you. "},{"Title":"Twisted fun","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  OK, it's twisted, it's sick, it's a bit pretentious, it's a lot of fun. Oliver Stone has taken his NBK style and makes a movie that's both a joy and a trial to watch. Incest, rape, armed robbery, murder, this is the kind of movie David Lynch would have done a lot better, but we still have a lot of fun watching it when Oliver Stone does it, and there are a lot of good performances. The best scene is when Billy Bob Thornton (In a very funny performance) compare his $3.85 watch to Sean Penn's $700 watch. 7.5/10.   "},{"Title":"I never EVER want to drive through Arizona after seeing this film.","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oh man, what a film.   I actually hate Oliver Stone and if it hadn't featured the cast it did then I wouldn't have bothered.  As annoying as his style is at times in the film- it still manages to hit the spot as a more than decent black comedy.It is similar in style to both Downtown (superb black comedy where a man gets trapped in bad area of New York at night and just wants to get home) and Payback (where our Mel just wants his $70K, no more no less).Going back to the cast, not only have you got great performances by Sean Penn, Jennifer Lopez (enough said!), Nick Nolte and Billy Bob Thornton (who really made his small part his own) but you also get a turnout from John Voight (typical Oliver Stone bulls**t character, why was he there?  you got this, Natural Born Killers, The Doors all with wise old indian characters in them?#!), Joaquin Phoenix, Claire Danes (out of Romeo & Juliet)and that old chestnut; Powers Boothe.  For those who have seen it...did ya spot Liv Tyler and Olivers son Sean Stone?Anyway, the plot isn't exactly complicated (or even original, the final twist is stolen from another story) but it's good fun to watch...I could relate to how Sean Penns character was feeling...I wanted to burn down the whole town and kill everyone...the place was hell on Earth (unless you're a second generation redneck white bread trailer park kinda person, no offence).Unless you work for the Arizona tourist board.....go see it.4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"U turn does more then just a turn...","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one really good film. It seems that people don't especially enjoy it's dark tone (although it is also funny) and tend to confuse it's blackness with it's quality. Luckily I saw this film completely by accident, without knowing much about it, and loved it immediately. The story kept me glued to the screen, acting was unbelievably good (everybody including Jennifer Lopez was really good!), and cinematography was excellent. This film is a fine example of great directing that weaves all the important pieces from story to photography to characters to music into a great piece of art! Even if I don't like stories this dark, I enjoyed every minute of this daring film! "},{"Title":"COULD DO BETTER","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In many ways this is one of the finest casts assembled in the last 5 years. Unfortunately the film always has the 'straight to video' feel. Penn and Thornton are excellent, whilst Nolte (majorly hamming it up) and Lopez are poor. The black comedy/noir works for a while. Ultimately it's source was a novel with potential, that collapsed into a messy conclusion. The film sticks to the source for once.    Stone does seem to be losing it big time. The visual tricks and images are becoming increasingly irritating.   For films that cover similar topics/themes, check out the superior 'Red Rock West' and 'The Music Of Chance'. "},{"Title":"A very funny, clever movie.","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really like Oliver Stone's work and this film shows that he can even do a black comedy rather well. After he mixes in all his signature edits and film stocks and speeds, U-Turn turns out to be entertaining and often exhausting.Exhausting in that it takes place on a 105 degree day and Stone executes this feeling wonderfully. I was sweating in the theatre just watching Sean Penn's day go from bad to worse. He plays a guy with the absolute worst luck. Nothing goes right for him and he just can't get a break. I recommended this film to a friend of mine and he couldn't finish watching it, because he felt too sorry for poor Sean Penn.This film is also very, very funny. Every character in this film plays their character over the top and it works so well in a comedic aspect. Billy Bob Thornton and Joaquin Pheonix steal every scene their in and possibly even the entire film. Their characters are so funny, I couldn't even catch my breath because I was laughing so hard. Maybe you will find this movie funny and enjoyable, maybe you won't. At least check it out. "},{"Title":"Weird but pretty good.","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  U-Turn is a very, very weird movie. But i like it.With very weird characters, and an ever stranger situation in a even so strange town, ironicaly called 'Superior'.Sean Penn playes a stroller who's car brakes down near a town called Superior, from here on, everything, and i mean everything goes wrong. I won't go into the details of the trouble he gets himself into, but it's very comical to see everything going sour for Penn. He plays this desprate en frustrated guy very well i must say.But what was the coolest in the movie, was to see the total makeovers of some great actors. For example Billy Bob Thornton is so different as the twisted car salesman. When you see him in Armageddon for example, it's hard to beleive it's the same person. And Nick Nolte is brilliant as the rich perverted old man.The only thing that dissapointed me about the movie was the rather corny ending. I'd rather see that different for one time.Overall the movie reminded me a whole lot (and i mean a whole lot) of Red Rock West, with Nicolas Cage. But for as far as it goes for making a very disturbing, and a freaky movie(great job, Oliver Stone) U-Turn wins the race.I'll give it a 7. "}{"Title":"Bloody Oliver Stone","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm definitely not a fan of Oliver Stone but I wanted to watch this movie for two reasons Sean Penn is a great actor and Jennifer Lopez... is Jennifer Lopez. It was hard to rate U Turn and I gave it 6 because good things and bad things balance themselves. Between the good there are the ending, all the interpretations (in particular the Thornton character) and the funny medley of movies from the past (Duel In The Sun, The Hot Spot, The Postman Always Rings Twice). Not so good, instead, the soundtrack, very similar to a previous one by Morricone (Indagine su un cittadino...), Jon Voight   character (the usual f***ing Stone wise indian) and the heavy handed, exaggerated direction (it's too long!). A bit confused movie, but a stop in Superior isn't so regrettable. "},{"Title":"If this film was not so director heavy it would have been great.","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I remember watching the sequel to From Dusk Till Dawn.  It was directed by some no name, but the point is, instead of just taking the script and using normal shots and standard techniques, he thought he was Orson Welles and began to invent shots.  They were completely unnecessary and it made the film trite, pretensious and annoying.  But in a way you can almost forgive the young kid for doing that because he was trying to impress the money men ( Tarantino, Rodriguez and Bender ).  Now we have a movie that Oliver Stone has taken and done the exact same thing with.  There are so many stupid ridiculous shots in here that you are left wondering if Stone really directed this film or if he gave it to a young unknown and put his name on it.  Because if this film was done with a normal style, it would have been great.  It has all the elements of classic Stone.  A great ensemble cast, a wonderful script and awesome performances by the cast, so why the idiocy of the wasted shots that add nothing to the film? All they do is distract you. People may say that Stone did this in JFK as well, but that is not really fair because his use of 8, 16 and 35mm camera added to the authenticity of the film.  The slow motion captured the horror of one of the darkest days in American history and the quick editting preserved an element of horror that the film required.  U-Turn has none of this.  When there is a stupid shot, it really isstupid. It doesn't add to the story at all.  It takes away from it.  And it's really too bad because I enjoyed this film when it was just a film, but when it descended into film making absurdity 101, it just sank in it's own attempted importance.Having said all that, the film is really good.  Sean Penn is a character that is just having one really bad day.  He is on his way to pay a mobster money that he owes him and all of a sudden his car breaks down in back water Arizona.  It is here in the small town that he meets an array of characters that are all freaks.  None of these people really seem real, more like caricatures of people that we have all met.  You have Nolte and Lopez as the not so happy couple.  There is Powers Boothe as the sheriff that just shows up when there is possible trouble, but you don't know what he does for the rest of the day ( sounds like most cops doesn't it? ).  You have Billy Bob Thorton as the slimiest auto mechanic that you will ever meet.  The kind of guy that you can tell you only want your oil changed but when you come back he tells you that you now need a new axle, air filter, wiper blades and a few gaskets and that he can fix it for under $300.  You have Claire Danes and Joaquin Phoenix as the couple that don't really seem like they like each other until you hurt the guy and then the girl is mad at you for doing so. These are all really interesting characters but they are not necessarily real, and that is fine, they are still fun to watch.  The one character that I thought was very interesting was Jon Voight playing a blind native American.  He reminded me of a similar character in If Lucy Fell.  Both were always so full of advice but they were never really what they appeared to be.  Voight has a blast with this character and it shows in his performance.U-Turn is a great character study and it is fun to watch.  It's just too bad that it is so damn annoying in the same right.  But I do recommend it and I ask you to make up your own mind.  Maybe you will enjoy Stone's camera work and weird shots.  I didn't and that detracted from the overall feel of the film, but it is still good.  It's just not great, and that is too bad because that is what I have come to expect from Stone, greatness.  But even the masters have their bad days.  This was one of his. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Oliver Stone comes through again","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Genius filmmaking by the amazing Oliver Stone. Wonderful acting by Sean Penn, Jennifer Lopez, Nick Nolte, and others.  The many levels of the storyline are shown in the awe-inspiring camera work that is now a trademark of all Oliver Stone films.  U Turn's story isn't anything special, but when put on screen with all the talents involved, the story comes to life with a truly original look and feeling.  Superb. "},{"Title":"A good nightmare-type thriller","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The closest similar movie that comes to mind is After hours by Martin Scorsese. A (mostly but not entirely) likeable main character gets entangled in a situation that goes from bad to worse with no end in sight. U-turn is much superior in terms of both actor performance and story unexprectedness --- if you have not seen it, don't expect the surprising turns to be over 'till the end of the closing credits. Made by Oliver Stone, it's a little disappointing how lacking in controversial themes U-turn is... A solid good thriller with only a provocative view of life and human relations in the southwest. "},{"Title":"Oliver Stone surprises with an excellent black comedy.","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Moody film splicing and pop-up characters combine to create an unexpectedly real holographic image of a dog-eat-dog culture.  It is as though Oliver Stone has given his principals a track to run on and enough artistic freedom to create roles which transcend their essential two-dimensionality as the film's cast play off and feed on one another.  The script is a gem and an excellent performance by Sean Penn carries the viewer along an unpredictable chain of consequences arising from a simple accident.  The viewer is blown back and forth from a universe governed by chance to one governed by immutable and savage laws.  Somewhat violent, but not gratuitously so, it is a funny and sad film, well worth the time spent watching. "},{"Title":"Billy Bob Thornton makes the movie","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I too had heard so many bad things about this movie that I was pleasantly surprised. The film is way too long to support the slight narrative. Billy Bob Thornton's way over the top performance will go down in history as the singularly greatest crooked auto mechanic portrayal ever. OUTSTANDING! His face becomes,  impossibly, covered with more soot each time he comes on screen and his Twister scene makes the movie. Have you ever tried playing Twister alone? I also enjoyed Nick Nolte's teeth. Nolte's looks were eerily reminiscent of John Huston in Chinatown. A very modest recommendation from me. "},{"Title":"Even Penn-haters will like it","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sean Penn starts off in character as the typical jerk he is wont to portray, but his acting skills are so good that as the character develops, you become more and more sympathetic. By the end, you are standing up and rooting for him. Penn gets great support in the efforts of Nick Nolte and Billy Bob Thornton, but I was disappointed a bit by Jennifer Lopez's acting (but certainly not by her looks!).The only real negative is Stone's distracting use of MTV-like editing and camera cutaways (which, thankfully, are not nearly as over-used as in his disaster, NATURAL BORN KILLERS). "},{"Title":"You can get in, but ya can't get out","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The drifter Bobby just wants to get to Las Vegas and pay off his gambling debt. On the road in the Southwest, however, his car breaks down. He gets to the nearby small town of Superior, AZ, and he tries desperately to get back out. He runs into every kind of trouble conceivable there. Half the people he meets cause problems for him. The married couple of femme fatale Grace(an extremely hot Lopez at her most seductive, who does OK when asked to do anything more than be sultry and desirable, which she, of course, nails, pun intended) and Jake(Nolte, undeniably the creepiest presence in this, and he has serious competition for that award) both want him to kill their spouse. Darrell(Thornton in what may be his least appealing role... no, really; he's dumb, cheap, nasty and the oil on his face really gets to you) is the only chance nearby for getting the ride fixed back up, and he isn't exactly... well, all there. Blind Man Jon Voight is eccentric. And teenage Jenny(Danes, convincing as a proper little Lolita-wanna-be) falls in love with every new male face she sees with the same eagerness as her ill-tempered boyfriend Toby(Phoenix) is to beat up everyone she as much as talks to. The characters are memorable, quirky and distinct(even though there are so many of them, they all get a good amount of screen time, and we don't forget any of them). The majority of the acting is spot-on, and this makes solid use of the considerable talent featured. This is shot rather well. The editing will get on some people's nerves(it's very clearly a Stone film, and it's one of his greatest ones, as far as entertainment value goes), and it does arguably try a little hard, if it does succeed in building an atmosphere of unbearable heat, constant new obstacles, mistrust, violence and dirt(literal and figurative). Every time you think the central issue has been resolved, something new pops up to delay it. This manages to not frustrate the viewer, at least not to the point where we are unhappy with the movie... instead, we sympathize with the people(in spite of none of them being likable, without them being obnoxious to the point where you turn this off... they're interesting jerks, and that makes up for it) and their situation. The music by Ennio Morricone is excellent, and really fits the mood and tone. There is a lot of disturbing content and strong language, a little blood, nudity and sexuality in this. The DVD comes with a trailer(for this). I recommend this to any fan of those responsible for making it, and/or of filthy crime-drama-thrillers set in the middle of nowhere. 7/10 "},{"Title":"with many a twist and jaw dropping turn of events","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm sure Mr Stone does not have this film in mind to be remembered by but I'm pretty sure that in years to come when much of his more seriously inclined have been reassessed downward, this one will be the one. I've always loved it and watching it again, I still love it. Thanks to a couple of other IMDb reviewers I now realise, of course, that it is a latter day noir and clearly part of the reason I like it so. Non-stop from beginning to end with many a twist and jaw dropping turn of events. At once thrilling, sexy and funny this is a movie anyone but the most timid will enjoy whilst smiling along to the crackling dialogue. Well shot, the film always looks good and even the country dominated soundtrack is easy on the ear. All performances are excellent, especially that of Jennifer Lopez and Sean Penn, but Nick Nolte also sizzles and Billy Bob Thornton and Jon Voight put in great character pieces. Love it. "},{"Title":"A lot of wasted talent in an overlong dud","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Have to say I was extremely disappointed in this movie. It was formulaic and tried to copy better works by people like the Coen Brothers or Tarantino, and in my opinion failing in almost all respects. best thing I can say about it is J Lopez , not because of acting , purely on aesthetic and lust grounds , and in those respects she ticks all the boxes as a femme fatal I suppose. I watched this on DVD , but actually stopped it not once but twice to return later to finish it. That speaks volumes about what I thought of it. A lot of wasted acting talent here and a big disappointment from Oliver Stone. He seemed to be trying out a lot of cinematic genres and devices , but it just did not seem to work . Watch an old movie called out of the past to see what real actors do and what a real femme fatal is. I don't usually write reviews for movies , but could not let this one go as I felt that strongly about warning people off it , but I suppose it is all about opinions. "}{"Title":"Very dark noir","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" You want your movie to be open til the end? You don't to know what is going to happen, right until it happens? Than watch this movie! It has all the right ingredients, beginning from the actors, the script and an excellent director! Though this is one of his lesser known movies (looking at the actors that are on display here you have to wonder why), it is one that will have on the edge of your seat ... throughout the whole time! Because it really is necessary that you don't know that much about this thriller, I'll only tell you that a man on the run (Sean Penn) comes to a city. This is a pattern used often, the new man in town-template. As a viewer you are automatically involved in his story. And you should be. Sean Penn is playing his part great and even a Miss Lopez has one of her better movie performances here (the other being Out of Sight ... yeah I liked Money Train and Anaconda too, but you can't really say, that her acting in them was great! ;o) With that being said, if you only have a little taste for thrillers and haven't seen this one yet, you shouldn't wait any longer ... go out seek this movie and watch it! A shame, there is no Special Edition DVD that does this movie justice! "},{"Title":"Get out of here!","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Oliver Stone's 'U-Turn' is a film about a day that turns into a living nightmare, in the manner of Scorcese's 'After Hours' and other similar movies. Sean Penn's character rides into a one-horse town where someone stole the horse, gets stuck and everything spirals out of control. But whereas Scorcese's film was simple (indeed, even over-schematic), Stone's movie is a huge conceptual mess. For a start, the hero is in trouble even at the start of the film, a violation of the genre rules that seems to undermine the premise. Secondly, the film has no idea of what sort of film it is meant to be. There's great potential in the idea of a man arriving in an apparently harmless town and finding he can do anything in it except leave (think of 'Groundhog Day', for example); and of its mundane realities transforming themselves into a kind of private hell. A vein of low key, black comedy of this sort also exists in this film; but it's undermined on two fronts. Firstly, the film contains too many straight gags, sometimes funny, but which dilute weaken the atmosphere; secondly, the story is increasingly taken over by sex and violence in a manner that seems wholly unbelievable, and which appears to have been inserted into the film just to shock the audience. It's all so unnecessary a woman can be in an abusive relationship without the man involved being her father; nor do they need to be shown engaging in anal sex. In some films, such details may be crucial to the story; here they seem like bolt-on accessories, designed to make up for the absence of real mood with simple excess. The longer the film lasts (and it lasts quite a long time), the greater the predominance of the film's more gratuitous elements; and the more tedious it becomes.Penn does his best with the material. Jennifer Lopez is awful as always, though her role offers little scope for three-dimensionality. While the soundtrack and score are massively intrusive (there's hardly an unaccompanied moment) and the film is manically edited, which seems wholly bizarre in a story that is, fundamentally, about a man getting stuck. Although I'm not the greatest fan of Stone's work overall, he has made some good and interesting films ('Born on the Fourth of July' and 'Nixon', for example). This one, however, is surprisingly bad. "},{"Title":"BOMB out of 5","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Poor Bobby! All he wanted to do was get his car fixed and now he is tempted to murder but who should he believe? After his car breaks down outside of a small Arizona town called Superior, Bobby is greeted by a group of inept characters including a scheming mechanic, a sexy Latino and her rich husband, a vile tempered cowboy and his childish girlfriend  and a blind, native, Vietnam veteran. Everyone seems to be keeping a secret but no one seems to ever give enough information for us to figure it out, but still, they all have one thing in common, they all want money and will stop at nothing to get it. What follows is a string of sex, lies, deceit, murder, betrayal and oh did I mention sex? After churning out masterpiece after masterpiece, director Oliver Stone should be entitled to a break but who does he really think he was kidding here? Maybe the sun got to him while filming this film noir-ish piece of trash because I can't imagine this appealing to anyone with one shred of integrity in their body. All of Stone's brilliant trademark style is littered through out the film, but Stone, being know as a master of satire and social commentary has us sitting through the entire thing, trying to pick it apart and read between the lines to try to figure out what Stone is really trying to say and we are lead right up to nothing. As the credits rolled I found myself still sitting in front of the screen wondering when the film would begin. I mean it felt like Stone, it looked like Stone, it was even made well enough to be Stone but what it came down to was nothing, nothing at all. Shades of brilliance try to poke their head through, for instance the native character has so very meaningful lines when he gives Bobby the advice that when a man and women get together they kiss and they do it all over again. In fact Jon Voight's  native character is the only person with anything intelligent to say. Sean Penn play his role of Bobby strictly for laughs and the rest of the cast seem to be acting on their day off from shooting their real movies, expect Jennifer Lopez who takes herself so seriously it almost gets to a point where she is a turn off. The film attempts to be humorous  but does Stone really think we will see ignorance as being funny, I sure don't, but then again we must remember that Stone didn't write this script. Going into this film I has no idea of what it was supposed to be about and now I can honestly say that I still have not a clue what it was about. Not because if was confusing but because I didn't know if I was supposed to be picking up some deep message or just sit back and enjoy myself, I don't think either would have been possible. In Natural Born Killers, Stone used disturbing imagery to show us of the dark underworld that reeks inside all of us and lives all around us without even being aware of it. Here he seems to be throwing it in just for the sake of being different. At least I hope that is why it was shot this way because it was anything but suspenseful. Or could it have been that Stone is getting a little cocky and is throwing shooting his movie in a offbeat style so that we will praise this as another work of art that sits up there right next to the likes of Natural Born Killers, Platoon or JFK? Dream on. How are we supposed to feel anything for a poor  sap who is just as down and dirty as the inhabitants of this town that keep hassling him. You could maybe say that the film is trying to show a man who finally, being the victim of his own selfish actions and is learning the harsh effects of greed and how money can be a controlling factor of human emotions, but in the end what does Bobby gain, or more like in the end what do we gain? Even if there is something of importance to be told within this jumbles mess every character is so unreliable that it would probably go unnoticed anyway. Stone's direction here is just as good as it has been in the past, so I don't know why a man of such high calibre talent is puddling around in the kiddie poll when he has already swam with the sharks before. I hope this is not a indication of what is to come from Stone because if it is, the future is bleak. "},{"Title":"unconventional to the point of being nonsensical","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A troubled drifter&#x97;on the run from an ambiguous past and on his way to repay a debt&#x97;gets stranded in a backwater, one-horse Arizona town after his car breaks down. The trouble is just beginning as he soon discovers that not only does every person in town seem to have a major screw loose, but a manipulative married woman (Lopez)&#x97;and her equally manipulative husband (Nolte)&#x97;are trying to persuade him toward murder. Starts off with intrigue and some flashy, innovative visual aspects, but after a while it becomes clear that the film has no character to care about, and no discernible point. A cast that's top of the line flounders in this stilted script which throws out plenty of twists and turns, but lacks any wit, sense, or purpose. *½ "},{"Title":"Freakshow (*SPOILER*)","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  And this is really a film by Oliver Stone?!? Unbelievable that a good director like him made such a weird thing and it´s unbelievable that great actors like Sean Penn, Nick Nolte, Billy Bob Thornton or Joaquin Phoenix were casted! Jennifer Lopez is very sexy, but there is not a trace of talent in her play; Jon Voight´s role performing a blind Indian is only laughable! All the other characters in this dumb behave so mad, it seems as if they were fled from a psychiatric sanatorium. Compared to U Turn even rubbish films like Perdita Durango are real cult movies. The plot is thin, the suspense is low and the score made my ears bleed! I´m glad at all that I saw this movie at the premiere on free TV and not at the cinema! If you like the films of Oliver Stone watch Platoon or JFK, but avoid this poor Natural Born Killers rip-off in all costs!!! (2/10)  "},{"Title":"Dark, very dark, extremely dark...","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just loved this movie- I've seen it 5 times already - it is dark, extremely dark. Unlucky u might b like Sean Penn, very sexy Jennifer Lopez, one of the most beautiful ladies around the planet these days, and as successful as an actor as she is a singer, unfortunately she doesn't participate in lots of movies..... successful Oliver Stone, like his other movies he always is... U can notice the simplicity of the scenes and yet the very good director's shots, very successfully taken shots.... This movie remembers me of movies like Duel (Steven Spielberg), and Breakdown with Kurt Russell.... the simplicity and simplistic dark scenes, tres noir.... unpredictable adventures.... I just love it... So waiting 4 another Oliver Stone's movie, another act by Jenifer Lopez, and another unlucky adventure of Sean Penn....... So long .... "},{"Title":"wow","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wow This movie....SUCKED! It was a complete and total waste of my precious time. I mean im a big fan of Sean Penn and Jennifer Lopez, but not even they could save this movie from disaster. So boring and predictable it will make you want to puke. Billy Bob Thorton plays the most annoying character. If you do see this, make sure you're close to the bathroom cause this one will want to make you run out and puke! Peace out!  "},{"Title":"Excruciating","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An incoherent, pointless, and jumbled mess that before long becomes painful to watch.  On several occasions I thought the end had arrived, only to find another frustrating plot complication. Some great actors (Sean Penn, Nick Nolte, Jon Voight, Billy Bob Thornton, etc) are wasted. I generally enjoy Oliver Stone films (JFK, Platoon, Nixon) but U-Turn is just excruciating.  "},{"Title":"Great director, Superb movie","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't quite sure of this film when I rented it, but it was absolutely worth it. It is so claustrophobic, and you really understand Penn's character. This is a superb film made by one of the best directors ever! In short Go see it! "},{"Title":"Ugly, Ugly, Ugly!","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am a major Nick Nolte fan-think he is an excellent actor. But this movie just turned my stomach.There were some clever lines, interesting twists to the movie but the graphic violence made me sick. But then I hate violence in movies-especially this kind. "}{"Title":"A Waste of Time","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Go see Natural Born Killers... at least that way you'll get to hear a good soundtrack.There was no empathy for the characters, so I didn't much care what happened to whom.  I was hoping they'd all die in the end. "},{"Title":"Oliver Stone needs to stick with the grandiose","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This would be the Oliver Stone movie no one talks about. That's because Stone's fans find nothing here to praise and criticizing U Turn is a bit like kicking a crippled puppy; easy but ultimately unsatisfying. The film starts out with Sean Penn looking remarkably like singer k. d. lang and just goes downhill from there. It's mannered, uneven, empty and tiresome. For a filmmaker who has made many bold and controversial choices in his career, U Turn is Stone's brain fart. I don't think even he could explain what the hell he was doing here.Bobby Cooper (Sean Penn) is a city boy with hair like Elvis driving through the Arizona dessert in a red convertible with a bag full of money and two fingers cut off his left hand. His car breaks down in the dirt poor town of Superior, leading Bobby to encounter&#x85;1. A bizarro white trash mechanic named Darrell (Bill Bob Thornton) whose oddness is only exceeded by his uncleanliness. 2. A caramel-colored temptress named Grace (Jennifer Lopez) whose mangled heart and soul are as obvious as a 100 foot tall, flashing neon sign that says This Bitch Will Cut Off Your Penis. 3. Grace's crotchety and strangely toothed-husband Jake (Nick Nolte) who is old enough to be her grandfather and reminds me of an old timey prospector who went crazy looking for gold and ended up having sex with his mule. 4. Local sheriff Virgil Potter (Powers Boothe), who seems like the only normal person in the whole story until he too become a blubbering nutcase toward the end. 5. A blind, old Indian panhandler (Jon Voight. No, I'm not kidding. It's Jon Voight) whose philosophical musings sound like the transcripts of a bull session at a college dorm after a night of too much beer, too much weed and not enough women. 6. Toby and Jenny (Juaquin Phoenix and Claire Danes), teenage sweethearts who act like they just stepped out of a time capsule from 1953 and immediately snorted a big bag of crack.The story is about whether Bobby will kill Grace for the money Jake promises him or will he kill Jake for the money Grace says he has hidden in his safe. There's also something about Bobby needing money to pay off a bookie/loan shark, but that gets discarded like a used tissue. Basically, Sean Penn just sort of wanders around while supposedly kooky and clever things happen around him.There are a very few moments in U Turn that are not painful to watch. That's when Bobby acts like a normal guy that's gotten stuck inside a bad, community theater rendition of a Tennessee Williams play. Those moments are very brief, however, and the rest of the movie is like waiting to pass a kidney stone.I could go on and on about how U Turn haphazardly veers from attempts at David Lynchian creepiness to stabs at vaudevillian comedy to imitations of world weary musings to pathetic invocations of film noir. I could dwell on how the actors all seem like they're in different movies. I could delve into how the script's overly deliberate effort at being unusual actually produces nothing but boredom. But none of that truly defines the opprobrious nature of this film. Yeah, that's right. I used the word opprobrious. U Turn forced me to bust out the thesaurus to adequately describe it.No, what illustrates the extreme suckitude of this movie is the unending barrage of visual tic, tricks and shtick that Stone staples throughout it. Almost every technique and digression of camera work and editing that you can imagine is presented here without any of it having coherence or cogency. Yup. Thesaurus again. Listing all of Stone's distracting and aggravating nonsense would sap my will to live, so I'll just give you one example of the filmmaking he's doing here. In this movie, Stone is fixated on close ups of eyes and lips the way Quentin Tarantino is obsessed with feet.Oliver Stone has become a little caricatured and clichéd for always taking on huge, provocative subjects in his work. Well, he needs to go right on telling grand stories about grander issues because U Turn proves that when Stone abandons relevance and significance to grasps at simple entertainment, it's like watching the guy who finishes last in a hot dog eating contest. It's gauche and doesn't amount to anything. "},{"Title":"Town Without Pity","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Gorgeous desert scenery and some oddball characters highlight this neo-noir film about a young man named Bobby Cooper (Sean Penn) who, while trying to evade mobsters, gets stuck in a small Arizona town. The film reminds me of some extended episode of The Twilight Zone. Poor Bobby just can't get any breaks, as he goes from one disaster to another in the town of Superior, as if his karma has finally caught up with him.Neither Bobby nor any of the other characters are particularly sympathetic, but they are colorful and fun to watch. Characters seem less real than symbolic, as if they represented some deep philosophical message. Throughout Bobby's ordeal, there's a touch of mocking humor, as a result of plot contrivances and the film's wonderfully ironic music, like Peggy Lee's It's A Good Day.Cinematography is very flashy and mostly color, but with splotches of B&W thrown in at odd times. There are a ton of annoying flashbacks. The main storyline of Bobby's not so excellent adventure is interspersed with images of vultures, wild cats, scorpions, rattlesnakes, and wild boars. I presume, therefore, that director Oliver Stone is trying to show that mankind is not that much different from nature. And this existential theme gets support from the rambling monologues of the loquacious Blind Indian (Jon Voight) who, at one point, says Human beings ain't only just human, you know; they've got animals living inside of them, too. Indeed, the plot turns quite violent toward the end.The film's acting is uneven. Sean Penn gives a fine performance. But Nick Nolte overacts; and Jennifer Lopez underacts. As the Blind Indian, Jon Voight evidently does a nice job since I would not have known that he was even in the movie, had it not been for the credits; that also speaks well of the makeup artist.U Turn is an odd, quirky movie, full of quirky characters, and with a plot and story theme that I would describe as mocking. Clearly, the film is not one that the Chamber of Commerce of Superior, Arizona will want to broadcast. On the other hand, I can imagine Rod Serling summing up the story with delight And so, a young man named Bobby Cooper, desperately trying to escape his past life, finds himself trapped in a small backwoods town without pity, while passing through ... the twilight zone. "},{"Title":"A good film noir given knew life by a great director","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bobby Cooper is on his way to pay off his gambling debt to a Las Vegas loan shark.  However when his car breaks down he has to wait in a small town until it is fixed.  Unwittingly he is meets a beautiful woman and her husband, who offers him money to kill her.  With the odds stacking up against Bobby he finds himself drawn deeper into greed, theft and murder.This was a step away from political dramas and conspiracy thrillers for Oliver Stone, here he takes a standard film-noir plot and gives it his own touch.  The plot is pure noir - full of shady characters, femme fatales, double crosses and murder, but it is compelling right till the end.  It's thrilling to see Bobby become trapped in the town of Superior by a series of events (some coincidental, some deliberate) and unable to get away from the inevitable.But what Stone does makes it even better.  He films the whole thing in a style similar to that of Natural Born Killers, except not as graphic.  He uses different film stocks, he cuts in different shots of characters while they voice over - the overall effect adds to the tension and the feeling of excitement.  However he also makes good use of the wide landscape and uses long panoramic shots - this isn't a pop video director!  Another great touch is the music - it's not moody like most noirs but instead mirrors the bright desert by being upbeat and unusual, the overall effect being a very quirky feeling.The cast are roundly excellent and a great list of names.  Sean Penn is totally believable as someone who tries to avoid the unavoidable and you do feel like he's trapped.  Lopez has not been better - she is every inch the sultry femme fatale.  Nolte is creepy as her husband, and does well mixing his gruff exterior with deeper guilt.  Powers Booth, Joaquin Phoenix and Claire Danes are all good in minor but still important characters.  Pleasant surprises exist in the rest of the cast with Jon Voight, Laurie Metcalf and Liv Tyler making cameos - although in the case of Tyler I found it more distracting than the others (she appears in the background as if the film is saying look - it's Liv Tyler.Overall an excellent criminally-ignored film with a great cast and the touch of a great director. "},{"Title":"Under-rated though not perfect","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While this film isn't in the greatest form of the classic director Oliver Stone, it isn't his worst film like many have said (personally, I don't think Stone has ever made a really bad movie).  U Turn is a film noir type of movie with Sean Penn getting mixed up with weirdos on his way to get to Vegas.  These weirdos include Jennifer Lopez (one of her two films where she shows breast) as a seductive wife, Nick Nolte as a crazy husband and other towners like Jon Voight and Billy Bob Thornton.  Film is not always on track and might be a little sloppy, but it is never boring, with fine performances by the entire cast.  It starts with a dead animal, and is just fine through and through.  B+ "},{"Title":"perhaps the worst film ever made!!!!!","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  what a sorry movie!!! Don`t waste your time!! Their is nothing that can save this film!! And it`s to bad because i like all the actors that are in this movie but they made a bad decision to have to anything to do with this trash!! total B movie garbage!! rating (best of 5 stars).....1..... "},{"Title":"Worse than awful!","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Shot, stabbed, burned, kicked, beaten, run over, thrown off a cliff. They should have called this The Penn that Wouldn't Die. This one is putrid. This is a character study in how to rip off an audience. Thankfully it only lasted about two weeks in theatres. I can't believe I actually paid to see this. It's so bad, I don;t even think that it's been on network TV yet. After editing there might only be three decent minutes left to show. What a great cast! What a piece of garbage. MISS IT!!! "},{"Title":"Wrong Way","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Stone had potential. `Platoon' was raw. `JFK' was deft. But this is such a miss, there must be drugs involved.Here's the problem, I think. Stone really believes we are all hillbillies and any vision he might have must be interesting. Sorta works when he has a `message' and he's interested in how we feel. Then we willingly meet him halfway.Here we have a condescending, pretentious collection of effects that do not coalesce. `Red Rock' meets `Fargo' meets `Deliverance.' I have just seen Penn's `The Pledge,' which shows mastery of focus and some breadth. Of directing, Penn said that Stone was pig, and because of it had to make bad films. Stone thinks actors are just meat, and Penn is an irascible SOB, so you might not trust that statement until you see this.If he wants to play Coen, he has to think of himself as one of us, watching the joke of life cook. This territory is no place for superiority, which is why this film is about itself. Just as Bobby has no control over his work, so with Stone.As to the acting, Voight and Thornton are too far into parody. Clearly Voight are Nolte are trying, but Billy Bob makes up his own by now worn out character. Lopez just cannot act and her only asset is photographed unflatteringly here.Danes impresses me. Both she and Phoenix seem to find a center for at least their scenes and both are internal actors (like Nolte and Penn). I think Penn is a remarkable talent; he can play several levels simultaneously. But Stone is a straightahead guy. So Penn is asked to have one perspective here, another there, and on and on as Stone tries some `Limey' - like timeshifting.Penn and Nolte went together shortly after this to make `The Thin Red Line.' Watch that to see an interesting contrast in effectiveness from these two. (Then Penn made the amazingly multilevel `Sweet and Lowdown.')  "},{"Title":"Oliver Stone hits the bottom","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  By far the worst movie he's ever made. U-turn was supposed to be this modern Film Noir movie where nothing is as it is supposed to be, including the characters being the opposite of what they appear to be. Stone fails to complete this and the movie turns out to be nothing but a poor story about a man entangling himself in a web of dangerous circumstances in a small town, all spun together in a weak plot that bores the s..t out of you. Worst picture ever by Stone. "},{"Title":"Strange... very strange...","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I certainly can't say that U-TURN is a boring movie, with all those weird characters, weird situations, and (especially) the weird direction that's akin to Stone's earlier NATURAL BORN KILLERS. The atmosphere is gritty and you feel almost like you're there, and Ennio Morricone once again provides a great score. (Though parts of it sounds suspiciously like his score for INVESTIGATION OF A CITIZEN ABOVE SUSPICION.)But once you look past this, you find that you have the script for maybe half a movie. It takes forever for Penn's character to make any serious decision concerning the choices he's offered, there are plot threads that get forgotten about (such as with the gangster Penn's character owes money to), and some of the the various twists that happen towards the end have really no consequence - only there to pad time. This probably explains why Stone went berzerk on the direction, to try and hide the thinness of the script. RED ROCK WEST wasn't as flashy, but it had a more complex (and longer) story that by itself kept you interested to the end. "}{"Title":"dark but absorbing","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I know people who can't watch this film simply because it's just too off putting to look at. It takes the audience into a very unappealing, seedy world, the cinematography is overexposed and grainy, and the whole film seems like it could easily be a best seller at a local Grindhouse theatre. Call me crazy, but that's what I love about it.First off, it's hard to ignore the superb cast involved here. This remains J. Lo's finest hour, for her performance is truly fantastic as a dangerous but vulnerable femme fatale. Penn is also excellent here and Joaquin Phoenix is hilarious as a volatile loud mouth always up for a fight.Oliver Stone has directed some great films like PLatoon and Wall Street but he hasn't made many that are as fun and enjoyable as this one. You won't regret giving it a shot. "},{"Title":"Deliciously trashy neo noir","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Oliver Stone's brutal, sweaty, trashy, delicious desert set film noir is a treat, and after Natural Born Killers, his finest work. It's an underrated, demented trip into a one horse Arizona town populated by all kinds of freaks, low life's and unstable weirdos. Sean Penn plays a skeezy, self centred deadbeat whose car breaks down in this sun drenched hellhole, and throughout the film gets thrown through a wringer of unpleasantness, violence, deceit and greed. This is not a feel good film. It's a down n' dirty Southern American redneck nightmare fable as only the manic Stone can deliver, and he weaves a gritty yarn that will burn itself into your senses with its raw belligerence and scuzzy characters. Jennifer Lopez is a sexy, sultry wonder as a dangerous femme fatale who ensnares Penn's character. Nick Nolte is her monstrous husband, and relishes the role with a gravelly drawl and a morally bankrupt smirk. Powers Boothe as the deranged town sheriff and Joaquin Phoenix as an even more deranged local boy are excellent. Billy Bob Thornton in an u recognizable getup almost walks off with the film as the worlds weirdest car mechanic, and Jon Voight gives more humanity to his crazy old Indian role than it deserves. The score by Ennio Morricone is a haunting, eerie desert melody, and the jumpy, booze and sun soaked cinematography is a orange hued feast for the eyes. I consider this to be one of the most overlooked films of the 90's. It's not for everyone, but those who enjoy a dark, cynical underside of rural Americana and a good old fashioned, brutally violent neo noir will get a kick out of it. I still do every time I watch it. "},{"Title":"Great cast and quality direction produces a movie that not's for everyone","Date":"28 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jennifer Lopez, Sean Penn, Nick Nolte, Jon Voight, Joaquin Phoenix, Claire Danes, Billy Bob Thornton, Powers Boothe and ... is that Laurie Metcalfe and Liv Tyler? And helmed by Academy award wining director Oliver Stone, it's quite stunning exactly how much quality has gone into this film. All of that together has produced a darkly funny, sexy, crude and intelligent action thriller that will not be to everyone's taste, but is a good film overall.Sean Penn stars as Bobby Cooper, who is not the world's nicest man, who has his car break down in a hick town in Arizona, with only one mechanic, the moronic Darrell (Billy Bob Thornton) in town and keen to make as much money off this visitor as possible. Forced to spend the day there, he gets caught up in the town's tawdry inner workings involving incest, love triangles, showdowns in the middle of the street and one of the great femme fatales in 90s cinema, Grace (Jennifer Lopez).The film does indulge in every negative stereotype of the south, but deserves much credit for getting the audience to side with the unlikeable Bobby and the bizarre series of events he finds himself caught in. In the hands of a lesser lead actor, or with a lighter more comedic script, this could have been an instantly forgettable, 3000 miles to Graceland style clunker, but with Penn and Stone involved, it's a dark, but fun, production rendered with considerable care. The film brings all of the different elements together for an effective closing sequence and fitting finale.Lopez and Penn walk away with much of the credit for this but there really isn't a weak link, with the sun scorched Arizona earth (if that's where it was actually filmed) another of the film's true stars.With incest, unlikeable characters and dark humour, this film is not everyone's idea of a fun two hours, but it is mine. Featuring a good performance from Penn and Lopez as we haven't seen her since, it's well worth a look for fans of either, or those who like these 90s style quirky dramadies. "},{"Title":"Sean Penn vs. the American people of Superior, AZ","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" U Turn is of the neo-noir crime genre completely infused with several varieties of humor. It boasts a very good screenplay and subtle script. The direction by Oliver Stone doesn't miss a beat. He got great performances out of an excellent cast. The film's images look great and the story is well-paced. The design of the run down western town is perfect for the story.While the story, acting and setting are highly engaging and entertaining, the film's themes and sub-text slyly and mercilessly tear apart American stereotypes. While U Turn is not Blazing Saddles, it still delivers serious blows to goody-goody images and myths about America using the neo-noir genre as a delivery system. There isn't one character in the movie, not one, who isn't up to no good or who hasn't some serious flaws or failings that turn American myths upside down. The movie delivers tremendous sarcasm and irony at every turn.Chasing money, the importance of money, and the links between money and the American Dream are shown in all their hollowness. In this movie, sex is everywhere a basis for twisting people out of shape and for using people. American manlihood is shown to be a fake front, as in the blustering character played by Joaquin Phoenix. The female sex has no scruples, men are victims of females and their own sex drives, and gentlemanly behavior toward females is wasted effort. No one delivers a genuine service with a smile, neither a waitress not a mechanic. We see the opposite as in the case of Billy Bob Thornton's exploitative mechanic role. The local beggar (Jon Voight) tells lies, playing upon sympathy to veterans and Indians. Sean Penn's dream becomes simply to escape from this town and its nightmare, but he and Jennifer Lopez have dreams of California, Hawaii, and flying. In this movie, dreams fall apart on something as simple as a radiator hose that fails. American violence crops up all over the place. A convenience store is a site for armed robbery and two killings. Nick Nolte is a real estate agent who is halfway insane and hates loving Jennifer Lopez, who is cheating with Powers Boothe, the sheriff. At one point, his arrest of a Russian thug satirizes American police power. Penn, a small time opportunist, epitomizes American rootlessness. He is by no means trustworthy, but pitted against the perverse denizens of Superior (ironically named and looking the very opposite), he actually looks good and gains our sympathy. Jennifer Lopez is well cast as the woman who cannot be trusted ever to give her love and herself fully to any man. She's the unattainable. She's the dark skinned beauty of mixed blood that the white men would like to conquer and possess unequivocally but cannot.Sean Penn is taken for quite a ride in this picture. The story is actually about a lot more. "},{"Title":"Fun But Aimless","Date":"10 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Oliver Stone directs this John Ridley screenplay entitled U Turn,which is adapted from Ridley's novel Stray Dogs.It features Sean Penn,Nick Nolte and Jennifer Lopez together with Joaquin Phoenix,Powers Boothe,Billy Bob Thornton,Claire Danes and Jon Voight.This film is a Southwestern noir tale about Bobby Cooper, a hotshot who is stuck in the tight confines of Superior, Arizona, when his car breaks down. His subsequent adventure is a meatball comedy which is loud, obnoxious, and violent, and stuffed with diffused light, a hot cast, and a no-fat Ennio Morricone score.A drifter eludes Las Vegas collection agents and arrives in a small town where he decides to linger after his car has a breakdown. Here he gets involved with the locals, including an unhappily married couple - a businessman and his seductive, femme-fatale wife. A trailer trash teen also approaches him in an effort to get away from her abusive boyfriend. Tensions in the town escalate, eventually leading to murder.The first 40 minutes or so are fun to a point. Penn is the perfect near-creep to root for, and as he wanders back into town after meeting Grace, the eclectic characters pile up. But soon it gets monotonous, tiring, and just plain ugly. And when incest and bloody fights begin, the fun is gone. If Penn weren't so solid an actor and able to be empathetic in the most morose situations, the movie would be not watchable at stretches. Lopez makes another good impression, but this is not a performance that stands out.While,Nolte is raspy and ill-looking. Before U Turn is over, you are already wondering if Oliver Stone will do something else, something more important, soon.Overall,it is a long and strange trip of a movie that is fun but aimless. "},{"Title":"This is one strange and unusual film","Date":"25 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" U Turn is a very strange, weird and unusual film. I have recently finished watching it and I am really unsure on what to make of it. Urm, is it good? Not really. Is it bad? Not really. I just don't know what to say about it.The story is about Sean Penn's character, Bobby. He is driving through the desert on route to Vegas to pay off a gambling debt. A debt that has already cost him two fingers. Whilst driving, his radiator hose bursts and the closest place to get it fixed is a little town called Superior. He pulls into a typical looking garage for a deserted town such as this, and is greeted by a fat, hillbilly which is Billy Bob Thornton (who is actually pretty good). Bobby leaves the car in the mechanics hands and heads off to get a drink. Whilst walking through the town he meets Grace (Lopez) and an instant sexual attraction takes place. He ends up helping her put up drapes back at her home but when things heat up her husband (Nolte) arrives home and punches Bobby in the nose. Bobby then leaves the house but is tailed by Jake (J Lo's husband) and is offered money to kill his wife as he can't stand her. Bobby is unsure but when his bag of money is stolen in a grocery shop robbery, he realises he needs the money to pay off his debt or lose more of his fingers. However as he is about to kill her she offers him another proposition, kill her husband and steal his stash of cash he keeps under the floor boards. From here on Bobby must contemplate which route to take. He tries the easy option, to leave the town but the mechanics ridiculous charge for a radiator hose leaves Bobby's beloved Mustang in the mechanic's compound until he pays up. Bobby has no choice, but what will he do to get the money.The story does sound quite intriguing but everything just seems to fall in place far too easily. The characters don't force the plot twists, they just seem to randomly happen and Penn is left turning backwards and forward within this town. We also meet four other characters that seem to have very little to do with the plot other than to show the obscurity of this town. We have a Sheriff (Powers Boothe), a young couple (Claire Danes and Joaquin Phoenix), him always wanting a fight and her willing to run away with any man possible, and we are also given a blind tramp (Jon Voight) with plenty of wisdom to go around. All of these are just potential obstacles or aids and have very little usage. A debt collector comes into town at one point, on a mission to catch Bobby, but within thirty seconds he is arrested. No tension with him then as he is removed far too quickly.We find ourselves re-treading old ground as this film goes on. Each twenty minute segment just seems to repeat itself up until the strange climax. We are just shown how unlucky one man can be, and how strange this little town seems to be.The stars aren't bad with Penn giving a decent performance, I'm sure this wasn't a tough role for him. Lopez is typically her, not great and Nolte is just gruff. The star is perhaps Thornton in his unrecognizable role, it is definitely against type cast and I was fairly impressed with him. The direction isn't bad but the setting is very typical and something we've seen all too often. I was impressed with the editing and felt that there was a trippy feel to the entire film. Several camera movements and points of view shoots were stitched together well and gave a great feel to the movie. That still doesn't make it a good movie though.I was never really engaged with this film. Not once was I hooked and desperate to know what's going to happen next, in fact I didn't really care. The ending was poor and left you with a poor impression of this film. The theme seems to be about being lost and alone and the theme works as the whole way through that was exactly how I felt.2 / 5Tolli More reviews at www.tolli-movieworld.blogspot.com Follow @Tolli04 "},{"Title":"A twisting, turning masterpiece","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" To say anything, and I mean anything about the plot other than guys car breaks down in Superior, Arizona, would be difficult to do, and not necessarily helpful to you either. Let me say if you enjoy Coen brother's fare (e.g Blood Simple), then you'll love this.The acting is superb, the dialogue sharp, the screenplay top class, cinematography top notch, great sound track and the whole so easily missed because it is just another crime thriller. It isn't just another anything. This story takes you down a cul-de-sac, back out again, back in again, and throws you around so many times you'll think you have been on the best ride at the fair.Just do not miss this because it is one of the best films I have seen in a long while. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I've ever seen","Date":"5 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bobby Cooper is having a bad day. In fact, Bobby Cooper is having a very bad day. Stuck in a small Arizona town in the desert when his car breaks down, he begins to meet the townspeople. And that's when the fun begins. It starts with Darrell, the mechanic who's working on his car. The mechanic from hell. Come to think of it, most of the townspeople were from hell. And like Dante, everything Bobby does sends him to a deeper section of hell. I found myself saying 'You gotta be kidding me!' every five minutes. Nothing is what it seems. Even when you think you've figured it out, it still catches you off-guard in places. It's somewhat similar to Red Rock in that way. The movie spoofs the whole neo-noir genre and it even winks at itself. This is Oliver Stone at his best. I still can't think about this movie without grinning. As weird as they were, the characters were believable. Over-the-top, but believable. This is the quintessential black comedy. And the most hilarious.If you can get past the language, rent this one. It's a winner. "},{"Title":"Imaginative, bloody fun abounds in this high-quality desert noir","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" U Turn boasts a hardworking crew, including composer Ennio Morricone whose score compliments the pitch-perfect Tarantino-ish soundtrack. Among a smorgasbord of quality A-list actors, Billy Bob Thornton's performance stands out, as it is a triumph not only of acting, but one where the collaborative efforts of writing, costuming, and makeup came together with precision. As for Jennifer Lopez, I haven't seen many of her movies, but I have a hunch that she gave more to this one than any other. And, Sean Penn as usual knocks his role out of the park.The camera may occasionally move a little too much for its own good, and the Russian mafia subplot seems to be a little under-developed, but even with these minor smudges, I'd say Oliver Stone's least overtly political movie is up there in quality with the best of the year, and may just be the most inspired work he's ever done.It reminds me of David Lynch's Lost Highway (1997) and Wild at Heart (1990), because of its nightmarish rapid-fire editing techniques, its violence, and its desert motifs. Alex de la Iglesia's Perdita Durango (1997) also comes to mind. Its twisty plot reminded me of the Coen Brothers at their best, because like with their best, I was also wishing Stone's ride would never end. It's like a bloodier, sexier The Big Lebowski (1998). And even though it may be less goofy, it still elicits some pretty choice laughs. "},{"Title":"Two legged freaks","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Arizona, sizzling sunshine, blazing heat, arid desert&#133; and a lot of darkness. A stranger arrives to a small town that is Superior (in something you're about to identify). 5 years before the 2002 movie 'Eight Legged Freaks' was made, also in Arizona, here you have two-legged freaks near what you could call a Hobbesian state of nature or a psychological 'bellum omnium contra omnes'. But you won't need to speak Latin to decipher what's happening and why. It's all there in human interactions in everyone's life, being not specific to a climate or a geographical location, although here, in the above described Arizona setting, it's present in an extreme form, and is complicated by some no less extreme aberrations of the characters. Apocalyptic plot twists, rhyming with the landscape, in a mixture of Hitchcock and Tarantino. Although you'll find Oliver Stone and Sean Penn together on this team, here there's no political agenda, just subtle, clever, amusing story-telling. The acting is great all around, but I'd give special mention to Billy Bob Thornton. When I realized whom he was playing, I was really astonished. What a transformation from this humanoid chameleon of acting. "}{"Title":"Stone to a Lynch style?","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is good,nothing to blame in,but i wonder if David Lynch had been the director,he shows twisted characters,amazing plots,thrilling reveals around the story,now Stone does valuesPlatoon,Born on 4th of July,The Doors,Salvador,JFK,Wall Street talk for themselves, but such CRAPPY stuff like Natural BORN killers(Harrelson and Lewis got worse the film!)never helped his career,nevertheless U Turn is a film better to the Lynch's vision.Why? Let's seea road movie,finding a loser gambler called Bobby Cooper (Sean Penn always as talented as hot blooded!)escaping from a fatal doom,when his car overheated in a forgotten place of Arizona,a sicking mechanical named Darrell(Thorton)pushes down to the limits of the reason tired of the cheap chat,Bobby sees a pretty Latin girl called Grace(Uf! Jlo was superb in that sexy red gown and acting so good!),she leads him to a living labyrinth when a jealous as elder husband watches a hint of infidelity,Jake McKenna(Nolte)fakes a violent scene of jealous indeed,but after wards offers to Bobby to kill Grace to receive an insurance payment of US$ 50,000,Bobby denies,but his bounty will burst away when 2 robbers got killed by a old lady owner of a local grocery will tear up 13,000 bucks like the hard dreams of peace wished by Bobby,wrecked and with no way out,falls in a bounce between the illegal offer of Jake and a similar offer made by Grace (including her great attributes) to end Jake,Bobby after a failed trying decides to hang out with Grace,tempted by a pretty mini skirted teen called Jenny (so cute Claire Danes!)the problems were growing because an obsessive boyfriend called Toby(Phoenix)stalks Bobby believing a false flirt with his hootie,stressed by all the little world around him,Bobby tries to escape buying a ticket to Mexico(dramatical scene,watch a little cameo made by a nice Livvy Tyler),but Toby spoils his going, after a Russian henchman of Mr. Arkady is arrested by the sheriff Potter(Boothe),Bobby decides to slay Jake,but Grace did the worst part in it,Bobby putting the final stab over Jake,the new couple escapes in the old car held by Darrell,but Grace shots the sheriff after he reveals Jake was the Grace's dad!therefore an incestuous union taints that relationship;throwing down the corpses(Jake and the sheriff)in an isolated place thinking in a possible food to the vultures,Grace throws Bobby too;when she realizes about his mistake,when she goes down to help Bobby,he kills her with the last breath of his forces,but the great bounty on the car ($200,000 hidden by Jake)will be useless,the hose blows up again and Bobby dies victim of the loss of blood with nobody to aid him around. All the performers were so good specially Penn,there's nothing to blame,but after all a sad endBobby swim med so much to die in the same shores!,when i refer about Lynch,we must remind Wild at Heart,Mullholland Drive,Lost Highway and the perverted Blue Velvet,and common elements like road movie,betrayal,psycho games of troubles,scruples far away out of the soul,important cars seizing the performers in never wished situations when a stopping happens,astounding flashbacks in moments so painful,appetite for an unmeasured sex and more stuffs seem more familiar to Lynch;Stone did it well,though he looks to show an American society plenty of violence,prejudice,out of love,full of greed,ambition, and watch thiswhen Bobby talked with Darrell or the veteran blind man (Voight)we see a critic about an urban depict respect to the small towns in the USA,Stone notes the social struggles but he does it better in a great world,in otherwise Lynch explores the darkest depths of the humans souls in a little world around his characters. The movie is good,but Lynch in a single opinion,could make it deeper. "},{"Title":"Beware of Beautiful Women and Small Towns","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This Oliver Stone film was excellent in every regard.I have a hearing problem and this 1997 film did not have captioning, but it was so well told I was able to follow it easily.In addition to the plot intriguing me, another major reason for my watching this film was because it has such an outstanding cast. Several of my favorite actors are in this film Sean Penn, Billy Bob Thornton, Powers Boothe, and Joaquin Phoenix. (In one of the scenes in the film with Joaquin Phoenix - the song Ring of Fire by Johnny Cash - is playing on the jukebox. As many undoubtedly know Joaquin went on to portray Cash in the film Walk the Line.)Beautiful Jennifer Lopez, besides being gorgeous, proves she can act. She definitely does outstanding work as Grace McKenna, a rather disturbed young woman, who is married to older man, Nick Nolte, in a dark, twisted relationship.Sean Penn is quite handsome and appealing as down on his luck Bobby Cooper, who has had two fingers snipped off his left hand and is running from the bookie he owes, when his classic red Ford Mustang breaks a radiator hose leaving him in a small desert town.Soon Bobby is encountering all kinds of problems and is faced with some terrible decisions due to various residents of this town.First off he's got to deal with Darrell, the local mechanic--played delightfully by Billy Bob Thornton. Thornton, as always, doesn't just play a character, he creates him with some goggles that magnify his eyes, some bad teeth, and I'm not even sure if that was Billy Bob's real nose. Plus Billy Bob is covered in black grease until he was so unrecognizable I only knew him by his voice.Things get more complex when Bobby meets beautiful, young Grace McKenna.Poor Sean Penn, as Bobby, got beat up so much in this film I felt sorry for the guy.Powers Boothe as strong, handsome Sheriff Virgil Potter seems to turn up at just the right time to stop trouble, but Sheriff Potter has his own secrets.My only disappointment was the ending of the film, although I suppose it was karmic, it wasn't what I was hoping for.However, I must give this fine film 10 stars - excellent story, great directing and splendid performances by everyone involved. "},{"Title":"Sick ,twisted , and a class act .","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sean Penn must be the unluckiest actor in the world , or he does a pretty dame good job of giving us a performance where you see it happen before your eyes. U-turn is another mind trip taken into the even darker sets of humanity after Oliver Stone gave us Natural Born Killers . One very good point about this film was the unpredictability that it goes into as just as when things are looking up , something happens to drag them back down again . Sean Penn is fine form for this gritty thriller playing a basic all round as!hole that nobody really likes ! Jennifer Lopez also shows her talents of in this movie which makes her looking mystifying to the point where you feel drawn to her and you want more . Billy Bob Thornton just makes you laugh with his just plain weird character but not as much as Joaquin Phoneix who plays a boy in need of a dame good thrashing as well as his insane girl-friend Claire Danes (funny that they were playing Ring of Fire by Jhonny Cash in the diner as Phoneix would later on in his career become Cash in Walk the Line ) . Jon Voight plays the wise old Shamane in style but nothing compares to the creepy Nick Nolte who makes you laugh but also cringe with his erratic behaviour . Oliver Stone does a great job of setting the scenes and making you take the ride with Sean Penn into Superior and does a good job of building and developing characters where necessary . The twisted imagery and camera angles make it even more stylish as I feel that Stone's wants YOU YOUR-SELF to feel the irritability that you would feel being in the same situation in the soaring heat and the sharp , wacky out of place sound noises made actually add to that irritation . Just to some it up U-Turn may not be Oliver Stone's best work but it is very impressive and worth a look if you enjoyed Natural Born Killers and if your into gritty drama and suspense /black comedy .U-TURN 8.5 OUT 10 "},{"Title":"This Town is for the Dogs","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Oliver Stone brings to life the novel Stray Dogs and creates a movie that is both visually beautiful and darkly ominous in its disturbing humor. Down on his luck Bobby Cooper's(Sean Penn)luck is about to sink further to the bottom when his car breaks down and he is forced to head into a small desert town for repairs. Here he meets a number of off their rocker, oddball characters. The creepy garage attendant,Darrell(Billy Bob Thornton). The sultry femme fatale, Grace McKenna(Jennifer Lopez) who smolders with sensuality while playing her dangerous game of seducing Bobby. The jealous husband, Jake(Nick Nolte)who would be happy to see her dead. Just the proposal Bobby would run from , however he lacks the cash (due to a series of misfortunes, one with a superb performance from Aida Linaires)to get his car and get out of this bizarre nightmare disguised as a town. Now the games and plot twists begin as Bobby seriously considers Jake's proposal to do the deed. This movie is a full on ensemble of wacko characters, superbly played by everyone. Claire Danes as the skipping, bubbly, flirtatious, free-spirited Jenny. Joaquin Phoenix as her psychotic Toby N. Tucker, whose ready to explode at any given moment. John Voight as a blind Native American who delivers words of half-wisdom and carts his dead dog around. The Prize, however, goes to the two most memorable short performances by Julie Hagerty as FLO(yikes) and Laurie Metcalf as a Bus Station Agent, which if you don't like the movie Laurie's performance along with Sean Penn will be well worth the watch... "},{"Title":"Sean Penn & Jennifer Lopez Were Great Together!","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"                 The only reason I would make a U-Turn to see this picture is because of the great actors in this film who did their very best to make this film worth viewing.   Sean Penn(Bobby Cooper),21 Grams,03, had a good time being crazy just like the rest of the local town people.  Nick Nolte(Jake McKenna),Hulk,'03 gave a nice supporting role with Jennifer Lopez(Grace McKenna),Gigli,'03 who charmed all the men with her fantastic looks.  You can always count on Powers Boothe(Sheriff Virgil Potter),Men of Honor,'2000, to try and keep the nutty town in line!   The actors are paid to act no matter how great the film turns out, and they all deserve credit for having to act in this U-Turn of a Film!!!! "},{"Title":"Better Than I Expected From A Guy Like Stone","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bobby Cooper (Sean Penn) is in trouble.  After getting two of his fingers chopped off by the mob over $13,000 he owed them, he treks out West to get it.  On his way back through Arizona, his car breaks down.  This brings him to a town called Superior, where everyone seems to be out of their mind. After trying to put the moves on a young married woman (Jennifer Lopez), her older husband (Nick Nolte) tries to hire Bobby to kill her.  She, however, makes an even better counter offer to kill her husband instead.  When Bobby gets robbed at a convenience store, and doesn't even have the money to get his car out of the shop, he knows he has to think fast, because the mob will be after him soon.I normally don't like Oliver Stone.  I won't go into why, I think most people who aren't fond of his work can say it better than I can.  However, I thought this was such a great movie, but I knew it would be doomed at the box office.  It's probably too weird for most people to get into.Stone's direction is great.  He intercuts scenes from Bobby's point of view with quick flashes of images, and unlike the flashes of Brad Pitt in Fight Club or the flash of Guy Pearce in Memento, these ones last long enough to see and take in.  For example, before Bobby first meets Lopez's character, who was behind him down the street at the time, we see for a split second an image of her walking out from the alleyway with her package, sending Bobby a quick smile.  He then turns around to see her walking away.When she recalls how Nolte was married to her mother and beating her, we see a quick non-explicit shot of Nolte having sex with her mother from behind. She turns around and laughs, and Nolte swiftly decks her in the face, knocking her head back.  Not long enough to take attention away from the story, but long enough to be disturbing.Another disturbing shot, again with Lopez, is when Nolte is having sex with her.  The scene quickly alternates between different close up shots slightly off from what they intend to show; Lopez's hair, Nolte's arm, Lopez's foot, and that disturbing pet crow of Nolte's that won't shut up.The acting is wonderful.  Sean Penn makes a guy who is honestly beleagured despite being a generally immoral person.  He is not malicious, but is self-centered.  Nolte shocked me with how well he played such a sick b***ard, and Jon Voight (I know that's spelled wrong) and Billy Bob Thornton were unrecognizable in their respective roles as a blind Indian and a dirty mechanic.  Jennifer Lopez was also perfect for the part of the manipulative, possibly bi-polar woman who will do anything to get out of that worthless town, and Joaquin Pheonix was just hilarious.  In fact, this small performance was probably his best.Overall, quite a good movie. "},{"Title":"good oliver stone movie","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bobby's (Sean Penn's) car breaks down in a small town in Arizona.  With only a bag full of money, in which he owes, he comes to the aid of Darrell (Billy Bob Thornton), owner of Harlin's Garage.  Darrell agrees to work on the car while Bobby walks into town looking for something to drink.  He comes across Grace McKenna (Jennifer Lopez), Jake McKenna (Nick Nolte), Virgil the Sheriff (Powers Boothe), and a wacky couple (Joaquin Phoenix, Claire Danes)in his travels throughout the town.Bobby tries desperately to get out of the small town.  The people he encounters is the reason why.If you like Oliver Stone, U-TURN is a stylish thriller.  Sean Penn does a great job and so does Jennifer Lopez.  Recommended. B+  "},{"Title":"Not groundbreaking, but great black comedy...","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a dark comedy which twists and turns all the way to it's (some might say unsatisfying) finale. Sean Penn plays Bobby, a loser who's driving through the desert when his car breaks down in what can only be described as a one horse town. The movie tracks his downward spiral as the locals take advantage of him, and he turns to increasingly desperate measures to get his act together and get back on the road. To say any more would spoil the fun, so I'll leave it at that.What really makes this movie so humorous to watch is not only Penn's performance (which is great) but the colourful cast of characters he meets along the way. There's Nick Nolte playing a truly perverse real estate dealer, Clare Danes as a trailer trash whore, Joaquin Phoenix as a complete idiot, and as for Billy Bob Thornton and Jon Voight, you probably won't even recognise them. I didn't until I saw the credits roll. Even Jennifer Lopez gives a moderately tolerable performance.Don't go into this expecting a groundbreaking Oliver Stone movie like Platoon or Natural Born Killers, or you'll be disappointed. U-Turn is an above average thriller which lags towards the end but is ultimately entertaining. Although it wouldn't work as well in the hands of a less experienced director, Oliver Stone's stylish editing and direction means you won't get bored for the two hours it lasts. Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Not Stone's best","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For Oliver Stone, U-Turn is a middle-of-the-road type of movie. Taken on its own, it's a more than watchable genre film. However, it seems woefully inadequate compared to the director's previous outings. Films such as JFK, Nixon, or Natural Born Killers were vintage Stone compelling works that dealt with controversial topics, all in a thought-provoking manner. U-Turn has nothing truly meaningful to say. It's just a technical exercise in comparison. Granted, it's a very well-made film, with stylish flourishes throughout, but it fails to add much prestige to his oeuvre. I hope this is just a temporary slump and not a downward trend that will eventually end his career.Still, once you accept the fact that he made it on a lark, it provides a good two hours of solid entertainment, though it starts to wear thin in the last third. This twisted film is very mean-spirited at times, to the point where you get numb to the nasty tone after a while. There's no real point to all this, and it's depressing to see what a loser the main character turns out to be. Directorially, it's not nearly as self-indulgent as Natural Born Killers, but it has its share of odd camera angles and multiple film stocks. The dead-end town is deliberately exaggerated, hilariously so at times, in a way so that the protagonist seems trapped in a waking nightmare.Even if he's skimped on the story, he hasn't done so on the cast. Sean Penn is excellent as a drifter whose car breaks down in the middle of nowhere. Fate conspires to keep him stranded in this miserable little dump. His performance is nothing less than riveting, providing the audience with its main point of reference throughout the twists and turns. To be frank, this movie just wouldn't be very interesting without him. He is one of the best active performers. Jennifer Lopez's recent acting turns have been critically lambasted, but U-Turn proves that she can do a pretty good job, given the proper material. Nick Nolte is effective as her shady, white-trash husband. Billy Bob Thornton is hilariously disgusting (and unrecognizable) as a greasy mechanic who keeps short-changing the hero, to the point where it seems as if he's making a deliberate effort to keep him stranded here forever. My favorite supporting performance comes from Claire Danes as a local girl who clings to Penn as her only ticket home. She's so funny that I wished that her character had played a much larger role in the story.I wish he had turned over the directing chores to someone like Guy Ritchie, who would probably have been more at home with the material. Sadly, the box-office failure of Nixon has jeopardized his goals at making more political films, forcing mediocre projects in his hands. There are so many things he wants to say, but far fewer opportunities to make his points. It would be a shame if this gifted filmmaker became another victim of Hollywood's lowest-common-denominator practices.**1/2 (out of ****)Released by TriStar Pictures  "},{"Title":"One for cult status.","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  How can one go wrong with real actors at their peak, and a manic director who enters the tormented human psyche. Easy... Blame the scriptwriter. Every single craft you see on the screen was perfected but the script just went overboard. If only director Mr. Stone had enough sense to pull it back and make it easy for the audience to swallow. Shame! But at least we got to laugh and sweat over Bobby Cooper's, (the wonderful Sean Penn), unfortunate landing in a strange town called Superior. And wasn't that Darrell character a nasty piece of work by Billy Bob?  "}{"Title":"Joaquin Phoenix is a movie-saver","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, so I saw U-Turn as a Phoenix fanatic. But I'm not being biased here when I say that Joaquin Phoenix's role as TNT was out-of-this-world-ly hilarious. Who would've thought that he could be funny too? He and Claire Danes who played TNT's girlfriend Jenny are the funniest characters of this otherwise dull movie. Their scenes are FANTASTIC. Whether it's TNT being the jealous boyfriend who thinks he's macho but actually isn't or Jenny being the pain in Bobby's butt, their 3 scenes would make you laugh. I have never seen Joaquin being so over-the-top, and it totally works. Joaquin actually shaved the letters TNT into the back of his head, and it's the funniest thing I've ever seen in my life. And his accent! I can crack up just thinking about it!Having said that, the rest of the movie isn't nice at all. I did not care for even a second what happened to Bobby, though Sean Penn gave a great performance. His character is just those idiots who deserve what they got and I could care less if he died or got screwed over by Grace, played by Jennifer Lopez, arguably one of the most overrated actresses working today. Nick Nolte's character was just twisted. Billy Bob Thorton's annoying mechanic was funny too, but why couldn't he have given Bobby his car back sooner so that I wouldn't have to sit through such a mess of a movie? Not only is U-Turn pointless, it's a complete waste of time. Phoenix's scenes don't add up to more than 30 minutes, and I had to sit through almost 2 hours just for his scenes. Luckily I have it on VHS.If you're a die-hard fan of either Joaquin Phoenix or Claire Danes, then you should see this. But remember to get a tape, not a DVD, and press 'fast-forward' when neither Phoenix nor Danes are on. 3/10. "},{"Title":"You Churn, But I Didn't","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When one glances over this site's page on U-Turn and sees the comparatively poor rating this film has gotten here it is assumed that U-Turn is either a near-bomb or just plain unpopular.  Now some may argue that there is no difference between these positions but I beg to differ.  What Mr. Stone gives to us in this picture is very different from most films but not necessarily worse.U-Turn is a downer of a movie.  From start to finish it is almost entirely negative.  People don't like stories that end badly or never have any improvements for the characters so, I deduce, this is probably where voters and reviewers killed this film.  If Dorothy had never made it back in The Wizard of Oz I doubt that film would have been very successful.What makes U-Turn great isn't the same as what makes Mr. Stone's other films great.  U-Turn didn't deal with politically important issues or history.  Instead it gives us the best example to date of something that happens to most of us on occasion a Bad Day.  Sean Penn is thrown into another world just like the above-mentioned Dorothy. Mr. Penn's Oz, however, is a dangerously serious one.  Its as though the town in Bad Day at Black Rock wasn't just trying to hide to truth but actively trying to kill Spencer Tracy.  But that's what makes U-Turn great, because its so real.  Sometimes it feels as if the world is caving in around us.  We all have times when it feels like the apocalypse has entered the door to stay.I don't think Oliver Stone was trying to get everyone to love U-Turn.  He did a great job making it, but destroyed all its potential success by telling the truth. The only people who can truly appreciate it are those of us who are closet sadists or those of us who can appreciate the film's message.  Whether these are equal terms is another question. "},{"Title":"VERY Oliver Stone","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw the film without knowing much about it, and made the comment that it was quite Oliver Stone ... so I was made to look a bit of a fool when it actually was!Sean Penn is superb as the man trying to escape from an almost certain death who gets trapped in a hick town, and entangled up in Jennifer Lopez understandable! and her bizarre marriage with Nick Nolte.The real star though was Billy Bob Thornton as Darrell, he is a superb actor and does a great parody of himself all the time.  Top man. "},{"Title":"Off-beat fun in the desert","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really turned off Oliver Stone after that loathsome misfire Natural Born Killers but he found the mark again with U-Turn.  Sean Penn's 1964 1/2 Mustang overheats in the desert and he winds up in a small town with an oddball cast of characters.  Penn is great as the troubled guy just wanting to get out of town and deal with his other major problems, but he is entwined in the crazy goings-on in town.  Nick Nolte is totally seedy and relishes every moment on camera as Jennifer Lopez's hubby.  Joaquin Phoenix as the small town yokel who is smitten with Claire Danes and will fight anyone who so much as looks at her fits his role as TNT perfectly. Powers Boothe was born to play a small-town sheriff, and above all Billy Bob Thornton steals the show as Darrell, the garage mechanic.  His scenes with Penn are hilarious.  Jon Voight, Claire Danes are good, and Jennifer Lopez does well in a role that suits her nicely.  Also Laurie Metcalf does a fine cameo as a ticket-seller at the bus station.  Oliver Stone seems to enjoy close-ups of bad teeth in this movie, along with other kinds of shaky-camera work.  It gets a bit distracting at first but it fits in with the off-beat nature of this movie.  One more thing, I got plenty thirsty seeing all those bottles of beer and coke break before Sean Penn could get to quench his thirst!   "},{"Title":"Watch the trailer clips - skip the film","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I love black comedy (Eating Raoul remains a personal favorite), and I am very fond of film noir. Obviously, I sat down to watch U-Turn fully expecting to be entertained. This movie was a most profound disappointment. Although there were occasionally humorous moments, they were rare. The story was clunky, and the acting was mostly horrid, with a few small exceptions. In the actors' defense, every character (with the exception of the blind Indian) was written to be both morally repugnant and offensively stupid. I imagine if this town really existed, it would be where Steven Segal recruits the villains for his films.I don't know about you, but half a dozen funny one liners drowning in a sea of bad acting and muddled images does not qualify as satisfying entertainment. I suppose this makes me an overly critical, snobby, humorless videophile, as one reviewer here put it, but I really do not care. I would rather be called a snob than lower my expectations to the point where this drivel could be considered entertaining. Or worse yet, become someone who is shallow enough to judge another's character based on their taste in a single film. "},{"Title":"A feast for vultures","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Small time hood, played with fidelity by Sean Penn, blows a hole in the water hose of his 1964 and a half red Mustang out in the desert and has to limp into Superior, Arizona, pop. about 100, temp 100-plus. He shoulda made a u-turn. He's already lost two fingers because he wasn't able to pay some dudes the $13,000 he owned them, but now he has the cash in his backpack. Next problem (number two) getting his car fixed by Darrell's other brother Darrell, an inbred hick mechanic from hell, played chillingly by Billy Bob Thornton. This guy you won't forget. Problem number three, a muy caliente Apache babe (Jennifer Lopez) who starts to play with more than his mind. Problem number four, her husband, (a lecherous and morally corrupt Nick Nolte) who wants him to kill her. Problem number four and a half is a blind Indian shaman (Jon Voight, believe it or not) who plays with his soul.All this is tolerable, but as he's getting a soda in the local groceria, it's robbed and they take his backpack with all the money in it. The senora who is robbed recovers in time to shot the robber with the backpack in the back with a shotgun. Only problem is number five, the buckshot blows Penn's money to smithereens (nice touch), and he is now flat broke and can't pay the $150 to get his Mustang back on the road. Problem number six, a small town tart (Claire Danes) cozies up to him to get her macho boy friend jealous enough to want to beat our boy to a pulp. Problem number seven, in his desperation to get enough money to blow town, our hero calls his main creditor and tells him where he is (seems dumb). His creditor wants more than the other three fingers. Problem number eight...Well, I didn't take notes, so I'm losing track. But trust me, he's got more troubles to come.This is in some ways an amazing film. It's part Clint Eastwood western, where there are no good guys, and part urban thriller, where you never know who is double crossing whom (but take a hint, they all are) or what is going to happen next. The atmosphere is compelling, all hangs together well, and we have something close to a film noire masterpiece until the scene on the cliff where our hero is supposed to push her off. Juggling the psychology in the film with the psychology he's working on the audience, Oliver Stone loses his grip and everything goes to ill- logic and blood and bodies. Hey, it's tough to concentrate through a whole stinkin' movie, even if you are Oliver Stone! Nonetheless there are so many striking images and clever scenes and so much original movie shtick here that I give you a Kmart guarantee you'll be entertained.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Your Lies Are Old - But You Tell Them Pretty Well","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of the many funny one-liners in the movie as muttered by Jon Voight's character of the old blind coin-begging Indian.If you have half-a-sense of humor, you'll like this movie. If you like black comedy, you'll love this movie. Even if you hate Oliver Stone, this is a very unpolitical non-preachy film that's fun to watch. (Especially Jennifer Lopez!!).If you are an overly critical, snobby humorless videophile as some that reviewed this film certainly are - I suggest that rather than renting U-Turn, you grab your secretly hidden copy of Pretty Woman and The Bodyguard sit with a snifter of cognac and cry yourself to sleep. "},{"Title":"Riveting Film Noir!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has all the elements of the classic film noir  sex, violence and gore, and a premise of abject hopelessness which guides and drives the action to its relentless conclusion.The real reason to watch this movie is not for its story, which is actually quite dull, but rather for its suspenseful characterizations.  There is a love triangle, and more than the slight suggestion that the relationship between Nolte's and Lopez's characters is illicit, even while it may be marital in the film.  Jennifer Lopez is good as the femme fatale who draws the largely unwitting Sean Penn into a web of deceit and destruction.This is one of Jennifer Lopez's better movies.  It is just as suspenseful as Anaconda and thrives because its suspense is generated by the interaction of pathological relationships and not just the threat of a monster snake!  In Selena Lopez gave us a good performance, but she was largely carrying on the image of the slain but beloved singer. In this film, on the other hand, she shows that she can act credibly on her own merit.I don't think anyone will lose any sleep over not seeing this movie, yetthe film succeeds because we can relate so intimately to the characters. Even if their relationships are sick and their sense of proportion is skewed.  We can imagine all of this happening to any one of us.  We can imagine being drawn in just as Penn's character is.  This is whatmakes the film so eerie and scary.Although this film is somewhat out of the mold for Oliver Stone, it is refreshing to see him direct something other than his own interpretation of history, even if those are fine films as well.I give this film two and a half stars.  "},{"Title":"Mean...just plain mean...but fun","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In the tradition of other movies that have come before it with similar outlines, this movie stands on its own.  As a Stone movie, it is widely under-appreciated...and MEAN.  A well-done tale of snowballing.  Little inequities become oversized, PAINFUL thorns.  It plays like a dark version of Scorcese's After Hours.  Griffin Dunne's character is played (in a similar pathetic but undeniably endearing fashion) by Sean Penn.  Unlike Dunne's bad luck, Penn's involves all manner of atrocities.  Where Dunne paid psychologically, Penn pays on all levels.  The characters driving his voyage add to the strange uneasiness of his every step.  Much better than I expected.  Definitely one for those people who need to satisfy their darkside on a late night.   "},{"Title":"Funny, exciting, and unpredictable","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, seeing as how I have nothing better to do than watch TV most of my waking hours, I was able to catch another movie on The Movie Channel. Earlier today when I was flipping around, I saw an ad on TMC that said they would be showing Oliver Stone's u-turn this evening.  I am a fan of Oliver Stone, I enjoyed the two Oliver Stone movies I'd seen before, The Doors and Natural Born Killers (especially the second one.), so I thought I would probably enjoy this one too.  I was right. Unlike The Doors or Natural Born Killers, this movie is a comedy, but it's a dark comedy.  Here's a synopsis without any big spoilers The movie's protagonist (Sean Penn) was on the way to pay off some gangsters who he owed money to when he got stuck in a small town in Arizona after his car broke down.  While he was in town, he lost the money (I won't tell you how) and then tried to scrape together enough to pay off his debt, and also to pay the hilarious redneck mechanic (Billy Bob Thorton) who worked on his car. Along the way he met all sorts of characters, some zany, some tragic, some evil, some downright insane.  Some of them were a little of each. This movie does not have a dull moment.  You never know what will happen next.  Just when things start to go one way, there is always some crazy plot twist that will send things spiraling in another direction. This movie will keep you guessing until the surprise ending. One thing that makes this movie so great is the great acting from all of the cast.  They played their parts beautifully.  I especially appreaciated the performances of Sean Penn, Billy Bob Thorton, Jennifer Lopez, and Nick Nolte. I also must congratulate Ennio Morricone for the awesome score that enhanced every scene in the movie.  It utilized a wide variety of different instruments (from strings to distorted electric guitar to juice harp.), and the different pieces themselves also spanned the spectrum from quirky to beautifully melodic to countrified.So, in conclusion, u-turn blew me away, and chances are that it will blow you away too if you like a dark comedy with lots of plots twists, and you can handle some blood 'n' gore and some disturbing subject matter. "}{"Title":"Stone in a light-hearted vein","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  John Ridley's script--a veritable Epcot theme park of film-noir cliches--is given a dazzling treatment by Oliver Stone and his team. The talent behind the camera--particularly the cinematographer Robert Richardson, the costume designer Beatrix Arusza and the editor Hank Corwin--all work at peak capacity; the handling of the material is so sensational they must have all thought they were adapting Dostoevsky instead of Ridley's handbag of fatalistic tropes.The movie forms a stringent corollary to all the mistakes made by David Lynch in LOST HIGHWAY; all the noir archetypes that become generic and abstract in Lynch's wreck are revitalized with humor, atmosphere and visual energy here. The performances by Nick Nolte and Jennifer Lopez as Old Creep and Femme Fatale are a liability, but Sean Penn is surprisingly effective as Luckless Chump, and in the smaller bits Joaquin Phoenix and Claire Danes make a blazing impression as a pair of hayseed lovebirds. "},{"Title":"It looked promising though(5/10)","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You could do a LOT worse on a hot summer day than renting a copy of U-turn. Sean Penn is perfect for the role, though I thought some of the other characters were distracting if not unnecessary. It starts off pretty well but midway my interest was wearing thin. The movie does a great job of capturing the feel of a hot, dusty town...made me feel like wanting a drink as I watched. It's an old theme, but this is surely better than enduring a lot of big screen movies recently (episode 1, the mummy, etc).  "},{"Title":"Stoned","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This could have been an excellent movie, if it had been directed by someone other than Oliver Stone. It's really much more of a dark comedy than a drama. It's the story of Sean Penn's really bad day. Penn, Nick Nolte, and Jennifer Lopez turn in good performances. In fact, the whole cast was very good, with the exception of Billy Bob Thornton playing way over the top. However, I'm sure that that's what Stone asked for. To me, a movie is well-directed if I never give a thought to the director. Stone is apparently so full of himself these days that he feels the need to force you to notice him. The entire film was filled to the brim with irritating director tricks. Stone has, in the past, allowed good actors with a good script to simply present a compelling story, e.g. Wall Street, Platoon. This film is full of the sort of director megalomania that ruined Natural Born Killers. (Although not quite as badly. How could it?) "},{"Title":"Black humor and pure irony, an excellent Oliver Stone film.","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sean Penn plays an out-of-luck dude that, because of car problems, is forced to detour in Superior, AZ the town with the most funny and bizarre characters I've seen recently in a film.Mr. Stone did an excellent work of art with this film for it brings the audience comedy, drama, suspense, and beauty with Jennifer Lopez as the mischievous and demented wife of the town's corrupt sheriff played by Nick Nolte.The performance by Penn is stupenduous, as well as young actors Claire Danes and Joaquin Phoenix and  of course, the performances of Nick Nolte and Billy Bob Thornton are just great. I recommend this movie, to anybody who wants to have a few laughs and a good time. "},{"Title":"Not great Stone, still entertaining","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I never really had high expectations for this film after hearing and reading so many mediocre reviews for it. That is what made this film such an enjoyable surprise for me. The acting is done fairly well, the direction is more than adequate and the story actually works with plenty of plot twists. Throw in some of the acting greatness of Sean Penn and some great supporting actors like Jon Voight, Nick Nolte, Jennifer Lopez and Claire Danes and you have a good film.The whole concept of a big-time drifter getting caught in a small town may have been done far too many times, however with the proper cast and direction like in this film, it works. Penn's turn from a man trying to pass some time into a man who has experienced too much misfortune in one day is done like few other actors could. Could Bill Paxton be quite as effective in this role? Highly unlikely.The finale of this film is done well, if not a bit overdone and just goes to prove the point that when things start to go wrong and things start to get over-complictaed, no one wins. An exciting two hours that most should enjoy.7/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Well acted and made, but ultimately overlong and derivative","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oliver Stone's U Turn is a solidly made thriller.  Strong performances from the leads, and a toned-down visual style (for Stone) makes this a watchable film.  But in the end, we've seen it all before.  This is almost a straight rehashing of Red Rock West with some Blood Simple thrown into the mix.  By the end, the extreme violence becomes tiresome and gratuitous because it is obvious that Stone has nothing new to add to the genre.  This would have been an interesting movie a decade ago, but now it is just another rental. "},{"Title":"This one might take several tries to see completely.","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A plodding, endless series of mishaps to drifter Sean Penn in a small SW desert town filled with inbred characters he can not escape.  Director Stone recruits a list of stars to fill an exhausting 125 minute effort with its best lines shown in the advertising trailer.  The movie tends to be tiring. It would be interesting to know how many people require more than attempt to see this one completely.  Good for actor resume enhancement. "},{"Title":"Stone does film noir - his way","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There must be hundreds of films like this and there's nothing to distinguish it other than B&W inserts and funny camera angles. Fans of Stone's political work will find it light weight those looking for a thriller will just wish he'd get on with it. A shame, I was looking forward to this one. (5/10) "},{"Title":"Can't get enough of Stone, great visuals.","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Toned down a little visually from NBK - with some similarities. Plot and script is weaker, but still entertaining. Thornton is fun. "},{"Title":"Excellent dialogue and good performances","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  U Turn is anything but the usual Hollywood movie. That is why I would recommend it any time. The plot is a bit unbelievable and I find the editing/directing style annoying but instead you will find excellent performances from Sean Penn, Jennifer Lopez, Nick Nolte and especially Billy Bob Thornton. He is nothing short of scary as the local hillbilly automechanic. If you also consider the interesting and funny dialogue you have a very solid movie. As Sean Penn's character says to Billy Bob Thornton's 30.000 people die every day - why aren't you among them I say Hundreds of movies come out of Hollywood every year - why are only a handful of them like U Turn. Rating 7 of 10. "}{"Title":"Searing, unpredictable drama -- good fun","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"      Perhaps Oliver Stone's most cock-eyed film is his least controversial - - and most under-appreciated. U Turn IS one strange ride, that's for sure.  But in involves little of Stone's standard devices (no famous people, no  far-reaching conspiracies, and best of all, no history).    This is a tight little drama played out in a dusty, hot desert town  where Sean Penn's character is trapped, broke and very desperate.    Sean Penn is a frantic drifter who, after his antique car breaks down has  been liberated of all his about-to-be-paid gambling debt money. A sleazy  realtor (Nick Nolte) wants his wife dead, but Penn's character may or may  not be the man for the job.   Billy Bob Thornton's role is riotous as a brain-dead but crooked auto -mechanic who is making Penn's character's life miserable and his exit out  of town impossible. He is but one of the many sideline acts that makes U  Turn so tasty.   The tiny Southwest town is populated by the dimwitted and the homicidal.  And we are trapped there for nearly two hours. We know we're riding home in  comfort eventually, but will Penn's character make it out alive?  "},{"Title":"Overlong and lacking crucial aspects","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" U TURN has a great premise a drifter shows up in an out-of-the-way town, only to fall foul of the town's weirdo inhabitants and finding himself caught up in intricate plots between various characters. It's directed by Oliver Stone, a man with a history of making challenging cinema, and it has an ensemble cast of familiar actors. What's to go wrong? The story, as it turns out. U TURN falls down because the storyline is bloated and convoluted in equal measure. It meanders from place to place as the minutes and the hours gradually roll by, and you never get closer to any kind of truth or outcome. Come the umpteenth twist at the climax, you no longer care.The central crux of the film is a love triangle but it takes an age for this to go anywhere - THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE this isn't! Instead it's dragged out long beyond any intrigue or entertainment value it might have had. Much of the film involves quirky run-ins with various off-beat characters, but that doesn't make a film. And this time, Stone's direction feels pretentious and off-putting, like he's trying too hard and going overboard with the stylistics.Cast-wise, the main actors don't fair too well. Sean Penn is as unsympathetic as ever; I don't think I've ever seen him play a genuinely warm character. It doesn't bode well. Jennifer Lopez is youthful and refreshingly free of Hollywood-style cosmetic surgery, but her acting is limited. Nick Nolte just feels like he's trying too hard. The supporting stars are better Billy Bob Thornton as the unrecognisable garage mechanic (shades of A SIMPLE PLAN's Jacob here), Jon Voight as a hobo, Powers Boothe as the sheriff, Joaquin Phoenix as a thug.In a better film, these characters would light up the screen; here, they seem mired in a bit of a mess and a missed opportunity. With a tightened screenplay and a great deal more focus, U TURN might have turned out halfway decent. "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Oliver Stone is known for various serious and/or controversial films that have a certain audience, while others are not big fans. But, this film is not of that quality. This bit of triviality seems more of a lark. It was destined for late night viewings and video rentals. All the same, I think it can be said to be more enjoyable than some (who knows? maybe all) of those other message movies. And, conspiracy free.The movie concerns Sean Penn as a loser who has the unfortunate fate of winding up in some hick town where, to paraphrase him, everyone seems crazy. A major part of all this is a woman played by Jennifer Lopez, showing her ability to have some fun, again better than many of her later more serious roles. I don't remember all the details -- don't even recall Claire Danes had a bit role in the thing.Still, I remember having a lot of fun. Thus, my summary. "},{"Title":"Oliver Stone in the NOIR mode.","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" According to my opinion this movie is a cult classic. The atmosphere and humour contained within is such an addiction. I truly rate this movie as being ranked in the top 100 best movies of all time. When I first watched it I was immediately absorbed in to it completely that I viewed it on repeated occasions. After that it changed my entire perspective on movies.Oliver Stone is a director to be reckoned with. His distinctive style of directing is in a class of its own. No other director can match up to his calibre. His previous movies such as 'jfk' and 'natural born killers' received much criticism and box office success. However this venture was in a different category. He has managed to make a brilliant adaptation of John Ridley's novel 'straw dogs'. It stays loyal to the novel as well. The transition of the novel to the screen has resulted in a spectacular outcome. For Oliver Stone this movie probably did not require as much effort on his part due to the simplicity of the plot itself, but still the movie is high on quality.***************SPOILERS AHEAD********************** The movie centres around the theme of 'bad luck' The main lead bobby 'sean Penn' is a desperate individual who is determined to fulfill his mission of paying back a Russian gangster a loan. He is forced to take a stop in the small town of Superior (Arizona) due to car trouble. He leaves it in the company of Billy Bob Thornton. Meanwhile he tempted to spend time with Jeniffer Lopez though afterwards he discovers that she is married to Nick Nolte. Later a robbery in a store ends in his money being shredded. He is then talked in to killing Lopez by her husband, however he felt unable to. After his attempt to leave the town is unsuccessful he decides to go ahead with the plan to kill Nolte for his hidden stash of cash with Lopez. ********************END OF SPOILERS**************************The main character is suffering from a case of bad luck syndrome. The movie presents this from a humorous perspective. Bobby's character has negative as well as positive shades. The movie totally relies on his presence to progress through all the segments. The theme is in the same vain as 'body heat', 'the hot spot', and 'red rock west'. Many situations will seem reminiscent from those movies. This is a symbolic movie and many metaphors are present in the scenes. In regards to the plot, substance is low. However the cinematography, close up camera angles really add to the movies quality. At certain points the movie will feel like a comedy drama with elements of seriousness. The close up frames captures the human feelings of the characters at those moments. The cinematography is truly the highlight of the movie as well as the scenes between Billy Bob and Sean Penn. The chemistry in the interactions between the two make history. The pace of the movie is slow but the viewer's curiosity for the character makes one watch on in eagerness. Maybe a ten to fifteen minute edit would enhance it overall. Ennio Morricone's background score injects life and a certain atmosphere in to the movie. The combination of western sounds with his Italian style of music is a treat to listen to. The music compliments to the atmosphere of the movie and to the feeling of the landscape of Arizona. This is the perfect getaway movie if you enjoyed 'Thelma and Louise'. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I know quite a few people seemed to really like this movie, But oh my god this has seriously got to be the most awful movie I have ever seen. Maybe it's just not my type of film but it was really gross actually made me want to be sick. I found it really disgusting and the whole thing about J-Lo's character bonking her dad is rough. And don't mean to sound like a wuss but some bits of it were a bit scary -like the flashbacks of her mum. This film was nothing like I expected. It seemed really cheap and just basically crap. Jen really can't act, I get put off seeing films If shes in them since I saw this film. Don't really like Claire Danes either, she is well annoying! Haven't been too keen on Sean Penn either since I saw him in that Friends episode...God I'm such a whiner lol "},{"Title":"life as a film noir","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After so many politically-themed movies, Oliver Stone decided to try something very different with U Turn. Sean Penn plays Bobby Cooper, whose car breaks down in Superior, Arizona. Over the next few days in this small town, Cooper gets to know the various people there...but is he learning everything about them that there is to be learned? Penn gives his usual intense performance. Nick Nolte, as the might-as-well-be-mayor Jake McKenna, creates one perplexing character. Also starring are Jennifer Lopez (actually doing a good role!), Jon Voight, Billy Bob Thornton, Joaquin Phoenix, Claire Danes, Powers Boothe, and Julie Hagerty. This is definitely not a movie for everyone, but it's fairly neat. A sort of modern-day film noir. "},{"Title":"soundtrack ruined it","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Oh man, this movie was so hard for me to stay interested in. The story had potential to make a adequate drama/thriller, if only it had been directed right.A lot of times you hear people say, such and such movie took itself way too seriously. Well in this case I don't think this movie took itself seriously enough. I felt detached from the movie the instant my ear drums vibrated as that RIDICULOUS soundtrack made way into my head. Every moment where it had the chance to build a little bit of tension, this goofy music would kick in, or a wacky Looney Tunes type sound effect would boing, or do something similarly zany, totally leaving me uninterested. I don't understand why they would go for that type of comical atmosphere with a story like this. It's not like the story itself was clever enough to be able to pull off being told in such a manner. The tone of the movie and the tone of the soundtrack conflicted with each other, not a good thing. The one part of the soundtrack I did like was the hollow, ambient type of music they played in many of those desert scenes, that created a good mood I thought.A random point- Remember the scene where Jennifer Lopez almost got pushed off the cliff? Ask yourself, would a normal person react that calmly, or make such a quick witty comment about their situation, when their life hangs in the balance?? "},{"Title":"Damn good movie","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I just seen this movie on TV here in Sweden.It was damn good.Sean Penn is the best actor alive today. I really hope to see more movies from him.I really think Lopez did fairly good, if we compare with other of her movies.The native American older man, was very cool, I love shamanism. Oliver Stone may have done better things, but this movie is really worth seeing.I loved the dark end. Download ore rent this movie, NOW. "},{"Title":"Oliver Stone at his best!","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  U Turn (1997) Directed by Oliver Stone  Starring Sean Penn, Jennifer Lopez, Nick Nolte, Powers Boothe, Claire Danes, Joaquin Phoenix, Billy Bob Thorton, and Jon Voight Rated R for Strong Violence, Sexuality, and Langauge Approx 125 minutes (2 hours and 4 minutes)U Turn starts out, when a loser Bobby Cooper (Sean Penn-Mystic River) is driving out in the middle of nowhere and all of a sudden his radiator hose  gets busted, so he goes to a small town called Superior. There he is greeted by many bizarre people such as Darell, the greasy mechanic who does bad work (Billy Bob Thorton- Sling Blade), Toby N. Tucker (Joaquin Phoenix- Signs) his girl Jenny (Claire Danes- Terminator 3),and The Blind Man (Jon Voight- Mission Impossible). Through out the movie, Bobby is robbed, beaten, lied to, and still seems he hasn't gotten any further than he started. U Turn is an excellent film that I trully enjoy and others should too. 5/5 on performances 5/5 on plot 5/5 on ending (great ending)  "},{"Title":"Twisted with capital T!","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A deeply twisted film containing Oliver Stone's trademark sense of humour and vision. Sean Penn is terrific and the supporting cast are outstanding too. Jennifer Lopez is the only one who isn't up to the job! Not a classic Oliver Stone movie but still worth watching. Some of the characters are a bit over the top but within the context of the film they serve their purpose.   ask yourself are you a human being or a hungry ghost?  "}{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just plain fun, what do you more than watching Jennifer Lopez sexy body teasing Sean Penn and having sex with lots of men, nothing more than that. I never wanted more to have sex with Lopez after watching this good flick. Here is the story thanks to Steve Richer.A man running from a mysterious past is trapped in a small desert town after his car breaks down. Everybody in this town seems to have totally lost their mind and Bobby can't wait to leave. But there is a problem Bobby doesn't have the money to get his car back. So when an aging man offers him money to kill his young wife Bobby seriously thinks about it. However the gorgeous young woman casts some kind of spell on him and she asks him to get rid of her husband. But this time, the stakes are much higher...Buy this one on DVD "},{"Title":"Oliver Leaves No Stone Unturned","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you see this pretty bad movie, rent a copy of Red Rock West with Nicholas Cage and compare the plots.  RRW was made about six years before this bomb and was one of the best unknown films of the decade. Stone's writers lifted the plot and made a very bad movie. Shame on you, Oliver. "},{"Title":"The best of neo-noir.","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hilarious and spellbinding.  If you like neo-noir with twisted humor, this is it.  Wonderfully outrageous performances by Sean Penn, Jennifer Lopez, Jon Voight -- in fact, the whole cast -- and Oliver Stone is the perfect director for it all. "},{"Title":"Tons of Action, Deception, and Drama. Stone made an Outstanding Film.","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oliver Stone placed together an incredible high action, drama, suspense movie that not only keeps you entertained but keeps you guessing to the bitter end.  The Cast and Crew are award winning.  Jennifer Lopez is the perfect character.  Penn, Nolte, Thornton and Danes put the movie on the map.  The entire cast worked together beautifully.  Jennifer Lopez was the key to the movie.  Her performance was Outstanding, and she had the perfect attitude and look for the part "},{"Title":"A tough cookie, worth the crunch?  Your teeth better be strong enough.","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My American Lit professor commented on this film, he said to us one day during a lecture.  Sometimes, I wake up covered in sweat in the middle of the night, wondering what Oliver Stone REALLY meant by 'U-turn'.That's when this movie began to unravel its secrets to me.  Oliver Stone makes movies that strike at the jugular of American culture.  All of his movies have done that and it's tempting to think that he's taking a break with this one.  But I believe that this movie might just be one of the most powerful and insidious ones he's made thus far, and truly one of the most important movies of the decade.On first viewing, I was merely impressed by the overall atmosphere that was created by the acting and technical virtuosity of the filmmaker.  True, it reminds one of Red Rock West, but doesn't that movie 'remind' you of every other cockamamey thriller out there?  Oliver Stone proved that he could beat anyone at any genre.  He delivers violence and sex thicker than any you've seen in a slew of movies that show gallons of more blood and miles of more flesh.  But there's a lot more lurking beneath the surface in this movie.All the characters that inhabit the town here are familiar to varying degrees, and all of them are identical in one way, none of them seem to know how to leave the little town.  Everyone seems to want to, notably the Jennifer Lopez and Clair Danes character, but really, they either don't believe that there's anything out there to go to, or they are so divorced from any reality outside their own (remember Jennifer Lopez character talking about Disneyland? Could you imagine her character in Disneyland? And then what?) and their every action invariably results in pulling everyone further into their spiralling black-hole of deceit and intrigue through violence and sex, which ultimately has no real purpose outside of the act itself.The town seems to draw its strength from constant, even cyclical re-enactments of sex and violence, there's even a character who's still pre-occupied with re-enacting the European rape and destruction of the Native Americans.  And all this is not quite unlike what a little insular, oblivious and culturally bankrupt country (Lethal Weapon 4? give me a break) called the United States is preoccupied with.  Ask anyone in an Indian reservation, they'll tell you in no uncertain terms that they're still getting ***ed up the a** on a regular basis.The Sean Penn character is the only person that I could relate to.  What with his Movado and his fancy car, here's someone who speaks the language of the real world.  But it doesn't take him long to get caught up in the thick of it.  It doesn't take all that much a little sex, a little violence, a little money trouble, and he's in and he fits into that little town like he belonged there.  Sure he might have more money and he might have 'bigger' problems than those that the townspeople have, but essentially, it's all the same.If you think about it, this country is actually made up most substantially by those little towns or some versions of it than metropolitan cities. Truly, the heart and minds of this country is still very much created in those home towns.  One would like to think that those little towns are still holding strong the virtues that made this country great.  But when you start hearing about Columbine and gangbangers in Arkansas and how the Mid-West is falling prey to drugs, you begin to wonder.  I'm sure we've all seen Fargo, need I say more?Well, I could go on and on but rather, how about the next time you watch this movie (if there is a next time) you try it with the assumption that Oliver Stone is trying to map the current address of this country, and I guarantee than things will start falling into place.  It is his American cinematic rendition of T.S. Eliot's 'Wasteland'.  I am aware how my comments could sound a little pompous but if you can't see past that, you can't see past this movie. "},{"Title":"Stone takes Fargo to Arizona","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oliver Stone tries his hand at a Fargo-style movie set in Arizona with disappointing results.  The Coen's pulled it off by contrasting the sick violence with goofy humor. Stone's U Turn goes for deep rather than funny, making the picture far too dark.He assembled a great cast who delivered good performances but not enough to change my opinion that Stone is WAY overrated.  The only two characters that brought any relief to this overweight movie was Billie Bob Thorton as the psycho mechanic and Joaquin Phoenix and Claire Daines as the psycho couple.  They were right on the mark for the movie like this. Too bad Stone couldn't have filled U Turn with those kind of characters. By the way... what was the deal with Liv Tyler's cameo?  It was like she accidentally walked into the scene, right out of Southern California, without going to costume first!  Typical of Stone's signature style, it distracted rather than helped the movie.  "},{"Title":"Excellent entertainment","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent camera work. When I rented the movie, I watched it twice in one day with a great pleasure. In my opinion, the best movie is the one that I'd like to see again and again. U-turn is one these. I only wish the Blind Man actor had done a better job. "},{"Title":"Well, if I had seen it on Cinemax at 3 am...","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If this movie had not been directed by Oliver Stone, and if I had seen it on late- night TV rather than in the theater, I think I would have gotten a bigger kick out of it. Sure, there are some funny lines and scenes, but it fails as a cult- classic type of trash because it's, well... Oliver Stone! I mean, as fun as it gets, it's still the worst Stone movie to date. It appears he wanted to take it easy and ride off of the Natural Born Killers following he has accumulated. That's too bad, because most his films are really intriguing. I'm thinking this upcoming football flick with Mr. Pacino will return him to Grade A Director status. "},{"Title":"Excellent cast, weird story, VERY weird","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed it but I feel the ending was just too much of a drag. Sean Penn really was not a bad guy, only a guy driven to insanity by and insane small town in Arizona. I sat riveted and was constantly being bombarded by rights and lefts and intermediate jabs from the plot. I just could not predict ANYTHING. Yes, 'Red Rock West' was the forerunner and was superior, but that plot still is untiring. I look forward to another Stone adventure. He is so unpredictable. "},{"Title":"Red Rock improved","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Having enveloped himself with American history in 'Nixon', it's no surprise that Oliver Stone wanted something a little lighter for his next project. The plot and screenplay are adapted from John Ridley's novel by the author himself, and Oliver Stone uses his camera playfully over incredible acting by people like Sean  Penn and Nick Nolte. Similarities can be drawn between this film and John Dahl's 'Red rock west', but that is strictly in the plot, and you shouldn't see this film for the story anyway. Watch it for another example of Oliver Stone's magnificent direction, to see how he uses the screen as a canvas with such distinction that I'd actually suggest coining the word 'stonesque'.  "}{"Title":"unpredictable and big fun","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  what do you get when you put together a great story, a great director, great actors and a perfect setting? Right, U turn (maybe the title refers to all the plot twists). I loved it from beginning to end, and I was especially surprised by Claire Danes. I thought she was a lousy actress (ever watched Romeo+Juliet? Yuk) but here she did a great job, although her role was very small. I also liked the camera close-ups used, I had never seen anything like it and it gives you a total new look on what can be done in the world of movies. Sean Penn is great ; everybody thinks Jennifer Lopez is terrific, I think she has got a lot to learn, here she's very mediocre ; Nick Nolte is just the finishing touch. Go see it, now!  "},{"Title":"Strange, but good","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was a blast to watch!! Strange, twisted, yes, but well-written, hilarious ending, superb acting, star-studded cast...and all-around hilarious irony!! "},{"Title":"Eccentric, violent and extremely twisted film noir.","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Oliver Stone takes a break from his usual genre &#150; the political/historical exposé of great American controversies &#150; for this first-rate modern day film noir. Peopled by eccentric characters, and shot in a style that evokes a drug-fuelled blur, U-Turn is a serpentine, blackly comic thriller that keeps its audience thoroughly absorbed. It frequently crosses the boundaries of good taste, but Stone clearly intends to sock it to the viewer and his in-your-face approach to the material is expertly judged throughout.Lifelong loser Bobby Cooper (Sean Penn) is en route to Las Vegas with a bag full of money he owes to mobsters when his car breaks down. His only option is to stop off at a remote desert town for repairs. Little does he realise he's about to have the mother of all bad days. After leaving his vehicle with the none-too-bright local mechanic Darrell (Billy Bob Thornton), Bobby hikes into town. Here he spots Grace (Jennifer Lopez), a stunningly beautiful local sexpot who invites him back to her palatial home. Just as things look set to become steamy, Grace's husband Jake (Nick Nolte), turns up and beats Bobby before throwing him out of the house. Later Jake confesses that his young wife is a frustrating and over-sexed vixen and asks Bobby if he would consider killing her for him; the plot thickens further when Grace herself suggests that Jake is a tyrannical thug and tries to persuade Bobby to murder him for her. All Bobby wants to do is get his car fixed and get to Vegas to pay the mobsters. Then his bag full of money is lost in a bizarre liquor store raid, and suddenly he no longer has the cash he needs to settle his debts. Bobby's day spirals out of control as he realises the only way to regain the money that will save his life is by carrying out one of the murders that has been requested of him.The film weaves in various unpredictable directions and is held together by Penn's portrayal of the unlucky anti-hero (he's a thoroughly disagreeable man, yet we root for him as he's marginally less unpleasant than everyone else in the film). The stellar cast provide quirky and eccentric supporting characters &#150; Nolte terrifies as the abusive husband who, in a memorably shocking scene, is revealed to have a dark and sickening secret; Lopez oozes sexuality as the femme fatale; Jon Voight etches a fine portrayal as the film's unofficial narrator (a blind beggar who may or may not be an earlier victim of Nolte's wrath); and Thornton is disturbingly hilarious as the unhinged mechanic. The film is bag of visual tricks, with disorientating and hazy camera work that heightens the sense of hallucinogenic weirdness. Towards the end, the non-stop barrage of disturbing twists and violent betrayals almost tips the film into absurdity. But it just about holds together and emerges a polished and engrossing modern noir "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you have not seen this movie, do so. This movie is for anyone who thinks they have bad luck. Now, this is definitely a Murphys' Law movie. Anything bad that can happen to poor Sean Penn, will... This movie was first showed to me by an ex-boyfriend. He knew I was a movie buff, I love Stanley Kubrick and Oliver Stone and John Waters, and he mentioned the movie U-turn. I never had seen it. And now I am thankful I dated that jerk because he turned me onto a great movie. This is how J.Ho, i mean, J.Lo should be. This was her before the many marriages and media frenzy. If you have not seen this movie, check it out. Trust me, it's worth it! My favorite person in this movie is Billy bob... but you have to look out for him in this. They do some great makeup on him... Enjoy, I did! "},{"Title":"Stuck in Superior","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Your average Oliver Stone fan would say (at least in my experience) that U Turn is his worst film. In a list of socially conscious films, usually critical of the system in one way or another, U Turn certainly stands out as uncharacteristic, or so it might seem. I think Oliver Stone may well be the best director there is and in my opinion U Turn is his best film.In Hollywood you get movies that are actually vehicles as they say for action, gratuitous sex, violence, cheap scares, laughs, etc. That is to say, these movies exist merely to provide the viewer with plenty of (fill in the blank), and the plot is merely a line taking the viewer from one (fill in the blank) sequence to another. I see U Turn as a vehicle for art, and the plot is really just intended to bring the viewer from one brilliantly visually composed episode of colorful character interaction to another. Not to be confused with art house fare, with all its pretentiously multilayered, obscure self referential metaphors and what have you. Save that stuff for the beatniks. The art of U Turn is in its extra dimensional visual narrative, which makes use of brief cuts of imagery and often sound to interrupt the scene, so as to give mental impressions visual representation. You don't watch U Turn, you experience it. So when someone says U turn is an inferior imitation of Red Rock West for instance, and I've seen this comparison made time and time again, I have to laugh. As if Stone would lower himself to such an undertaking. While the plot may resemble that of Red Rock West, the plot alone is almost inconsequential when talking about the value of U Turn as a film.The value of U Turn is in the way it visualizes the mental, a technique Stone has referred to as cubism. As with Picasso's cubism, which was his way of conveying the third dimension of an image while limited to a flat medium, Stone's cubism is intended to visualize what you know is there but can't see the mental. This cubism has been present in most of Oliver Stone's recent projects traces of it in The Doors and JFK, over the top in Natural Born Killers, subtly used but obviously present in Nixon, and finally executed to perfection in U Turn. So in this respect, U Turn is perfectly characteristic of his body of work, maybe not as a filmmaker but certainly as an artist. As Stone develops a mastery of his cubism in future films (we see it again in Any Given Sunday), we will look back and realize that U Turn is the standard against which these films are to be measured.Having said my piece about cubism, let me say a few words about the characters in U Turn. U Turn is a surrealistic odyssey into Bobby Cooper's limbo, and its other characters are the obstacles that keep him trapped there. Every character given any screen time simply shines. The actors in U Turn understand (better than many viewers do unfortunately) that their role in the film is a joke. Jake, Darrell, the Sheriff, Jenny and Toby, the blind man, even Bobby - these are spoofs (for lack of a better word) on their character types. This is not over acting, these are comic performances carried out with talent rarely seen. The strength of U Turn's characters is comparable only to that of a movie like Apocalypse Now. Again here we have a movie that is a surrealistic odyssey not to watch but to experience. Kilgore, Chef, the Photo Journalist, these too were comic performances. In movies like these, each character is really an episode in the narrative of the protagonist's journey. Apocalypse Now was ahead of its time and U Turn, I think, will prove to be as well.10 out of 10. A UNIQUE film experience. "},{"Title":"Needs some energy","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  To me, despite the director and stellar cast, this film came off as lifeless, I mean Sean Penn sleepwalked through the movie, and Jennifer Lopez just cant act.  The plot was way too familiar, we've seen it in Body Heat, and many others.  Billy Bob Thorton was a plus as the mentally challenged mechanic(although he played the same character later in A Simple Plan).  Nick Nolte seemed a little miscast, Jon Voight was absolutely wasted.  A director like Oliver Stone should be ashamed of himself for doing a movie like this, because this movie is nothing more than a trash movie.  The rating is 6.5 only because Oliver Stone's name is on it, if his name was not on it, it would have gotten no more than a 5.5, and ill give it a 5. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've ever seen in my life...","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yipes. This movie sucks. Look at all the famous name...Oliver Stone, Sean Penn, Jennifer Lopez, Nick Nolte, Joaquin Phoenix, Claire Danes, Jon Voight, Billy Bob Thornton, even a cameo by Liv Tyler (yes, THAT Liv Tyler)...and the movie sucks. The screenplay is so poor, the plot so asinine and gamey that the movie stinks hard.If you want to see a much better movie with some similar plot elements, see the Cohen brothers' Blood Simple.DO NOT WATCH THIS DRECK. Everyone involved has done MUCH BETTER work. "},{"Title":"What a waste of good talent!","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  With Sean Penn, Nick Nolte, Jon Voight, Billy Bob Thornton and Jennifer Lopez, and directed by Oliver Stone, this looked an appealing video. What a disappointment! It is an awful waste of talent, and should be kept in your local video shop in the section of worst movies ever made.  "},{"Title":"Make a U Turn and run from this turkey!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Easily, by far and away, the worst movie made by a major American director. Ever. Nothing else even comes close. (The system tells me I must use up at least 4 lines for this to get posted. But I said everything I needed to say in two. I have never suffered through a movie this bad in my life! No redeeming features at all. And I like Oliver Stone!) "},{"Title":"What a bore","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Unsympathetic characters, dragged-out ending, predictable...If you got to watch it, watch it for the supporting characters(Voight,Danes,Phoenix, and especially, Billy Bob Thorton).  Other than that, avoid at all costs! "}{"Title":"Sick twisted movie, that will leave you with a pain inside.","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I see people who like this movie call it sick and twisted. Well they are right. And if sick and twisted rocks your world then by all means see this movie.But to me, this movie left me with a feeling of .. hmmm hard to describe .. senselessness. I feel hollow and dark , and my heart feels heavy like if it had a been a stone.Basicly this movie is about a guy that ends up stranded in the middle of nowhere with the clock against him, as he has to get somewhere to save his ass. One disaster follows another, and the movie goes into a spiral of sick depravity, lies, murder .. etc What can go wrong does go wrong, and you will find no hero or just a plain decent person to hope for .. they are all corrupted in some way more or less.. generally more.In the end no one wins and the movie seems to display no message to it's viewers. It just makes you feel bad. Bad about the untruthfulness , lies and deceit. Bad about the beatings, the shooting and the murders... But most of all .. bad about wasting your time wasting your time watching this piece of crap. I really hated this movie and felt so strongly about it , that I choose to register just to write this comment.Think twice about watching this movie .. then think about one more time. Then choose not to see it.  "},{"Title":"...Interesting","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was not good at ALL! I don't like the way it's filmed, like a private movie(documentary). The cast had some big names like Sean Penn, Jennifer Lopez, Nick Nolte but still this was no hit. The only reason I kept on watching was J.Lo. I love Jennifers acting but this movie was just kind of freaky. The story line-What can I say? Freaky!!! If u wanna see a good movie don't see this one "},{"Title":"Comic character thriller set in the desert where it should have been left","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When a character on the run from debt breaks down in a deserted town you can bet that the inhabitants aren't going to make his life any easier. This is a peculiar, parochially American film from Oliver Stone, populated by some wonderfully drawn characters - my favourite is Billy Bob Thornton's hick mechanic, a sub-schizophrenic, comic version of the hideous antagonist of the later Wolf Creek.Central to the film is the duplicitous scam couple of Jennifer Lopez and Nick Nolte, which develops into a mutually antagonistic, Prizzi's Honor-type situation with Penn caught in the middle. I'm a fan of Nolte's, an actor who's always more character than star for all his off-screen volubility and Jennifer Lopez burns the screen up with sex appeal. None of them - not even the rather baffled Penn - can save this film, which rather loses heart halfway through. 4/10 "},{"Title":"U Turn away from this movie","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" With U-Turn, it seems that Oliver Stone (Platoon, 1986, JFK, 1991, Natural Born Killers, 1994) wanted to prove his ability to shoot a thriller with simplicity and efficiency. I must acknowledge that I couldn't wait to discover his 1997 film because of its offbeat, eerie story. It's a real downward spiral for his main character Bobby (Sean Penn) who after a car breakdown has no other choice than to stay in a small isolated town amid a desert landscape. A short stay that will soon mutate into an overlong nightmare for him.Unfortunately, the result finds itself very below my expectations. The opening credits show Penn driving his car with a flood of fast close-ups showcasing details of him or the surrounding landscape. This cinematographic process sets the scene for the rest of what will follow. U-turn is in its major part marred by a flashy form which depletes the interest and ends up annoying the viewer. It was not exactly the required treatment to film this kind of story and to assess the absurdity, the madness it conveyed. The psychology of the characters is given a rough side and so is suspense. The scene of the murder of Nick Nolte falls into the grotesque. Without mentioning an endless, exasperating end at that with Penn and Jennifer Lopez who kill each other the former doesn't trust the latter and than it's Lopez who wants to abandon Penn and so on...Yes, Sean Penn is one of the greatest American thespians of these last years but here, the secondary roles steal him the show, particularly Billy Bob Thornton as a nonchalant garage mechanic. But is it sufficient to spend your time with them in front of this black comedy? "},{"Title":"Nasty slice of neo-noir a la Stone; guilty pleasure cast to boot","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" U-TURN (1997) *** Sean Penn, Jennifer Lopez, Nick Nolte, Billy Bob Thornton, Powers Boothe, Claire Danes, Joaquin Phoenix, Jon Voight, Laurie Metcalf, Liv Tyler (cameo). 'The Twilight Zone' meets 'Red Rock West'  bizarre and at times overwrought dizzying neo-noir nightmare unleashed by director Oliver Stone based on John Ridley's novel 'Stray Dogs' (who wrote the screenplay) depicts a two-time loser played by Penn with anti-hero sympathy who winds up in dustbowl/hellhole Superior, Arizona when his car breaks down (which is an apt metaphor for his fate, come to think of it) and he finds nothing but frustration, despair, sex, violence, duplicity aplenty and &#150; oh yeah &#150; more nuts than in a fruitcake! Great ensemble makes up for the ultimately cartoony feel (dig that Warner Bros. Looney Tunes soundtrack by the great Ennio Morricone!) throughout. Thornton is memorable as a vile, greasy caked mechanic from Hell as well as Phoenix as a hot-tempered punk monikored 'TNT' and Nolte overacts with glee as a cross between Lee Marvin and Gary Busey with rabies. Rabid also best describes the film on a whole. "},{"Title":"Turning and turning....;)","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  oh...Oliver Stone did such a great job here...everything in this movie has reason for happening.It's film about lots of U Turns... You can't predict almost nothing...As soon as you think that story will straighten and that Penn will got out of that little town... something happens and he stays there...in even bigger shit then he was;))) And film is like that till the end....A MUST SEE. "},{"Title":"A Great Surprise","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When Oliver Stone is good, he is very, very good.  But when he is bad, he makes JFK.  This is one of his finer, nastier little pieces of work and well worth a viewing. Worth four stars at least. "},{"Title":"Great little dark crime thriller.","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" U Turn starts in the heat of the Arizona desert as ex-tennis coach & small time criminal Bobby Cooper (Sean Penn) thinks he has a problem with his car, rather than risking breaking down in the middle of nowhere he decides to take a detour to the small town of Superior & try to find a mechanic. Cooper ends up at Harlan's garage run by Darrell (Billy Bob Thornton) & leaves his car to get fixed but takes the $13,000 he has in his trunk that he is going to use to pay-off Russian mobsters, while getting a drink at a store the place is held up & the robbers steal Cooper's bag of money & in a shoot-out it is blown to pieces. Flat broke & stuck in Superior with no way to pay Darrell for fixing his car & Russian mobsters after him Cooper decides to accept an offer from slimy real estate guy Jake McKenna (Nick Nolte) to murder his adulterous young beautiful wife Grace (Jennifer Lopez) but Cooper becomes caught between the two as he begins to fall in love with her...This French American co-production was directed by Oliver Stone & I think it's a clever & twisted dark thriller that if you have the patience to sit & watch is a rewarding experience, personally I think U Turn is a much better film than Stone's horrible Natural Born Killers (1994). The script by John Ridley was based on his book 'Stray Dogs' & is a story of a guy getting into trouble deeper & deeper as things escalate out of control & before he know's it his life is on the line & he is prepared to kill for money. The character's are all memorable & interesting from Billy Bob Thornton's awkward & filthy mechanic to Jennifer Lopez's slutty young wife to Sean Penn's cool yet vulnerable leading man everyone is given good material to work with, good dialogue & strong backgrounds. The pacing may be a little slow at times for some, at over two hours it's a long film but it didn't seem that way to me while watching it again last night, if your prepared to put the effort in & watch then U Turn is an absorbing thriller with a nice balance of humour, weirdness, drama & plot twist's. I actually found the plot quite plausible for the situation created & the scenes where Lopez & Notle are playing Penn off each other for their own ends are great, the ending may be a bit of a downer for some but I thought it worked perfectly with the slightly morbid dark feel of the film anyway so I didn't have a problem with it. U Turn may not appeal to everyone but if your looking for a dark thriller with memorable character's & a neat story of a guy getting deeper & deeper in trouble then U Turn is well worth watching.Of course it's not perfect, the Russian mobster angle is mentioned a few times but totally forgotten around the half way point & never mentioned again while the two character of Toby & Jenny are worthwhile & add to the film but do seem a little pointless & again they just sort of get forgotten about. There's not much violence here, there's a bit of roadkill, a bit of blood, a hand missing a couple of fingers & someone is stabbed with a hatchet. There's a few sex scenes here although nothing particularly graphic. Apparently the town of Superior in Arizona actually exists & U Turn manages to create a terrific atmosphere centered around small town life & it's cast of oddball character's & slower pace of life thanks to some great cinematography & excellent use of music throughout.With a supposed budget of about $19,000,000 this had a fair amount of money spent on it although it's not mega money by Hollywood standards. Oliver Stone offered the leading role to Tom Cruise but he turned it down while Bill Paxton who was cast as Cooper back out a few weeks before filming & Sean Penn then stepped in & accepted the role after having already turned it down once, Sharon Stone was going to play Grace but she wanted too much money. The cast here is brilliant with Penn, Notle, Thornton, Jon Voight, Powers Boothe, Joaquin Phoenix, Claire Danes, Bo Hopkins & a cameo from Liv Tyler. I deliberately didn't mention Lopez because I think she's terrible, she's OK here I suppose but generally speaking she can't act, can't sing & for me is average looking at best.U Turn is a great little thriller with a certain weirdness that just captivates & a memorable plot full of twist's which makes for a great thriller. The story of a man whose day just keeps getting worse & worse, I liked it a lot. The IMDb says that U Turn was remade as the Indian film Musafir (2004). "},{"Title":"Warning Do NOT see this movie","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you like love and friendship and kittens and you enjoy at least some of your precious time on this earth, you will avoid this movie like the plague that it is. This is my vote for the single worst movie ever made. Oliver Stone...you are a bad man. Everyone involved in this movie in any way shape or form is getting a one way ticket to Hellville, USA. J-Lo is just not hot enough, Sean Penn is a total freak, Billy-Bob..somebody please stop him, he is a menace to south central. There is absolutely nothing redeeming about this abbhorent piece of pooh.Please, for the love of love...do not see this movie. It was truly one of the most unpleasant and painful experiences of my wonderful life. "},{"Title":"Huge Disappointment","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie had absolutely no message! I really expected this to be a great film because Oliver Stone directed it, but man was I wrong. It was sick and disgusting for no logical reason. There were way to many predictable consequence and unbelievable reactions from the characters. It was very unrealistic! This film has a huge lack of substance. Don't waste your time. It really got me to think why Oliver Stone made such a terrible film. Everything I wanted to happen in the film didn't happen then the exact opposite would happen. The ending was incredibly stupid and predictable as well. Sean Penn's character isn't likable either. He gets very annoying and there isn't anything interesting about him. "}]