[{"Title":"An Almost Flawless Masterpiece","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Although I was aware of the original plan to renew the Fantasia concept every so often, and that it was visualised as an ongoing project, I felt that going back after 60 years was too much, and that the original classic should be left alone. However, my initial scepticism was dispelled within seconds of the opening sequence. What we have here is a lush, vibrant fusion of animation and music, each fully complimenting the other to perfection. It's hard to pick a favorite sequence, but if really pressed, for personal taste alone, it would be the awesome sequence with the whales. Mickey's Sorcerer's Apprentice sequence is the only carry over from the original, and a worthy match for it in the 2000 lineup is the Donald Noah.The only criticism I have of the film is the bridging sequences, featuring Steve Martin, Penn & Teller, Bette Midler and others. I would have preferred that they stuck to one presenter, preferably James Earl Jones or Angela Landsbury. They seemed to take the material and the project far more seriously than Martin and Penn & Teller who's humor detracted from the dignity of the movie as a whole.  "},{"Title":"pure beauty","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Fantasia 2000 has really been screwed over since it was released in January of the year 2000. I was lucky enough to see it on the IMAX screen. I liked it quite a bit then, but never thought about it much. but for some reason, when it was announced that it would be released on DVD, my interest sparked again, and I got it. now, watching it for the second time, i realize just how amazing it was. it is by far one of the most interesting disney projects ever, probably the best and most unique since the original Fantasia. i will go over and rate and criticize each segment now1. Symphony #5 - the battle between good and evil with colorful abstract triangles, unmistakably based on butterflies, being attacked by black triangles in an ethereal setting. this segment did not impress me at all when i originally saw the film, but seeing it again, i am able to appreciate the pastel artistry (the DVD provides a lot of insight on to how difficult it was to create this segment). the segment as a whole may be one of the weakest, but it is very beautiful. possibly the greatness and familiarity of the music diminishes the segment's overall power. it is possibly the single most famous piece of music ever written. 8/102. Pines of Rome - a family of whales fly around in the air. i actually disliked this segment when i first saw the film last january. personally, computer animation used in an animated film always made me cringe. watching it again, i now love the way the cgi whales move and look against the cell animated backgrounds. now i feel that this is maybe the best segment of the film. the music is the best of all. i had never heard it before. the story is also probably the best of them all. it turns out to be one of the most beautiful and miraculous pieces of animation ever created. 10/103. Rhapsody in Blue - several stories of unhappy people are told and intersect in New York City. First off, this is a great piece of music and one of the most unique pieces of animation i have seen. Disney here forgot its attempts at realism and just went for charicatures. it is incredible to see animators create a microcosm of a Robert Altman film as a silent film. This was one of my favorites the first time i saw the film, and it remains so now. 10/104. Piano Concerto #2, Allegro, Opus 102 (The Steadfast Tin Soldier) - again, when i first saw the film, I was annoyed at their use of computer animation. now, i see how wonderful this segment really is and how the computer animation works within the beautiful cell animation. the characters in this segment are beautifully made. the tin soldier himself isn't all that impressive, but the ballerina and the jack-in-the-box are amazing creations, among the most effective characters disney has ever created. I love the music in this one, too. i had never heard it before. the only thing i can fault this film for is that the animators changed the ending from a sad or bittersweet ending to a happy one. they claim that the music made them change it, because the music was more upbeat when it ended. this is true, but i also think that they would never have been allowed to end it sadly even if the music had ended so. Disney does not want to depress anyone, and they would slap a happy ending on it no matter what. but, with the music as an excuse, i can accept the ending of the film. 10/105. Carnival of the Animals, Finale - my least favorite segment, when i first saw it and now. it is only about 3 minutes long, and i'm glad for that. i do like it a bit more now, the art, watercolor, anyway. the story is very formulaic, and it follows the annoying tradition of silly disney animal characters like Timon and Pumbaa and Sebastion the crab and so many others. The segment is merely okay, and its shortness provides those children who are bored (the movie wasn't made for them in the first place) to be entertained a little more. 7/106. The Sorcerer's Apprentice - Who can argue? it is a classic. maybe it shows a little laziness in the filmmakers, to just slap this onto a 65 minute film to pad it to 70 minutes, but who cares. it is wonderful. If you get the DVD, make sure to listen to Mickey Mouse's commetary about this segment. it is awesome. 10/107. Pomp and Circumstance - this may be the most famous of the pieces of music, only competing with Symphony #5, because of its association with graduation. It works surprisingly well with the story of Donald as Noah's assistant who can never find his wife Daisy on the arc and thinks she was left out. Even though they don't acknowledge it anywhere on the DVD, this is obviously based on Buster Keaton's The Naviagator, a silent comedy. This segment ends up being very funny, almost as good as The Sorcerer's Apprentice, and even touching. It is very worthy, even though i know most people blew it off. 10/108. Firebird Suite - 1919 - probably the best of the bunch, and the best film to end on. the order of the segments is actually quite well planned out, spacing them out interspersing beauty and whimsy quite well so as to never cross over emotions between two segments. each starts afresh. The Firebird Suite is the story of death and rebirth in nature, with a sprite helping nature to bloom after the winter. she awakes the firebird, a volcano, which destroys all that she has created. at the end, after being destroyed, a majestic elk revives the sprite and she revives nature. the only fault i could think of, and it does harm the film for a few people, is the tremendous similarities between it and Mononoke Hime, Princess Mononoke, which disney distributed last year. I have heard this segment called a rip-off of that film, but, with the tremendously long amount of time it takes to produce an animated piece, i will guarantee that The Firebird Suite was in developement over a year before Mononoke was released. Death and rebirth is such a common theme, it is universal. It is done as well here as it is in Mononoke Hime. 10/10The interstitials - this is surely the worst part of the film, and it completely diminishes the film's value. We do not need famous people telling us that it is okay to listen to classical music. This is an insult to our intelligence. buy the DVD, and fast-forward over these chapters. 5/10.Overall, 9/10, one of the best films of 2000, one of the most miraculous animated films ever made. It was not well received by critics or audiences, and i think this was a huge mistake. remember, the first fantasia bombed, too. maybe someday in the future, when the minds of Americans become more intelligent and complex again, Fantasia 2000 will get its due.  "},{"Title":"Gorgeous!","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't stop watching it!!! Four of the seven new segments in this film are alone well worth the admission.  Roy Disney Jr. sets the stage for a remarkable departure from the usual animated dreck that Disney has been bogged down by for the last half-decade (Toy Story aside).  Disney have hereby restored my faith in them as leading the pack in animated cinema.  I want more!!Pines of Rome, a marvelous piece set to the story of whales leaving the water and eventually the planet, is worth viewing several times for it's symbolism and exquisite look.   Rhapsody in Blue, by Gershwin, is given perfect treatment by a day in the life of New York City.  The pace is quick and manages to give each character studied enough depth to make a very satisfying and touching ending. Pomp and Circumstance, the graduation standard, is humorous and sweet.  Creating a love story involving Donald and Daisy Duck into the story of Noah's Ark worked surprisingly well. Firebird Suite-  WOW.  This is the most incredible segment of the film.  It's a PERFECT marriage of music and animation and MUST be played loud.  Very emotional and powerful indeed.I had to post another comment because I can't stress enough that it's a worthy successor to the original Fantasia, and Walt would be proud.   "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Sixty years after the release of Disney's technicolor classic, Fantasia, comes Fantasia 2000, a brand new animation classic for a whole new generation.Donald W. Ernst brings to the silver screen a sequel of sorts to the Nineteen-forty animation masterpiece, Fantasia. This time around there is a whole new variety of musical sequences, with a a vast array of new characters, including The Steadfast Soldier and the colossal Firebird, as well as the return of everyone's favorite mouse, Mickey, in his unforgettable role as the bumbling Sorcerer's Apprentice. All sequences are accompanied by a beautiful score, performed by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, and conducted by musical genius James Levine. So for an unforgettable visual and musical journey, that will appeal to generations new and old, Disney invites you to visit Fantasia 2000.Fantasia 2000's segments are presented by Disney animated favorites such as Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck. Featured in the presentations is a star-studded live action cast, including Steve Martin, James Earl Jones of Disney's Academy award winning The Lion King, Bette Middler, and the extremely talented Angela Lansbury, who supplied the voice for Mrs.Potts in Disney's hugely popular feature Beauty and the Beast. The list goes on with the impressive names that show up in this film, but again the spotlight is really on the film's animated stars.Fantasia 2000 is certainly a commendable and worthwhile sequel but by no means is it near as impressive as its predecessor. The animation for the film is really something to behold, especially in the film's book-ending sequences Symphony #5, in which a group of stunning whales travel through a beautiful icy ocean, and Firebird, in which the title character spreads a wave of fire throughout the land destroying anything it touches. It also utilizes a unique blend of old and new style animation throughout, but its just seemed to lack the ingenuity and amazement of the first. I realize that in the film they brought back the Sorcerer's Apprentice for fans of the first, but I saw it as nothing more a lack of originality and a time-filler in a film that really could have used a bit more length, especially for the Pomp and Circumstance sequence. My apologies to those who may take offense, but if I wanted to watch Mickey mess up the Sorcerer's palace again I would just go out and rent the original. Yet I must admit the musical pieces donated by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra are spectacular, and do help to elevate this film a few notches.All in all, Fantasia 2000 is a good film, especially so I'm sure for those who caught a viewing of its Eyemax theatrical release. As I have before mentioned it is not as intelligent and original as the first film, and while it should be pointed out that sixty years later it is much harder to be original, I still find Disney could have displayed a bit more creativity and imagination with this effort, but they certainly could have done worse. Now if your family is only capable of traveling to a different world for an hour and half then I would suggest a visit to Fantasia yet if you have an additional hour and a half then venture onward to Fantasia 2000.Overall Rating 7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Beautiful Sequel of a Classic Animation","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Fantasia 2000 is a beautiful sequel of the classic animation Fantasia (1940). The conductor is James Levine and each segment is introduced by the actor Steve Martin, the violinist Itzhak Perlman, the actress Bette Midler, the entertainer Penn & Teller, the actor James Earl Jones, the conductor Quincy Jones and the actress Angela Lansbury. The audio is in DTS and THX and the program is the following (1) Symphony No. 5 in C minor-I. Allegro con brio, by Ludwig van Beethoven.(2) Pines of Rome, by Ottorino Respighi.(3) Rhapsody in Blue, by George Gershwin.(4) Piano Concerto No. 2 in F Major-I. Allegro, by Dmitri Shostakovich.(5) The Carnival of the Animals, Finale, by Camille Saint-Saëns.(6) The Sorcerer's Apprentice, by Paul Dukas.(7) Pomp and Circumstance &#x96; Marches 1, 2, 3 and 4, by Edward Elgar.(8) Firebird Suite &#x96; 1919 Version, by Igor Stravinsky.My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Fantasia 2000 "},{"Title":"Good Yes, But Not Great","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Having already seen Fantasia and understanding the painstaking work done on the movie, one would have to begin reviewing Fantasia 2000 relatively to the original. There is no question that Walt Disney Animation Studios have a solid tradition of innovation and entertainment. But was it that good?I would start with rating the first segment, the weakest. When I recall the first segment on the original's Tocata and Fugue in D-minor, I was amazed with the intricacy and imagination that went into it. I'm sorry folks, I was not impressed with the beginning of Fantasia 2000. I've listened to the entire first movement of the 5th Symphony before so I was rather disappointed that they shortened the tune a bit. Sorry folks, it just didn't measure up. I was quite disappointed with this piece. It seemed too commercial to my liking.However, I have to say that the animators did a great job in the adaptation of the Pines of Rome. I could not have possibly been any more original myself.The three strongest segments followed. Rhapsody in Blue was a masterpiece. Disney's use of the Steadfast Tin Soldier to the tune of Shostakovich's second Piano Concerto was masterful. And the Carnival of the Animals was funny and brilliant, especially James Earl Jones' introduction.A blast from the past was introduced by Penn and Teller in the form of the Sorcerer's Apprentice. Why? I guess they ran out of ideas at that time.The processions featuring Daisy and Donald Duck was wonderful, along with the Firebird.All in all, it was a good film and it did follow the pattern of the original. I just wish they had a better beginning.  "},{"Title":"The Power Of Animation","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Probably the best animation film I have ever seen. There are no dialogues and it is not really a feature film. It is an assimilation of 8 short stories. The stories are all beautiful, my favorite ones being the one on New York City, Rhapsody in Blue, and the one on life, death and renewal, Firebird Suite. The film is about everything beautiful in life; amazingly entertaining. Each score is given a brilliant visual concept. And the animation speaks so much more than 'real life' films or any dialogues could for that matter. Animation, though usually aimed at kids is probably much more necessary for us adults as we lose that sense of imagination, beauty and observation. Kids are so wonderfully innocent, imaginative and creative; everything that does matter to them has an animated feel to it anyway.  "},{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  We had two kids at home and I went to rent to one thinking it was a typical Disney movie. I was wrong, but the kids still liked it.I was surprise by the musical choice in this one. Great classical pieces. And the animation is very well done. Some segments better than others.I got to see this one on a regular tv-set, but I guess you should try to see it on an IMAX screen, or at least a cinema screen.Out of 100, I gave it 81. That's good for *** out of ****.Seen at home, in Toronto, on June 15th, 2002. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but I wish it was longer.","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Top quality animation and a sense of humour make this sequel/add-on a formidable animated movie in its own right. The running time of 74 minutes is a bit of a let-down. I would have liked to have seen more pieces and more imagination. And be warned, The Sorcerer's Apprentice remains. As this was the original's ONLY real selling point they decided to stick it back in there, so you're really only get just over an hours worth of new footage. Which feels like a bit of a rip-off.But my favorite segment is the one with Donald Duck, in fact they were all cool, especially the one with the volcano. The music matches the story perfectly and it has some truly beautiful animation. Far superior to those ugly CGI crap we get these days. And the TV show style introductions were more watchable than the dubbed Deems Taylor segments in the original.This was the first animated movie to be made for IMAX screens and the digital picture is amazing. See this preferably on an IMAX screen or on DVD. Watching it on VHS would only insult the brilliant animation. It's sad that Disney has abandoned traditional hand-drawn animation for theatrical projects. It's what the studio was built on after all. But Disney is shadow of its former self, we all know that.Just as good as the original Fantasia, but loses points for not being longer and more ambitious. "},{"Title":"Music expertly portrayed in film","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Fantasia 2000 presents us with a visual voyage into music that, in my opinion, excels that of the original Fantasia.  Not only is the animation itself extremely fluid, colorful, and highly diverse from segment to segment, but the representation of the music is, in itself, sheer genius. As I have come to expect from Disney, at least some research has been done into the texture of the music as well as thematical studies and tonal structure.  This much, I believe, is made in evidence of both blatant and subtle use of contrast on screen to highlight the contrast of the music.In all, this film is of extremely high value and is of an excellent nature. I highly recommend seeing it on the IMAX screen for full effect of sound and light and to be ready for a sonic experience that will have you whistling tunes all week long. "}{"Title":"An Enduring Legacy","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The first time I heard about it, I was a little skeptical about another Fantasia, as I am shy of sequels. However, I learned that it was the original intention of Disney to make Fantasia an ongoing project, so I decided to give it a try. I am so glad I did.Beethoven's 5th Symphony- Probably his most famous work due to the iconic dun dun dun dun's, the opening sequence does not fail to excite. The abstract imagery set against a powerful composition echoes the original Fantasia's opening number. It's simple, it's fun and it whets my appetite for what's coming up.Pines of Rome- I did not like this one very much at first. The flying whales were just a bit strange to me, and I didn't quite understand the point of the segment. The 3D and traditional animation didn't mix very well either. However, it has grown on me, especially the latter half. The music is quite beautiful and stirring.Rhapsody in Blue- I love this one so much. The amount of development each character gets for only having a 10 min time slot is staggering. I was able to empathize with each one. The clever beginning with a single line shaping the New York skyline is fun to watch. The quirky caricatures compliment the jazz style very well.Piano concerto No 2- This is a beautiful treatment of the Tin Soldier by Hans Christian Anderson. The computer animated characters look a bit simplistic, but it helps emphasize they are children's toys the complexity is in your imagination. The computer and traditional animation mesh much better in this short. As for the Disneyfied ending, I thought the original was depressing anyways. If you are still mourning the obligatory happy ending in every single Disney film, you really should have stopped watching years ago.Carnival of the Animals, Finale- Zany, colorful and quick enough that it doesn't have a chance to get old. The bright watercolors offer a refreshing POP to the program.The Sorcerer's Apprentice- I'm kind of sad they chose to put this short into the new version. Yeah, I get that mixing old with new was part of the original concept, but it was never my favourite. If you want my opinion on it, check out my review of the original. I usually skip it in Fantasia 2000 anyways.Pomp and Circumstance-Yay for Donald Duck! A secular company telling the story of the Ark is a tricky thing, but the animators blended in humor without being irreverent. Pomp and Circumstance is a wonderful piece of music, not just for graduations. Despite the usual gags, the subplot of Donald losing Daisy was quite tender.Firebird Suite- hands down, this is my favourite. Music superb, theme classic, animation; beautiful. The cycle of life, death and rebirth through the eyes of a sprite and an elk is poignantly portrayed with the eruption of a volcano. It also echoes the ending of the original Fantasia. LOVELY!As a whole, I really loved this movie. All the music is truly beautiful and every segment has it's outstanding points. What really annoyed me were the celebrity skits. They got old after the first viewing. I would have preferred much more straightforward, streamlined information. Overall, though, great! I hope to see more someday soon. "},{"Title":"Not as strong but a worthy update","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Back in 2000 when the sequel to Fantasia was released, I have to admit that I didn't see the film just because I thought why would they try to upstage the ultimate Disney classic? Fantasia was what truly introduced me to classical music, I think for any child it's the same way. What beauty, what magic it brought and made you close your eyes afterwards whenever you listened to classical music. But it seems like my generation always feels the need to up the bar a bit and try to compete with the original. I bought Fantasia and Fantasia 2000 on the double disc when Disney re-released it. Fantasia brought back so many wonderful memories I had a child and still brings the same charm that I felt as if I watched it for the first time. I was scared that Fantasia 2000 was going to destroy it, but to my surprise, with its small flaws, this was actually a great update. 60 years after the original Fantasia, Fantasia 2000 was meant to revitalize Walt Disney's goal of a constantly evolving film, with new segments. They decide to keep The Sorcerer's Apprentice, with seven new shorts. Angular, abstracted butterfly-like shapes fly through the air in Beethoven's Symphony; computer-animated whales take flight in Respighi's Pines of Rome; Al Hirschfeld's caricatures of New York life come alive in George Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue; Hans Christian Andersen's The Steadfast Tin Soldier is retold with computer animation against Dmitri Shostakovich's Piano Concerto, Allegro, Opus 102; frantic flamingos try to stop their yo-young comrade in Camille Saint-Saëns' Carnival of the Animals, Finale; Donald and Daisy Duck play Noah and his wife trying to manage the ark to Sir Edward Elgar's Pomp and Circumstance; and the cycle of life, death, and rebirth are celebrated in Stravinsky's Firebird Suite.While some of the drawings were a little pedestrian and I felt that some of the stories they decided not to go with were completely awesome and that they should have gone with those, the animators still did a great job. Was I upset with The Sorcerer's Apprentice being left in? Not really; I thought it was fun to see it on the screen again and I think if it's not broken, don't fix it. It must have been fun nostalgia to see it on the big screen and makes me regret not seeing this film in the theater. But still, I'm glad that I gave the movie a fair chance. But I think it could have done without the celebrity cameos. I understand what influence the original film had on Hollywood, but it doesn't mean that we need the celebrities to introduce the segments. I preferred seeing the musicians, it also showed their true love for the film that they are creating. My favorite segment is a tie between the whales and the cycle of life and death. The whales were so astonishing, the way the animation was created around them, it felt like I was flying with them, it was incredible. I kept a smile on my face the whole time I was watching it. Life and Death again was flowing so eloquently, it was impossible not to feel the tension and relief during this segment. The animators worked very hard and created another masterpiece, while it's not as strong as the original I still highly recommend Fantasia 2000.8/10 "},{"Title":"Walt would'a been Proud!","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Fantasia 2000 is a treat!  The animation and music are splendid--whales in the first segment--cartoons set to Rhapsody in Blue by Gershwin in the second(the best)--a Noah's Arc montage with Donald and Daisy Duck --and my second favorite--Stravinsky's Rite of Spring with a wood nymph battling the death force of a volcano.Definitely 4 stars out of Four..... Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"The Renaissance of Fantasia for the 21st century and 3rd Millennium","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The 38th animated Disney classic is a movie which can be three different things, depending on the way you see it a sequel to the original one, a remake of the original one or even a brand new movie inspired on the original's idea. Personally, I'm not sure which one of these categories I would evaluate this movie.This is the first Disney animated movie I write a review in more than one year. Actually, I was longing to see this movie for a while, since I appreciate its predecessor so much. As such, I was curious and interested to know what would Fantasia 2000 be like. Now that I finally had an opportunity to watch this motion picture, I can express my feelings about it.Where do I begin? First of all, it didn't totally disappoint me, but it also didn't totally satisfy me. It repeats the same basic and unique formula of the first movie to combine various animated shorts as different as water and wine in every way between themselves with the use of classical music. Like the original, this one also has live-action introductions and is conducted by an Orchestra (in this case, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra).It's funny that this movie is called Fantasia 2000, when it was actually released at the end of 1999, which means it came out 59 years after the original and not 60. Maybe they did it this way so that it was completely finished and ready to be launched by the new year time.Fantasia 2000, despite being a loaf of fresh air in the world of animation cinema for the late 1990's, is nowhere near as good as the original Fantasia. In fact, while the original is easy to rate, I can't say the same about this one. Fantasia 2000 is surely way more complex to rate. One of the biggest issues of Fantasia 2000 is the variable quality and artwork of its different pieces. In the original film all the pieces provide the same feeling of quality, even though I like some better than others. But this movie is different. I will try to explain why by talking a bit about all of its segments.1. Symphony No. 5 in C minor-I. Allegro con brio Through one of the most recognizable and beautiful music compositions by Ludwig van Beethoven, this sequence is artistic and one of the best in Fantasia 2000. It is a bit like the first segment from the original movie, done with the use of imagination above all the things, with the final result being something visually appealing and artistic.2. Pines of Rome This is the best one of Fantasia 2000. Through Ottorino Respighi's music, it features humpback whales that are capable of flying because of a supernova. Artwork is pretty good for CGI standards, the designs and backgrounds have a magic feeling too.3. Rhapsody in Blue This one uses George Gershwin's music as background. However, this short is the mirror of weird modern cartoons - in other words, dreadful, awful, ugly, terrible. The artwork, designs, backgrounds, colors and everything else are absolute trash. What were they thinking when they decided to do something like this? I hated this. And, to make things worst, this is way too long for what it has to offer nothing. I can't believe how many people select this as their favorite.4. The Steadfast Tin Soldier While not the best in Fantasia 2000, at least this one is much better than the 3rd segment. Using Dmitri Shostakovich's music, it tells us the story of a toy soldier and his battle for love, for which he has to confront a rival. The artwork is okay but somewhat different from the traditional Disney's standards. This is a reasonable segment, if not terrific.5. The Carnival of the Animals With the music of Camille Saint-Saëns, they made basically a story with flamingos and a yo-yo. It's nothing special and I think the flamingos could have been better drawn. Not that they're that badly drawn, but Disney can do better than this. This is extremely short (only about 1 minute). When it ended, I was like «That's it?».6. The Sorcerer's Apprentice «Fantasia wouldn't be complete without The Sorcerer's Apprentice», I heard this. That's why they decided to include this one here, which is a segment from the original Fantasia, perhaps its most famous. You can read my opinion about it on my review about the original movie.7. Pomp and Circumstance - Marches 1, 2, 3 and 4 This one has music of Edward Elgar mostly. Despite being a story based on Noah's Ark, the truth is that you can find here many similarities with Disney's The Lion King and The Rescuers Down Under because of the visuals, artwork and wild animals. The journey, however, is sentimental and focus on Donald Duck and Daisy. It's a reasonable short, one of the best in Fantasia 2000.8. Firebird Suite - 1919 Version This final sequence is introduced by Angela Lansbury. The music is by Igor Stravinsky. It's a story with some elements in common with Bambi. It is basically about a Sprite, a deer and the fury of a volcano. It's an okay but not great ending for Fantasia 2000. "},{"Title":"Amazing - a must-see for anyone who likes music!","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I have always been partial to Disney, no matter what rotten stories I've come across in various magazines and books. The genius of the man has left its mark on the world of animation. Fantasia, in particular, has fascinated me for years. The idea of interpreting music through animation - it is so beautiful.I haven't been lucky enough to watch the original Fantasia...though I certainly intend to someday. But, I did watch Fantasia 2000. It's so wonderful - every single second of it! So many themes and story plots woven between the works of renowned composers! And, the drawing styles vary too - from the classic Disney sketches in The Firebird and The Sorcerer's Apprentice, to the scatty scribbles in Rhapsody in Blue, and the abstract butterfly shapes in Beethoven's Symphony No.5 in C Minor. The pictures capture the dynamism and feel of the music...it's such a beautiful translation of the piece.I would highly recommend this film to anyone who is wondering whether to watch it. Put your prejudices and so on aside. Just sit back, and open your mind to the visual interpretations of these lovely compositions. It's hard to choose a favourite, but I really like Rhapsody in Blue. In fact, I can't think of the music, without seeing the images in my minds' eye.Don't miss this, if you can help it. "},{"Title":"As Great As The First?","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I watched this one way more than the original as a kid. I never owned it, but my family must have rented it a dozen times. I kind of know the shorts like the back of my hand, so its hard to remain objective - not that I have too much nostalgia, but it just isn't as good after the twentieth viewing. P Whenever Fantasia 2000 exceeds or disappoints compared to the original depends on your tastes, and the mood you're in when you watch them. While they share the same structure, they're quite different movies. The first was uniform in art style, with mostly abstract tales. The shorts in 2000 vary greatly in style, and most do have a concrete narrative. Animation has also changed drastically through the decades, so 2000 feels distinctly modern.I'd say Fantasia is the more beautiful, timeless of the two. But better? Well...I also like Fantasia 2000's energy, its variety, its attempts to portray character and plot without words as well as atmosphere. I'd love to call Fantasia my favorite animated film of all time...but its a slow, long sit. 2000 is more immediately entertaining, and is significantly shorter to boot.Two notable flaws - A. The comedians between segments weren't that funny. B. They latched on Sorcerer's Apprentice for nostalgia's sake. They're not enough to effect the rating, though.I don't know which is better. I think they're about equal. 2000 is a fine follow-up. Perfect? No. But its an enjoyable collection of animation. After rewatching it recently, I was still pleased. Even if you think it doesn't have a chance to capture the majesty of the first, its quality and originality make it an important movie for animation buffs to see at least once. "},{"Title":"out of this world","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" it is out of this world the music is wonderful i never saw a movie like this it is a must see movie for everyone it is the best movie ever made i think it is one of the best Disney movies ever made your whole family will enjoy this one of a kind movie it is a outstanding film full of music this is what i call a great movie there is nothing like this it is sweet make this the number 1 movie ever made it is a classic there is nothing like this it is one of the coolest movies ever made it is a great movie it is a super movie you will laugh hard on this one of a kind movie it is a movie that i never wanted it to end but it did but it was great i never saw a movie like this before it is the bomb you have to watch this movie you want believe your eyes it is a super film i never saw a film like this have a outstanding day everyone "},{"Title":"A worthy successor","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Fantasia 2000 is a belated follow-up to the original Fantasia concept another concert of classical pieces, once of which is taken from the original.I mostly liked this a great deal (especially Stravinsky's The Firebird, which was the final piece). But there were several elements I thoroughly disliked.1. I hated the choral work in the Elgar piece as well as some of the musical additions.2. The programming was generally good, except for putting three humour-based pieces in succession.3. A number of the links grated, especially Steve Martin and Penn and Teller. James Earl Jones was a good choice for a link, but his link was badly written. "},{"Title":"Good!","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" More ambitious in scope than any of its other animated films (before or to come), Disney's 1940 Fantasia was a dizzying, magical, and highly enjoyable marriage of classical music and animated images. Fantasia 2000 features some breathtaking animation and storytelling, and in a few spots soars to wonderful high points, but it still more often than not has the feel of walking in its predecessor's footsteps as opposed to creating its own path. A family of whales swimming and soaring to Respighi's The Pines of Rome is magical to watch, but ends all too soon; a forest sprite's dance of life, death, and rebirth to Stravinsky's The Rite of Spring too clearly echoes the original Fantasia's Night on Bald Mountain/Ave Maria sequence. But when it's on target, Fantasia 2000 is glorious enough to make you giddy. Hans Christian Andersen's The Steadfast Tin Soldier is a perfect narrative set to Shostakovich's Piano Concerto No. 2, and Donald Duck's guest appearance as the assistant to Noah (of ark fame) set to Elgar's Pomp and Circumstance marches is a welcome companion piece (though not an equal) to The Sorcerer's Apprentice, the one original Fantasia piece included here. The high point of Fantasia 2000, though, is a fantastic day-in-the-life sequence of 1930s New York City set to Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue and animated in the style of cartoonist Al Hirschfeld; it's a perfect melding of music, story, and animation. Let's hope future Fantasias (reportedly in the works) take a cue from the best of this compilation. The music is provided by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, conducted by James Levine, interspersed with negligible intros by Steve Martin, Bette Midler, Itzhak Perlman, James Earl Jones, and others. "},{"Title":"Excellent -","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Although not quite as groundbreaking as the original (mainly because too much of the older footage is used), this is a fabulous piece of work. The Pines of Rome and the Carnival of the Animals sequences in particular are my favorites, although all of the new segments are good. The Pomp and Circumstance segment brings back good memories of the old Donald and Daisy movies. The Firebird segment is probably the least appealing to me, personally, but very well done, technically. I could have done without the Steve Martin segment, but, again, that is a personal bias. The Rhapsody in Blue segment was a stroke of genius, and captures not only well-known characters of the 30's, but the feel of the era. My hat is off to the creators, producers, cartoonists, editors, and musicians involved in this mammoth undertaking - it makes me want MORE! "}{"Title":"beautiful, stunning...","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  when i first heard that work on another instalment of fantasia was in the works, i knew that i had to see it. i was not disappointed. this one was far better than the first, with all new sequences (and keeping an old fave, the sorcerer's apprentice) and different pieces. i liked this collection of music much more. this is a must see. "},{"Title":"A wonderful and superior successor to a Disney classic","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Saw this at the Sony IMAX theater in Manhattan. I recommend viewing it at an IMAX theater if possible; the presentation is glorious.Fantasia, although breathtaking and a wonderful experiment, was boring in many places. Fantasia 2000, on the other hand, is never boring, yet is neither frantic nor aimed at 5-year-olds. It is truly inspired in the visual representation of the music and the choice of the music itself.I'd have paid just to see the visual feast and full-circle development of the piece accompanying Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue. A segment with flying whales was very well done but not quite as inspired. Pomp and Circumstance tied to a biblical classic? You betcha. Well done, Disney. I've been bored with your late efforts but this film is a new classic.If you love animation, see the film. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Watch It!  Again and Again . . .","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Although not as good as Fantasia (imagine . . . every cell in the original was meticulously hand drawn!), this movie is fantastic.  The Firebird Suite and Pomp and Circumstance are wonderful, but the crowning glory of this movie is Rhapsody In Blue.  Eric Goldburg and Susan McKinsey Goldburg use the style of Al Hirschfeld (he drew all those great TV Guide caricature covers) to create a magnificent story of four people and their dreams, making this piece a joy to watch.  The rest of the movie is fine and you'll find yourself watching it over and over . . . "},{"Title":"Liked it... a lot.","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Since the idea of Fantasia was to be an evolving piece, I found the inclusion of some computer generated animation in the right place here.  Perhaps they could have done away with the celebrity segment introductions, but I LOVED almost every new piece.  Favourites were Pines of Rome, Rhapsody in Blue (that was probably the best one), and Pomp and Circumstance.  I don't remember the name of the final piece, but what a fabulous finale!  Well worth the meager 74 minute viewing time, and listen closely to Angela Lansbury refer to Walt Disney's animation as Walt Disney's AMINATION... how did they miss that one?  "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original but fun","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" First off, I could have lived without the little intros from an all-star cast (Steve Martin, Bette Midler, James Earl Jones, Penn & Teller, Angela Landsbury, etc.) and the movie was way too short (75 minutes). Still, the music was great (of course) and the animation fit the music perfectly. My favorites were the Tin Soldier one, the flamingo with the yo-yo and Donald Duck helping Noah get the animals on the ark. They stuck to classical music too. I heard they were considering using MODERN rock 'n'roll!!! Thankfully that was no carried out. (I can just picture animated figures dancing to Like A Virgin--shudder). Not really for kids--they'd be bored silly. But fun and entertaining for adults. Worth seeing--couldn't it have just been a little longer? "},{"Title":"Uncle Walt would have been proud!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The last years of the 20th Century there was so much build-up and hype over sequals.  LOST WORLD JURASSIC PARK, BATMAN movies, and the biggest one, STAR WARS EPISODE ONE.  Some people loved the sequals, others didn't that is for another time.  Then Disney decided to do some follow ups from their successful features.  There were sequals to ALADDIN and LION KING, which went straight to video, and were properly placed there.  Then when the 20th Century came to an end, Disney gave the movie audience of the planet Earth, a powerful one-two punch!  The one punch was TOY STORY 2, a sequal that left most of the fans of the original with thier mouths agaped, and the kiddies wanting more!  Now the second punch, and this was one to knock out any Disney fan, the long awaited follow-up to FANTASIA. FANTASIA 2000 isn't really a sequal, since there really isn't any story.  Like the origianl classic, it's a film that shows the brilliance of mixing animation with music.  And it always works out with artistic genius.  It's no wonder that the American Film Institue chose FANTAISA as number 58 of their top 100 movies of the 20th century.  Yet I think that it was too early to decide the top 100 films, since they are leaving this classic out of the list (among many others). This FANTASIA seen on a HUGE IMAX screen does leave quite a impression, and I do applaud the Disney studio for making FANTASIA 2000 a event picutre.  It's not yet playing in the 20 screen mulitiplex in the local shopping mall or center.  It's only playing on one screen IMAX theaters, where it's the only movie showing there, and it just gets the viewers even more excited about seening this picture. But let me talk about the movie itself.  The first piece is Ludwig Van Beethoven's Symphony No. 5 in C minor.  Like Bach's Toncca In D Minor it's just abstract animation that blends in well with the music.  There are no real images, just drawings that move with the music. Then there is Ottorino Respighi's Pines of Rome whichhas a group of whales in the Artitc Ocean.  At first one wonder's what's going on here?  But by the end of the piece, it turns out to be a beautifully told story with a nice surprise. George Gershwin's Rhapsody In Blue tells the lives of four different people in 1930's New York City.  THIS WAS ONE EXCELLENT WORK OF ART!!!!!!!!!!  When the piece goes into the dreamy chords of the strings and shows the character's ice skating, I almost jumped up and shouted, YES! YES! THAT IS THE WAY TO PROTRAY GERSHWIN'S MUSIC!!!!!!!!  Instead, I sat there with tears of joy steaming down my face. Dmitri Shostakovich's Piano Concerto No. 2/ The One Legged Tin Soldier was a very beautiful piece, and story.  It is similar to TOY STORY, however, it's more passionate and romantic. Then there is the shortest piece, Camille Saint-Saens Carnival of the Animals which asks us the long time question, what do you get when you give a flamingo a yo-yo? Answer a very funny and amusing piece.  There were more laughs is this two minute short, than there were in all of AUSTIN POWERS 2. Next is the only piece from the original, Paul Dukas' Sorceror's Apprentice.  I always did enjoy Sorceror's Apprentice, and I always enjoy watching Mickey Mouse as I do enjoy watching Rober DeNiro.  This was neat to see on the IMAX screen, yet it has aged a bit.  But I personally felt that the Disney studio should have put it's best piece from the original FANTASIA along with or instead of Sorceror, and that is Night on Bald Mountain and Ave Maria. Then there is Edward Elgar's Pomp and Circumstance staring Donald Duck as Noah's assistant by getting the animals into the ark.  This short shows us a different picutre to the song that many of us identify as the graduation song. Now I will notonly think of Pomp as the graduation song, and the song being played when the Royal government officals visit the prision in Kubrick's A CLOCKWORK ORANGE, but as the piece where Donald leds the animals into the ark.  And how was this short? A CLASSIC!!! This short has the ingredients of a major Hollywood film humor, bravery, romance, pain, honor, witty humor, and a grand climax and epic closing. I now personally see this short better than Mickey's Sorceror's. And like the original FANTASIA, this one ends with a BANG!! and it's Igor Stravinsky's Firebird Suite of 1919.  It has the tale of birth, giving life to trees, and animals, then.... BOOM! A volcano errupts and gives death and destruction, like Chenerborg in Night On Bald Moutain.  Then after the destrction, there is rebirth and redemption, like Ave Maria. Where the films ends with light and hope for the future. That is how I felt when I was done watching FANTASIA 2000, was hope for the future of Disney.  Sure Disney has made some stinker's in the past (i.e. INSPECTOR GADGET, MY FAVORITE MARTIAN, etc.) and have made some poor judgements with their theme parks (i.e. FANTASMIC, a cruise ship, etc.) But with FANTASIA 2000, it shows like at the end of the Firebird Suite that there is still life in the company, and that one day they will be in the top form making unique and excellent classics similar to what they were like in the 1940's and 50's.  Not that they are bad now, but FANTASIA 2000 shows that Disney is starting to lead the parade of original art, instead of following it.  Which is why I think that if Walt Disney were alive (he would be very darn old), but if he was around, he would have stood up and applauded after seeing FANTASIA 2000, that is why I did that after seeing this classic. I urge for you to see this on a IMAX screen when you can, you have until April 30th to do so, you'll thank me for it. ONE OF THE BEST FILMS OF ALL TIME!!!!!!!!! ***** (out of five)  "},{"Title":"CGI Paled To Disney's Old-School Animation","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Released 60 years after the original Fantasia, I found that this ambitious and well-produced sequel from Disney Studios fell quite short of my preconceived expectations.When I speak of Fantasia 2000 not living up to my satisfaction, it all comes down to comparing it, as I have, to the 1940 original.What I found was that the original's animated segments were undoubtedly more entertaining and their stories much more well thought out, than were those of the animated segments in Fantasia 2000.When it came to being more vibrantly colourful, and having a greater richness in style, it was the distinctiveness of the hand-drawn animation of the 1940 film that easily won out over the CGI animation effects of Fantasia 2000. As a true work of art, the former's animation techniques were (and always will be) unsurpassed.I view the original Fantasia as a literal masterpiece of classic animation. While, on the other hand, Fantasia 2000 may indeed have had its share of spectacular moments, but, it could never be considered anything even coming close to being in the league of a masterpiece.For the most part Fantasia 2000 did succeed well-enough as being fairly entertaining animation.Out of the 7 new animated segments in this picture there was really only one that impressed me at all. It was the segment presented along with Stravinsky's Firebird Suite as its musical accompaniment. "},{"Title":"A Dramatic Improvement Over the Original","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Disney's Fantasia was released in 1940, and though it was unpopular upon initial release, today it is considered one of Disney's best films. Personally, I found it to be immensely overrated, and downright lazy. And yet, I have found Fantasia 2000, the much anticipated sequel, to be entertaining and unique, and a massive improvement on the lacking original.Fantasia 2000, like the 1940 original, has no single plot, but is made up of a series of animated segments with classical music scoring each segment. I will cover each segment in my review.The opening segment is Beethoven's Symphony No. 5. This is basically just a bunch of abstract images put to music. As I was watching this segment, I was not only uninterested in the events on screen, but I began to dread the rest of the film. This was essentially just 1940's Fantasia all over again.The second segment, Pines of Rome by Ottorino Respighi did little to improve my mood. This segment just followed a bunch of poorly-animated flying whales around for 10 minutes. Hardly brilliant film-making.It was when Fantasia 2000 reached the third segment, when I began to enjoy myself. With the delightfully fun and jazzy Rhapsody in Blue playing (composed by George Gershwin) and a series of entertaining stories and characters revealed throughout, this is the best segment in the film. If the entire film was like this single segment, Fantasia 2000 would've been an inarguable masterpiece. As it stands, this is just an unusually good segment in an otherwise decent film.The fourth segment, Piano Concerto No. 2 composed by Dmitri Shostakovich, is mediocre. Based off of Han Christian Andersen's The Steadfast Tin Soldier, this fourth segment offers interesting animation and character designs, but little else.The Carnival of Animals, Finale, composed by Camille Saint-Saens, makes up the fifth segment, and one of the better ones. Short and sweet, this segment is about a flamingo who enjoys playing with yo-yo's, much to the disgust of his friends. This funny and energetic segment is memorable, and is also highly reminiscent of Pixar's 1986 short, Luxo Jr.The sixth segment is hugely unnecessary. I honestly can't believe Disney did this, but the sixth segment is The Sorcerer's Apprentice short from the 1940 Fantasia film. No changes of any sort have been made. Why is this here? If we really wanted to see this short, we would just go see the original film! It doesn't help that this short is so forgettable. Not unlike many of the other segments in either film, The Sorcerer's Apprentice is artistically interesting, but little else.The seventh segment is Pomp and Circumstance- Marches 1, 2, 3, and 4, composed by Edward Elgar. This segment is a re-telling of the story of Noah's Ark, and the music choice here is quite inspired. While this short is beautifully animated and actually extremely touching, it suffers from one thing Donald Duck. Donald Duck is the main character here, and though that's not a problem in itself, the filmmakers chose to make Donald mute. We do not hear him speak in this short, which immediately makes him lose all of his charm. This was likely done to draw more attention to the music, but this gives Donald Duck no reason to be here, other than to attract little kids. I have the utmost respect for Disney, but the way the company insists on pandering to children is frustrating.The final segment is Firebird Suite composed by Igor Stravinsky. The simple short involves a sprite that accidentally awakens a Firebird, which causes mass destruction. This segment features jaw-dropping animation, but the story itself is dull and unfocused.The segments themselves are a mixed bag, and the same can be said for the intros. Each segment (with the exception of the first segment) is given an introduction from a celebrity.The first introduction (for the second segment) is given by Steve Martin. His cameo is not funny, and also feels very phoned in. The intro for the fourth segment is given by Bette Midler. It gives us some interesting background about Fantasia segments that were never completed, but this intro is basically the equivalent of being given an array of presents, then having them all quickly taken away.The introduction for the fifth segment (by James Earl Jones) provides a chuckle. The intro for the sixth segment is given by Penn Jilette and Raymond Joseph Teller, and is the best of the intros, and actually more entertaining than the segment itself.The intro for the seventh segment features Mickey and Donald, and it's worth a few laughs. The other intros are immediately forgettable and not worth further mention.A massive improvement over the hugely overrated original, Fantasia 2000 is a solid film. An improvement over the original in animation, music, and length, Fantasia 2000 is entertaining and short. It's greatly flawed, and many segments are uninteresting, but it's worth a viewing, especially if you enjoyed the original. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, But Ultimately Inferior","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I consider the original Fantasia to be probably the best animated film ever, so obviously my expectations for this were extremely high. The main issue I've always had with Fantasia 2000 is that the quality of the different segments are uneven. In the original Fantasia, I would say that all the segments were of the same artistic quality. Sure, I prefer some over others (I like Pastoral Symphony over Dance of the Hours, for instance) but still, the whole thing felt cohesive, as a whole work of art. Fantasia 2000 feels more like a grab-bag collection, and the segments just aren't all of the same quality. When I tell people about it, I feel I have to review each segment individually, which was never the case for the original. These're my reviewsBeethoven's Fifth Symphony - good, though I think they tried too hard to imitate Toccata and Fogue.Pines of Rome - hands down, the best segment! I've watched it and rewatched it over and over.Rhapsody in Blue - definitely a very original idea to combine Gershwin with Al Hirschfield and New York. On repeat viewings though, I feel it doesn't hold up as well. The characters just aren't very engaging, and the little girl felt like a rip off of Little Lulu.The Steadfast Tin Soldier - around here was when I began to notice what I said about lack of quality. This segment was neither great nor terrible, but just okay, and it seemed too rushed.Carnival of the Animals - this hardly even counted as a segment. It was just a throwaway joke.The Sorcerer's Apprentice - I know that keeping this segment was meant as a nod to Walt's original plan of rereleasing Fantasia with some new stuff while keeping old ones, but ultimately, it was pointless. Why waste 7 minutes of film with footage we've already seen? Why didn't they rerecord the music or something, just to make it feel fresh? And couldn't they have given such a classic piece of animation a better introduction than what Penn and Teller say? (Don't get me wrong, I like Penn and Teller, but their introduction is just a comedy routine).Pomp and Circumstance - another segment that's just okay. I'm not even religious, but does anyone find it a bit awkward to have Donald Duck in a Biblical story? Firebird Suite - wonderful! Reminds me a bit of FernGully, a non-Disney cartoon. I do feel that it could've been developed to be a little longer as it ends too quickly, but still, taking it for what it is, it's a nice work of art.My remaining gripe was that I hated the celebrity cameos introducing each piece. This made the movie feel like a TV special. I realize that they probably didn't want to redo what they did with Deems Taylor (having an unknown guy with a face kept in shadow is probably not very marketable), but then they might as well have not had any hosts. Roger Ebert said he didn't think the hosts were necessary anyway. "},{"Title":"more crass than creative!","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A highly belated sequel to the 1940 original, this is a film that makes me wonder who it was created for.Music lovers? For the most part, the music is butchered in order to fit into the film's format. The opening sequence based on the first movement of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony is about 1/3 the length of that work. The exposition here goes directly into the coda bypassing the development and recap which, as we know, don't count. Now we all know that Beethoven hadn't a clue as to what he was doing, he was only a composer, and the Walts had every right to improve him!The Pines of Rome? Though Ottorino Respighi may have thought he was describing Rome, the Disneys knew better realizing that he was really describing a school of humpback whales. Of course! Why didn't I think of this? And, of course, The Pines near a Catacomb would have made it all too long so The Pines of the Villa Borghese goes directly into The Pines of the Janiculum minus the nightingale which had to go because it's about whales. and not birds! But I thought the low point of this film was the Pomp and Circumstances segment. Based on the Marches 1-4 (the fifth is still under copyright and the Elgar estate probably put its collective foot down on its use.) this P and C fantasia was cut and pasted as needed to the feeble story starring a lachrymose Donald and Daisy in Noah's Ark with an added piccolo in order to represent the birds (payback to their being cut from The Pines?).In the scene where all the animals march on the ark to the strains of Land of Hope and Glory the wordless chorus (as well as Kathleen Battle!) comes in, creating a ghastly grandiose effect (comparable to the pseudo-religious, church-belled, Schubert Ave Maria ending of A Night on Bald Mountain in the original Fantasia.) The Al Hirschfeld-based segment of Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue was, by far, the best of all with an inventive use of the caricaturist's work and milieu. Since Mr. Hirschfeld, near the end of his long life, was a consultant on this segment, his work was used appropriately in the 1930s depression-era story. I easily recognized his caricatures of Gershwin himself as well as Alexander Woolcott, the writer and friend of Harpo. (Though it is a stretch to imagine him as a henpecked husband or any husband at all for that matter!) The introductions by Perlman, Steve Martin, Levine, Penn and Teller, Midler etc. were quite useless and I was especially annoyed with the pains they took to disguise Itzhak Perlman's handicap, something Perlman himself never does. (Due to an early childhood bout with polio, he uses crutches on-stage and a wheelchair off.) Of course, Mickey has his interaction scene with Jimmy Levine as he did with Stokowski in the original Fantasia.Despite the Disney Organization's occasional fine work, Fantasia 2000, as a whole shows their typical crassness.Creativity my foot! "}{"Title":"Admirable sequel to Fantasia.","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is Disney's 38th full length animated feature film - a sequel to Fantasia. Although I don't think it surpasses the original, it is still a great piece of artistic cinema work with vibrant animation and with a rich and dynamic orchestral musical soundtrack.While the segment with the flying whales was a bit boring, the film picked up my interest with the Rhapsody in Blue sequence; it cleverly showcases the everyday lives of Americans as they try to make ends meet and find joy amidst the hustles and bustles of city life - all complimented by the iconic Rhapsody in Blue musical piece. There is a nice reprise of the Sorcerer's Apprentice from the original movie, though I would have liked to see Mickey Mouse appear in a new, different sequence. My favorite is the Pomp and Circumstance sequence, starring Donald Duck and Daisy Duck in a reenactment of Noah's Ark, where they try to gather all the animals in the gigantic structure before the storm hits. It is complimented by a powerful rendition of Pomp and Circumstance, supplemented by a rich and chilling chorale. There is also a touching story where Donald and Daisy, thinking each other have perished in the storm, are reunited after the storm's climax.Each sequence is opened by a host of celebrities including Steve Martin, Izhak Perlman, Quincy Jones, Bette Midler, James Earl Jones, Penn & Teller, James Levine and Angela Lansbury. That is a nice touch, though, while Martin got by with some simple humor, Penn & Teller's comic stuff distracted from the dignity of the movie in my opinion. But, good thing the film opens and closes with more respectable words from our hosts.Overall, it is a very nice film that is an admirable sequel to Fantasia.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"I love the Gershwin section","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" It's a reworking and remaking of the classic Disney Fantasia. The first superior aspect of this one compared to the original is the shorter length. Not all of it works but it works well enough to be compelling throughout. I love the George Gershwin section. It is obviously NYC but I also love the 1930s era. I love the animation style. I couldn't stop smiling and it has some great laughs. There is the redo of Mickey Mouse in The Sorcerer's Apprentice. It looks a little brighter without taking away the animation style. Donald Duck in Noah's Ark is funny. Overall, there are some slower sections but I just love the Gershwin section so much. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Fantasia was a pretty straight-forward idea - obviously the people at Disney wanted to add to it, one thing I didn't like was the re-doing of The Sorcerers Apprentice when they have not covered every last bit of classical music in the world, If they wanted Mickey Mouse my suggestion is put him as a character in something else.As for the animation segments - I thought that in the first one the segments were either three things Good, interesting or okay. In this one however there were some that I thought they shouldn't have used if that was the best they could come up with (Rhapsody in Blue, anyone?). I thought that putting these animations in modern day was a big mistake and one that I hope doesn't get repeated in the next Fantasia out another 60 years later.So these movies are decent entertainment - like I said in my review for the original - there is nothing like it. Although I felt this wanted to be in the original's shadow "},{"Title":"Fantasia/2000 (1999-2000)","Date":"9 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" For the first time in years, Disney finally managed to create a new masterpiece in traditional animation. For me Fantasia/2000, is one of the greatest animated films of all time. It brings such talent and magnificence to screen with its lavish animation and segments. This will be reviewed by each segment.Symphony No. 5 in C minor-I. Allegro con brio by Ludwig van BeethovenThe first Fantasia 2000 segment starts off to the musical note of Beethoven's Symphony No.5 with some abstract shapes and colours which take the shape of butterflies trying to escape a multitude of bats in spectacular splashes of light. This segment's surrealism gives the film a grand opening and makes it an accomplished segment because the musical number fills in very well with this segment and gives it a different and unknown kind of animation for viewers to see which is surreal art. Surreal art is one of my favourite kinds of art and I was very pleased to see it in brilliant form.Pines of Rome by Ottorino RespighiFor the second segment of Fantasia 2000, The Pines of Rome by Ottorino Respighi was chosen to be played along with the animated story of a group of whales who are able to fly due to a supernova occurring in the water they live in. They are then able to fly into the clouds to another nesting grounds of water. This segment is a grand spectacle of Computer animation as well as traditional animation. The Computer animation which is used in the whales is brilliant because for a time like 1999, this was groundbreaking technology and it is wonderful to see it in animation because it gives animators inspiration to go to new grounds of animation. This segment is my favourite because it has grand tune towards it and the story of it is brilliantly put forward to this animated tale of magnificence. Rhapsody in Blue by George GershwinThe third segment of Fantasia 2000 takes us to the streets of New York during the Great Depression. The musical number is the famous Rhapsody in Blue by George Gershwin which gives the segment a jazzy and tuneful theme upon itself. This segment's animation was inspired by the animation of Al Hirschfeld whose animated productions have delighted audiences around the world and certainly when it was used here. This segment remains a complete success because it is terrific at relating the perils of the Great Depression with children as well as adults and if anyone could relate trauma and perils in a colourful and charming way then they would become great tellers of harsh times. The whole layout of this segment is brilliant and it deserves a standing ovation. I did not think it was one the best segments but it was not a bad one.Piano Concerto No. 2 in F Major-I. Allegro by Dmitri ShostakovichOur fourth segment is based upon the classic Hans Christian Andersen tale, The Story of the Steadfast Tin Soldier. This segment is drawn upon traditional animation in classic fairy tale fashion of music and art. I don't have much to say about this particular segment apart from that I thought the music went very well with this tale of animation and I think that is what remains is that the animation is very similar to animated films like Beauty and the Beast and The Lion King and that makes it very well known to modern audiences and children. The musical number which comes from Dimitri Shostakovich's Piano Concerto No.2, creates a connection with this fairy tale in the sense that it becomes almost as similar as the segment itself making it perfect for the task.The Carnival of the Animals, Finale by Camille Saint-SaënsThe fifth act of the film takes place among a bunch of flamingos who go by their boring routines until another flamingo comes along with a yo-yo to ruin it all for them in comical fashion. This brilliantly built along to the musical tune of Camille Saint Saens' The Carnival of the Animals. Although this segment is short, it does provide a lot of fun for different types of audiences and is created to be very funny as well as being brilliantly constructed to provide a great new segment.Pomp and Circumstance &#x96; Marches 1, 2, 3 and 4 by Edward ElgarTo start our final two acts, we have Donald Duck appearing in a story based on Noah's Ark with Donald as Noah's First Mate. This is combined with Sir Edward Elgar's Pomp and Circumstance Marches to create grand march between the animation and the music. It successfully attains that goal by making traditional animation fun to watch as we see Donald Duck messing about with the animals while also being reunited with his wife towards the end after believing that she might have died when the flood came. If there was ever going to be a third Fantasia, I believe this one would be chosen as it contains Donald Duck in an unforgettable cartoon.Firebird Suite &#x96; 1919 Version by Igor StravinskyOur final piece is taken from Igor Stravinsky's Firebird Suite. The animated story is that of a woodland sprite who is accompanied by a deer to bring happiness toward the forest they live in by having the sprite make everything shiny and wonderful until we come to a nearby volcano where inside a Firebird lives. As we might expect the sprite gets destroyed by the Firebird but is resurrected by her companion to remake what happened earlier but this the sprite manages to spread grass and trees and shiny stuff around the volcano and the forest surrounding it. It manages to gives us one final grand animated tale which combines macabre and fantasy in one huge spectacle of light and destruction.I listed it as the fifth best film of 1999. "},{"Title":"Fantasia 2000","Date":"11 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" this film is basically an updated version of the original Fantasia,with the same concept.the film is presented in segments which are set classical music and animation,(which is exquisite)some having a story and others not.there are a few segments that really standout for me in this film.one is Rhapsody in Blue,which i thought was fantastic.i also loved The Steadfast Tin Soldier.and i thought Carnival of the Animals,although very short,was hysterical.finally,i also really enjoyed The Firebird Suite 1919 version.once again though,if you're not a fan of classical music,you won't likely enjoy this film.i actually liked this film slightly more than the original.for me,Fantasia 2000 is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Ideal for teaching music to kids","Date":"14 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A very entertaining re-take on Walt Disney's project to have animated concerts with new additions and some old pieces. In this case, James Levine directs the Chicago Symphony Orchestra in seven new animation pieces. Some of them are an abstract mix of color, light and movement. Some others are a creation inspired by specific musical pieces, while others have a story created before a piece of music was matched to it. The stories an pieces of music are as follows.1/ An Allegro from Beethoven's Symphony No. 5, offers an abstract light, color and abstract birds/butterflies scene.2/ Respighi's Pines of Rome offers a story of a family of humpback whales that playfully swim from water to air. This is my favorite story, as it is completely experimental, pure fantasia and extravaganza, but still very modern in animation style and feeling. Very new age, in a way.3/ Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue inspires an episode of the same title, set in New York during the Big Depression, with moody unhappy characters who dream of having different lives; the animation style is very 1930s and is based in the cartoons by Al Hirschfeld's; the first seconds of the segment are brilliant, but the whole piece captures the spirit of old animation.4/ An Allegro from Shostakovich's Piano Concerto No. 2 accompanies a version of Hans Christian Andersen's The Steadfast Tin Soldier. The most linear story, and the one I enjoyed the least.5/ Saint-Saëns's The Carnival of the Animals offers a colorful flamboyant scene of dancing flamingos that are trying to get a yo-yo-obsessed dancing flamingo back into their routine. It reminded me of WB old classics! 5b/ Dukas's The Sorcerer's Apprentice offers the original segment of the same title that appeared in the original Fantasia, with a naughty Micky Mouse. The short is still as fresh and delightful as it was when first released.6/ Elgar's Pomp and Circumstance offers a version of Noah's Ark with Donald Duck and Daisy leading the animals into the ark and then into a safe land.8/ Finally, Stravinsky's Firebird Suite offers a story of a death and renewal with a spring fairy and her companion Elk.The movie has, overall, a retro-style that mimics the style of the first movie. The spirit of Walt Disney is still there. However, the fact that the pieces of music are so short and introduced by different celebrities (Steven Martin, Quincy Jones, Bette Midler, James Earl Jones, and Angela Landsbury, among others) rests fluidity to the film. I thought the introductions were funny and charming; however, I would have liked longer pieces of animation and less talking.The first Fantasia was not only original in its conception, but also daring and experimental in its visuals and the stories told. Creativity was overflowing. That cannot be said about Fantasia 2000, although the contrary could be expected. This movie is more a good homage and revival of the first, than a daring experimental movie.A very enjoyable family film, ideal for teaching music to kids, with glimpses of the old Disney Factory, but less creativity and experimentation. "},{"Title":"Another excellent Disney extravaganza.","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I liked the first Fantasia as a young boy. I thought it was unique and innovative, and perhaps even a touch scary near the end. I'm not sure if I was deeply moved so much as deeply impressed. What's the difference? Erm... well, I could appreciate the scope of the visuals, and enjoyed the film for what it was, but I don't recall carrying too much of it home with me in my imagination. That is with something like a Disney film, animation or live action, if I was impressed enough I would probably mimic or act out with friends what we had seen on the big screen. Davy Crocket or Herbie the Love Bug, or even The Computer Wore Tennis Shoes to name some examples. Not so much with Fantasia.Fantasia has seen several re-releases, and it is an impressive sight to behold, or so it was for the time. To think that the hand drawn animation we see was just that, hand drawn, and broke several rules regarding traditional narrative film making of the time (not to mention challenging the biblical concept of creation with the dinosaur sequence), should perhaps put that film in a higher esteem than we previously thought.Years later comes a new installment carrying some of Walt Disney's initial idea of a continually evolving piece of animated cinema, that would introduce new music and new visual sequences. This installment does so impressively on an IMAX image area, giving us an even greater impression that the previous film as our view was filled in an IMAX theatre.The pieces are appropriate, and the visuals married to them do much to elicit emotional responses. We laugh, we fret, perhaps even come close to shedding a tear when we see either familiars like Donald and Mickey, or absorb the doldrums of New Yorkers trying to get through life, or even the magnificent forces of nature as she destroys and renews in the Firebird sequence.The new(er) Fantasia 2000 is a degree or two shorter than its predecessor. Whether that was done for expediency, marketing, or just as a matter or arbitrary decision we'll probably never knew. But, this film does leave us begging for more of some fantastic visuals to accompany some of the most stirring historic classical music composed and performed.In short, I like it )As to whether kids will like it or not ... I was able to sit through it when I was younger. But that was me. Your child's mileage may vary.Either way, enjoy! "},{"Title":"A couple of brilliant pieces make this mixed bag worthwhile","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I almost stopped watching Fantasia 2000. Starting with a bland take on Beethoven and followed by a mildly cute but rather dull thing about flying whales, I wasn't sure if I wanted to keep going. Fortunately I did, because the next piece, Rhapsody in Blue, combines the visual look of All Hirschfeld drawings with the animation style of Warner Bros. Loony Toons shorts in service of a truly magnificent animated short (according to wikipedia the director, Eric Goldberg, had started this separate from Fantasia 2000 but it wound up in the movie).After that it was mixed. A thing about a love among toys was cute even though it didn't really connect with the music and would have been better with hand, instead of computer, animation. Another very short piece by Goldberg about a Flamingo with a yo-yo is wildly funny (and in animation style most typical of Disney films of that period). The Sorcerer's Apprentice is re-used in this sequel, and while it wasn't one of my favorites from the first movie it certainly is beautifully done. A Noah's Ark segment, on the other hand, has very little to recommend it.The final piece, by Paul and Gaëtan Brizzi, is as wonderful as the Gerswhin number, a poetic, touching piece about destruction and renewal.In between musical numbers there are little celebrity intros that are distinctly unimpressive, with the exception of a mildly entertaining bit by Penn and Teller.It is unfortunate that there is so much filler in this movie, because the best pieces are as good as anything from the original Fantasia, but the overall quality of the movie is, alas, week. But the best pieces are so good that I'd recommend sitting through the whole thing, or, if you watch it on DVD, skipping to the good parts. "},{"Title":"Very good, but not as good as the original!","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The first problem was that there was too much introduction between the pieces. Angela Lansbury and James Earl Jones were the best, but the one with Steve Martin was unnecessary, as well as Penn and Teller. The film itself was a little short, but I enjoyed it anyway. It is beautifully animated, with good choices of music, but if anything, I wish there was more of it. I love the original, but I thoroughly recommend this as well. The animation was spot on, especially in the Pines of Rome segment. This was my personal favourite, as i thought that baby whale was so sweet. Donald Duck's version of Noah's Ark set to the music of Elgar was hilarious, as was the Carnival of the animals. The most beautifully animated was the Firebird sequence,reminding me of FernGully, telling the story of Life, death and renewal. I am not a huge fan of Stravinsky, but the Firebird I have always considered his best work. There was also the abstract images in the Beethoven. They were ambiguous but very well done, but I didn't like the chopping of the piece itself. The section they missed out is essential to the movement's development in my opinion. The Pines of Rome sequence was outstanding I thought, I showed it to my year 4 peers 8 years ago, and they all clapped at the end of that segment but were unenthuasiastic about the rest of the film. Then Gershwin treated us with Rhapsody in Blue, telling the story of a typical day in New York. The Shostakovich was very good, but marred by the interesting but overlong introduction. Great animation and music though. The Saint Saens was funny, but the Magic Trick was pointless. Unfortunately Sorceror's Apprentice was one of the highlights in the original, but was for me the weakest segment here. The Elgar was absolutely hilarious, and the Firebird very heartfelt also I had early memories of thinking the Sprite was absolutely gorgeous. The music was very well performed by James Levine and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. All in all, 8/10 Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"Lacks Subtlety, but Enjoyable.","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" While I think that it's really great that Disney decided to resurrect Walt's vision for Fantasia, I think they could have done a much better job recapturing the magic.The basic Fantasia concept, setting highly sophisticated animation to classical music in an attempt to make the music come alive, is still obviously intact, but what has been lost to some degree in Fantasia 2000 is the mid-blowing high-art spectacle of the original Fantasia.What I mean by this is that the original Fantasia was all about visual art. There were so many scenes that were stunningly beautiful, and were in the film for the sole purpose of being beautiful. You can see this all over, most noticeably in the Nutcracker, the Rite of Spring, and A Night on Bald Mountain / Ave Maria. They were beautiful in their simplicity, and neither animation nor music overpowered the viewer. But this simple beauty has dropped significantly with Fantasia 2000. Every small change in the music has been amped up to the hundredth degree in order to make the animation sync up with the music. On other words, they tried way too hard to make everything 'fit,' at the cost of the simple beauty of the animation / music combo.That's not to say that this movie still isn't great fun, and has some amazing showcases of animation that will leave you open-mouthed at the rich and colorful visual spectacle. Because it does more often than not, and is still a must-see. But it's just that it pales in comparison to what Walt did on the original Fantasia, because it tried a bit too hard. If they had stuck with finding the essence of the music, then animating the simple beauty to be found in it, I have no doubt that this could have been an absolute masterpiece. But as is, it's just a bit too loud and a bit too cartoon-y rather than a mind-blowing artistic spectacle.I only wish that this movie could have been made after the Pixar merge, because John Lasseter is a man who truly understands animation as an art, and probably could have made a much more sophisticated follow-up to Fantasia than Michael Eisner did.Anyway, here's what I thought about each segment, since the quality is highly varied.Beethoven's 5th Symphony - 5/10. This is, quite frankly, my least favorite segment in the whole film. The character is overdone, and the oversimplified animation is completely dwarfed by the music. The visuals are completely forgettable compared to the timeless music.Pines of Rome - 9/10. There are moments where this piece is a bit too loud and comical, but this is also one of the most beautiful segments in the film. It takes ample time to breathe, and let you take the visual spectacle in. I especially love the sequence where the small whale rises up into the light at the top of the ice block. For just a second there, it rivals Miyazakian beauty.Rhapsody in Blue - 8/10. I love the design of the animation in this segment, because its shapes and flow mesh with the music almost perfectly, creating a great jazz-era blues-iness for the music to go with. There are some great artistic moments that stuck in my head, but as a whole there's just a bit too much action happening in this segment to fully appreciate the unique and distinctive animation. Quite good, though.Piano Concerto #2 (Steadfast Tin Soldier) - 6/10. Plain and simple, they were trying way too hard to make this segment fit the music perfectly; at the expense of artistic opportunity and character. This segment was completely forgettable.Carnival of the Animals - 7/10. While this segment was very silly, so was the music. So the wild action and bright color pallet of the yo-yo-ing flamingos came together to form a quite amusing piece. While not a favorite of mine, it was great fun.The Sorcerer's Apprentice - 10/10. What can I say? This was, and still is, possibly the greatest six minutes in Disney history. A perfect blend of character, visual art, and subtext.Pomp and Circumstance - 6/10. What Disney tried to do with Donald here was obviously an attempt to recreate what happened with Mickey in the original Fantasia. And they failed. The arrangement of the music was fantastic, but all of the animation was too loud, and again completely forgettable. There was basically no simple visual artistry, and no subtext to ponder.The Firebird Suite - 10/10. Finally, after 65 minutes of animation and music, there is a segment that comes close to recapturing the magic of the original Fantasia. That's not saying that this is prefect; far from it. There still aren't enough breathing moments, where you can just pause and enjoy the beautiful animation, for my tastes. But this is by far the most visually stunning and insightful of the new segments. It's no Princess Mononoke, but for the new Disney, it's close enough. "}{"Title":"This film is proof that magic exists, Marvelous.","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I have only recently become interested in Disney's Fantasia, mainly because it bored me as a child and 'The night on the bald mountain' sequence petrified me. It wasn't until a few years ago that I sat down and watched the original fantasia, and fell in love with it. I respected and treated it as a piece of art, I believe that Fantasia is for the older generation, as children seem to lose concentration whilst watching the longer segments. One of the reasons I love it is because it engages you in the classical music (I have never been interested in classical music). Also I think the animations are so well thought out, and are all detailed, clever and uplifting. When I first watched Fantasia, i wasn't expecting to be as amazed. I loved the idea of Fantasia carrying on, but i think it had been left to long for a sequel. But after watching it, it took my breath away. It was as beautiful, marvellous and as magical as the original. All of the different segments were impressive, and here is my view on all of them1. Symphony #5 - This opening sequence was a great one to open the film. It was full of colour and the music was so powerful. I would have loved to have seen this sequence in the IMAX cinema. The story involved thousands of colourful triangles being ambushed (and hugely outnumbered) by evil black triangles. The triangles cleverly resembled butterflies, and was an amazing simple story about good and evil. I think the visual worked hand in hand with the music, which really comes right out of the screen at you. This segment is an experience to watch and I think it was one of the most powerful sequences in the film. 9/102. Pines of Rome - This is segment with the flying whales, probably the most loved from fantasia 2000 and the most sought after. This segment is like life therapy from just watching it. Its happy and emotional and celebrates life. I think the computer animated whales against a cell animated background is an interesting ides and seems to work marvellously. I think it was great of the Disney team to use an unknown piece of music here, because it really draws the audience in. I really love this piece, i love the mellow colours, the story and even the introduction. But i have to say it isn't my favourite segment. 8/103. Rhapsody in Blue - This is my favourite segment in the film, I think it's unique and original. I love the music, although it does become quite repetitive. And I love the caricature style animation. The story is set in, Ney York and the animators have drawn in the style of an old New York newspaper comic strip which i think is really interesting and effective. The story is about several depressed people of all shapes and sizes who all have a dream. At the end of the sequence, each of the caricatures accidentally help each other out into the achieving there goals, which ends in an amazing celebratory finale. 10/10 4. Piano Concerto #2, Allegro, Opus 102 (The Steadfast Tin Soldier) - The one thing which I think annoyed me about this segment, is the fact that Disney picked the story first and then found a piece of music to match. For all the other segments, they listened to a piece of music and then let the images flow through there heads. But other then that it is a good heart warming story which really captures your emotions. I think all of the characters are really interesting and beautifully created. Disney changed the ending to this sequence from a miserable ending to happy one. I think this is typical of Disney and i would have thought it would have been more interesting to see the soldier not get the ballerina. 7/10 5. Carnival of the Animals, Finale - A colourful, but annoying and childish sequence. This segment is the shortest segment and I think it the most disappointing. The flamingos are predictable and unoriginal, but it entertains the children for a little while. I think it is a satisfactory element to the film, and brings a slight smile but nothing else. 5/10 6. The Sorcerer's Apprentice - This is an absolute classic and should not be frowned upon in any way. Walt Disney said himself that he wanted old classics in the follow ups and that is what this is. 9/10 7. Pomp and Circumstance - I think this piece is in great competition with the sorcerers apprentice, Disney animators obviously thought long and hard about what they wanted to achieve, and they have come up with an amazing sequence. This segment is funny, entertain in and moving and is one of those fantasia elements in which make you smile. I loved it, i loved the story in which Donald and Daisy Duch lose each other on the Gigantic Noah's Arc. 8/10 8. Firebird Suite - 1919 - Definitely the most powerful in the entire project. I think this is probably the best sequence in all of fantasia (including the original). I think it is even more beautiful then 'The nutcracker suite' in Fantasia. It is a great finale for a great film. It is about death and rebirth in nature and Disney portrays this wonderfully. You have to see Fantasia 2000 just for this sequence, because it is a life changing animation that should go down in history.The introductions - I think these were tacky and pointless. I think it would have been much more successful if they stuck to one host...Preferably James Earl Jones. "},{"Title":"Surely A Shoe-In as a Future Classic! Great Sequel to the 1940 Trail Blazing Animation/Classical Music Extravaganza!","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" When the original idea for Walt Disney's FANTASIA (1940) came about, the idea was to keep it in release and have it screened at proper venues like The Hollywood Bowl in Los Angeles, Carnegie Hall in New York and Orchestra Hall in Chicago. And it was intended to have a dynamic, changing play bill; rather than a static one, with the same segments always being shown. New musical pieces would be substituted for the originals, and new animated stories would be dramatized as interpretations to the Music.This unrealized dream may help to explain the Disney Studios' post-War foray into musically oriented episodic mixed Live & Animation features MAKE MINE MUSIC (1946) and MELODY TIME (1948). While these were not Classical Music showcases, but rather contemporary popular music vehicles; the same basic concept applied.It was not until the release of FANTASIA 2000 on New Years Eve, December 31, 1999, that the changing of program idea saw the light of day. Now we had a Feature that was both old and new. It was high brow and common. It was musical and visual, live action and animated.In FANTASIA 2000, the plan called for many different Hosts, Changing their job as Master of Ceremonies with each segment. Thus we saw such Talent as Steve Martin, Itzak Perlman, Quincy Jones, Bette Midler, James Earl Jones, Penn & Teller, James Levine and Angela Lansberry.The film reached back and re-ran The Sorcerer's Apprentice segment from the original movie. It was this story, which grew from being an entry into Disney's Silly Symphony series into the full length, melting of Animation, Classical Music and Stereophonic Sound.The rest of the music was new to a Concert Feature and included Rhapsody In Blue, The Firebird, Symphony Number Five, Pomp And Circumstance, The Carnival Of The Animals.The Production Crew at Disney realized that the tie with the past is very important, even more so for any project with the iconic word in its title. So there were some very good moves made in both the interest of marketing the film and perpetuating the Disney name and legacy.First off, they had Walt Look-Alike, nephew Roy Disney, Jr. leading off the film with a sort of Prologue that reaffirmed the purpose, the credo and the goals of the Walt Disney Organization, a sort of Mousketeers Manifesto.Next off, we have the images of FANTASIA original host, Mr. Deems Taylor in some unfamiliar introductory sequences. It appears that the Disney Production theme had gotten the truly bright idea to make use of some of that previously unused cut or deleted scene material useful to the new project. Whereas the scenes were new to the movie audiences, they were all from that first Concert project.But what is this we are hearing? It's a different voice, more like a voice characterization of the Late Paul Frees, than anybody else. But whoever provided the spoken word here, one thing is for sure; that it is dubbed over the silent speaking of the images of Mr. Taylor.May we offer a theory as to what must have transpired? Yes? Okay, thank you so much, Schultz! It's apparent that the old, unused footage was intact visually, being sans the soundtrack. Scripts and Shooting Continuities and such, all had the written w3ord that Mr. Deems Taylor spoke. This was a great use of new technologies in bringing us footage that would certainly have just wasted.Okay, enough of the 'bouquets', now for a 'brick bat'! Who does the voice for Studio Icon and Symbol for all things Disney, Mickey Mouse, himself? C'mon Mr. Michael Eisner, Mr. Roy Disney, Jr. and any one else who might be in charge over at WDP! Get a better voice for the Old Rodent! Just who, you ask? Well, there surely must be some one who could do it right! Even this writer can do a very good Mickey and one close to the original; which was, of course, the Old Man Himself, Mr. Walt Elias Disney.I'm available! Check with my agent. "},{"Title":"Just as fun and imaginative as the first, with great music and superb animation.","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Though this does not top the original, it's on the same level for me. The original Fantasia ran at 2 hours long, while this runs at a mere 75 minutes, but it's a really breathtaking 75 minutes. It features all new animated sequences to Bethoveen's Fifth Symphony, The Pines of Rome, Rhapsody in Blue, Dmitri Shostakovich's Piano Concerto 2, Carnival of the Animals, Pomp and Circumstance and The Firebird, along with the original Fantasia animated sequence The Sorceror's Apprentice. There is nothing negative about this film. Each animated segment is so perfectly done in it's own way. My favorite in the film is Rhapsody in Blue animated to Al Hershfeld type drawings, taking place during the great depression. Pomp and Circumstance is animated to the story of Noah's Ark, with Donald Duck and Daisy as Noah's assistants. The end of that segment gives me chills. This is what classic Disney is all about and a great follow up to the 1940 classic.My rating ****/****. 75 mins. G "},{"Title":"Realization of Walt Disney's dream.","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Like the original, Fantasia 2000 is a must-have. It has the same Sorcerer's Apprentice segment that you can get in the original, which I imagine was debated whether it should be included in the sequel or not. I myself would say that it was a good move to put the Sorcerer's Apprentice in the sequel, but that doesn't mean the original isn't a must-have anymore. The original wasn't The Sorcerer's Apprentice by itself. For more on what makes it a must-have, look for my comment on the original Fantasia.The beginning Beethoven's Fifth segment is, like the original, without specific characters, unless butterfly-like triangles are characters to you. It's a good beginning segment. The Pines of Rome segment with the whales was one segment that makes Fantasia 2000 a spectacular musical that makes the idea of making a new Fantasia a good idea. The Rhapsody in Blue segment is a fun-to-watch, good story, not to mention the good music. The Steadfast Tin Soldier segment was good to include, though not my personal favorite. I can see how others could find it their favorite though. The flamingo-yo segment, although short, is worth it. The Noah's Ark segment was good to include and is a good way to get people to think of something else besides a graduation ceremony when they hear Pomp and Circumstance. And it's always good to have a fun classic Disney character in it, especially Donald Duck. The ending segment about Life, Death, and Renewal is a good, strong icing on the cake.The only things that the original had that was better than Fantasia 2000 were that the original was simply the first and more classic; and that it was 120 minutes long, and the new is only 75. Other than that, Fantasia 2000 has everything that the original didn't.As Roy Disney said in the introduction, Fantasia 2000 is the realization of Walt Disney's dream. Even if the original also realized his dream the way he wanted it to, Fantasia 2000 did it even better, especially because it has traditional animation and computer animation. If anyone says that Walt Disney is rolling in his grave because of this movie, I disagree. The movie has his style all over the place, and it was well done.8/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful, but you need some history to appreciate it","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" FANTASIA 2000 was made during the beginning of the end for The Walt Disney Company's feature animation department. Since POCHAHONTAS Michael Eisner and his friend-filled board of directors had continually ruined many a project and tried to force in their false ideas that cheap and comupterisation win over audiences instead of heart, creativity, and devotion. With the exception of the excellent crew at Disney Feature Animation Orlando (Mulan, Lilo & Stitch) all of Disney was plagued by power struggles and the loss of most of the creative team that had revived feature animation in the early 1990s. Roy E. Disney, Walt's nephew, was the sole light of hope for the animators in Burbank and the only thing standing in Eisner's way. Desperate to live up to his uncle Walt's legacy and inject some much-needed creative energy and passion, he personally produced FANTASIA 2000, the realisation of Walt's original dream to make FANTASIA a true concert picture; upon every reissue, there would be new segments mixed with some old favourites. Using new tools, looks, and ideas, and with Disney defending the vision of the directors and animators, this was the last film (Lilo & Stitch aside) to be worthy of the Disney legacy.The effort to save their craft and live up to their forefathers is present from all the divisions involved in FANTASIA 2000. Roy Disney and his crew were determined that this would not be another Eisner rip-off, quick-cash sequel, and they succeeded marvelously. The animation here is overflowing with beautiful detail and as much passion, creativity, and innovation as the original film in 1940. Traditional cel animation dominates, blending seamlessly with mild use of CGI. Of all the elements Walt possessed that the company has not fulfilled without him, it is trying new techniques in animation and taking risks. Nephew Roy finally brings this spirit back.The opening number is rather original and goes well with the music. The most memorable segments, Pines of Rome and Rhapsody in Blue, come very early and are back to back. The whales in flight and carefree jazz designs are some of the most beautiful images of recent years for the Mouse House. The Steadfast Tin Soldier is a nice, light piece. One can't help but feel it might better be suited for a full-length Disney feature. Carnival of the Animals and James Earl Jones's lead-in to the flock of flamingos and their yo-yo is extremely charming and very fun to watch. The Sorceror's Apprentice still hasn't lost its magic, and Donald Duck as Noah's assistant in Pomp and Circumstance gives a second classic Disney character the chance to shine with the music. Then comes our final piece, The Firebird Suite. Dramatic, compelling, lush, and beautiful, this is what many the film ruined by Eisner and his cronies deserved to be.As the last hurrah for Roy and his boys, it's hard to say anything bad about this film, especially considering all that went into it. It must be admitted, however, that some of the celebrity hosts are annoying (though James Earl Jones and Angelena Lansbury are wonderful). Although shorter than the original by a considerable amount of time, it never feels confined or cramped, but the last few segments do seem a bit rushed.This is a beautiful and touching film, made all the more special when one understands the circumstances and motivations behind it. Roy Disney has proved himself in so many ways in the past, and his team's work on FANTASIA 2000 is no exception. Walt would have been proud. "},{"Title":"Good Yes, But Not Great","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Having already seen Fantasia and understanding the painstaking work done on the movie, one would have to begin reviewing Fantasia 2000 relatively to the original. There is no question that Walt Disney Animation Studios have a solid tradition of innovation and entertainment. But was it that good?I would start with rating the first segment, the weakest. When I recall the first segment on the original's Tocata and Fugue in D-minor, I was amazed with the intricacy and imagination that went into it. I'm sorry folks, I was not impressed with the beginning of Fantasia 2000. I've listened to the entire first movement of the 5th Symphony before so I was rather disappointed that they shortened the tune a bit. Sorry folks, it just didn't measure up. I was quite disappointed with this piece. It seemed too commercial to my liking.However, I have to say that the animators did a great job in the adaptation of the Pines of Rome. I could not have possibly been any more original myself.The three strongest segments followed. Rhapsody in Blue was a masterpiece. Disney's use of the Steadfast Tin Soldier to the tune of Shostakovich's second Piano Concerto was masterful. And the Carnival of the Animals was funny and brilliant, especially James Earl Jones' introduction.A blast from the past was introduced by Penn and Teller in the form of the Sorcerer's Apprentice. Why? I guess they ran out of ideas at that time.The processions featuring Daisy and Donald Duck was wonderful, along with the Firebird.All in all, it was a good film and it did follow the pattern of the original. I just wish they had a better beginning.  "},{"Title":"A Satisfying Sequel","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The original Fantasia was clearly a work of art, which is why it took so many years to appeal to an artless audience.  I knew Director James Algar, I know what went into it.  Those who dismiss it as fluff should re-think their artistic sensibilities.  Fantasia 2000 had a totally different look and texture.  Yes, one could criticize the fact that the music was heavily edited, but since MTV showed up on the scene in 1980, attention spans have been lowered.  Pacing isn't everything, but in this era, its what drives the movie.  The animation was extremely high end.  In some cases Disney was writing the book on new look CGI. My favorite sequence was clearly Pines of Rome.  I know that the finale is a march down the Appian Way, but to have recreated a march of Roman Soldiers, ala Sparticus, would have been far less creative than what the animators actually did. Maybe Classical Music isn't your taste, but before you blast it, realize that every tune you hear has a basis in classical.  For whatever it's worth, I have a Ph.D in musicology, so perhaps I have a tad better grasp on the subject than the average person you'll find in a mosh pit. "},{"Title":"Fantastic, despite one short coming.","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I went into the massive IMAX theatre with high expectations. Being a fan of the original, I wanted to see what the guys and gals at Disney could do, now that they got there fancy computers and what-not. From the first frame I was interested but not completely into Fantasia/2000. But anyone can tell you that it takes time to get into these kind of films.So an hour had passed, and I had watched triangles, whales, New York and Donald Duck. And I was just getting into Fantasia/2000 when suddenly the credits roll. I looked at my watch and worked out that the film only went for 75 minutes. And that is the only thing wrong with Fantasia/2000.Fantasia (the original) was always thought of as a long film in my mind. But that was a good thing. Fantasia just kept the wonderful images coming with the thunderous music. The film engulfed everyone who saw and gives everyone I know a good impression. No one pre-warned me that Fantasia/2000 was only 75 minutes. So if your going to see it, or rent it, just remember that one fact.However moving the time problem along, Fantasia/2000 is excellent, compelling, concert theatre at its best. It shows how far technology has come since 1940, and manages to showcase some of Disney's best work since The Lion King. And also it looks great on the IMAX screen. (I can't wait to see what Beauty and The Beat can do)I would highly recommend Fantasia/2000 to anyone who is interested in Disney or Classical music. "},{"Title":"Different from the first, but very well done","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  60 years after Fantasia comes the sequel (about time, eh?)- Fantasia 2000. The first Fantasia was a bit s l o w, and this one is a bit fast. Perhaps if they ever attempt a third they'll be able to time it better. But still Fantasia 2000 is quite a sensation (though I might be a tad exaggerating here). I definitely think it's more re-watchable than Fantasia.We start off with Beethoven's Symphony No. 5. The animation for this scene was quite splendid, and right on time. Then we continue with Steve Martin- funny as always presenting Itzhak Perlman who then presents Respighi's Pines of Rome. The animation really gives you a fresh and cool feeling, and it was, again, very well done- although one can get tired of it on multiple viewing. Next up Quincy Jones presents George Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue- my favorite segment on Fantasia 2000. Besides the wonderful music the animation is humorous and highly re-watchable. I've always loved New York and this segment is not only funny, but in a way quite dramatic too as it tells the story of a little girl who quite unfortunately has been separated from her parents but reunites with them when she's almost run-over by every car in NY, a out-of-work man, a man with work but who's true love is music, and a childlike rich man with a spoiled wife (who spoils her dog too much). Then Bette Midler shows us some of the animations that weren't chosen to be in Fantasia 2000. As she said- here they are... there they go. And finally a success! And quite a success I might add. As she presents Dmitri Shostakovich's Piano Concerto No. 2, Allegro, Opus 102. The animation for this segment shows the classic Hans Christian Anderson story of The Steadfast Tin Soldier, which is a really beautiful segment, showing how, of course, our hero tries to fight a mean Jack-in-the-box who tries to hit on the girl who just isn't interested (not in the Jack-in-the-box anyway). And once this breathtaking segment is over James Earl Jones (who did the voice of Mufasa in Disney's highest grossing film The Lion King) presents to us a segment based on the age old question What happens if you give a yo-yo to a flock of flamingoes?- a very very humoristic, yet short segment presented to the music of Camille Saint-Saens' The Carnival of the Animals. Which is followed by comedy/magic team Penn and Teller who present the classic Fantasia segment- Paul Dukas' The Sorcerer's Apprentice, and the part of the apprentice played by none-other than Mickey Mouse... a true classic and interesting segment. James Levine, conductor of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra then presents Edward Elgar's Pomp and Circumstance, with the humorous spin-off of the Biblical story of Noah's Ark, or shall I say Donald's Ark... where Donald and Daisy seem to keep missing each other and think that the fate of their loved one is doomed (but hey, it's Disney so there will be a happy ending). And finally Angela Lansbury (who else but Mrs. Pots from Beauty and the Beast) finishes our Fantasiastic journey with Igor Stravinsky's The Firebird Suite which shows the story of life, death and renewal... beautiful animation.All in all this Fantasia is much different from the first, and like all modern Disney movies focuses a lot more on humor. But it's still a very enjoyable journey, which can be enjoyed for generations. Beautiful music and beautiful animation.  "},{"Title":"I Keep Thinking About It...","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Obviously, the original Fantasia was the state of the art when it was released in 1940. In fact, it remained there for many years. From an animation standpoint, I think Disney finally topped it when they released Sleeping Beauty in 1959. Still, as an accomplishment, I believe that Fantasia was Walt Disney's finest achievement.He certainly wanted the idea of Fantasia to continue, but as time went on, it seemed that it would never happen. Our tastes in animation became more and more sophisticated along with the greater advancements we have seen in animation in the last decade. When Disney released the original Fantasia on video in 1991, many who had seen it criticized the film as being too arty, with long segments that would not appeal to children.Perhaps many people thought that the word Disney always should be associated with kids. That is unfair, for Walt would have wanted all ages of people to enjoy his films. When Roy Disney announced a few years ago that Disney was making a new Fantasia, I was surprised and excited. In the time that movies like The Lion King, Aladdin, Toy Story, and A Bug's Life were taking in huge sums of cash, it seemed that Disney was willing to take the risk again and make the film anyway.What a treat it is! Most of the segments of the film stayed in my memory for days, as did the music. There is true genius in Fantasia 2000 in the connections of imagery to music. For example, the combination of Gershwin's Rhapsody In Blue the Al Hirschfeld-style caricatures was so perfect that the music seemed written for that type of visual presentation.Fantasia 2000 left me breathless and practically speechless. I even enjoyed the celebrity introductions throughout the picture.Using my preferred four-star rating system, I would give Fantasia 2000 this       ****-The minus is there for the only criticism I have of it Too short! The original Fantasia was a two-hour event, while Fantasia 2000 was only 74 minutes. That is the same length as most other Disney animated features. Was 74 minutes determined by     a. Expense of the budget, or     b. The expected length of children's attention spans?From the depth of my heart, I recommend Fantasia 2000. It left me wanting more. George "}{"Title":"Sweet & charming","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Not quite as good as the first, but I enjoyed it all the same. I think this was a little more politically correct somehow, whereas the original didn't care so much about that. The whales sequence is excellent, and I adored the yo-yoing flamingo! Try and see it in the theatre if you can. "},{"Title":"Delightful to watch.","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I just saw the movie today, and I have to say that I enjoyed it more than I did the original.  I really liked that they kept my favorite segment of the original- Mickey as the Sorcerer's Apprentice!  The only thing I didn't like was during the opening sequence.  A few of the shots were jarring and didn't seem to mesh very well with what else was happening on the screen.  I found the images to be beautiful and evocative a treat for the eyes! "},{"Title":"Gershwin, Beethoven, and Dukas segments are fun","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I didn't care much for the flying whales in The Pines of Rome, the flamingos playing with yoyos in Carnival of Animals, or some of the other images that seem not to fit the music in Fantasia 2000.  But the Gershwin segment is great Rhapsody in Blue, with cartoon images of mid-20th century New York.  The images in the Beethoven segment are nice too.  They look like abstract birds and butterflies. And it was fun seeing Mickey again as The Sorcerer's Apprentice.  That's the only segment from the original Fantasia film that's in this new movie.   "},{"Title":"A very worthy successor","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Being a lover of music and the original Fantasia, I was looking quite forward to seeing this film.  (Unfortunately, I had to wait until it came to my local theater.)  I was not disappointed.  My only complaint concerns the celebrity introductions.  In the original, Deems Taylor, who was a noted critic, was on hand to introduce each piece, and I found his commentaries very insightful and witty at times, like having audible program notes.  In this one, not all the celebrities give insight to the pieces (some do, like Quincy Jones and James Levine) and there are too many effects during their sequences.  I feel it would have been better to leave the camera on them.But face it, the real reason you go to see a film like this is for the music and animation.  It is nice to see 20th-century music represented a bit more this time.  The selections are EXPERTLY performed by the Chicago Symphony and the Philharmonia Orchestra (both conducted by Levine), and to experience this film in anything less than a great Dolby Digital or DTS sound system is to do the film injustice.  Stylistically, there are greater contrasts between the segments, thanks largely in part to the fact that the animators have more tools to work with.  In fact, the placement of The Sorcerer's Apprentice in the middle of the film shows just how far animation has come in 60 years.  My favorites are the Pines of Rome with beautiful CGI whales, and the Firebird Suite, one of the most beautiful pieces of classical animation (if I can call it that) I've ever seen.  The animation of the Firebird will leave you with your mouth hanging open.All in all, a worthy successor, and one of the best movies I've seen this year (up there with Titan A. E.). "},{"Title":"Overall, more enjoyable than the first.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  First, I have to clarify that I never saw the original Fantasia until it was released on video and was severely disappointed by it.  I don't hate it, I just think it's taken a little too seriously, especially when you consider that the bulk of the movie centers on dancing flowers and animals.My sister and I were originally going to the theater to see Dinosaur and we were too late for that and saw Fantasia 2K instead.  We saw it on the regular size theater screen and it still looked good.  I wouldn't wait for it on video, though.  I should mention that the reason the movie is short is because Omni movies, by nature, ARE shorter than regular movies (think of how unganely the film canisters are, then think of the poor guy in charge of changing them all).As far as the sequences, they were all well done (and, yes, I did notice that they gave Tin Soldier a happy ending, but I kind of expected it seeing as this IS a Disney movie).  I thought that Pines of Rome and especially the Firebird had some of the most creative animation Disney's done in over a decade.  Carnival of the Animals and Rhapsody in Blue were a lot of fun, and both had refreshingly different visual styles.  All in all, I think the Firebird was the best of the bunch.  Let's see if they can do this every decade! "},{"Title":"Liked it better than the first","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked this Fantasia better than the first one, but I wish I had seen this one in IMAX vision (I just saw it, it left a month or so from the IMAX theater and went to regular theaters).  But that doesn't matter. There are some beautiful sequences here that show that music can go with images and kids might still pay attention (I actually like animated films where the characters don't talk, which is what I'd wished for Dinosaur).  Not all of them are completely watchable, but they are enjoyable.  Great music (George Gershwin's is definitely the best to go with a city) and great animation top the original (if the original was any good itself).  A+ "},{"Title":"Some of the greatest works of the 20th century are portrayed here","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Fantasia 2000 presents us with a visual detail into several classical works of music which basically excels a whole lot more into depth than the original Fantasia(which was released in 1940). The animation itself is truly a stunning masterpiece to behold which is very fluid,colorful in every aspect,but the music to this film which is compose of the works of Gershwin and classical works like Tchivosky are spectacular to see since its the best animation work I've seen in a long time. One thing that Disney did I liked here,is that they kept the opening sequence with Mickey Mouse in The Sorceror's Apprentice,and added several brand new sequences here which are breathtaking which is both blatant and subtle to the use of the contrasting elements to the screen to highlight the music here.The film which has been out since January 1, 2000 was only seen in selected IMAX theatres where the movie can be viewed for the full effect of sound and for the experience,but that will changed when it will be released this summer to theatres that don't have the opinion of an IMAX experience,but Disney insisted that this film will be presented in a DTS-digital Dobly Stereo format so that audiences who haven't seen it(or those who never saw the original Fantasia) will feel the impact of its scope on a widescreen theatre,and maybe humming a tune or two. Note Its still playing in selected IMAX theatres nationwide,and it hits area theatres June 16,2000 for a limited enagement. "},{"Title":"Disney once again falls flat on its face!","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  A miserable waste of time and money for the audience, and a bigger waste of talent and energy on Disney's behalf.  What was the point of making this film?  An updating or remake of a 60 year old film which wasn't that great in the first place.I remember the original Fantasia has some decent animation and some standout imagery (i.e. The giant blue demon opening its wings, Mickey Mouse hacking the broom into pieces, the army of dinosaurs slowly dying...)  but Fantasia 2000 retains none of such qualities.  The animated sequences are short, unimaginitive, contrived, and (like the original) highly dull and incoherent.   The worst of which would be the Steadfast Tin Soldier which so one-sidedly points out the Jack-in-the-Box as the villain who justifyingly burns to death just because he was jealous the toy ballerina didn't return his love...  Do we really want our kids to see this crap? This belongs on late-night HBO or Jerry Springer.A lazy, fun-free film from Disney, who insist on pumping out movie after movie, each less interesting than the first.  Good thing this film is barely an hour long . "},{"Title":"A Worthy Update","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Fantasia 2000 is money in the bank.  Take the much beloved 1940 original and jazz it up with enough innovation to sell classical music as computer-generated art.  It also helps that the movie screen is six stories tall although the film doesn't exploit the full IMAX visual effect.  Ironically the best pieces from the eight separate works involve Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck, hardly a challenge for a good programmer.  In restoring 'The Sorcerer's Apprentice', the filmmakers have inadvertently shown how the earlier talented artists are equal to any machine generated mimic.  In 'Pomp and Circumstance' played to the biblical tale concerning Noah's Ark, the film richly embellishes sight and sound.  The touching handshake between Leopold Stokowski and James Levine shows both the respect and understanding for the old and the new.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic, wonderful, and even better than the original!","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Fantasia 2000 is an unprecedented event rather than a film.  Like the original Fantasia, it's a film that plays like a modern day music video, with colorful images and characters enforcing the powerful music pieces.  Unlike the original, this one was not only more involving and overwhelming, but better music pieces were selected.  Although I liked the original, there were times when it got a little boring, and I also found it lacking a sense of humor.  It was also too long for an average person to stay interested in it.  Here with Fantasia 2000, the studio has managed to create images and ideas that we would have thought impossible.  Here, we entered the realm of pure fantasy!  There isn't too much philosophy or thinking to be involved here.  Here, it's moreover an experience than a film.  My personal favorite numbers were the Noah's Ark, appropriately accompanied by Pomp and Circumstace, the first number with the whales, and the last number.  They were so grand and so sumptuous.  It was overwhelming!  I also thought the number with the pink flamingo with the yo-yo was cute.  My least favorite was the transfer of The Sorcerer's Apprentice onto IMAX.  It was a neat idea, and the picture and sound has been remastered.  But, if you sit in the front row and look closely, the image is loaded with digital artifacts and pixels.  Maybe if I sat further back, it would've looked better, but that number just didn't look good on IMAX.  Still, I found myself being lifted up and carried away in the euphoria of the whole experience.  I felt like I went on a voyage, unlike the original Fantasia.  I will most definitely purchase this when it comes to DVD, but I would also try and see it before it gets out of theaters.  You won't get the effect unless you see it in IMAX.   "}{"Title":"Classical music that didn't put me to sleep.","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Fantasia 2000 - I'm not a huge fan of classical music - it tends to make me sleepy.  Hence on those rare occasions that I do listen to it, there is usually an implicit threat of violence involved.  However, having thoroughly enjoyed the marriage of animation and music in the first Fantasia I was eager to see what they had done with the sequel.  Wow.With seven different segments to choose from, it's hard to single out the best one as each piece works so well with the visuals (I never did figure out the connection between The Pines of Rome and flying whales, but then again, maybe I wasn't supposed to&#133;). If I had to pick my favorite I would go with the Firebird Suite whose combination of music, emotion, story and vivid imagery is, for lack of a better word, gorgeous. My one complaint was the introduction of the pieces by the live actors, as it was wholly unnecessary.  I hope that when they come up with the next sequel (hopefully within a few years) they will dispense with the introductions and let the pieces speak for themselves. Also, although this is an animated feature it is geared more towards adults than children (Pokemon this ain't) - several youngsters seated near us were getting quite restless.Finally, if possible, try to see this in the IMAX format to get the full effect of the soundtrack.   "},{"Title":"Let's hope it doesn't take 60 years for the next one.","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  As a collector of all things Sorcerer Mickey, I knew that I had to see this film as soon as it was released.  However, this meant driving two hours to Atlanta to do so, as the local IMAX didn't bow down to the almighty Disney. Was it worth it?Yes.  Each of the segments had a very different style, ensuring that there was something for everyone.  I personally didn't care for the Rhapsody in Blue segment, but each of the other segments pushed the limits of current animation technology without seeming too programmed (for example, the computer generated whales were combined with what appeared to be hand-drawn bubbles).The celebrity introductions to each segment were not necessary, but in a couple of cases (especially the Sorcerer's Apprentice), they provided a different point of view.  My only question now is whether Roy Disney considers his promise to Uncle Walt fulfilled, or if he'll make another version of Fantasia later.   "},{"Title":"Worthy sequel to the original, but it should have been at least two hours","Date":"27 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is an animated feature-length film from Walt Disney Pictures. There will be spoilers aheadThis is essentially done in the same structure as the original Fantasia, except that the last two segments don't form a type of connection of theme as A Night on Bald Mountain and Ave Maria did in the original. There are eight segments, as in the original and The Sorcerer's Apprentice is one of the segments included in Fantasia 2000, in keeping with Walt Disney's original intention to keep subsequent versions of the film some mix of old and new segments. Steve Martin does an overview and seven segments are introduced individually by hosts. The segments are, in orderSymphony No. 5 in C Minor-Beethoven, which features abstract animation resembling bats and butterflies and thus opening this with abstract animation in the same manner as the original.Pines of Rome-Ottorino Respeghi, is introduced by Itzhak Perlman, absolutely beautiful animation of whales moving about during migration.Rhapsody In Blue-Gershwin (Quincy Jones) my favorite segment, with the animation done to resemble the drawings of Al Hirschfeld and with a storyline, the interweaving of the stories of four people over a day in New York City.Piano Concerto 2 In F Major-Shostakovich, (Bette Midler) which is The Steadfast Tin Soldier by Hans Christian Andersen set to music.The Carnival of Animals-Saint-Saens (James Earl Jones) about flamingos and one of them having a yo-yo. It must be seen to be appreciated!The Sorcerer's Apprentice-Paul Dukas (Penn and Teller) the complete segment carried over from the original.Pomp and Circumstance-Elgar (conductor James Levine) the familiar marches paired with animation of Donald Duck trying to help Noah fill the Ark, with help from Daisy Duck, with the expected consequences.Firebird Suite (1919 version)-Stravinsky (Angela Lansbury) probably the most visually impressive segment, absolutely beautiful to look at, it follows a sprite who accidentally awakens a firebird, with disastrous consequences. This final segment actually encapsulates the thematic elements of the last two segments in the original in terms of destruction and salvation.About the only problem I have with this is its length. I would have liked it to be longer than its 74 minutes. Even 90 minutes would have been preferable, though two hours (given that the original was slightly over two hours) would have suited me better. That's a minor quibble. It's a worthy successor.This film is available on DVD and Blu Ray. I've owned it on VHS, DVD and Blu Ray and Blu Ray is the way to go if you have that capability. Most Recommended. "},{"Title":"Fantasia 2000","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I saw the trailer for this film back when it was out in cinema (also released in Imax format), and I enjoyed the 1940 original, so I thought I'd give it a go. There are four reasons why this film just isn't as thought out as the original. Firstly, they have to get celebrities, such as Steve Martin, Bette Midler, Quincy Jones, magicians Penn and Teller, James Earl Jones and Angela Lansbury, introducing the numbers before they start. Secondly, all the numbers have a variety of animation styles, and in the original they only stuck to one, the normal broad style. Thirdly, only three of the numbers matched the music and I enjoyed, these were the flamingo with the yo-yo, Donald Duck with Daisy in a Noah's Ark story, and the repeat of The Sorceror's Apprentice with Mickey Mouse - conducted by the late Leopold Stokowski (that's just lousy). Fourth and finally, this film just seems like an excuse to show the animation Disney studios are capable of, whether drawing or CGI, we don't need to be reminded they do great animation, and if your going to do it, make sure it matches the music. I would certainly enjoy seeing the three numbers mentioned again, but the rest just doesn't work. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Great one!","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of the most fantastic animated features of all time in My opinion! Being a huge fan of movie music and classical music this is such an extraordinary movie to watch and enjoy. My favorite pieces in the film is the The Pines of Rome, Rhapsody in Blue, and The Firebird Suite. These are three of the greatest pieces of music ever written in My opinion! The animation is crisp, clean, and clear! Disney did a fabulous achievement here! So if you love Disney, the original Fantasia animated feature, animated films in general, movie scores, and classical music then I strongly recommend that you head over to Amazon.com today and purchase this great animated movie today! "},{"Title":"Another Breed of Fantasia","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  My mom recently joined the Disney Movie Club and purchased this movie.  One night I was babysitting my niece when it was time to go to bed.  Normally I put in the original Fantasia, and she is out like a light in less than ten minutes.  This time I put in Fantasia 2000, thinking it would do the same thing.  However, my niece stayed up much longer than expected and was intrigued by what she was watching as she asked me about the flying whales.I think this second version of Fantasia embarks in the same spirit as the first one, but it is a little more mainstream than the 1940 masterpiece.  As a kid, I never really cared for the first Fantasia, as I thought it was too long and boring.  I didn't appreciate fine music and animation at that time.  Fantasia 2000 still uses classical music, but it uses pieces that are more familiar like Beethoven's 5th Symphony and Pomp and Circumstance.  There's also a solid story to follow in each piece, whether you're watching New Yorkers pursue their dreams or watching Donald Duck take on the role of Noah by herding up two of each animal.  Then there's the length of the movie, going from two hours in the first Fantasia to a family-friendly 75 minutes in this version.So even though the two Fantasias are the same, they are sort of different reflecting the time periods they were made in.  Fantasia 2000 uses crisp and beautiful animation and tells some fun stories, but it isn't as innovative and daring as its father.  This isn't necessarily a bad thing; it's just different and still quite enjoyable.  Heck, I always enjoy a good, funny appearance from my favorite cartoon character, Donald Duck! Overall,  Fantasia 2000 is a worthwhile and beautiful film to the eyes and the ears.My IMDb Rating 9/10.  My Yahoo! Grade A (Outstanding) "},{"Title":"Shadow of the First","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" When Fantasia was first released, Walt Disney's original plan was to let it evolve slowly with older segments replaced with new ones over time, with periodic releases. Fantasia 2000 replaced all but one segment, and made the new effort much shorter. Regrettably shorter do they think the audience members all have Attention Deficit Disorder? The original narrator was Deems Taylor, a musicologist and author. The only one who had really good introductory lines, IMHO, was James Earl Jones, prior to Carnival of the Animals. The standout segments, again IMHO, were Carnival of the Animals, Rhapsody In Blue, and The Firebird, though Carnival was much too short.When the plans to produce Fantasia 2000 were first announced, the buzz was that they would retain only one of the original sequences. I was hoping that it would be Beethoven's Pastorale or Night On Bald Mountain/Ave Maria, but The Mouse prevailed.Not as good as the first, but watchable. "},{"Title":"don't bother","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I just went to great lengths to see Fantasia in an IMAX theater, and I was disappointed.  Little use is made of the new screen size, and I would have been just as content to have waited for the wide release this summer.  The animation itself is just okay.  The Donald Duck segment is less entertaining than the Mouse Factory saturday morning show.  Most awful are the little embarassing intros by Bette Midler, Penn & Teller, etc. Those damn space whales were cool at first, but gradually began to remind me of those Lisa Frank sticker books for little girls.  It seems odd that after fifty years they couldn't come up with something as simple and entertaining as the Sorcerer's Apprentice segment.  The Steadfast Tim Soldier segment is entertaining and pretty, but the stuff that was supposed to get an emotional response (will Donald find Daisy?  Who cares?) didn't work for me.  Go see Toy Story 2 or Princess Mononoke, and hold out for the dollar show on this one.   "},{"Title":"If you like Disney movies, give it a try!!","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I liked this film very much, for many reasons. I liked the music and the drawings very much. In my opinion it is not worse then its prototype Fantasia (which appeared in the early 1940s). Okay, Fantasia really set a new trademark, and in my opinion there are not as many innovations here as in the original Fantasia. But if you like Disney films, you should give Fantasia 2000 a try! It contains famous, very well-known music, and again animated cartoons, but it's another style. Personally I liked the music very much, it was a real ear-wig for me! Different to the original Fantasia, Donald Duck also makes a short appearance; before the film begins there is also a review of further famous films and animations the Disney Company has made in the past decades - advertising, oh well. Being a real Walt Disney fan, who has seen nearly all of the DuckTales-episodes, for example, I give this film a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Admirers of the original may want to shut their eyes","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I can scarcely believe that so much work, so much money, so much love and so much good will, resulted in THIS.  Even leaving questions of quality aside, the film is so SHORT.  The original `Fantasia' was over two hours; the sequel is just 75 minutes, over ten of which have been borrowed from the original in any case.  Segments which are too short individually combine to form a concert that's too short overall.  The film huffs and puffs as it's strangled by its own brevity.  For instance*  Beethoven's 5th symphony, 1st movement.  The original `Fantasia' gave us ALL of the sixth (well, minus some exposition repeats); this time we get just a single narrow slice of the fifth (again, minus exposition repeats - and we need them more this time).  There's SOME congruence between the images on screen and the music they illustrate.  Or at least, there WOULD be congruence if these images were illustrating the symphony as a whole.  The triumphant blaze of colour which the animators fling at us after a couple of minutes is absent in Beethoven's fifth until the start of the fourth movement.  We don't even get so far as the second movement.*  Respighi's `The Pines of Rome' has been shorn of its lovely `pines of the catacombs' sequence.  This is a minor point, because the segment fails for many other reasons - I'll get to them later.*  `Carnival of the Animals' (by Saint-Saëns) consists of I don't know how many tiny, delicious musical tidbits.  The animators have only bothered to use ONE of them.  The result is some vibrant, fresh, funny animation that's over in less than two minutes.  Why bother?*  The constant tin soldier story has been set to a tiny, one-movement Shostakovich piece that, whatever they tell us, doesn't suit it at all.  I can understand why they chose Shostakovich, but this particular piece never settles down to give the images time to breathe.  Why not, say, the ninth symphony - complete, of course ...?  At least that has one or two slow bits.Oh dear.  But it gets worse.  Remember that the original `Fantasia' was a masterpiece.  Look at Tchaikovsky's Nutcracker suite.  Not only do the images express whatever of value lay in the ballet; they soar with the music in a way that no ballet ever could.  But it's not just Tchaikovsky.  Every movement is like this.  -Well, there is one exception the second movement of Beethoven's sixth.  But apart from that, the images, however surprising they may initially appear, flow DIRECTLY from the music.  The animators working on the sequel have tried hard; I'm sure they have; but to no avail.  It's as if animators of today can no longer listen to music at all.For proof, consider `The Pines of Rome'.  Were they TRYING for a mismatch?  Respighi's tone-poem suite illustrates what it claims to illustrate the mood of four pine-laden parts of the city of Rome.  It's bright, sharp, sunlit, Mediterranean music.  If this had been part of the original Fantasia program the animators would have STARTED with Rome, although they may have gone on to something else (a Rome of the past, or of the future, or a fantasy city, or the insects inhabiting the pines of Rome, or something).  What do we get instead?  Plastic computer-rendered whales, swimming around lugubriously in an Arctic winter.  They just don't fit, and there's no way to disguise this.  The final movement of the Pines suite is a march.  WHALES CAN'T MARCH.  There's no way to disguise this, either.This is just the most extreme instance.  The film as a whole is a flop.  (Anyone who has read my reviews of other Disney efforts will know how much it hurts me to say this.)  It falls even further beneath `Allegro non Troppo' than that film, for completely different reasons, fell beneath `Fantasia'.  I must mention one thing, though the `Rhapsody in Blue' segment, created hastily at the last minute, is superb; not QUITE worthy of `Fantasia', but close. "}{"Title":"C'mon, guys, I KNOW you can do better than this","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Some random jottings, as my impressions and memories serve me Pines of Rome--I always considered this particular piece of music as garish, overblown trash. But the Disney artists have done a very nice underwater story here that throws a refreshing new angle on the music. Even though I've always considered their mixing of computer animation and conventional cel animation uncomfortable at best, I came away liking this piece more than I did before. Quite possibly this film's best portion. Pomp & Circumstance--now you KNOW no one's going to smother memories of this, The Graduation March. Whoever gave Disney's artists the idea to do a Noah's-Ark story with Donald & Daisy in the human leads (I just don't accept the premise) should be tossed out on his/her can. Carnival of the Animals--an unimaginative choice, much like Peter & the Wolf was nearly 60 years before. These are both abstract pieces of music, a theatre-of-the-mind type of experience. And the use of only one short movement--from the tail end of the piece--is inexplicable. There IS a somewhat engaging quality to the picture of five flamingos in their ballet bit, but it reinforces an overriding impression I got from this whole film--that this was just a lark for the animators, a sideline project while they devoted their full passion to the regular story-oriented features. Rhapsody in Blue--Very nice use of Al Hirschfeld-style characters; the lead players (i.e., the ones who end up jamming at night) are all endearing. This piece has been with me since childhood, and nothing could ever efface the purely abstract experience of simply hearing it, but it's very entertaining. The Steadfast Tin Soldier--a hackneyed, Saturday-morning type of story, one which alters the original tragic ending, one which does nothing to leave me with a better impression of the music (which I'm unfamiliar with), and its computer graphics once again show how ill-at-ease the Disney artists could be with this. Beethoven's Fifth--c'mon, are you kidding? This is as old hat as Pomp & Circumstance--it's been hammered into umpteen-many schoolkids in umpteen-many music appreciation classes that the music depicts death knocking at the door.All in all, an off-putting experience. Let's all blame it on Michael Eisner and company, shall we? Better yet, let's abandon all plans for future additions to the original masterpiece of 60 years ago (Disney's own original plan). The original film's been critiqued and torn apart over the years, but many easily forget the blood, sweat and tears that went into it (read John Canemaker's book to know all about that). And even though the Deems Taylor narrated sequences in the original are now laughed at, one can't help wondering how the obnoxious live-action contributions of Steve Martin, Bette Midler, Penn & Teller & co. will look 60 years from now. "},{"Title":"Nice Try But No Fantasia.","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Fantasia 2000 (1999) Dir James Algar, Gaetan Brizzi, Paul Brizzi, Hendel Butoy, Francis Glebas, Eric Goldberg, Don Hahn, Pixote Hunt / Featuring Steve Martin, Angela Lansbury, James Earl Jones, Bette Midler, Quincy Jones Marking the 60th anniversary of one of the greatest achievements in animation and music. It also celebrates the beginning of a new century through one of Disney's greatest classics. It is beautifully animated yet it lacks the magic that made the original so unique. The filmmakers apparently attempted to recapture that when they included The Sorcerer's Apprentice as part of this update, but it hardly matters. One big throwback is its ridiculous celebrity introductions by Steve Martin, James Earl Jones, Bette Midler, and Angela Launsbury. Even Quincy Jones lends his talent to this and cannot rise above looking foolish. These are all gifted performers, but here they are required to overact and look foolish in front of the camera. It is detailed with themes of death, reproduction, achievement, goals, individuality, and a Noah's ark sequence featuring Donald and Daisy Duck. The Sorcerer's Apprentice represents the timelessness of the original, but what will make this sequel timeless? This is not the art that Fantasia ultimately became but it is well directed with beautifully animated musical segments celebrating past and future. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Seriously Disappointing","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I don't see the beauty that is so famously Disney. Yes, the hard work was there, but not that amazing beauty. Granted, in the original, there's none of the artistic beauty in the ostrich and hippo act as compared to the Pastoral piece, for example, but even the hippos and ostriches kept some thread of that amazing, artistic talent, meshed with the music and storytelling.Too much explanation in the various celebrity introductions. They were also a bit camp, in my opinion, which just doesn't work. In the original, when the humans interacted with the animated characters, it was done with an initial touch of surprise but quickly turned to accepted reality which was charming and intelligent, somehow. There was a certain element of humility; a sincere, 100 percent effort for the love of the craft, art, storytelling and most important, the beholder.Never again. Whereas the original? A yearly favorite. "},{"Title":"Great Sequel - Just Not Quite As Good As The Original","Date":"18 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I'm a big fan of the original Fantasia, so you might think I don't like Fantasia 2000 that much, but in reality, I think it's a great sequel. It's not quite as good, but it's still really good.Once again, the music is great and so is the animation. The music was performed by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and very well-done. The animation is more diverse this time, so we get some classic Disney 2D animation, 2D animation based on the works of Al Hirschfeld and some CGI animation.I gave the original Fantasia 10 stars and I give this one 8 stars as it's not a completely flawless film.The most common complaint people seem to have with this film is with the celebrity cameos. There's really no point to having them all in this film as they all pretty much just introduce the segments. Probably one or two of them would have been fine. Despite that, the cameos aren't that bad. The only cameo I don't like that much is Steve Martin. I have nothing against the guy and he can be very funny, but his humour here seems really out of place and childish in an unfunny way. However, the cameos are fairly short (about 1-2 minutes), so they don't really get in the way that much.The other I give this only 8 stars is that some of the segments are not nearly as good as the ones in the original. The one with the flamingos is more like something out of a Saturday morning cartoon than a Fantasia film, but it's an entertaining segment nonetheless. The one with Donald Duck is also kind of along the same lines, but again it's pretty entertaining. Some of the segments are really good though such as the Pines of Rome & Firebird Suite ones.Overall, Fantasia 2000 is a great sequel and I do definitely recommend it despite my criticisms. If you like the original, I think you'll definitely like this one. "},{"Title":"Not a Classic But It's Worth Watching","Date":"3 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Fantasia 2000 (1999) *** (out of 4) When FANTASIA was first released in 1940 it was meant to be the first of a series of films but the lukewarm fan reaction prevented it from happening. Then, nearing the 60th anniversary of that film, Disney decided to re-do it with this fun natured film that once again focuses on famous music and adds animation to it.FANTASIA 2000 is certainly an entertaining film that contains some brilliant visuals but there's not too much here that comes close to the original movie. In fact, I'd say the only thing better here is the fact that it runs a very short 72-minutes. Outside of this I'd give just about everything to the original but it might be unfair to compare the two. Either way, this is certainly worth watching if you're a fan of classical music or Disney animation.The animation itself is certainly the highlight of the picture. Just take a look at the Pines of Rome sequence, which will have your jaw on the floor. The sequences of the whales jumping from the water is certainly one of the most amazing animated visuals you're ever going to see. Another highlight comes towards the end when Donald Duck gets to put his spin on the Noah's Arc tale. The way the animals are presented was certainly terrific. The rest of the shorts are all entertaining but there's no question that their fail to reach a classic or even very good status.The introductions by the various famous faces really didn't add anything nor did having The Sorcerer's Apprentice reappear here. Why not put Mickey in a new film? Either way, FANTASIA 2000 is certainly worth viewing at least once, although it can't come close to matching the studios best films. "},{"Title":"Good but nowhere near the original.","Date":"4 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Fantasia 2000 tries to pick up where the first movie came out. We are treated again to the marriage of animation and music combined.Fantasia 2000 picks up 40 years later since Fantasia was released.Fantasia 2000 has some great segments in it. Although there were some that were boring but most were enjoyable.My favorite part is the end with the sprite and elk. This was the best segment of the movie and the animation was wonderful.Fantasia 2000 will certainly be a hit with most of the lovers of the first Fantasia although I am sure that there are some who may disagree. Most viewers of Fantasia 2000 will expect a visual delight. "},{"Title":"Great sequel for 59 years after the original","Date":"13 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Okay, so Fantasia 2000 isn't as good as the original Fantasia. But still, it's a great sequel for 59 years after the original, you can't deny that.I think there were a lot of great sequences here. I loved Noah's Ark (Pomp and Circumstance - Marches 1, 2, 3 and 4), Firebird Suite, Carnival of the Animals, and of course The Sorcerer's Apprentice, originally from the 1940 Fantasia.I think this would of been a great experience in IMAX, anyone who got to see it is lucky.So, I was generally pleased with this movie. It wasn't boring, and the new sequences were different. I still like Fantasia better, but this is really good. I give it 7/10. Not bad. "},{"Title":"Beautifully animated but very short","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" As a big fan of classical music and to some extent of animation (mostly Japanese though), I long awaited the opportunity to watch this sequel to Fantasia. Finally, I found the time in my busy schedule this weekend to rent the movie and found it quite impressive. Without a doubt, the animation remains as wonderful, and as bizarre, as the original film with sequences that both astound and perplex (but in a good way). In particular, I enjoyed the recasting of the Pomp and Circumstance graduation march and unlikely but surprisingly effective union of Pines of Rome and a pod of whales at their most surreal. Only one issue truly disappointed me, that being the surprisingly short length of the film, a bit over half the length of the original. This, I believe, detracted from the overall sense of grandeur and gravity that the first seemed to possess despite the fact that it was mere animation. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is not as good as the first one. It has well animated cartoons.  Worth a rent. The kids will like it, but the younger ones will have to much of a short attention span. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but still worth the price of entry...","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Fantasia 2000 without a doubt has it's share of problems.  FOr starters, at only about one hour, it lacks the truly epic blast of the original.  For another, the return of the Sorcerer's Apprentice is horribly out of place. Footage from both movies should have either been mixed, or simply make ONE new movie.  Another problem are the introductory segments.  Some are themed (Quincy Jones introducing Rhapsody in Blue, Penna nd Teller presenting Sorcers Apprentice), but Steve Martin?  Come on!  All that aside, Fantasia 2000 is still VERY impressive if not brilliant.  I was highly critical of this film,a ctually, and saw it almost unwillingly.  The minute the first segment started up, my fears dissolved.  It might not be as radically mind-altering as the original, but the few segments that ARE here are fantastic and show a great deal of creativity.  Hopefully the next Fantasia will keep ths spirit, isntead of selling out and doing cheap crap like associating the segments with the newest marketing thing, or something like that. "}{"Title":"Fantasia 2ooo is a cinematic masterpiece....","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"    The most hated word in the English language is sequel, as most of the time a sequel to a movie is a money laundering plot that offers a pointless outing to an already finished tale.   Fantasia 2ooo is not a sequel.  Fantasia 2ooo is a continuation of the most historical musical masterpiece that paired brilliant animation with well known symphonic classics...and that was just the credits.  Continuing on from Fantasia, this 2ooo revival adds seven new pieces as well as The Sorcerer's Apprentice from the original. This time, with technology enabling the masters to finally somewhat portray what brilliance is going through their minds, Fantasia uses revolutionary new computer animation techniques, as well as the good old pen and ink method of the past.  From Beethoven's 5th to The Firebird Suite, there's a new myriad of classical pieces that burn into the minds of the intellectually sound. Critics of such films as Fantasia are simply, to put it bluntly, uneducated and unintelligent, because truly Fantasia 2ooo and its predecessor and nothing short of an art form in themselves.  Bringing exciting tales to somewhat 'boring' pieces of classical music is Fantasia's forté. And after watching such films, those 'boring' pieces are suddenly vivid and you begin to realise the complexity, brilliance and mastery that goes behind each musical number, thanks to the pictures put forth by the Disney crew. Fantasia 2ooo takes musical appreciation to a new level.  Elgar's Pomp and Circumstance makes the viewer almost weep as the booming march highlights Donald Duck's safe delivery of animals to the new world. The Carnival Of The Animals Finalé entertains the viewer visually as well as humorously. And the Pines Of Rome is truly breath-taking as whales take to the sky in an amazing beginning to this millennium presentation.  Truly, as a stand-alone film, Fantasia 2ooo falls into no category. It is a film, a symphony, an experience to be encountered by young and old alike and remembered as the most amazing film ever to grace human eyes.  Oh yeah...Did I mention I liked it? "},{"Title":"Wonderful, magnificent, moving","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  To all Disney lovers in the world go and see Fantasia 2000 and you'll not be disappointed. Sure it is something different from the original classic (and the insertion of The Sorcerer's Apprentice makes this obvious the styles are completely apart, although it's always Disney style) but it's breathtaking and moving. The only thing that I missed was that the  typical effect of the music panning through the screen to follow the characters  is somewhat missing in the recording of the pieces. Dolby Digital is a little minus convincing that the old surround of the original classic.   Donald and Daisy are great in Pump and circumstance but the segments that are truly irresistible are the Rhapsody in Blue, the Carnival of the Animals,  and the wonderful Firebird suite , a strong and chilling description of the struggle between Nature and Fire. I don't say a word more!!! Go, watch and enjoy the music.  "},{"Title":"Cartoons ARE evolved to display the art of our time...","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, well... that's american culture, isn't it? To mix up Beethoven with cartoons... this sounds like kitsch. But it's not that easy. We already mix up classical music with other movie stuff (like Platoon or The Hunger). It seems a quite appropriate way to let music inspire you, to interpret it visually. These efforts were successfully conducted at Fantasia and Fantasia 2000. A firework of images and imagination. Drama and Humor in a creative competition, although not entirely free of good old hollywoodism. Some pieces are really precious (yoyo-flamingos) and almost every peace breathes the Disney humor. I'm looking forward to the next Fantasia... but I hope it won't take again 60 Years. "},{"Title":"great if you haven't seen the first one","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Don't get me wrong Fantasia 2000 is one of the better animations to come from Disney for awhile, last truely great film that was made, was Lion King, however this movie comes under par to the original Fantasia. Fantasia 2000 promised us with new music and animation, but they severely slashed the concept of animation drawn to music, or was that the other way around? anyway it disturbs me that each cartoon segement was around 5 minutes max, one even lasted a couple of seconds. Not too mention that I walked in thinking that it was gonna be old segments mixed in with some new ones, well Fantasia 2000 is lacking everything that made Fantasia a masterpiece. Over empahsis on narrators, made it even more yucky, cause now all the funds go to the celebrities and not the art directors and musicians. If this movie would have had some more symphonies and possibly in whole insted of pieces, and included some of the parts from the original, this movie would have been so sublime(awing-inspiring) that even the Disney hater would stop to enjoy a true experience in movie making. Fantasia was art, Fantasia 2000 is just another movie. What saved this movie from a truely bad review was the sorceror's Apprentice, if anyone has seen the original they would agree with what I just had said.I give it a 6 out of 10, its a rental at best "},{"Title":"something is missing","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The good news is that this is not a bad movie, and could be a nice afternoon out. There are some nice pieces of animation, the music and sound-track quality is superb, there are many cameos of well known figures, but... The magic and spirit of the original Fantasia are gone. There's too much use of computer animation (like in the pines of Rome segment), which, when compared with the original painstaking hand-drawn animation in The Sorcerer's apprentice seems somewhat hollow and flat. There are too many people in this movie - Steve Martin, James Levine, Bette Middler, to name only a few. The result is lack of coherence, and a general air of This is your life, and not a whole movie.  The stories in the different segments are not always clear enough (for instance Pines of Rome again, and Rhapsody in blue). All in all, it should have been a much better movie. As it is now, I miss the original. "},{"Title":"Do not expect to see a custom Disneymovie","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has many features in common with a custom Disneymovie Its equipped with perfect animation and layout, great music and well-known Disneystars as Mickey or Donald. But the little toons do not speak or even sing as we' re used to Not a single word is heard, when the music starts.If you have seen the Original from 1940, you may think now the movie won' t surprise you in any way. But did you expect to take a comic (s)trip to New York in Al-Hirschfeld-style, listening to George Gershwins Rhapsody in Blue? Annoyingly the movie is very short and the stars commenting the following sequence unnecessariely shorten the musical parts of the movie. I also disliked the obvious computeranimation in the whale-sequence and the plastic look of the toys (traditionally made of wood or tin!!!) in the tin-soldier-sequence. Nevertheless I like the movie as a whole because of its great music and the fit of storys and music. Besides most storys are unexpected associations. For example at Saint-Saens Carnival des Animaux were you can see what happens, if flamingos and a jojo are put together. So if you like classical music and you liked the Disney-characters in younger years, you will enjoy this movie, even though this film isn' t common disneystyle.  "},{"Title":"One of the Finest Moments in Disney Animation...","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I had put my faith in Disney as I usually do; consistently, they have produced original animation up to par with the studios golden years, IMO.   What surprised me about Fantasia 2000, though, was that the segments were not just pieces of albeit brilliant animation thrown together, but they were masterfully linked together in a common theme of looking toward the future.Each segment had its own flavour, yet bore the hope of tomorrow.  The cycle of death and rebirth weaved throughout the picture, which is the end of the old millennium, the beginning of the new...The final segment to Stravinsky's The Firebird is so overwhelmingly beautiful, I cannot to this day keep my eyes dry watching it.  Its simplicity becomes its complexity.  There was no moment in the original which was even comparable to this segment.  It is, in my opinion, one of the finest moments in Disney animation.  "},{"Title":"I expected to hate it, but I loved it!","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I had heard all the reports about the controversy in this film.I loved the original, and wanted to see the old one again.  But with the explanatory comments and the high resolution animation on the IMAX screen, I loved it. The Sorcerer's Apprentice did give me a headache when blown up to IMAX size, and when it came to the normal big screen, I saw it again, and was not disappointed. "},{"Title":"Pretty good...","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is just more of a 90's version of our classic, and, a greatly overlooked element, displays the difference between the works from when Disney was alive, and when he was dead.The music is edited. I wouldn't notice that unless I was either a fan of classical music, or a person looking for a bone to pick.The animation is not as spectacular. Well, the original wasn't that great either. It's just that with the changes in technology,  we are slowly morphing into a new age, where only computer only animation is appreciated.The movie is far too short. Well, what exactly is the big fuss about that? Isn't that a better thing? The only thing I disliked was that the destroyed the story of The Tin Soldier, but hey, there's Disney for you. Plain and simple. In no need of a paragraph long explanation.It was nice to see Donald and Daisy getting their own piece, just as Mickey did in the original Fantasia. Donald, being my favorite of The Disney Three (Mickey, Donald, and Goofy), and Pomp and Circumstance being a much-loved piece of mine, I was captured by this piece. Now, maybe in the next Fantasia, Goofy will get one of his own.Great to see The Sorceror's Apprentice again with the mouse himself retrieving lost memories.Carnival of Animals is just too cute, although not very worthwhile.The rest, in my opinion, were also well done, but those were the ones which stood out. "},{"Title":"Fantastic, but not equal to the original","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The original Fantasia was so far before its time while the 2000 version is not that breathtaking - perhaps 60 years later I am more jaded  The animation is purely Disney.  I thought the opening with Beethoven's 5th is an improvement over the original. In my opinion, the ending with the Firebird did not equal to A Night On Bald Mountain and Ave Marie; nor was as impressive as Stravinsky's Sacre du Prentemps. I did enjoy it very much, and would recommend it my family and friends.  "}{"Title":"quite unique!","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  very interesting with great musical pieces!  only problem with the film was the floating whale scene..... long as hell and I have a screensaver here that does the same thing.... best sequence was definitely the one with Donald Duck doing a rendition of Noah's Ark....  also really liked the Flamingo's with a yo-yo  "},{"Title":"better than the original","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I didn't see this on the Imax, and this I regret because it's an awesome movie!  It surpasses the original.  The only thing I didn't like was the strobe feeling on Beethoven's 5th.  Other than that, it was great!  I can't wait for it to come on video. "},{"Title":"Stunning","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  When I went to see Fantasia 2000 I didn't know what to expect. I'd seen the first one and while it was good I almost fell asleep. But needless to say I didn't have to worry about that. Fantasia 2000 is perhaps the best Disney animated film ever, better than the first. The Pines of Rome and Firebird Suite are probably the two best sequences, though all 8 are pretty equal. The picture is awe-inspiring.But what I liked the most is how they gave Donald Duck his own segment, like Mickey Mouse in the Sorcerer's Apprentice. Donald was always my favorite, and this film will surely be your favorite. I can't wait for Fantasia 3. "},{"Title":"Exposes wide audience to Classical, and that ain't bad!","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Starts off with an acknowledging nod to the original Fantasia, with the ghostly voice of Deems Taylor introducing the first segment (Beethoven's Fifth), while ghostly panels of moving images from the first film glide down to surround the orchestra in a kind of astral symphony hall.  You know you are in for a good quality show!A very quickly moving presentation (none of the segments seem overly long) with a good selection of musical pieces (the longer ones edited to the major themes).  My favorites were the Rhapsody in Blue and Firebird segments.I was a little jarred by the appearance of famous (for today) celebrities like Steve Martin and Bette Midler introducing the different sections; I feel that this will date the film in 50 years (imagine intros to segments in the original by Danny Kaye and Dinah Shore, and you get my drift...). But, they are short and sweet, and actually entertaining. (I like the Penn and Teller sequence;  and Bette Midler's sequence reveals which proposed segments will probably never get finished.)I saw this at a Non Imax theatre, but I did not feel cheated by the presentation.  I think that the sound could have been a little louder at my theatre (God knows that the Gladiator theatre across the hall had it cranked to jet turbine level), but the image was crisp, easy on the eyes, and the COLORS!, this is an image and sound movie, and the animators did an outstanding job reminding us why Disney is so good at this type of thing. I am SO VERY GLAD that the studio woke up in the '80's after that terrible lapse that occurred after Walt died (never give your business to your idiot son-in-law if you die!), Disney has always been an animation studio, first and foremost, and this movie proves why.If you have kids, prep them! before taking them to see this.  Get the original on tape (if you can) and let them watch it at home.  If they get it in this type of environment, then they will really enjoy this film (a very happy moment for me was when my four-year-old son, after watching the Pines of Rome segment with the whales, whispered to me, I really like this movie!  He sat spellbound through the whole thing, and this is a kid that always has to go to the bathroom five minutes before any movie is over. A major achievement!)See this in a theatre!  Now! "},{"Title":"GREAT!","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The animated parts of this movie are every bit as unique and intriguing as the original.  I'm not sure if I liked the 'humor' injected by Steve Martin, but it is a minor moment.  Don't get me wrong, I like Steve Martin, but the original was serious in the segues and I liked that.  The animation is spectacular, the music divine.  It IS the continuation of the original! Well worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"What I think","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is wonderful and can be enjoyed by people of all ages. Those younger ones will watch the cartoons and get a taste of some truly inspiring music whereas the older people can just sit back and listen while remembering the original Fantasia.Just because this movie is rated G doesn't mean it is for little children only. Parents I urge you to take your children and stay to watch it with them.I enjoyed it and I hope you will too! ) "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, so I was really *really* nervous about seeing F2000. I LOVE F1940, and I was worried that they'd trounce it.But once I saw the opening, where sheets of music and cels from the original go floating past the assembling orchestra, I knew we were in good hands. I knew the creative team would honor the memory of the original and take it to new heights.And boy, did they ever!The IMAX presentation was worth every effort I made (had to travel 90 miles to NYC) and every penny I paid. To sit there amid the 60-some speakers and just be awash in the music was an experience I'll remember forever.The short of it is that the criticisms here are, in my book, unfounded. I didn't think the movie was too short. I didn't object to the musical cuts, which only purists would notice anyway. I didn't think the intersticies were bothersome at all. In fact, stick around for the closing credits and a final joke from Steve Martin.The only thing I will agree with is that The Sorcerer's Apprentice looks every bit of its 60 years. Perhaps the original aspect ratio for this segment would have been advisable...Other than that, a marvelous film. I can't wait to see it again in a non-IMAX theater. The Noah's Ark sequence, for one, had gags aplenty that I'm sure I missed the first time 'round.Take a bow, Mickey and company. You certainly deserve one! "},{"Title":"Like a pregnant woman with mood swings, went from facsinating, to boring, to funny to amazing","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The begining was quite facsinating, I don't know why though (I know I'm just really strange). The whale scene was quite boring. The soldier one was absalutly lovely! I loved it, it was so magical. The Donald Duck Noah Ark scene was funny, but even funnier was the New York scene, which I found hilarius and magical at the same time. The Flamingos were also funny, but too short (and talking about short, the movie was REALLY short, too short). The end was beautiful. It was boring to see the Mickey Mouse scene again.All in all, I loved the way they made the scenes fit so perfectly with the music. Watch, if you don't like it, don't worry, it'll be over before you remember how to pronounce the names of the musicians and composers in the film. "},{"Title":"A shadow of its former self","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Although I did not see this film in the recommended IMAX format, having enjoyed the original I was looking forward to seeing such a unique cinema experience actually in a cinema with various technological advantages working to enhance my enjoyment.Unfortunately this film did not provide such an experience. The sound appeared flat with no indication of a cinematic score. When considering what can be achieved through sound engineering such as reverb and echo (which would provide the illusion of viewing a live concert) I could be nothing more than disappointed. The placing of The Sorcerer's Apprentice alongside Elgar's Pomp and Circumstance dispelled any individuality either piece has and the inclusion of the former in a 43 aspect ratio as opposed to a 133.3 ratio (which the bulk of the film was presented in) made the film appear disjointed as did the irregularities between Mickey Mouse's voice in his addresses to Leopold Stowkowski and the current conductor also distracted from the bulk of the film.That said various segments were enjoyable, in particular Gershwin's Rhapsody and Blue. However some segments seemed as if the music did not fit the images and vice versa, and on these points this re-working ofthe original loses out somewhat. All in all the whole was not greater than the sum of its parts and perhaps the film could have benefited from closer postproduction scrutiny.I would personally recommend the original Fantasia over this re-working as many aspects of the cinema release distract from the overall film. Perhaps a DVD release can dispel any faults. "},{"Title":"Just goes to prove how amazing the original was","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  To me, Disney was one of the great artists of the twentieth century - and fantasia one of his greatest works. This latest venture is impressive, particularly the whale sequence, but it doesn't really add to the original and the clip with Mickey Mouse as the sorceror's apprentice stands up with the rest, proving that sixty years is not a long time in some respects.I'm in awe of the artistry, but it just seems to me that fantasia was probably best left as a forties masterpiece and Disney should stick to new technology and produce the kind of thing it did in Toy Story 2 if it wants to impress us. Mind you having said that, I'll still argue with any conceptual artist that this has more merit than their work. All in all, a great piece for Disney acolytes, but other movie goers may find it a little tedious! "}{"Title":"Wonderful sound but..","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  For $11, it could have had one or two more pieces to make it a little longer. The total running time is just over an hour. While The Sorcerer's Apprentice is always fun to watch, Disney should have opted for something new and less grainy.  It felt like they were just throwing it in to take up some more time. The wonderful orchestral arrangements, coupled with IMAX's super sound system is the main reason I saw this flick. The animation is diverse and stylish. Rhapsody in Blue was a refreshing departure from the instantly recognizable Disney style, yet retains same degree of quality. The celebrity segues, while entertaining, felt like even more filler. They are entirely unneccesary, and disrupt the flow, rather than segue. All in all, it's an above average and refreshing feature compared to the tripe Hollywood churns out every week. It just somehow pales to the original. It's worth a viewing, but one can stand to wait until it's playing nationwide at a local cinema.   "},{"Title":"Amazing Movie in the field of Animation","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to see this movie on the day it opened in January. I was not disappointed. I loved the original Fantasia and I think Fantasia and Fantasia 2000 are on an equal level in their enjoyment level. My favourites were the Pines of Rome piece (this is the type of segment I was expecting to see - it had imagination, vivid imagery and the music fit the piece perfectly) and the Firebird Suite (perfect for an ending piece and left me with thoughts of how life is a continuing circle of life and death. My only real critisism of the movie was the segments featuring the actors. I felt it took away from the flow of the rest of the movie.In relation to the animation as a whole, while I prefer the cell drawings to computer generated images, I felt the CGI were often used to great effect especially with the Whales in Pines of Rome. The animation in the Sorcerer's Apprentice while it did look grainy was unfortunetley due to the fact that the segment had to be stretched to fit the IMAX format. It was still great to see parts of that segment on the large screen - Mickey directing the storm is one of my highlights of the original Fantasia.I saw the movie twice within the first 3 days and plan to see it again on IMAX before it goes to the normal theatres - the movie works great in the IMAX format and was definitely worth the $12 I paid for it.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful animation, beautiful music!","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Fantasia 2000 is a visual masterpiece and the compositions of music flirt with the ears and the imagination.  It is refreshing to see more of Al Hirschfeld's work (I love his celebrity animations.)  It is an incredible compilation. "},{"Title":"Enjoyably cunning","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Viewed on an IMAX screen, as the film is supposed to be, it is a remarkable audio-visual experience; in particular, the way in which each musical event and/or orchestral variation is tied in with the animation is delightful. the animation itself is not always of the best quality which you might find in, say, Toy Story (or its sequel), but the mini-stories themselves are amusing. The interludes, narrated by famous Hollywood stars, are completely superfluous and tend to spoil the film. I wouldn't recommend seeing this film on a normal cinema screen, because it detracts from the novelty value, but if you can see it on IMAX, then do so (especially if you have at least a mild appreciation of classical music) "},{"Title":"Enjoyably cunning","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Viewed on an IMAX screen, as the film is supposed to be, it is a remarkable audio-visual experience; in particular, the way in which each musical event and/or orchestral variation is tied in with the animation is delightful. the animation itself is not always of the best quality which you might find in, say, Toy Story (or its sequel), but the mini-stories themselves are amusing. The interludes, narrated by famous Hollywood stars, are completely superfluous and tend to spoil the film. I wouldn't recommend seeing this film on a normal cinema screen, because it detracts from the novelty value, but if you can see it on IMAX, then do so (especially if you have at least a mild appreciation of classical music) "},{"Title":"Well worth the wait (and the price of admission)","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  It took almost 60 years for Fantasia to have a sequel.  This one exceeds the original.  The IMAX format was put to splendid use and the visual and audio kept adults and children alike completely enthralled.  It took several weeks to finally get tickets for this event, but it was well worth it. "},{"Title":"Enjoy interesting animation with excellent music.","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a great movie for me and my wife and kids 7 and 9.The kids enjoyed the clever animation and they managed to be exposed to some very good classical music -- virtually all 20th century. (So much for the common no good 20th century classical music whine!)The movie was long enough to feel entertaining but short enough for the kids' attention span.A couple of things keep the movie from being a 10 in my book1) Hey Disney, shell out a few bucks to restore the Sorcerer's Apprentice. 2) Why Imax? This would have been a fine movie on a standard movie screen (with a good sound system). 3) In the Noah's Ark scene, does Daisy really need an umbrella and rain coat?? She's a DUCK! (Surprisingly, this was the most touching segment.) 4) OK, I'll agree that there is no awesome section of animation as in the Lion King and Hunchback.Otherwise, go see it in Imax for the whales or catch it in other theatres for a fun family time.I look forward to F 2001, maybe with more Vivaldi, Mozart and Debussy. "},{"Title":"Longest wait for a sequel?","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, so it's only taken 65 years, but the idea of Fantasia being a living testament to classical music and animation to be constantly updated is a strong one. But to have it in IMAX too! Those Disney boys sure know their marketing skills. I found it to be a feast of colour and sound and a lot more consistent than the original. The flying whales segment was just beautiful, a great display of what digital animation can do. Rhapsody in Blue harked back to the inventiveness of Disney's short cartoons from the 40s and 50s. The Steadfast Tin Soldier was beautifully done too, whilst Donald Duck acquitted himself well in the Noah's Ark segment. Flamingoes? It's Fantasia. You've got to have flamingoes! And the final Firebird Suite was a glorious finale. The only thing I felt was wrong with it was the one original segment, Mickey Mouse's Sorceror's Apprentice which I feel has dated a lot. There were other better segments to choose for inclusion from the original (the awesome Night on a Bald Mountain springs to mind). Nevertheless you have to admit that this is quite unlike anything else. "},{"Title":"Fun Watching","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Anyone who sees Fantasia 2000 will have a good time.  The film is very accessible and beautiful.  I had never been to an IMAX show, and its amazing having your entire field of vision used in the experience.The pros-Beautiful music and beautiful images Lots of fun Seeing a cartoon based on Al Hirschfeld drawings The cons-Probably the compositions should have been ones not so overused, the ANNOYING, UNFUNNY monologues by actors in between sets.  It TOTALLY breaks up the flow of the music "},{"Title":"Nowhere near the original, but still impressive.","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Not sure quite what people are thinking when they call Fantasia 2000 better than the original.  Made in 1940, every single frame was carefully hand drawn with such skill that now sixty years later it still looks so good it could have been created yesterday.  I guarantee nobody will be talking about this new movie sixty years from now, let alone marvelling at its beauty.Not to say that it isn't impressive or that it's a bad film.  The musical selections are excellent and simply listening to the wonderful performances is worth the cost of the ticket alone.  They are also selections that would have fit well into the original and are very well suited for animation. There are breathtaking visuals that will leave you amazed and the same clever short stories set to music that worked so well in the original.The main problems I had were the technical aspects of combining computer and hand-drawn animation, which are the same as most every film they make the attempt on.  I was enjoying myself enough during The Pines of Rome that I didn't stop to consider how ridiculous the flying whales really were, so that didn't bother me, but there were moments that the computer animation was lacking.  Likewise, during the final piece, the elk (or whatever it was) seemed to be having troubles walking, since the motion of the animal was disconnected from the ground it was supposed to be walking on.  Those types of things I find incredibly distracting and rudely remind me that I'm watching animation.Another complaint I had was the lack of charm from the original.  When watching Fantasia, you got the sense that the animators were winking at you, inviting you to smile at the clever jokes they were making using only music, ink, and celluloid.  They also gave the sense that they *loved* to animate. They loved to create motion out of still pictures, they loved to tell a story without words using their own drawings, they loved the music they included and wanted to share the beauty of the pieces with their audience. And their love for the art showed in their creation and the care in which they created every frame.  That sense just wasn't there in Fantasia 2000. Instead, you got the sense that they were paying tribute to the great animators who had gone before them, and trying more to mimic their successes rather than setting a new standard for animation the way the original did. The Carnival of the Animals piece was the closest to capturing that sense of humor and love for animation that the original had, but that segment couldn't have been any longer than ninety seconds, could it?!  I was loving every second of that section when they cut it off.  Why so short?The other problem I had was with the editing of the music.  I guess they're assuming that their audience will not be familiar with the music they used, but that's simply not the case.  Chopping up the Firebird Suite like that was jarring for those of us who knew what it was supposed to sound like. Likewise, Pomp and Circumstance, Fifth Symphony, and Rhapsody in Blue all had noticeable breaks where they cut out parts of the music we all know should be in there.Finally, it was *way* too short!  The advertised one hour, twenty minutes includes *everything* from the intro on how great IMAX is to the previews for the upcoming IMAX movies to the instructions not to smoke in the theater to the credits.  We started right at 900 and we stayed for the credits and still walked out at 1022.  Cut out those silly intros to each song and there wasn't even an hour of animation.  It was good enough that it was disappointing to not have more to enjoy.In spite of a few of the negatives that diminished my viewing enjoyment, it was quite a film.  The IMAX was a neat format to watch it in and was well worth the extra couple bucks for the ticket.  The bubbles in the Pines of Rome segment was a nice nod to the original, and it was my favorite of the selections.  None of the segments were bad in any way, and most were quite enjoyable, but they seemed to be lacking a bit of the loving care that had been put into the first movie.  "}{"Title":"Don't waste your time or money","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I was very disappointed in this film. There was no reason for it to be on an IMAX screen. I thought the Disney animators would design something that would take advantage of the IMAX experience but I was wrong. This is just a Disney marketing ploy. "},{"Title":"You're going to love it.","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Everything was new except the classic Sorcerer's Apprentice piece, but the replacement pieces were even better than the originals!  My favorite was the wood fairy and the caribou (moose?).  I also liked the whales.When the first piece began, I had a hard time catching my breath.  It was that spectacular--that overwhelming.Whether you're going to see it for the animation, the music, or the sheer enjoyment, you're going to love it. "},{"Title":"A fine continuation in the tradition of the original","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Disney animation unit has finally, after 60 years, fulfilled Walt Disney's original goal to add new selections to the concert feature, Fantasia.In Fantasia 2000, they have retained The Sorcerer's Apprentice starring Mickey Mouse. The latter has stood the test of time and children and adults alike had broad grins on their faces when Mickey went through his paces in the Dukas classic. The film opens with a short abstract piece animated to Beethoven's 5th. It was somewhat reminiscent of the Bach Toccata and Fugue which opened the original. Whales are the key characters in the spectacular sequence drawn to the strains of Respighi's The Pines of Rome. Probably the most imaginative piece is the Gershwin Rhapsody in Blue sketched in the style of Al Hirshfeld and set on the streets of New York during the Depression. To keep the momentum going, animators have cast Donald Duck (mericfully mute) as Noah's assistant in keeping the ark's animals in order (Pomp and Circumstance). The most humorous selection animates a group of flamingos becoming tangled in the string of a yo-yo (Saint-Saens' Carnival of the Animals). Hans Christian Andersen's The Steadfast Tin Soldier is set to Shostakovich. The last selection is underscored by Stravinsky' The Firebird. It has some of the dark undercurrents of the original's Night on Bald Mountain. All of these swirling colors and images are magically magnified on the IMAX screen. The music is also spectacularly recorded. Only the old Mickey Mouse portion shows its age intermittently with grainy images. Disney's magic makers have again produced a film which may encourage youngsters to build an interest in classical music. It whetted my appetite over 40 years ago. "},{"Title":" A disappointment for any baby boomer who fell in love with the original and the IMAX is not needed","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"   Fantasia 2000 is not great animation, it is great marketing. Any good quality movie theatre with a full size screen and  quality sound system would be more than adequate. The Disney  people are pushing the IMAX treatment merely to create a buzz  and lure families into paying premium prices for an ordinary  effort.  To say that the animation in Fantasia 2000 does not  approach the quality of the original in inadequate. Fantasia  2000 dies not approach the quality of Lion King. Notably  lacking is the attention to life-like detail that has been the hallmark of Disney animation for 60 years. It was a style  that could be recognized as Disney.  Fantasia 2000 might has  well have been directed by Don Bluth. The best segment is the Hirschfeld-style animation for a depression era story in New York done to Gershwin's Rhapsody  In Blue. It was good. But even the best segment left me feeling that it could have been better. It was like a very  good cheeseburger when you were hoping for sirloin steak.  Somehow, Rhapsody, such a unique and tremendous piece of music, is worthy of a better effort.  The Donald Duck Pomp And Circumstance segment was clever and  my children, at least, enjoyed that part the most. This  segment seemed to come the closest to catching the spirit of  the original Fantasia, a mixture of humor, beauty, music and  charm. It was charm that was lacking most throughout the cinema. Whereas I saw Fantasia many times over the years and always  enjoyed it, the thought of some of these segments enduring  and being re-released sounds depressing and dreary. Lastly, the wonderful Sorcerer's Apprentice looked awful in the  IMAX treatment. This classic, which is worth re-seeing needs  a smaller screen and a tighter image with colorization brought  up to date by computers.  It was like looking at a computer  Jpeg and expanding it too much until the image got grainy. Fantasia 2000 is virtually a sell out. Disney sold out the  concept of state of the art animation for state of the art  marketing.  That's very contemporary. "},{"Title":"Mostly good, one great, one terrible","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I'd heard mostly mixed reviews before I went to see F2K, and my review follows suit.  I suspect that most native New Yorkers, like myself, will find the Rhapsody in Blue piece the most stirring, the funniest, and the truest to the spirit of the original Fantasia (despite the fact that its subjects are people, and not animals or abstract images).  Very clever use of Hirschfeld-style line drawings, and 4 storylines which cleverly interweave, making for a playful, improvisational style that matches Gershwin's own playful phrasing.  It's also quite unexpectedly the most romantic and moving piece.I will not elaborate on my least favorite segment, The Pines Of Rome, other than to say that those whales were as sterile and artless as the microchips with which they were created.A note on the celebrity guest stars  they made it all seem more like an awards show than an event created for its own sake.  This was slightly distracting.Overall, I'd recommend it, but wait for the non-IMAX release, or video. "},{"Title":"The opposite of a normal movie...","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  When I saw this movie up on the huge, gigantic IMAX screen, I was overwhelmed. The perfect harmony between sight and sound made it a great experiance. The Pixote Hunt/Beethoven's 5th segment was like the Toccata and Fugue sequence in the origanal. Very nice abstract animation. The Pine of Rome sequence with the whales was excellent. The whales look very real. The Rhapsody In Blue segment was very fast paced. The lives of four people intercut with each other. Then, the Steadfast Tin solder segment...wonderful mix between CGI and paint. The Sorceror's Apprentice was OK, but the 35mm to IMAX blow up wasn't that good. There's a lot of grain and the details seem flawed. The Pomp and Circumstance segment was very good, many sight gags...great animation. The Carnival of the Animals segment was short but hillarious! Flamingos with yo-yos! Last, there is the Firebird. I think it was the best segment. Beautiful animation! The host segments are OK. It's a lot different from the origanal. See it in IMAX for full effect. "},{"Title":"A truly wonderful film!","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I think that Disney should receive some accolades for such a daring experiment. The added cost of the IMAX production must being weighing on them heavily, especially now when the company's fortunes are lower than usual. A great assemblance of talent is showcased here, and the variety of animation is quite nice. The only part of the film which really suffers is The Sorcerer's Apprentice which, although Digitally Restored (whatever that might mean), looks horrible. The animation has become jerky and the picture looks pixelated to coin a word. I think it might have been better to go back to the original filmic elements and attempt a direct optical enlargement rather than this digital enhancement which has left one of Disney's shining stars looking like tarnished brass.This is a small complaint, however, for the other seven segments are highly enjoyable, particularly Rhapsody in Blue, referred to as a tribute to Al Hirshfeld, but owing much more to Chuck Jones and Friz Freling, Pomp & Circumstance, one of the few times Donald Duck gets to have a tender moment, and The Carnival of the Animals, a very brief, but wonderfully silly moment. I highly recommend everyone to get your tickets before it leaves the IMAX venues, for I doubt that you'll ever see anything like this again!By the way, the interstitial segments are not as bad as some have said, although Bette Midler referring to Salvador Dali as That droopy watch guy was a little much... "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This was my first visit to an IMAX theater and it knocked my socks completely off. The quality of the sound and the picture on the screen was unprecedented. I actually used part of my time looking for the grains you normally see on a normal movie theater. I couldn't find any.The movie itself was great. As I enjoy classical music, the music score was (of course) no problem. The animations the Disney artists had made to the classical masterpieces were also masterpieces by themselves. If I have to make one of them my favorite, I select The Firebird by Igor Stravinsky. Wonderful music and absolutely stunning animation/drawings.Tip Sit thru the end credits. There's a slightly voice at the end. "},{"Title":"Excellent, but it could have been even better","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Walt had originally intended Fantasia to be a sort of modular feature one that could be re-released periodically with some segments rotated out and replaced with new ones. Although some work was done in that direction, nothing ever came of Walt's original concept. Until now.Fantasia 2000 is well worth the ticket price, and makes truly spectacular use of IMAX. The only flaw I find in it is that music was cut, very severely in a couple of cases, rather than letting the picture run the full two hours of the original. The unkindest cut of all would have to be Beethoven's Fifth, represented by a Readers' Digest Condensed version of its first movement (i.e., the exposition, development, recapitulation and coda telescoped into a single run-through of the themes), with Saint-Saens' Carnival of the Animals (represented only by its finale) a close second.Still, even with its one flaw (and perhaps it's not yet practical to cram two uninterupted hours of IMAX film into the projection booth), it's not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Very poor image quality because of the video to film transfer.","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the worst animated film I have ever seen. Allegro non troppo is a better 'sequel' to Fantasia than Fantasia 2000.The flying whale sequence is lacking image clarity and imagination. The Gershwin sequence was the best segment with an original story. The last sequence had a plot similar to Princess Mononoke with the Deer/Antelope character and the 'Being' that brings life and death to a forest. Japanese animation is far better in image clarity and imagination.I drove 60 miles and spent $10.00 to see the worst IMAX film ever. "}{"Title":"A visually impressive feast for the eyes and ears","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The new Fantasia may not quite live up to the original but it is effortlessly fun to watch and just as visually impressive. It also benefits at present from the scale that IMAX provides.Donald Duck's segment will no doubt become a favourite, as Mickey Mouse's The Sorceror's Apprentice did in the original (which makes a remastered return here) but watch for a short but sweet flamingo segment. As with the original Fantasia 2000 has highs and lows, where the animation cannot emote the same feelings as the music, but each segment is enjoyable none the less. See it while at an IMAX theatre if you can, the experience is unparalleled. "},{"Title":"Disney scores another first; a BIG picture in more ways than one","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I suppose the sincerest form of recommendation I can give Fantasia 2000 is that, about half-way through it, I decided I would have to see it again, even though it means a 100-mile round trip.  The music was excellent, as was expected, but the animation was its equal.  The only time I felt otherwise was in the Pines of Rome sequence when it seemed like the animators were biding their time at one point until they could think of something new to show.  The between-sequence hosts could probably be scrapped, however, the occasional attempts at humor falling somewhat flat.  (slight spoiler) The one exception here was after 1940's The Sorcerer's Apprentice, which retained Mickey Mouse congratulating Leopold Stokowski as before, then crossing the stage from silhouette into full light and talking with James Levine of the Chicago Symphony, which performed the modern numbers.  A neat touch.  Although the 1940 segment did show some grain on the giant Imax screen, it wasn't objectionable.  And how did they get that segment's 1940 sound to equal the modern digital sound?  The signal processing must have been astronomical.  Oh well, time to stop typing and go buy the CD soundtrack....  "},{"Title":"A few segments far exceed the original","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Disney animators certainly had their work cut out for them in trying to create something to equal the original Fantasia, and they have mostly succeeded here. Despite a few merely pleasant segments (Shostakovich, Saint-Saens, and Elgar), most of the new material is impressive.By using a minimalistic animation style for Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue, it's immediately apparent what gift Disney animators have for storytelling and characterization. When we're no longer dazzled by the rich and spectacular animation elsewhere, humor and sheer humanity shine through.The two most astonishing segments are set to Respighi and Stravinsky. In the first, we are treated to the luminous spectacle of flying whales; in the second, we are vividly shown the destructive and regenerative properties of nature. This sequence, set to Stravinsky's Firebird Suite, is, put simply, the most breathtaking piece of animation ever made. You owe it to yourself to see it on the IMAX screen.On the whole, Fantasia/2000 doesn't cohere as well as the original, but a few segments far exceed the 1940 film. "},{"Title":"Well worth the IMAX price","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The combination of hand-drawn and computer-generated animation is simply superb.  In fact, the worst segment was the replay of The Sorcerer's Apprentice which suffered (by being blown up to IMAX size) in comparison to the new artwork created for the film. Parents, be warned the first segment, an abstract piece set to Beethoven's Fifth Symphony, has some imagery that scared at least one child at the showing I attended.  Likewise, the last segment (set to Stravinsky's Firebird) also has some frightening imagery.  If you are unsure about your small child's fright level, see the film yourself first.  (That way, you'll get to see it twice.) "},{"Title":"I just couldn't believe my eyes","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't understand all the negative comments on Fantasia 2000. Since all the segments are short stories and not just surreal artistic images (like most of the original Fantasia), this movie never gets boring. The music was absolutely great, these pieces never sounded so well! My favorites Rhapsody in blue and Firebird suite. The first one recreates 4 different lives in the 1930's NYC the jazz musician/construction worker, the unemployed man, the rich girl and the tormented husband. The part in Rockefeller Center was just amazing!!!  And the Firebird suite, with it's japanese anime influence, all those beautiful images about life and creation /death and destruction, give us a new hope for a new millenium. But all of the other segments were beautiful, from the flying whales to Donald Duck's Ark. One little comment on The tin soldier Disney will never accept the real ending of a Hans Christian Andersen story (the sad ending was changed just like in The little mermaid). It's a shame that Fantasia 2000 is just a limited release. I just hope people will accept it when it comes out on regular theaters. A movie like this doesn't come out very often. LET'S JUST WAIT FOR FANTASIA 20XX!!!! "},{"Title":"Quite good, if unemotionally so","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  It's difficult to look at the original Fantasia objectively, because I remember how much I loved the movie as a child.  Needless to say, the reason the first movie became such a cultural icon (I can't hear Wagner without thinking of Night on Bald Mountain) was that it combination animation with classical music with a tremendous amount of imagination, wit and craft.  How many of us think back to how good the special effects were in Fantasia?  No one, because it was the music and the beauty of the images that mattered.  I think that has somewhat been forgotten in the new installment. There is a lot to like about Fantasia/2000.  I found most of the insterstitial moments with the celebrity introductions either funny or at least somewhat interesting.  As well, some of the sequences (such as Pomp and Circumstance with Donald Duck and Rhapsody in Blue) are genuinely amusing, and even the less interesting moments are still engaging enough to amuse for an hour or so. The problem here is that the film is really distant, unemotional, and disconnected from the audience.  The frequent moments of celebrities talking right into the camera makes the film feel something like a documentary to begin with.  On top of that, so much attention has been put into the use of computer animation in some of the sequences that the real heart of the whole concept of Fantasia is sacrificed for some interesting visuals.  Especially noticeable in the Steadfast Tin Soldier sequence (which is almost entirely animated by computers), there is really very little work on character, detail and emotion in the scene.  We're simply meant to marvel at how amazing the images look. Oh well.  This is certainly still worth seeing, and don't wait until it's in normal theaters.  The IMAX format looks unbelievable.Lonnie "},{"Title":"Simply Wonderful.","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't think I can say much more than anything else that has been said.  I loved this movie greatly.  The animation was wonderful, the music was also spectacular, and the overall IMAX presentation was well worth the money. The only bad thing I can say, is that it was too short, and it left me wanting more.  That just means I'll have to see it again! Don't wait for the regular theatre, spend a little extra cash and see it on an IMAX screen, you'll understand once you do. "},{"Title":"A Delightful Display that Stays True to the First","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  My first worry when I heard they were making Fantasia 2000 was how they would followup the classic animation used in the first Fantasia. Animation has blossomed into so many new techniques, especially the vividness of the colors.  Fantasia 2000 blends these new techniques by staying true to the first, then expanding in all the right areas.  The guest hosts for the segments add just the right touch of frivolity which was missing from the first Fantasia.  I applaud the animators for their incredible vision and daring. "},{"Title":"So much better than I expected!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  What a wonderful surprise! Beautiful, extremely inventive, very funny and very moving in places. Excellent live sequences with Steve Martin, Angela Lansbury, Penn & Teller, etc eliminate the big problem with the original Fantasia, the excruciatingly dry and boring host. If you can see this in IMAX, do it. Too much for kids under 5 or so. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Not Bad, But Not As Great As I Expected","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw Fantasia 2000 in Irvine on January 1.  And I really, really hate to say this, but I left the theater mildly disappointed.Was it the animation quality?  No way!  The animation was superb. Was it the IMAX presentation?  No, except for the poor transfer of The Sorcerer's Apprentice to the format.  I realize that Disney went to great lengths to restore the original print of this segment, and even processed it to remove a great deal of the graininess, but it still didn't cut it.  Perhaps it was simply asking far too much to transfer a sixty-year-old piece of film to IMAX.  Otherwise, seeing such images on such a gigantic screen was wonderful.Was it the IMAX sound?  Certainly not!  I would say that if you are unable to hear a live symphony perform these pieces live in an actual concert hall, then this would be the best alternative.Was it the interstitial segments where celebrities introduced each piece?  No.  I found nothing wrong with a little break between each musical segment.  And most of them were quite entertaining, in my opinion.So was it the music pieces themselves?  Well, the performances of the pieces were quite good (although Kathleen Battle's shrill soprano near the end of the Pomp and Circumstance segment was needless excess, and sounded awful), and the selection of music was wonderful.  But having listened to many of these pieces prior to this film, it really annoys me that they were severely cut in length and presentation.  Okay, I understand that you can't animate the entirety of The Firebird.  But when you have a piece such as Beethoven's 5th, 1st Movement, it simply seems ridiculous to me that a 5-minute music piece needed to be cut to 4 minutes.  How much more would it cost to present an animated segment that last the entire duration of this piece?So how about the segments themselves?  Well, going in orderBeethoven's 5th Terrible.  I would assume that the filmmakers wanted to begin this version of Fantasia in a manner similar to the original--an abstract interpretation of a piece of Absolute Music.  However, the images presented in the original made sense when matched to Bach's Toccata and Fugue, while the Beethoven segment made no sense whatsoever.Pines of Rome Absolutely incredible.  I would pay money to watch and listen to this segment alone.  The idea of whales flying might seem farfetched, but the way the story matched the music was phenomenal.Rhapsody in Blue  This segment underwhelmed me when I saw it, but now that I've thought about it, it's not bad.  It's incredible the way a story was created to match the highs and lows of the musical piece.  The animation style takes some getting used to, though.Steadfast Tin Soldier  I've heard this segment called Toy Story's ugly stepsister.  They're right.  I guess it's a decent story, but I wanted something spectacular and grand, and for me, it was just there, offering nothing special.Carnival of the Animals  I would compare this to the Dance of the Hours segment in the original, and it's Wonderful stuff!  Absolutely tremendous!  So why was it SO DAMN SHORT!  That's my only objection to this segment--it's TOO DAMN SHORT!The Sorcerer's Apprentice  In the original movie, this was a highlight among highlights.  But its inclusion here on an IMAX screen just destroyed it, no matter how much labor and love went into its restoration.Pomp and Circumstance  Great stuff.  Donald Duck gets to show off his unique personality and talent for physical comedy in the epic story of Noah's Ark.  SO WHY WAS IT SO DAMN SHORT!Firebird  Excellent work here, but the close of this phenomenal segment was just a bit flat.  This musical piece is widely regarded as a prime closing number for a concert, so it would seem that its place at the end of Fantasia 2000 would be a foregone conclusion.  But for some reason, the end of the piece just didn't have the emotional impact I was expecting, especially after the chills I experienced at the end of the Pines of Rome segment. So, I guess I was disappointed because two of the segments were absolute Turkeys, one should have been left alone in the original version, and two of the remaining 5 segments left me hungry for more, since they were too darn short.  Fantasia (1940) was two hours long, while Fantasia 2000 was a mere 75 minutes.  Why?  What would it have hurt to develop a few of the segments' stories a bit more, and increase the film's length just a bit?  I believe doing so would have enriched the experience.  But in examining the five new Good segments on their own, I would have to say that they were excellent.So, in short, I was disappointed because of the film's brevity, disappointed with at least 1/3 of the movie, and disappointed that I had to pay nearly double the admission for a normal movie.  However, because I loved such a large part of the movie so much, I can't give it a bad review.  Maybe my attitude will change when I can scrounge up the extraordinary amount of money it costs to see it again.  "}{"Title":"You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll never look at a flamingo the same way again.","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Disney animation has combined once more the splendor of great music and artistic vision to produce a grand hour of entertainment, with something for everyone.  It elicits tears and belly laughs, sometimes both at once.  I'd rate all the segments at least worth seeing, and most of them excellent. A quick vote among our party, from the oldest of us to the 11-year-old, chose the last piece, The Firebird Suite, as the one that touched us the most--but the one we talked about the most afterward was probably the Donald Duck segment, set to Elgar's Pomp and Circumstance.  It's rich in lightning-fast visual jokes--keep your eyes open and try not to spill your popcorn when they hit--but it also has a sweet little love story woven in that'll leave you smiling even after the laughs fade.  In fact most of the sequences, even the most surreal or abstract, will engage your emotions. Although I was glad to see The Sorcerer's Apprentice return, it didn't translate to the Imax format all that well.  It might fit in better later when the film is put into regular theaters.  I thought the weakest new segment was The Steadfast Tin Soldier, about which one of my party complained that it had been Disneyfied from the original Hans Christian Anderson tale.  That didn't bother me--I just didn't find it as engaging as most of the rest of the film.  Those are minor quibbles, though, and they won't keep me from seeing this one many more times.Don't let its short running time put you off.  It's worth spending the money to see it on a big screen, and it definitely has a soundtrack you want to hear on a quality sound system.  Small parental warning--it's rated G, but I'd actually call it a very mild PG.  A couple of sequences are scary enough that you might not want to take very young or sensitive children to see it without checking yourself to be sure its suitable for your child's maturity level.  You won't mind seeing it a second time anyway.  (If the kid makes it through Bambi or Snow White, though, it's probably safe to take him or her to this one.  Just don't expect it to work for the TeleTubbies demographic--they'll either be scared or bored, more likely than not.)If you liked the original Fantasia you'll find this a worthy successor.  If you didn't like the original, give this one a look anyway.  I don't think you'll find it a waste of time.  "},{"Title":"And now, may we present the POLITICALLY CORRECT Fantasia!","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  An odd offering, this new Fantasia--it's bright and colorful and I'm sure it will entertain, but it's a much, much safer film that the original Fantasia. There's a sort of overall feeling of Well, let's pick this sequence, that will appeal to this crowd, then this sequence, that will appeal to that... and it isn't as daring an experiment as the first by a long shot. However, that doesn't mean it's not entertaining, and there are three standout pieces which make it worth watching alone because they contain the artistically bold chance-taking that the rest of this compilation seems to be missing. The Rhapsody in Blue sequence is a real jewel and is a genuinely bold undertaking (the combination of this piece with this style of illustration is sheer genius), The Carnival of The Animals sequence is a lot of fun and gorgeously painted (but WAY too short!!!) and the grand finale Firebird Suite sequence easily stands out as the best of the bunch. Gorgeous, moving and genuinely touching, this one actually moved me to tears. On the flip side of the coin, I am severely disappointed that the Pomp and Circumstance piece wasn't a serious version of the story it presents, as the trailers had led me to believe. Also, the music of Piano Concerto No. 2 simply does not fit with the story it's paired up with at all. Nevertheless, FANTASIA 2000 is still enjoyable as is. The superb parts genuinely stand out artistically, while the other parts are a mere exercise, but hey, it's still worth the IMAX price.  "},{"Title":"Great-Fantastic-Wonderful-Will see again & again!","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The original of Fantasia has been a favorite of mine and my family for years and years.  We have used it to introduce youngsters to classical music time and again.  Fantasia 2000 continues the same magic of blending music with animation to create mind dreams.  There is beauty -(The Pines of Rome & The rite of Spring), pathos -(Rhapsody in Blue), sweet memories (The Sorcerer's Apprentice) humor - (Pomp & Circumstance)& Laugh out loud humor (Carnival of the Animals) I don't want to ruin that one for you but think of a flock of flamingos with a Yo-yo! This is a movie that you will not be happy seeing just once.  You will walk out wondering what the next show time is and can I get tickets "},{"Title":"A most rewarding experience","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  My family all went to a sneak preview of Fantasia 2000 and all came away very impressed - and this from two high school seniors and one college sophomore.  Each sequence was more dazzling than the one before.  We debated over the best sequence - with no real resolve except it was well worth the time - and on IMAX - sound and picture not to be equaled. "},{"Title":"Ooooh-Aaah Spectacle!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Quick!  Find me a thesaurus!  I need to know how many ways there are to say Wonderful.  I was lucky enough to be invited to an advance screening of Fantasia 2000 and can't say enough good things about it.  Yes, it's a must-see for any fan of animation and yes, you really should see it at an IMAX if at all possible.  The sights and sounds are spectacular.Following the pattern set by the original Fantasia, the film opens with an abstract piece exploring color and movement, this time accompanied by Beethoven's Fifth.  Did you like the ostrich ballerinas in the first film?  Wait till you see the hilarious yo-yo playing flamingo!  There's a breath-taking sequence set to Respighi's Fountains of Rome about a pod of whales with a baby who rivals Newborn Dumbo in cuteness.  (Actually, I have mixed feelings about this sequence  I was totally caught up in it both because of the beauty of the artwork and the emotional impact of the baby separated from its parents. Then it became, well..., strange.  I don't want to spoil it for you.  Suffice it to say, the symbolism was lost on me.)The low point for me was the Noah's Ark sequence, set to Elgar's processional (You know, that thing you marched to to get your diploma).  Cute concept, but didn't have any place to go.  The high point, as far as I'm concerned, was Rhapsody in Blue, a tribute to Gershwin, New York, and the art of Hirschfield.What can I say?  Wonderful!  Totally wonderful! "},{"Title":"Slightly flawed, but still magnificent","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The mistakes made in Fantasia 2000 - and there are a few - are only mistakes in context; taken individually, they are still strong pieces of a positively brilliant artistic vision. Disney is to be applauded for its innovation and daring in updating the 1940 classic, and for feeding our dreams once again. I could see this film easily a hundred more times, each and every time marveling at its unpretentious, dreamlike majesty.I would have liked a bit more depth to the musical selection (why use Beethoven's tired Fifth?) and The Sorceror's Apprentice was never meant to be stretched to fit an IMAX screen, but these are minor caveats in the face of a great cinematic accomplishment, one that will hold up for another sixty years. Hopefully, Disney won't wait that long to continue The Concert Feature. "},{"Title":"Some fantastic animation","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I was very pleasantly suprised by the high quality of this movie. Some of the pieces, particularly Pines of Rome and Firebird Suite were visually powerful. I especially liked the interpretation of the music into story, the best of which was Rhapsody in Blue, even though this particular piece was pulled from the Disney archive at the last minute to be used in the movie. The movie has a broad appeal, from adults to children. The later would enjoy Pomp and Circumstance, a piece starring Donald Duck as well as The Sorcerer's Apprentice featured in the original Fantasia.  I was a little disappointed with the interstitials, the area of the film that introduces the audience to each successive piece. Each interstitials was delivered by a different celebrity, some funny, some not. I feel this could have been more successful with one person throughout the film. The design of the orchestra area transitioned well into each of the pieces and the music choices should appeal to a wide range of people. Overall, I was quite impressed and would like to see it again once it is officially released.  "},{"Title":"The long-awaited sequel to the classic Disney film","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I have first heard that there will a sequel to Fantasia from posters ads and trailers. When the movie came out on DVD I had rented it and after I'd watched it, I find it AWESOME! Personally I find BOTH the original Fantasia and this film very, very good. I'm also glad that Donald Duck gets his own segment in Fantasia 2000 just like Mickey Mouse in the original Fantasia film; Doanld's my favorite along with Mickey. My favorite segments from the film are the Pines of Rome segment, that was a beautiful piece of art and music about flying whales in the Northern Ocean. The Steadfast Soldier set to Dimitri Shostakovich's Piano Concerto No.2, Allegro, Opus 102...I love Hans Christian Andersen's fairy tales. And last Igor Stravinsky's Firebird Suite...the 1919 version of course. "},{"Title":"The first movie of the new millennium","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Disney was the company that has brought cinema to the new year, the new decade, the new century, and the new millennium!!!!! It was an update to the Fantasia film and it was called Fantasia 2000.This movie has its old segments, but not all of them!!!!! Many of the animated sequences that you see here are brand new. They are even bigger and better than ever!!!!! These weren't your ordinary sequences; they are so big, that Disney needed to put this movie in the IMAX theaters worldwide!!!!! And the same goes with the music, too. Just hearing the new score here sounds like being inside a concert hall!!!!!So, this update gets 10 stars!!!!! "},{"Title":"Technically superb but flawed","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Disney had always intended to follow up the artistic success of the original Fantasia, but the commercial realities meant that it did not happen in his lifetime.  Finally Disney artists returned to the dream with this film.The Disney hallmark of superb quality animation is combined with the other hallmark of a syrupy feeling at times and (mostly) fine music.  However the sequences did not, on the whole, produce the same memorability as the technically less accomplished 1940 predecessor.  Even with this factor I would have rated it as not far behind if it had not been for the decision to have stars comment on each piece, breaking the feel of the work and looking wooden and unconvincing, as well as telling us things we didn't need to know. "}{"Title":"Just stunning!","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Fantasia 2000 remains one of the most beautiful films I have ever seen. When I first watched it (on DVD) I was stunned by its beauty, and the excellent music.Disney did a great job with creating Fantasia 2000. The music is great. The segments are amazing to watch.I hope to finally be able to see it in an IMAX theater, as it was intended to be seen. "},{"Title":"A DVD REVIEW AND A NEW PERSPECTIVE","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I hadn't watched the original for awhile before this, but after seeing Fantasia 2000 I knew I still liked the original better, and opon watching the making of Fantasia 2000 featurette on the DVD, I was outraged to learn that they deliberatly tampered with the music to accomedate the stories,and also that along with The Sorcerer's Apprentice they also originally planned to keep the Nutcracker Suite and Dance of the hours segmants from the original in the movie, but for some wierd reason, they were dropped.I will talk about the peices that have counterparts in the 1940 original and how they compare. The rest of the peices are what makes this film enjoyable.1. Beetoven's 5th symphony the 1940 original gave us ALL of Bach's Toccata and Fugue in D minor wonderfully set to orchestra and with truly abstract images of violin bows and and strings moving in syndication with the music. Fantasia 2000 gives us three minutes of beetoven's 5th symphony, with a bunch of triangles battling each other.2. Pines of Rome it could be loosely tied to Beetoven's Pastoral symphony from the orgional, but the Pastoral symphoney gave us a Roman mythology setting in a beautifully animated colorful country with centaurs, cupids, pegaseses, you name it. it obviously required a lot of research. But in Fantasia 2000, all we have is a bunch of flying whales!3. Saint Sean's Carnival of the Animals obviously inspired by the Dance of the Hours segmant from the orgional, but TOO DAMN SHORT!!!!!!!4. Elgar's Pomp and Circumstance as quoted in the making of Fantasia 2000 segmant fortunately, there's more to it than what we've all heard before this segmant was actually pretty damn good. It was hilarious with a good Disney ending, and it was a suprise to hear differant parts of The Graduation Song, and having Mickey Mouse send it off after congratulationg Leopold Stowkowski was a nice touch. seeing Mickey congratulate Leopold again was a real treat.Finally, no. 5 Stravinsky's Firebird suite the closing peice of Fantasia 2000 can be compared with the closing Night on Bald Mountain and Ave Maria of the original. The artists wanted to have a finale that gave the same emotional impact to the original finale. Well guess what? IT DIDN'T! Watching the monster driven back into hybernation and the congregation taking a peaceful forest walk at dawn always leaves me with a warm glow when I finish watching the original, but this dissapointing Firebird finale leaves me with a fealing of what the hell was THAT?!!  "},{"Title":"Great classical music with child-friendly fun","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This musical cartoon hybrid product is the heir of much that was the best of the Disney concept entertainment via the magic of color and animation's illusions.  The film is well worth a rental for those who've missed it on a regular movie screen; I hear that the IMAX was the best format.  It does include in this go-around some of the Greatest Themes from classical music's composers.  The Beethoven selection is greatly to be preferred over the earlier Disney FANTASIA (1940).  Even the highly familiar Pomp and Circumstance by Elgar has a reincarnation as marching music for the Ark's embarkation before the Flood of the Old Testament story.  Kids should love the appearances of characters Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck as well as the hyperactive Penn and Teller.  You will be remembering many of the visual jokes and lively episodes for years.  This outshines so much of the Music Video homogeneity that is just lip-synched nonsense.  Great updating of a Disney concept for the conclusion of the 20th Century.  "},{"Title":"State-of-the-art animation!","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Surprisingly, this movie seems to have gone largely unnoticed. Critics of the wrap-around segments are being blind to the astounding animation pieces they introduce. For anyone who thinks they appreciate high-quality animation, or knows what it takes to achieve the work that has been done here, this is a must-see! Hats off to Roy Disney for masterminding this film. It would make Uncle Walt proud. If you are a musician, like myself, you can appreciate the excellent quality of the recordings, even in these abbreviated versions. If not, this is a great introduction to classical music. If you have a good surround-sound system for your DVD player, crank it up and let loose Stravinsky's Firebird. WOW! Like the original Fantasia, Fantasia 2000 brings together the finest traditional animators with the latest technology to create a masterpiece. Like the original, it will probably be years before the masses wake up and notice that this film is extraordinary. See the IMAX version on the big screen if you have the opportunity. "},{"Title":"First two sequences brilliant, third great, others good","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  While I certainly enjoyed the Rhapsody and the Yo-Yo episodes, the first two are simply brilliant.  The first two episodes are incredible audiovisual (sound and color!) representations of ideas about past and future (respectively).  After the finale of the whales sequence I just sat in the theater with my mouth gaping open.  Just try to watch it as a depiction of spiritual quest, and you'll see. "},{"Title":"Walt would be elated","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  `Fantasia' was Walt Disney's passion and obsession.  Likewise, `Fantasia 2000' became the same for Roy Disney who became preoccupied with completing his uncle's vision.  Walt had originally envisioned `Fantasia' as a continually running feature that would metamorphose over time, adding new segments to replace the originals one by one.  F2000 is essentially a fast forwarding of that process, producing an animated feature that is almost completely new.  Only `Sorcerer's Apprentice' remains from the original.F2000 is an excellent work that suffers from unfair comparisons to the original.  The problem with any sequel that follows a groundbreaking film is that the novelty has worn off.  A launch of the Space Shuttle just doesn't have the same drama and excitement as the launch of the first manned Mercury capsule, even though the Mercury program was crude by comparison.F2000 represents a giant leap forward in animation technology, blending hand drawn animation with digital animation.  I was actually surprised at how much hand drawn animation was still used in this film, and I was impressed that Disney didn't opt for the easy way out by creating a completely computer generated feature.  The marriage of old and new was very evident, not only in the technology, but in the themes.  They matched highly digitalized new age flying whales with Ottorino Respighi's `Pines Of Rome' in the same feature as a retro 1930's New Yorkeresque rendering of George Gershwin's `Rhapsody in Blue'.  Ironically, both pieces were composed in the same year, 1924.If there is one area that is clearly better in F2000, it is the sound.  As advanced as Fantasound was in the original, it still can't compare with the crispness and channel separation of modern audio technology.  The DVD really brings this difference to the fore, creating a true concert hall experience.The finale in F2000 was magnificent, even better than the finale of the original.  The theme of death and rebirth was uplifting and inspirational, and the meld of animation and music was powerful.  All the segments were wonderful in different ways and marked a level of creativity and entertainment that matched the original, far ahead of anything else available.  I took issue with a few areas.  I could have done without the introductions by the comedians, especially Steve Martin.  They trivialized an otherwise superb work.  In addition, at 75 minutes, this was a good deal shorter than feature length.  However, these are minor criticisms of a great film.`Fantasia 2000' is another example of Disney's utter dominance of animated films.  Despite my slight preference for the original (probably just sentimental from my childhood), F2000 is a brilliant film in its own right.  I rated a 10/10.  Walt would have been proud of his nephew's work, and elated at the realization of his dream that `Fantasia' live on as an evolving animated feature. "},{"Title":"sparks of beauty","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  usually, when a movie has so many ups and downs to it's quality, it is very hard to recommend. but luckily, Fantasia make my life easier. the gems are easy to find, and the bad part can't ruin them at all.the movie is worth watching (and even buying) mostly for 2 parts.Rapsody in Blue, is an animation that will draw tears from your eyes if you are illustrators, musicians or just people with soul. so much love and humor in those 10 minutes, you can feel how closely they listened before it was drawn. how humble it is. the play with the colours is wonderful, the relations between the music and the movement makes you feel like the story was always there waiting to be drawn.and the styling. .. it makes you wonder - if Disney can style the city and people in such a charming way when they have too (it's a tribute to a New Yorker illustrator's style), why don't they do it in all of their usuall, lacking of inspiration long movies??-The second reason to watch is very short. the movie titled what will happen if a pack of flamingoes find a Yo-Yo or something like that. usual Disney drawings, but hey, they are good with caricature animals. the fast and extremly funny motion, make this a tiny delightful joke.-The Tin Soldier is an Ok animation. the bad character especially is full of expression. (but they changed the end of the tale, which is a sin they tend to do too often). -The Whales story is charming, but quite boring and not very inspired in both it's design and story -Noah's arch is worse. they wanted a tribute to Donald Duck, but didn't bother much. cute in their usual not surprising way, but nothing more.and last - the introductions to the animations, by some famous actors and musicians (and magicians) are a waste of film. why they were chosen instead of others is not clear. what they have to say is completly insignificant, and wake you up from the movie each time. their text is written for them in the style they write for the Academy award. and it's even less funny. "},{"Title":"More artsy entertainment","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  FANTASIA is supposed to be a work in progress. Thus new sequences are added, and some original sequences (in this case, only one, the Sorcerer's Apprentice) are also re-shown.I liked the state-of-the-art sound of the music. The state-of-the-art computer generated images (CGI) were not as impressive. After the initial thrill of CGI wears off, the effect is dulled. Some of the sequences are interestingly appropriate to the music (e.g., Gershwin's RHAPSODY IN BLUE) while some are admittedly surreal (e.g., Beethoven's FIFTH SYMPHONY); some are over-done to the degree that I wondered what the artists were on when they came up with the imagery (e.g.,PINES OF ROME with flying whales, of all things), and some are simply Disney (e.g. POMP AND CIRCUMSTANCE with Donald and Daisy Duck on Noah's Arc -- go figure).Generally the film moves along well but works more impressively on the huge IMAX screen than on a regular movie screen or on TV. At least I can say that this film is better than the average music video. "},{"Title":"A disgusting exhibit of retro-animation.","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The night before I rented Fantasia, I watched a PBS special about Chuck Jones, the very busy animator for Warner Brothers.  In this special, it was noted that his earliest work was considered too Disney-ish and he had to change the looks of his characters.  Funny thing  the George Gershwin section of Fantasia 2000 looks *exactly* like a Chuck Jones animation from the 1960s!!  What gives?   Who let Steve Martin in?  I was terrified that he was going to be the one and only narrator.  Fortunately, the world was spared such a disaster! A couple other sections were also retro, but not the Apprentice. That one is in a class by itself because it has more color, more dramatic shading than most American animators use today.  It was made in a time where the artists could be artists and paint still by still.  Time and cost restraints were not yet the great hobblers of talent.  What a shame.  What have we lost?  Maybe there's hope The Steadfast Tin Soldier was the closest thing to that old masterpiece on the entire film.  More, sirs, more of that kind of work!!!  Leave that retro stuff alone!! "},{"Title":"Lazy, Lazy, Lazy","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to this movie fully expecting to love it, and it certainly is not without its charms.  Unfortunately, I can't give this movie a thumbs up.They make a big deal about how they are attemting to carry on in the tradition of the original Fantasia, and then they proceed to ignore the first film's accomplishments.There is not a single piece of music in this film that went in as it was written (with the exception of The Sorcerer's Apprentice that was taken from the original Fantasia).  We only get one movement of Beethoven's 5th Symphony and that is presented with its entire middle section cut.  Resphighi's Pines of Rome omits a movement and cuts up what is remaining.  Elgar's Pomp and Circumstance wanders around from section to section depending on which musical effect is needed for the on-screen story.  You get the idea.This is the main problem here.  The writers for this film seem to have been too lazy to try to write their stories to complement the music, and instead decided to chop up the music in order to fit it in with their story line.  Laziness is the only explanation I can think of for doing this.  While this flaw was not absent in the original film (Stravinsky's Rite of Spring was reordered extensively, Moussorgsky's Night on Bald Mountain was altered some to fold into Schubert's Ave Maria, and Tchaikovsky's Nutcracker was reordered.), it was done VERY carefully and with, what I thought, respect for the composers' vision.  In this Fantasia, though, the music seems quite secondary to the film's conception.  Stravinsky's Firebird has a fantasy oriented story to it that would have been right up Disney's alley, but they went with some different concept that involved omitting all but 3 movements, and they were chopped and cut heavily.This is not to say that the movie has no appeal.  The animation sequences are stunningly well done, and the interludes between numbers are well done and often pleasantly amusing.  This movie ultimately fails, however, because it considers the music to be window dressing for the cartoons when it should have done the opposite.  Too Bad. "}{"Title":"60 years later","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" At the start of the new millennium the Fantasia sequel was released.I remember seeing this in the Berlin Cinemaxx.This sequel includes the rerun of the Sorcerers Apprentice.Also some new stories.Like flying whales that gives the movie an epic start.Including a look back at old New York.So, here are something for everybody.But, it was one of the many Disney sequels that laid forgotten.Despite the rushed running time the movie, and it's not for everybody Fantasia 2000 has some outstanding animation, humor and heart.8/10 "},{"Title":"Fails to capture to dignity of the original","Date":"9 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Having spent a long time in the making, Fantasia 2000 is the next installment in the sequence of movies started by the original Fantasia all the way back in 1940. Walt Disney had originally intended for Fantasia to be a recurring thing, with people going in every few years to see new segments set next to old favourites. Unfortunately the original failed at the box offices, not being at all what the audiences had expected, and it took the studio almost six decades to make a new one.So how does it hold up? In some areas really well, in some areas not at all. There are a couple of really good segments, like Rhapsody in Blue by George Gershwin, a thrilling jazz piece with an animation style inspired by Al Hirschfeld. Easily my favourite in the whole film and actually pretty close to being my all-time favourite as well. Fast, energized and oozing personality. The opening segment, Symphony No. 5 by Ludwig van Beethoven, is also an excellent update on the original opening segment, and is actually even a bit better, containing more colours and a stylized storyline.Pomp and Circumstance &#x96; Marches 1, 2, 3 and 4 by Edward Elgar and The Carnival of the Animals, Finale by Camille Saint-Saëns are not as great, but both have some really good moments in them and are animated very well, with The Carnival of Animals being especially good with its fluidity and humour.And then there's of course The Sorcerer's Apprentice by Paul Dukas, the only segment from the original Fantasia, and it is of course a timeless classic. One of the greatest shorts ever made. Don't let anyone tell you differently.But then there are Pines of Rome by Ottorino Respighi, Piano Concerto No. 2, Allegro, Opus 102 by Dmitri Shostakovich and Firebird Suite&#x97;1919 Version by Igor Stravinsky. The first two fail because the use of CGI, which has aged awfully. Shostakovich's piece, telling the tale of The Steadfast Tin Soldier, is especially bad in this regard, looking all rubbery and like it was ripped straight from a Playstation cutscene. Firebird Suite, on the other hand, is objectively looking rather nice segment, telling about a spirit of spring awakening after winter but running into problems when she encounters a dormant volcano. But, you kind of have to compare it to the original closing segment in Fantasia. That of Night on Bald Mountain by Modest Mussorgsky and Ave Maria by Franz Schubert. And I'm sorry, but it's not even close.The film also suffers from truly horrendous interlude announcers. Do Steve Martin and Pen & Teller sound like the kind of people you want to see cracking jokes just before you're about to be pulled into an art experience containing some of the best pieces of classical music ever composed? Of course not! Their levity pulls you straight out of the mood and you have to build it all back up again. Some announcers, like James Earl Jones, do a fine job of providing the needed gravitas, but most of them don't. It was a risky move from Disney, taking in all these people when the original film only had one, and it didn't pay off.All in all I'm glad Fantasia 2000 exists. It has some really good segments and has some of that magic that made the original one of Disney's all-time finest. It's not as good, but I'm glad they tried. Perhaps they don't need to wait another sixty years for the next one. "},{"Title":"A stunning visual display","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  It's very interesting to read the reviews for this film and its comparison to its 1940s predecessor.  First of all, all the complaints I ever heard about the first Fantasia were that it was too long and dragged at times.  I was sure the public would be thrilled with the new, shorter length of Fantasia 2000.  I myself loved the first one as a kid and was not disappointed with Fantasia 2000 in the least.I thought its shortness in length was passable, as it did the job of presenting new shorts and new, GREAT music.  The celebrity introductions to each segment were cheesy at times, but hardly took away from the stunning animation, unbelievable character appeal (considering we knew many of them for mere minutes) and brilliant timing.All in all, Fantasia 2000 is inCREDible, easily watchable and re-watchable.  Even if only for The Pines of Rome (whales), The Firebird Suite (volcano) and Rhapsody in Blue (New York), this is a fantastic film.  I've heard this described as arguably Disney's greatest film, and while I don't think it's #1, it's definitely spectacular. "},{"Title":"not worth the effort","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Walt Disney was constantly inventing and reinventing his animation, always wanting to try something new and go one step further than anyone else even considered.  One of the great products of that drive was the original Fantasia, which I have adored since I was a little kid(see my very flattering review of it)  So when this one was released, I thought great, another Fantasia.  No, not great.  First of all, WHY were celebrities introducing the segments?  I realized the narrator of the first one is probably dead or at least incapable of narrating another film in the same manner, but there have to be plenty of unknown, intelligent men (or women) willing to give an informative, subdued introduction to each segment.  Apparently the current Disney studio heads didn't consider the search to be worthy of their time.  Secondly, did anyone else get sick of the Humpback whales after, say, two minutes?  Thirdly, the Carnival of the Animals has probably close to a dozen movements, each with a different tone and style that could have been blended together to make a long, beautiful segment like the old Fantasia's Nutcracker or Dance of the Hours.  Again, apparently not worth the effort, according to the Disney studio heads.  This all comes down to one thing this Fantasia wasn't made because of an overflow of creative energy or because the creators were concerned with making a quality picture.  This version was made to capitalize on the old masterpiece.  The only piece in this version that even comes close to the original is Rhapsody in Blue, which was very well done, captured the spirit of the time in which the music was composed, and was the unequaled high point of the film.  I want to like Fantasia 2000, and some of the segments are really nicely done, but after seeing the first one, I can't honestly say this one deserves a whole lot of praise. "},{"Title":"love it...","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I know nowadays the japanese animation really have a big hype. I am one of the people who has the highest appreciation for that astounding form of art.However, disney is just part of a really sweet and nostalgic memories. I won't say which is better, I'll just say that they're different and each belong to their own time. Japanese art of animation itself I believe was inspired my disney's moving picture.Having said that, I really enjoy the combination of classical music and work of animation. It really tells the storytelling power of classical music. This is also the basic of the concept soundtrack, for where it's powerful/haunting enough, it could put a soul to a movie.I didn't watch the original fantasia, but I sure enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"love it...","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I know nowadays the japanese animation really have a big hype. I am one of the people who has the highest appreciation for that astounding form of art.However, disney is just part of a really sweet and nostalgic memories. I won't say which is better, I'll just say that they're different and each belong to their own time. Japanese art of animation itself I believe was inspired my disney's moving picture.Having said that, I really enjoy the combination of classical music and work of animation. It really tells the storytelling power of classical music. This is also the basic of the concept soundtrack, for where it's powerful/haunting enough, it could put a soul to a movie.I didn't watch the original fantasia, but I sure enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"A complete waste of time.","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  CAUTION MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS ..Fantasia 2000 (F2k) has to be the closest I will ever get to a complete waste of time.I fell in love with the original Fantasia -- who wouldn't?  There are very few films I can describe as riveting, and F1 is one of the four.Sadly, Walt Disney thinks I am not as intelligent as I used to be one thing I really hate about many concerts is the conductor (or some equally asinine idiot) spending precious time telling me in excruciating detail all about the forthcoming performance.  TV movie shows have this disgusting habit also.Walt -- lissen up good if -- IF -- I want to know more about the music/orchestra/etc, I will go to the Special Features.I knew F2k would have a very tough time following F1, and in truth the studio tried hard.  However, Steve Martin sticking his face into my private box telling me stuff I DON'T want to hear reduced F2k from compelling to drivel.  After the interruptions all the excellent graphics didn't count for poo.  I gave up after the whales -- and I will never look at F2k again.F2k gets 3/10 -- F1 rated 10/10. "},{"Title":"ABSOLUTELY GORGEOUS!!!!!!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"      Fantasia 2000 was everything I hoped it would be.  Every segment dazzled me beyond belief!  The musical pieces selected were wonderful and I was exposed to pieces that I'd never heard of.  Of all the music I was introduced to  I particularly loved Pines of Rome, and my old favorites Rhapsody in Blue and the Firebird Suite were wonderful to hear in a Fantasia movie.  What pleased me the most about all the segments was their great variety in the style of animation.  One was completely computer generated (and the result was surprisingly lovely), one was completely hand drawn in flat 2-D, one was painted entirely in watercolor (!), and another combined computer images with hand painted ones to create a beautiful result.My one complaint (a minor one, but still present) was the fact that they included The Sorceror's Apprentice.  If you've seen this segment as many times as I have (they used to air it constantly on the Disney Channel between shows), you would have welcomed something new that you haven't seen before. Sadly, when this segment rolled around, I was bored.  Fortunately, the rest of the movie so enchanted me, that the complaint could almost go unsaid, and I gave Fantasia 2000 a 10/10 ANYWAY!  The movie could have been longer too, actually, as the original was nearly 2 hours.  Another complaint (which isn't the fault of the movie) is that I never got to see this in the IMAX... how's that for disappointing?All in all, a wonderful experience, and a must see for anyone who loves the old Fantasia, classical music, and/or animation at its finest! Oh, and wait until you see the Firebird Suite finale.... it will blow you away!!!!! "},{"Title":"A beautiful peice of magic","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  A nice peice of candy you can suck on for hours. While others might not agree, this was a brilliant peice of film. Again the Disney studios worked their magic and made it come to life. Thanks Disney for putting the magic back on screen. Your beauty and magic goes on. "},{"Title":"Not up to the original","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I was fascinated by the number of commentaries on this film  and startled by the overwhelming positive response. I'll admit I missed the Imax version (it went by too fast in this town) and never saw it in a regular theater, so when it showed up on my Dish TV pay per view I immediately plonked down my $3.99. I'm sorry guys. I just didn't think it came even close to the original, and here are some reasons why more or less in order of importance.(a) It's BLUE. Maybe it wasn't in the Imax version but what I saw was blue blue blue and it was so bad that I am amazed no one else commented on it, unless this is a Dish TV screw up of their own. Beethoven's Fifth was blue. Rhapsody in Blue was blue. The Pines of Rome was blue. In the world I come from (network news) blue means that someone screwed up. Should I get my tv set readjusted or what? You tell me.(b) The choice of music was extremely uninspired. Carnival of the Animals has some interesting parts. The finale isn't one of them. Beethoven's Fifth? Like where would I ever hear that? Come on guys! Just compare that to the Pastoral Symphony in the original. They had trouble finding appropriate music to go with The Little Tin Soldier? The trouble persists.(c) The star commentators did nothing for me. Nothing. I suspect that Quincy Jones doesn't even like Rhapsody in Blue. It did look like Hirschfield but I think I would have preferred it in black and white.  The commentaries just meant more talk and less music. Why bother?(d) And this is really what it's all about. I was seven years old when I saw the original Fantasia. Ever since then I've known what a Brontosaurus is and what a Pterodactyl is and what Tyrranosaurus Rex is. And I've known who Zeus is and who Apollo is and who Bacchus is, and I'll never see a centaur or a water nymph without thinking of Fantasia. There's just nothing in this new version to compare to that, for kids or adults, but hey! Thanks Disney guys for trying. And I hope it isn't another 60 years before you try again! "}{"Title":"Nowhere near the quality of the first one, but still good, meaning the original was GREAT!","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  When I saw the promo, and heard the clip of Pomp and Circumstance I thought that it was going to be disappointing, but I still liked it. Most of the pieces in this film are unfamiliar to most people, such as the firebird suite, or the pines of rome, where as the original fantasia had the nutcracker suite, beethoven's pastoral symphony and dance of the hours. However, the music was surprisingly good, and the plots. well, I am suprised that Disney managed to take Pomp and circumstance and use it for a Bible story. Of coarse, Donald duck made that my favourite segment. but still, I like the original fantasia the best. "},{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I was very much looking forward to enjoying this film as much or more than I enjoyed the original--to my disappointment. This is a hollow rehash of the original, uninspired, and for the most part, unimaginative. I wanted to walk out of the expensive IMAX theater within about 20 minutes. And, geeze, if they wanted to put something from the old film into the new film, they could have chosen a better segment than the Mickey one, or at least fixed the resolution so it wasn't pixelated. Oh, well. Par for the New Disney's course. "},{"Title":"Nowhere near as good as the original.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I was let down watching this movie. I had high hopes for it and it just didn't deliver. The first two opening sequences were the only good parts of the movie - and they were magnificent! The rest of the film was dull and lifeless.This movie came nowhere near the greatness of the first Fantasia.I will rate it a 5. Based on the IMD rating scale this movie does not achieve the minimum 7 that makes a movie worthwhile to see. "},{"Title":"Waste of money on a very boring movie.","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Spent $12 to watch it before it closed on April 30, 2000. I enjoyed the whale scene. I enjoyed the Noah's Ark scene. I enjoyed the ending. Why the heck did Disney put in two bit has been movie actors/actresses to make a 30 second commentary? Most of the other scenes are old redone scenes .. just refitted IMAX style... Just like the original Fantasia movie, very boring.. except for the scenes that I told you were good enough to consider watching... It's too bad Disney decided to trick unknown money spenders like me to watch this short term project... here's some clues... Disney's 1999 Tarzan is better and more enjoyable than this crap. I give it some points for the IMAX use but what a waste of energy. Other people in these reviews are on some anti-depressant or something because this movie deserves more punishment than worship. "},{"Title":"The IMAX version looks terrible","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a warning to film geeks who aren't waiting for the wide-release 35mm print of Fantasia 2000.  The film was made for 1.85 widescreen 35mm, digitally at 2K resolution.  The IMAX frame, however, has about the aspect ratio of a television set square.  When they made the IMAX print, they cropped the sides off the 2K movie, making the six-storey IMAX image poorly composed and only double the resolution of television!  The 70mm print was sharp and clear of course, so I for one could see pixels quite often. 35mm will soften it and give you the WHOLE frame.  The fact that I spent 12 bucks to see a pan-and-scanned film in the theatre is ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Half-finished visual party","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a visual fest of very varied quality. Some of the flicks are great, some wouldn't hold normal Disney standards in the 40's. It's a pity Disney didn't put the usual time and money into this movie; the animation should have been better. And interludes belong in rap albums. - 7/10 "},{"Title":"Ok, so I'm a heretic...","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't feel like getting into a long discussion of the music; my heresy is succinct  I enjoyed Fantasia/2000 far more than the original.The Pomp and Circumstance segment was cute, the Steadfast Tin Soldier was short but engaging (with a very scary Jack in the Box), and the Whale segment prompted a friend to say, Ok... when the whales started flying, I was thinking, 'Where's the bong when you need it?'For me, the standout sequence was Rhapsody in Blue, based on the drawings of Al Hirschfeld.  It was brilliantly done, funny and moving.GO SEE THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Old style Disney, with all that entails","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Fantasia 2000 really seems like old footage dug up and restored.  Only the grainy look of The Sorceror's Apprentice lets us know that it alone is from the original movie.The cartoons seem to have been lifted from an earlier era, inspiring nostalgia.  This does not make the pieces bad only seemingly out of place with the well written modern intros.  The film should be viewed in IMAX despite expense or travel required.  A small screen will not do it justice.Overall enjoyable enough that I hope only 5-10 years pass before a new installment appears. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Disney for a new millenia","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" FANTASIA 2000 (2000) ***1/2 (Hosts Steve Martin, Quincy Jones, Bette Midler, Penn & Teller, James Earl Jones, Angela Lansbury) Walt Disney's legacy continues with this belated 'sequel' of sorts to the 1940 classic incorporating animation with classical music (the gimmick that Unca Walt originally conceived of having the film be a franchise of sorts to be updated yearly with new pieces were dropped along the wayside) has been transformed into a state-of-the-art experience by adopting the IMAX format which allows the stunning visuals a towering (literally) look with a grand display of music performed by The Chicago Symphony Orchestra led by conductor James Levine with six new segments ('The Sorcerer's Apprentice' being the sole leftover resurfacing). My favorite one is Gershwin's 'Rhapsody in Blue' set to an animated salute to the artist Al Hirschfeld's signature linear caricatures.Fantastic! "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  sorta boring and arty; didn't find it accessible","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" OK, I admit it. I'm an action movie buff. I don't get into dramas or arty films, because normally I find them full of melancholy and too slow-paced. But I did like the original Fantasia (despite the slow pace) and I do have a brain, so I thought I'd give Fantasia 2000 a shot.Eh. Not impressed. I like the music but the graphics just didn't engage me. Like the original Fantasia, there were good bits and bad bits. I know, I know, the original Fantasia was panned at first and only became a classic later. But I'm sticking to my opinion.Who should see this film-- classical music types, or seriously arty film buffs types-- anyone who liked the original Fantasia a lot more than meThe Sorcerer's Apprentice was great, of course, but that doesn't count because they stole it from the first movie. I'll give Fantasia 2000 a 5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"I liked this more than the original...seriously.","Date":"23 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" When my friends hear that I didn't like Fantasia, they assume I am a stupid Neanderthal. This might be true, but I never have been a fan of this Disney film. Why? Because although the music and animation are great, so much of the film is tremendously boring and stuffy. I still remember back when I was a child, as the only part of the film I liked was The Sorcerer's Apprentice portion...the rest didn't do much for me. Because of this, I wasn't surprised that I enjoyed Fantasia 2000 much more--because it seemed to have a lighter and less stuffy air about it. And, at times, it was quite fun...plus, they included the original Sorcerer's Apprentice section!As for the film, unlike the original, it was pieced together over a five year period. In other words, when the artists were between feature-length films, Disney had them work on these various segments--and then finally assembled them into the feature.So why do I give the film a 7? Well, most of the positives I mentioned above. But, on the negative side, the film suffers a bit when it comes to the animation. I am pretty sure that the staff at Disney used this film to learn to use CGI--but several times the quality of the CGI looked old and unrealistic--particularly the first segment set to Beethoven's Fifth Symphony. Additionally, while the film had some funny moments, it could have used a few more--mostly because I STILL think most kids would not enjoy the film. "},{"Title":"My thanks to Eric Goldberg for preventing it from being a complete waste of everyone's time","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I've written before.  Since then I've seen the movie again and my opinion hasn't changed.  It's a miserable flop.  But the first time I wrote I failed to mention Eric Goldberg (among his previous credits lead animator of the genie in Aladdin), the only director on the team who managed, or at least tried, to keep the spirit of the magnificent original Fantasia alive.  His work contain all that is good in Fantasia/2000 (except for the Sorcerer's Apprentice segment, of course, which still puts the rest of the movie to shame).  He's responsible for Rhapsody in Blue and the small snippet of Carnival of the Animals.  The latter piece is, undeniably, too short, like the movie as a whole - but unlike the movie as a whole, that's all that's wrong with it.The original Fantasia was groundbreaking.  Not that being groundbreaking is a virtue in itself, but it was, in this case, an indication of the sheer creative force behind the production.  The Beethoven is influenced by both deco and classical art, and it looks like nothing before or since - as stylised as UPA cartoons would be ten years later, but rounder.  The Tchaikovsky brings Edwardian fairy art to life.  The Stravinsky contains convincing dinosaur animation.  The Mussorgsky looks like Kay Nielsen (whom Disney hired to provide conceptual art).  The Ponchielli creates a new world; the Bach flirts with non-representational shapes and lines.  The fact that all these pieces appear to belong together is something of a miracle.Of the new segments in the sequel, only Godlberg's (Rhapsody in Blue obviously so, Carnival of the Animals less obviously so) exhibit anything like this sense of freedom.  More importantly, only Goldberg's images MATCH the music half so well as the images in the original did (unfortunately, it IS only half so well - Goldberg can't synchronise the narrative climaxes with the musical climaxes with quite the same invisible finesse of his predecessors, although he probably wasn't given much chance - but half so well is more than enough).  Everything not directed by Goldberg is a shotgun marriage.  Mostly the animation uses the music as a handy soundtrack on which to hang a cartoon which is neither apt nor particularly inapt, as in the forced Shostakovich/Andersen collaboration, or Stravinsky's Firebird.  But in one instance the director (Hendel Butoy) manages to come up with images that are as precisely wrong as it is possible to get.  He takes Respighi's Pines of Rome, a sunlit work if ever there was one, and sets it in the arctic winter; he takes the bustle of the opening movement and shows us the stately motion of a handful of whales; he takes sharp, tangy, colourfully orchestrated music and illustrates it in various shades of blue; he takes the closing movement, which is a MARCH, and shows us his whales soaring through the air, to no particular rhythm, like so many blimps.  (He also takes the third movement and throws it away altogether, which is a crime in itself.)  It takes a special kind of genius to be so clueless.  But he didn't work alone.  Why was nobody prepared to say, The whales are a stupid idea - get rid of them? "},{"Title":"Mostly clueless","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The uncultured hacks that put this thing together had no feel or respect for the music they appropriated.  The one exception, and best segment, was actually quite good, if unoriginal -- Rhapsody in Blue illustrated in a Harry Hirschfield style.But most of the pieces are lame, clueless, or even bizarrely inappropriate, such as the one that interprets Respighi's Pines of Rome (which was composed to depict very specific aspects of the city and its history) as a bunch of flying whales cavorting in the Antarctic. Forget this sorry spectacle and go see or rent the original.  "},{"Title":"Eh..","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Let's see, my sister rented this movie out, and I sort of remembered it from the move theater so I decided to watch it again.Compared to the original I found it to be very short, especially the beginning, which was disappointing, after that I found most of the film to be like this, short and uncreative, I only really liked the Donald Duck part and Rhapsody in blue, I think they tried to hard on the animation, it was wonderful but the stories sort of lacked, the whale one was possibly the worst, and the ending, not as good as the original at all.. I think they could have put more effort into it, I think they should have done Ride of the Valkyries that they rejected, that looked interesting, actually all the pieces they decided to take out looked more interesting then most of the pieces in the movie itself.. I'd say its worth it to rent it out, but don't set your hopes to high if you liked the original, because it doesn't live up to it  "},{"Title":"A great visual and audible experience","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The original Fantasia was clearly a break thru in combining music and animation.which took so many years to appeal to the general public. While Fantasia 2000 not nearly a break thru it is still a very good continuation of the first  This edition had a very similar look and feel to the first with just modern visuals used. Yes, one could criticize the fact that the music was heavily edited, but since MTV showed up on the scene in 1980, attention spans have been lowered. Pacing isn't everything, but in this era, its what drives the movie. The animation was extremely high end. In some cases Disney was writing the book on new look CGI, just look at the sequence Pines of Rome or Firebird Suite Fantasia 2000 is broken into eight animated segments (videos) of varying length with no dialogue (the segments animate pre-existing music) divided by live action sequences featuring Steve Martin, Itzhak Perlman, Bette Midler, Penn and Teller, and James Earl Jones (not in that order).  First video we get is abstract triangles flying about done to Beethoven's 5th Symphony; which I  thought was interesting and worked well with the music.Followed by flying Whales done to  Respighi's Pines of Rome.  I must say that CGI was very good but the music wasn't the  best because I  think it dragged in middle, it almost came to a complete stop.  Then A day in the life of some NYC residents set to Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue which was quite different in it's look and feel.  Again the music worked very well with the images done to the drawing style  of Al Hirschfeld.  Up next was the story of The Steadfast Tin Man done to Shostakovich's 2nd Piano Concerto.  This one also had some very god CGI in it combined with handdrawn backgrounds.   It was a classic Disney story that worked with the music.  Then we got Flamingos with yo-yo's done to Saint-Saens' Carnival of Animals.  This was the most humourous and fun segment in the whole  film.  Now  we get Mickey Mouse's  classic segment from Fantasia 1940  The socerer's Apprentice. While this is a good segment which the music works well with  the segment. it looks old and grainny and that is the reason I didn't buy  the first Fantasia.  Now we get Donald Duck as Noah's (yes, that one) helper and also featureing Daisy, as Duck Donald's companionn done to Elgar's Pomp and Circumstance.  This is classic style animation done to a storyline similar that of Sleepless in Seatle with some comic mishaps Donald style thrown in.  In the final segment we get a personification of nature set to Stravinsky's Firebird Suite 1919 version.   This here we get oustanding CGI  done extremely well to the music to express the universal theme of life death and renewal..One of the criticism I have of the film is the bridging sequences, featuring Steve Martin, Penn & Teller, Bette Midler and others. I would have preferred that they stuck to one presenter, preferably James Earl Jones or Angela Landsbury. They seemed to take the material and the project far more seriously than Martin and Penn & Teller who's humor detracted from the dignity of the movie as a whole. Another problem is that Fantasia 2000 tries too much to emulate Fantasia 1940 in style substance; going so far as inserting the entire Sorcerer's Apprentice segment, as well as using some of it's voice overs and some very similar visual scenes. By using  it, Fantasia 2000 inherits the dated feeling. The orchestra of the 2000 film is plopped down with a space backdrop to show that Fantasia has gone futuristic, but where the orchestra of the first was a bit of a pretentious idea, but made sense in the context of the film, the orchestra in Fantasia 2000 seems antiquated and a bit pointless. One more problem I had with Fantasia 2000 stem from what it _didn't_ do. For instance, Better Midler jokingly talks about animation ideas that were dropped, one of them being a baseball sequence set to Salvador Dali-style animation. That sounds like a heck of a good idea to me, but we're just teased with it.The bottom line don't miss Fantasia 2000 if you have any interest in animation (or if you're a Disney fan, of course), but don't expect an emotional experience or to be constantly entertained like you get with a good movie like Shrek. Rather, it's more like a series of paintings in a gallery. Some captivate your interest and make you want to stare at them again and again while other paintings you might not like, and they might not work for you. In other words, taken as a whole package it's  a worthwhile experience, but not necessarily a cativating or great film. I give it 8/10 As a footnote - the DVD contains the Oscar-winning short TOOT, WHISTLE, PLUNK AND BOOM, from 1953. It's well worth checking out. Historically, it was Disney's first foray into the minimalist style which was pioneered by UPA studios.  Also included are some audio commentaries by some of the artists and people behind this project.  "},{"Title":"It must have seemed like a good idea at the time...","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Of course, Disney were up against it from the start.  The original FANTASIA, while not a great film as such, nor a commercial success, was conceived as an artistic and technical project and not necessarily a popular one.The original film contained animation that dazzled in the 1940s and still looks terrific now.  It contained many brilliant sequences, but also several which plumbed the depths of bad taste.  Centaurettes, anyone?The new film certainly follows in the tradition of its forerunner in that respect.  It's a real curate's egg, except that rather fewer parts of it are good.So, starting at the top.  I could name SORCEROR'S APPRENTICE, but that would be cheating.  Walt Disney's concept for FANTASIA was that it would be regularly updated, with new segments added and old favourites kept as the years went by.  So the retention of SA honours Disney's wishes and I've no argument with it.  If only it didn't show up so badly the Donald Duck segment that follows it!The outstanding new segment is RHAPSODY IN BLUE, which is a delight - witty, beautifully drawn, perfectly matched to the music.  It breaks no new ground, but it does exactly what it should do, and does it supremely well.The all-too-brief CARNIVAL OF THE ANIMALS sequence is also great fun, although it suffers in comparison with THE DANCE OF THE HOURS in the first film, which it is clearly intended to echo.As for the rest - flying whales, CGI toys, if-it's-Stravinsky-it-must-be-volcanoes, some extraordinarily clumsy links - ugh!As a footnote - the DVD contains the Oscar-winning short TOOT, WHISTLE, PLUNK AND BOOM, from 1953.  It's well worth checking out.  Historically, it was Disney's first foray into the minimalist style which was pioneered by UPA studios. "},{"Title":"Why was I so dissappointed?","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Alright, so I am about 40 years older than when I saw the original and wonderful Fantasia but I still like cartoons, I love the kind of classical music featured in Fantasia 2000 and I am constantly impressed by the products of peoples' imagination. My impression of this rendition was its lack of colour. Is it my imagination or has it come about that as technology has allowed more complex images the colours in cartoons have become more muted. They all seem to be washed out greens and blues with hardly a primary colour in sight and consequently there is a sameness about all of them. Would you know if you were watching Alladin or the Lion King? I came away from Fantasia 2000 thinking oh yes it was ok, I suppose, but I feel cheated somehow. The best bits by a wide margin were Rhapsody in Blue and Carnival of the Animals topped off by Mickey Mouse as The Sourcerers Apprentice. Don't miss this film but don't expect too much either, that way you may not be as let down as I was. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"7 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Uncle Walt would have hated this updated version of his Classic. I found it to be a total bore.It was nice to see Bette Midler, but Angela Lansbury ... not so much. I fear Ms. Lansbury lost a few fans when she decided to do an episode of Law & Order SVU. One thing that was very good about the old studio system was that they would have never allowed her to play a part so negative to her career. Even in The Harvey Girls she came out smelling as a rose! Back to Fantasia 2000 ... a waste of money. It is true that when the original first came out it was bomb ... people hated it. However, it gained popularity in the 1960's ... considered to be one righteous trip, with or without mushrooms! I knew a guy that saw it on acid, he was never the same after that. No, I am not into that stuff ... bit it does show why Fantasia became a hit in the 1960s.Seeing Mickey as The Sorcerer's Apprentise was pretty cool, mainly because he didn't say anything ... always hated Mickey's voice! Creeps me out! All in all, stick with the original ... and leave this one to the spider webs and dust. "},{"Title":"major let down","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  There is little new in this film that we've not seen in other Disney creations, in terms of plot, character, animation and sound.  In fact, the sound paled in comparison to the demo that preceded the movie.Only one of the stories, the 1930's NYC cartoon set to Rhapsody in Blue, was worth my time - and it was worth the price of the ticket.  The rest is sleepable. "},{"Title":"It's a little sad...","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  It started as an awesome idea. Let's make ANOTHER Fantasia! I'm sure it'll work. I mean, there's tons of classical music! thought the people who made Fantasia 2000. Then they realized the first one had things they considered too serious for kids. (Hey. I LOVED Fantasia as a 5 year old.)So they decided to add humorous things in and make in shorter. They probably decided to also add a few things for the adults in the crowd as well. This could have worked out. However, many of the things that were serious were ultra boring. Many of the segments that were supposed to be humorous were dumb. Compare the first Fantasia's version of the Nutcracker to the Daffy Duck Pomp and Circumstance. Their Nutcracker was beautiful, and had some really cute stuff. Think of those dancing mushrooms and radishes. Then there's the F2K Pomp and Circumstance. Daffy Duck as Noah? What? The Graduation song? What? Plus, the story of the flood was never funny to me. (Think about it...everyone on the earth gets killed.) On the plus side, it has Rhapsody in Blue. The animation wasn't astounding, but I really loved the story they put to the music. I also enjoyed the end segment.  "}{"Title":"Almost a Rip-Off","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  1.  This movie is NOT 75 or even 70 minutes long.  It is about one hour long including the trailers that precede the film, which are not related to it, and the end titles.2.  The quality of the animation is inferior to most recent works of animation (including ALL recent Disney films) in terms of the complexity of the stories and characters, the movement and the action.  The drawings are elementary and roughshod and, in the case of the Hirschfeld-inspired Rhapsody in Blue segment, so minimalistic you wonder how very little it must have taken to produce the whole segment.3.  The whole picture seems to have been made quickly and inexpensively, certainly a minor effort compared to the first Fantasia, of which in all fairness I have never been much of a fan anyway.  In the age of spectacular, elaborate animation such as The Lion King, Prince of Egypt and the Toy Story films, this is an insult to an audience that paid, in some cases, up to 20 dollars to see this film.  (NOTE purists who defend the film's attempt to recreate the original's hand-drawn qualities should be quieted down by the fact that the film does use a significant amount of computer animation, therefore nullifying the purist argument.)4.  The Sorcerer's Apprentice segment tries to be an hommage to the first Fantasia but, given the skimpiness of this effort, you wonder if it was just thrown in there as a last-minute resort to fatten what was clearly very skinny movie.5.  The live-action sections between the animated portions, hosted in Academy Awards-presenter fashion by a number of Hollywood celebrities, seem unnecessary and perhaps more appropriate for a Making of... documentary than for the film itself.6.  The especially constructed, Disney-owned IMAX Theater in Los Angeles charges 12 dollars for general adult admissions and 20 dollars for VIP seating.  You may wonder what VIP seating is.  VIP seating are the seats at the center of the theater ideal for an IMAX film (general admission at this venue refers to the peripheral seats).  This is a scam.  Fantasia 2000 plays at non Disney-operated IMAX theaters at a single adult admission price, including the center seats.7.  The spectacle of this film comes not from the film itself but mostly from the IMAX format, which renders a spectacularly clear and steady picture along with crisp multi-channel sound.  Actually, the gargantuan IMAX screen amplifies a film's visual flaws.  In the case of Fantasia 2000, this is most obvious in the graininess of the Sorcerer's Apprentice blow-up (Mickey sports grain four-feet wide across his face) and the live-action images.  It is important, however, not to confuse the quality of a movie with that of the process it is presented in.8.  Wait for it to be on the Disney Channel. "},{"Title":"My critic about The Steadfast Tin Soldier.","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Instead of telling a story like those Disney's feature films, Fantasia 2000 puts classical music into lovely animation to bring you various emotional feelings.  You see it, you hear it and you feel, that is the main purpose of this great and unique film.Among all these 8 short films, I got the most feelings out of The Steadfast Tin Soldier.  Since I grew up to read Andersen's Fairy Tales (in Chinese version), plus my personal experiences, I can't stop loving The Steadfast Tin Soldier.  I actually burst into tears when I saw the tin soldier and the ballet-dancer girl came to life on the IMAX screen.  They looked exactly the way I imagined ever since I was a little boy.  Until I saw the very happy Disney style ending, I felt I just been cheated by Disney one more time!After the movie, I went to talk to a Disney salesgirl and asked if she likes the movie and noticed there were a few flaws in the movie.  She said she likes the Firebird Suite the best. I told her that I liked the Tin Soldier the most and also hate it the most because they changed the ending.  She was confused what I said so I went on explain  Have you ever read the original Andersen's stories?  The Tin Soldier was supposed a very sad story. In the end, he was melt away in the fireplace - in another words, he was dead!  The Disney salesgirl was surprised with my knowledge and asked Are you a serious collector of toys and story books? She handed over me a $180.00 Fantasia 2000 Collector's Album.  I told her I would love to purchase everything behind the counter once I get my degree.In the original story, Tin Soldier's fate was altered by his owner - a human boy.  There is no way he (as a toy) could possibly against the ultimate evil - a human boy. The same reason we human can't against the will of God.  But in this film, the ultimate evil was a silly looking Jack-in-a-box.  The Tin Soldier could easily overcome this one, since Jack is just another toy without both legs.  That along hindered the story a lot!Just like in the Little Mermaid, Disney did it again to alter the original by switch one of the saddest ending with a very happy (and a little silly) ending.  The classical music used for Tin Soldier was from Shostakovich's Piano Concerto No. 2 (which I heard for the first time), was also a fast paced and very happy music.  Although in the intro the guy said the story and music are perfect match, but I just can't get it!  I am beginning to worry what would happen if Disney put The Little Match Girl into a movie or short film?  Can we have a more serious ending this time?Since it is impossible for them to remake The Tin Soldier film.  I just hope that Disney can soon release those Tin Soldiers in a box set and the lovely ballet-dancer girl in a collectible toy format.  So that I can recreate this classical romance many times in my own bedroom.  How about the evil Jack-in-a-box?  No thanks, he was not in the original story! "},{"Title":"What a waste of money","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Well I'm sorry, I was very dissapointed. I really honestly did try to appreciate this presentation...but it was actually funny at how much this sucked. It sucked huuuuuge to be more accurate. The animation wasn't even that great, the illustrators could have been alot more creative than they were. Unless your old and have no life and remember the music from when you were young, seeing Fantasia is highly unrecommended. This is the most overated crap I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"Not nearly as boring as the original","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I've seen the original Fantasia about three times. I've never managed to stay awake yet. I like classical music, but the music here is just too flat, excerpted and overproduced. The animation is fine, but at what point could you call it stunning? Firebird Suite would have been better if the animators hadn't gone so out of their way to hide the idea of a woman having breasts. Self-censorship at its worst. The components would be much better as pre-film shorts (like Pixar's). That would be the perfect venue for them -- sprinkled enough to make people look forward to them, but not so concentrated that they bore you. "},{"Title":"Longing for the old Disney quality...","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  One boring afternoon I decided to dust off my old videos and sit down and watch Fantasia. I was overjoyed to see my favourite scenes once again - the fairies, mushrooms, and centaurs to name a few. This inspired me to hire Fantasia 2000, as I wanted to see more of what I loved in the first Fantasia.Unfortunately, I was bitterly disappointed. This just wasn't as nice. To name a few bad points The opening scene with the butterflies made me nauseous. And although Rhapsody in Blue was cleverly done, I still found it visually unattractive. Oh, and the addition of the Sorceror's Apprentice was what almost made me shut off the tape. I was never fond of this piece in the original, so to add it again was like a double slap in the face. (Although I ended up stopping the tape prematurely anyway further on). And heck, how can I forget the pointless celebrity cameos which took away even more of the flow of the movie?Now, there WERE a few good points, namely...uh...well, the Tin Soldier I did enjoy. The whale sequence I came close to liking, but the 3D + cell integration just didn't do it for me.  I never saw the last few end bits so I can't say what they were like, and somehow I don't think I'll be hiring it again to watch them either. Give me the old one over 2000 anyday. "},{"Title":"Truly uninspiring!","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Creative bankruptcy is not a pleasant thing to see.  Instead of using the vital, warm, and impressive arts of conventional animation, Disney Corporation has given us a long nightmare of digital models flapping around, interspersed with unentertaining celebrities who succeed only in detracting from an already unimpressive project and repeatedly bringing what little action there is on screen to a halt.  The novelty of computer graphics wore off about 10 years ago, and Fantasia 2000's overindulgence in this seductive artistic shortcut, borne of the misconception of cinematic one-upmanship set in motion by George Lucas, displayed an appalling lack of taste.  Who, exactly, NEEDS such overkill to be entertained?  Putting 3D graphics in a flat cartoon works about as well as chroma-key puppetry or the Clutch Cargo human-lips dialogue method in lifting the audience to a dreamlike universe of new reality.In other words, I didn't like it. "},{"Title":"You cannot paint the Mona Lisa","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Because it is already finished.Everything after the original is a forgery.It does not matter that you are a Matisse or even DaVinci himself, you cannot duplicate a Masterpiece no matter how hard you try, not matter how much money you put into it, because it is priceless.Had the whole company instead worked on a new Masterpiece, they had done a better service to themselves and to everyone else.Where can any artist or any orchestra even dare to compare themselves to the Master and the Maestro?They've both insulted the founders of an entire art form, and, at a much bloated price. I understand it that Disney and crew worked basically for food, shelter, and clothing in those days. And what did these modern drawers work for? A Lexus, a star on the boulevard, or was it that old enemy of art, money?Remakes are insults, nothing less.And in the end all you did was sell out for a far lessor price. "}]