[{"Title":"**1/2 Film has no groove even if Stella does","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stella gets her groove back, alright, but the film is still in need by the time you get to the end credits. Angela Bassett gives a kick-ass performance in the title role as a fortysomething woman who can't decide what to do when she falls in love with twenty-one year-old Taye Diggs while on vacation at a resort in Jamaica. Do 'im is what I say if a woman like Bassett looks that good at the age of forty she deserves the best of everything. Besides, Diggs doesn't look nearly young enough for the part, and that keeps reality at bay for the two and some odd hours that the film runs at. The scene where teenage girls get in line behind the couple at a movie theatre and give Stella dirty looks for robbing the cradle always puzzles me; if I were that young an age and found myself standing behind Angela Bassett I'd be asking her what kind of skin creams does she use and does she work out and maybe there might be a portrait hidden in her attic that has all her sins hanging off it? Whoopi Goldberg gives the best and funniest performance in the film, but even she can't prevent the script by Ronald Bass and Terry McMillan (upon whose novel this is based) from seeming like it's two or three drafts short of being finished. Watch it if only for a great soundtrack and some beautiful photography of Jamaica's beaches.  "},{"Title":"'Stella' lacks groove","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Angela Bassett (Waiting to Exhale) is talented and buff as Stella, a single mother/career woman who's in need of a vacation.  Stella decides to head for Jamaica with her best friend, Delilah (Whoopi Goldberg in a fine supporting role).  Stella meets 20-year-old Winston (Taye Diggs).  They fall in love, in-spite of Stella's emotional insecurities.  Terry McMillan adapted from her novel based on her real-life experience.  I hate to say this, but unlike Waiting to Exhale, this overlong movie barely holds up to the book, because of too many plot holes and too many unnecessary characters.  On the contrary, Diggs turns in an impressive performance as well.  My evaluation ** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"Stella Had A Groove?","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  On a rainy, dreary day recently I popped this movie in looking for light and comedic entertainment.  I was disappointed.  The movie starts with Stella in a bad mood, with a magnificent job and a home that I noticed was so nice, it had a reflecting pool.  I watched as Stella moaned and complained about her ex, her job, her life, ad nauseum.  Angela Bassett's portrayal of Stella was one of anger however I admired her buff physique, left over from her Tina Turner portrayal which was excellent.  So I tried to find sympathy for Stella.  However, the director never gave we, the viewers, any reason or background to feel any sorrow or empathy for Stella.  She had it all.  When Stella takes her vacation to Jamaica and meets William Shakespeare (Taye Diggs), it was hard to work up any enthusiasm because she was so angry, angry at the world.  However, the scenery in the film was breathtaking and the age difference between the two seemed a bit much but did not interfere with what could have been a great love story.  It bothered Stella more than it did me.  Still Stella remained ungrooved.Caution ***Movie Spoiler***  Upon returning home from a dream vacation, Stella loses her job and upon the advice of her good friend Delilah (Whoopi Goldberg), goes back to Jamaica which told me that losing her job did not affect her high-flying lifestyle.  If only Stella appreciated her circumstances as much as I did.  In summary, I saw Stella as not having a groove and Bassett carried her character through the movie with such anger, I felt myself recoiling from her verbal barbs and angry displays toward William, his parents, and all those around her.  Only when she finds out Delilah's secret, does she drop the angry attitude and pity party to help someone else.  Because we were never given a reason to feel any compassion or sympathy with Stella, it is my opinion that Stella Never Had a Groove to get back.   Bassett stomped her way through this role as if Ike were chasing her in that other movie; and I would have much rather had more access to Delilah's world.  Taye Diggs did what he does best which is to look great. All in all, How Stella Got Her Groove Back is less that what I expect from actress Angela Bassett. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Angela Bassett does an outstanding job. To those of you who can't understand why Stella needs her groove back, you have only to look up the word mundane. No matter how much money you have or Chanel suits you own that doesn't mean you have true companionship. We all want a real connection someone to hold us, love us and tell us it will get better. And that transcends age and socio economics. Sometimes people are right on time. No one can go through the world completely alone. We never know what or how long any relationship will last so I suppose the most important thing is to seize the day. Make your own reality and Stella does that with dignity and with pride and admittedly with hesitation and fear. That's the sign of a very real character! Someone who is vulnerable. Someone you can understand even if you're not in the same situation. "},{"Title":"Pushing the envelope, social commentary and a wonderful romantic comedy","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Stella pushed the envelope-- and in that, if only that, it has merit.  By showing that an all black cast can attract a wider audience (and interestingly, it's usually white folks who don't like the movie.. one begins to wonder why?) and a black actress, Angela Bassett, prodigiously talented, brilliant, and as a bonus, beautiful, can convincingly portray a woman who is torn between what she has always been taught is right, and what her heart is telling her is right.. is a timeless story.Add to that the crackling comic relief of Whoopi Goldberg, and two very funny sisters representing opposing views and lifestyles, and you have a nice mix.  More envelope pushing?  One of the sisters is married to a white guy -- nothing is made of it, it just is.  The point made, of course, is that interracial marriage isn't something odd or different or in need of explanation or commentary.  One of the better ways to attack institutionalized racism, racism that is bred into us as we grow up, is to show images that combat those assumptions and to make those images as nonchalant and matter of fact as possible.  This was done very well in Stella.Of course, if one doesn't like romantic comedy, or if one nurses prejudice, consciously or subconsciously, the movie won't be appealing.I, however, found it charming, funny, enjoyable, and delightful. I loved Angela Bassett's performance, I am in awe of her talent and her beauty (yes, a woman can appreciate another woman's beauty.. we need not attack each other, we can be sisters, can we not?) and I loved Whoopi Goldberg's comic relief.  Taye Diggs?  Well, we shall see.  He's certainly easy on the eye, and he did a credible job with his role.  I'd like to see him in more before I decide if he's good, great, or somewhere in between.  Based solely on Stella, I think he's good, and very promising.The movie did not track the book as much as I would have liked -- I don't want to say in what ways because I don't want to ruin it for those of you who are going to go and read the book.Do read the book if you haven't -- it's excellent, wonderful reading.  My favorite, in fact, of Terry McMillan's work.Another point; Stella is depicted a stock broker.  Some found that to lack credibility.  Why?  Are those folks trying to suggest that there are no women or black women stock brokers?  I can tell you that there are, and introduce you to a few if you'd like -- I know several of them.  And money? Yes, there actually are well to do, single, black, mothers who are professionals in a number of fields including law, medicine, academia, business, government -- everywhere.  Not enough, but they're there, and they're forging the way for more to come.Someone else said that it wasn't credible that the Winston character would fall so quickly in love with the Stella character.  Why not?  Stella was portrayed as beautiful, intriguing, very intelligent, she looked no older than 25 -- why would a 20 year old not want to be with a woman like that? Why would any man not want to be with someone like that?  Of course it was credible.The movie was humorous (remember Ms. Thang How nice that you're visiting with your mother.  rofl, that was hysterical..  oh yes, I've missed my mother very much..  (pause)(wicked grins followed by a long kiss that had nothing maternal about it) .. as Ms. Thang flounces away, having received her comeuppence very nicely.  I guffawed and loved it.I'm truly mystified by those who didn't like the movie.  I admit to its flaws, and the fact that it didn't track the book in some ways.. but it had so very much going for it.. everything from the envelope pushing of interracial marriage, and the age difference.. where usually it is the man who is older and professional, and the woman who is younger, and no one finds that odd or different.   How many men are married to women 20, 30, years their junior?  Society says nothing about that..  A 20 year difference?   How often do you see a 45 year old man with a 25 year old woman?  Every day, everywhere.  It's something that goes without comment.Here we have it reversed, and we see how hard it is for the female character to break the bonds of that double standard.  But she does.  Isn't that a role model, a positive break from the typical older male/younger female scene that we usually see and take in stride as completely acceptable and quite normal.  Reverse it and everyone gasps.. Isn't she old enough to be his MOTHER?!?!   While the men who are old enough to be their wives' fathers (and grandfathers) pass without a blink of the eye, without a comment.But the social commentary, the envelope pushing -- it was there and it was good, but the movie's humor, the love story, the laughter.. that's what made the movie great fun.  It could have just won points on social commentary, but it didn't.. it won them on purely cinematic/acting grounds.  The fact that it also contained social commentary was simply a huge bonus.. and we know that psychologically, folks are more likely to absorb social commentary when it is presented in a way that isn't a polemic, a lecture, a heavy-handed after school special.My vote..  On the book- 9/10 On the movie 8/9 or better.Comments on this overly long review?  > I don't usually come back to see how my comments are received.  Flame mail?  Please don't, because it's a negative waste of time.. but real discussion I always welcome, whether the other person agrees or disagrees, as long as the issue is discussed, and personal attacks are not made.Someone suggested watching White Palace, and said that it is the same story, but grittier, with Susan Sarandon (a great actress) and James Spader.  I think I'll rent that next ;) "},{"Title":"Stella's Groove Isn't Lacking--She's Just Plain Dumb","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Picture if you will, Stella (Angela Bassett). She's single...she's rich...she's got a great job--but, alas, no on paper man in her life that will make her feel complete. So, she goes off to Jamaica with her oldest and dearest friend (Whoopi Goldberg) in desperate search of her groove. In the land of sand and sunlight, she happens upon Winston Shakespeare (Taye Diggs), who is half her age and finer than frog hair, and she is in a dilemma about exactly how she should handle the situation. I wish I had her problems, trust me.If I were Stella and had someone like Winston chasing after me, I'd be on him faster than a duck on a june bug...however, practical Stella is all caught up on the age thing...is anyone still with me? He's hot, he's young, and he's after me, and I'm going to QUESTION that? My first question would be where do we put the furniture, but, no--it takes the death of a good friend to make her embrace the fact that she should give into something as, uh-hem, debatable as Taye Diggs...OK, ladies, are you with me? In unison--GIVE ME A BREAK! If you're still on the fence, rewind and watch that pool scene again. I'm waiting. OK--now, we're all on the same page.This premise is flawed as flawed can be. I don't care if she has a child--any woman with a child should have her thinking cap firmly in place atop her head to know if he was a true, purebred dog, you'd have known it by the next morning, and still wow your girlfriends with the tale. He has been nothing but gallant, and yet we're supposed to sympathize with her...I don't think so.Stella creates her own drama while most of us would have been riding off into the sunset. In the end, the Terry McMillan autobiographical version didn't go EXACTLY as planned, but, hey, in a perfect world Stella had it going on from the get go. The groove could be, and in the movie was, reaffirmed in the shower. If my only problem is we don't like the same movies, I can assure you I would have forgotten about it by the first shower scene. But, if having to see Regina King made it all work out, I'm all for it. She's great as always. "},{"Title":"A Truly Romantic yet Kinda Corny Movie...","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The first time I saw this movie I wanted to immediately hop a plane to Jamaica! I don't think it was the meet the man of my dreams part, but the scenery. It was just breathtaking (although the men aren't too bad to look at either!). As for the story, it was a good distraction from typical reality, because, let's face it ladies, we believe that doesn't happen everyday (especially to ourselves). The soundtrack was another good part of the movie, I just loved it. This movie is the kind that gives you hope for true romantic love, but in this cynical day and age most people don't let themselves be pulled in, or fooled, by the seemingly unrealistic situation. For those of us with a little romance still left, this is a wonderful movie. For those without, I'm sorry. (These are my thoughts excluding the latest headlines, I don't want to spoil my original feeling toward the movie). "},{"Title":"Not as good as I hoped, but still worth a look","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Angela Bassett delivers another wonderful performance (is she not one of the greatest actors of out time?), but unfortunately, it's not enough to raise this movie to the level of greatness I expected from it.There's no doubt, the film is beautiful to look at and the performances are good all around. But the script is lacking that certain something that makes you believe the whys and hows. We can certainly understand why Stella fell in love with that 20 year old--he's gorgeous, sincere and very mature for his age. But the crucial information we're missing is why he falls for her.He approaches her because of her physcial beauty, but stays for an unknown reason. Why WOULD a 20 year old be so willing to pursue a woman twice his age after a casual meeting? Why is he so mature and understanding at such a young age? We'll never know and that's what kept me from believing this film.Another problem is the seemingly pointless demise of one of the characters (I won't say who). This event didn't carry the story forward and acted more as a detractor from the plot that anything else. It should have been used to help the other characters develop, but it instead that little subplot dissolved into oblivion.Overall, I would certainly recommend Stella. It was an enjoyable and sincere story. But it could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"Far better than average love story","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Angela Bassett was, of course, well-known by the time she made this film, and here she proved once again why she is one of America's better actresses. But the real story here was the film debut of Taye Diggs. As an old white guy, I first saw this film when it premiered on cable, and I thought Diggs was certain to become a popular actor. Now, 25 films later, not to mention an active career on prime time television, Diggs has become just that -- a fine and respected actor with a captivating on-screen persona that just always seems to work.Here it's the 21 year old Jamaican fellow who seduces (and I mean that in the best sense) the 40 year old businesswoman from San Francisco. The romance sizzles, despite reservations, while Whoopi Goldberg provides a bit of light-hearted comedy. The question, of course, is whether the age difference will divide two people in love. And the film does keep you guessing as to which possible ending it will be.Diggs' character's last name here is Shakepeare, and while this film hardly reaches the level of a Shakespearean tale, it's engaging, romantic, and great fun. But that doesn't mean it's all love and roses. True love never is, and meanwhile Whoopi's character is dying. So this is not just another feel good movie; there's some drama here, including making a relationship with a diversity of ages work.I give this film much higher marks than the overall rating here. It's easily worth a 7. "},{"Title":"Better than expected, but expectations were low.","Date":"24 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite the obvious flaws in this film, one thought kept occurring to me each time Bassett and Diggs were on screen together There are a lot of couples in this world who deserve each other less than these two would. Most marriages and long-term partnerships are safe and sterile in both how they were formed, and how they are lived. Most people date into their twenties or early thirties and just say, aw hell. I guess it's time to settle down with so and so, and a boring relationship is made. With Stella and Winston, the relationship is a huge risk for many reasons. The two must really care a lot about one another in order for things to have gotten as far as they did. But, in the end, this is pure fiction. Most people would never take this chance, or even be in a position to make it. So, we are left with a romance between two attractive leads and some lush and expensive locations. A 20 million dollar romance novel played out on the screen.Are there problems? You betcha. Characters like Winston's parents are hardly touched, and one would figure at his age they would still be able to keep him away from Stella and her life in California. Did anyone buy the subplot about Stella building furniture? Me, neither. Would more of Stella's family and friends object to this relationship? Most definitely. Had she only hooked up with him in Jamaica and left it at that, she would have been celebrated by all. But in real life, more than just one sister would have made objections. And certainly her ex-husband wouldn't have been so understanding about having his son living under the same roof as this young stud.But heck. Most of this film's target audience probably got what it paid for, and the film was profitable. The romantic scenes between the leads are steamy, if a bit too brief, and the locations and photography are excellent. Do Stella and Winston make a believable couple? For the movies, sure. But in real life, not so much. 6 of 10 stars.The Hound. "}{"Title":"Stella .... The Laughs, The Times, The Tears","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I liked the look of this movie and it's plot line from the get-go. Stella may be rich,successful,attractive and all that but she's burned out on her job and really has no social life to speak of. She's always either at work or at home. You'd lose the groove of your life (not to mention your mind) if you had to keep that up for a long time! Thankfully,in steps her good friend (played by Whoopi Goldberg) who takes her on a long overdue vacation and gets her to unwind and relax and stop thinking about back home and the problems that go with it. The scenes between Goldberg and Bassett are fuuu-nny! Especially the guy who's trying to pick up on Goldberg. Stella then meets a young man nearly 20 years her junior and Whoopi encourages her to go for it (to put it in G-Rated form). SHe's reluctant but she goes for him and he goes for her and he ends up living with her. naturally,being just about out of his late teens,he still has very immature ways about him (like enjoying the movie Booty Call).If you need to know the rest about their relationship,I highly suggest renting or even buying the movie. Now so far it sounds like I'm doing a 10 star review,well,I'm not. I've deducted 2 stars for the terminal illness of Goldberg's character,who then passes away. Up until then,I was really enjoying this movie,writing that kind of story and scene in was truly unnecessary.The main point to me about this film is,you can have it all and have worked hard for it but if it consumes all your energies,you truly will have no life or groove left. Let loose once in awhile and do what makes you happy. (END) "},{"Title":"Where do people learn to talk like that ??","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the worst movies I've ever seen. A long music video, punctuated by stupid comicbook characterizations. A fractured fairytale with about as fluff and substance as Cinderella's petticoats. I'm not sure why they just didn't go ahead and animate in the tongues dropping to the floor and the eyeballs popping out of heads, it certainly would have fit. The sisters were unreal... one drives an ambulance, but would much rather yak on the cell phone and play with the siren and car stereo... yeah, a real professional, that one. The other one cooks in her pearls with her hair piled on top of her head, yeah, I always cook like that, sure. A complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"I thought it would never end","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Could this movie have been any slower moving than it was?  What a waste of time. The stars had absolutely no chemistry between them. "},{"Title":"Watch the commercial for Jamaica Tourism and skip the movie","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"23 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Have you ever noticed how the excuses for seeing a really bad movie have an eerie similarity to the excuses for adultery? I didn't really intend to see it, it just sort of happened, I never really wanted to, but I was parked in front of the TV and there it was. I thought it might be okay. I was wrong.It is unclear to me why anyone thinks that Stella (Angela Basset) lost her groove in the first place. Stella is rich, successful, unbelievably beautiful, smart, independent, and a fashion plate. We open with her dancing and grooving to the radio, yet we are expected to believe she needs her groove back.It only gets worse from there. I don't want to talk about it. 2/10 "},{"Title":"A good chick flick","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You know, when you're in the mood for a fantasy chick flick, this IS good. I mean it CAN be unrealistic but if it were a guy (the main character) would it be different than half the movies out there? Personally I tried to turn the darned thing off, but it was 3 am, my night off, and I ended up flaking on the couch and watching it. I liked it. Its nice to have a feel good movie without violence and people blowing each other up. The characters were too perfect, they lived perfect lives, and for me it was nice to get away. Maybe I fell asleep P but no complaints. I didn't pay to see it, nor would I buy it. Its the perfect movie to watch with your girlfriends, have some wine, and complain about their perfect lives ;) Overall the story line deals with true issues and can make you think about your own life..... Thats all P "},{"Title":"Glossy and lacking substances &#150; surprising just how much it failed to be emotionally engaging or involving (spoilers)","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When her young son goes away from a few weeks to be with his father, Stella feels the void in her life and when an advert for Jamaica comes onto television, she has a momentary flash of madness and rings friend Delilah to ask her to go. Despite changing her mind a second later, Delilah makes her stick to it and soon both the middle-aged women are in Jamaica with a drink in their hands. Delilah starts chasing men, but Stella just wants rest, running and relaxation &#150; a plan that changes when she meet the 20 year old Winston who woos, and ultimately beds her. He helps refresh her and she returns home she is a new person, but is it enough to help her cope with the challenges that await her back in the US.I have watched and enjoyed plenty of chick flicks and weepies so the vibe surrounding this film didn't put me off from trying it &#150; plus I think Bassett is great and always worth seeing. However this film wasn't a problem for me because of genre, it was a problem because none of it rang true and none of it really engaged me on any level. The plot offers the chance for a real character piece on a middle-aged woman but if it even tries then it never gets close because it is so superficial that it doesn't do it in the slightest. However her character doesn't come through at all and it doesn't matter how many times she stares into the Caribbean landscape. The script matches this effort by just letting things happen rather than drawing us into them &#150; this is best seen in the death of Delilah, a heartless affair that just left me cold. Likewise the relationship with Winston just didn't convince me or make me care, I was actually surprised at how little that it involved me.The whole film has this glossy, slick polish and it can even be seen in the choice of music &#150; mostly very bland stuff with a sugary core. The direction matches this but it does the job if you are looking for a holiday brochure &#150; Jamaica looks beautiful and fun although it does tend to add to the superficiality without substance feel of the film. Bassett tries to make it work but without material she can't do it; that is not to say that she doesn't try because she does put a lot into her performance and she was the main reason that I stuck with it. Diggs is a gorgeous man and the film uses his body well but in terms of acting he has been much better elsewhere. Here he can't do the accent and make a person at the same time and sadly he goes for the accent more, he has great physical chemistry with Bassett but when it comes to speaking they show no reason why they would be a couple. Goldberg is poor and (literally) phones some of her performance in before popping her clogs. King provides an ethnic stereotype so general that it is nearly offensive and Douglass does little else other than look beautiful (which she does well admittedly).Overall a remarkably bland film that just never engaged me at all. The writing and characters are soulless and none of it rings true at any point. It looks nice and it goes through the motions well enough for genre fans but even they may admit that this could and should have been a lot better than it was. A real disappointment of a film that left me with nothing to show for 120 minutes invested in it. "},{"Title":"Worth a look","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a funny, sentimental, romantic movie that you will enjoy.  Angela Bassett is good, Whoopi is at her funniest best, and the lady I watched the movie with is now calling me Winston (not because I look like him, but because she wishes I did).  Well worth the time and money.  "},{"Title":"WHOOPI FAN","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I AM A WHOOPI GOLDBERG FAN, AND EVEN THOUGH THERE WASN'T ENOUGH SCENES WITH HER IN IT, I THOUGHT THE MOVIE WAS GREAT. IT HAD ALL THE QUALITIES OF A GREAT MOVIE.(COMEDY,DRAMA,SUSPENSE)  "},{"Title":"If you love Jamaica","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Forget about the film and it's plot, even though it's not as bad as made out! If you love Jamaica then you'll love the film for it's colour, atmosphere, sun, sounds and other Jamaican memories.If you've been there it will take you back in an instant. If you want to go it will tempt you (just hope you can afford an all inclusive 5-star resort!).In the initial stages, as the aeroplane flies into Montego Bay, all the memories come flooding back - the special warmth and the smells that hit you as they open the aeroplane doors. Once you get through the airport something special happens to you and your life forever.It's the island that's beautiful and the film conveys some of it. There is a lot more to discover for the adventurous. "},{"Title":"Charming romantic drama that will make you laugh, smile, and feel good from start to finish","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" HOW STELLA GOT HER GROOVE BACK, in my opinion, is a charming romantic drama that will make you laugh, smile, and feel good. If you ask me, Stella (Angela Bassett) totally deserved the trip to Jamaica. In my opinion, the way she met Winston (Taye Diggs) was absolutely romantic. Despite the fact that he was twenty years her junior, I believe the way they met was romantic. In conclusion, I highly recommend this charming romantic drama that will make you laugh, smile, and feel good to any Angela Bassett, Taye Diggs, or Whoopi Goldberg fan who hasn't seen it. You're in for lots of laughter, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "}{"Title":"Waste of a fine actress","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Angela is one of the best actresses working in film today, which is why saddling her in a Harlequin-type romance as this one is silly and naive. First of all, she is horribly miscast.  One of the main conflicts of the film is the age difference between the two lovers (40-year old Bassett and 20-year old hunky newcomer Taye Diggs).  But Bassett is as sexy as ever, looks 25, and would be an awesome date for any 20-year old without any real conflict whatsoever.  Secondly, Bassett has a natural fierceness and intensity that is terribly harnessed by putting her in this cookie-cutter character.Whoopi Goldberg is also around, providing some laughs in the beginning, then a pointless and maudlin subplot in the middle (what was this plot line doing in such a fluffy romance?  How out of place...).  Goldberg and Bassett have fine chemistry, but the jokes seem like pedestrian si-tcom formula jokes and really are carried only by the performances.The result is predictable, sappy, and as light as a feather.  And it's a shame, with the charisma that Bassett usually possesses.  "},{"Title":"Filled with so many obvious flaws, it is a shame the film has some good qualities. *1/2 out of ****.","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  HOW STELLA GOT HER GROOVE BACK / (1998) *1/2Starring Angela Bassett, Taye Diggs, Whoopi Goldberg, Regina King, and Michael J. Pagan Directed by Kevin Rodney Sullivan. Written by Terry McMillan. Running Time 124 minutes. Rated R (for sexuality, language, and some nudity)By Blake French 	How Stella Got Her Groove Back is a beautiful looking, gorgeously sited, visually lush romantic drama in which the tension concerns not race, wealth, or parents, but the original aspect of age. Unfortunately, while the film may contain attractive individuals and locations, beneath its shallow surface lays a grievous, desperate look into an empty abyss of nothingness. The film is filled with so many bare boned ideas, idiotic situations, and blunt, under developed characters it is a shame I can compliment this movie for what it does include.How Stella Got Her Groove Back details the busy life of an African American business woman named Stella Payne. She lives in the midst of hustle and bustle in a large city with her preteen son, Quincy. The story begins as a fresh feeling, developed character study. We learn many crucial concepts about the title character, Stella. She is a corporately stressed out, independently inconstant, but stable woman, with much pride but little time.     It is only a matter of time before the script shows us its true colors. Stella, stressed out and tired mentally and physically, views a commercial on TV about a Jamaican vacation. She immediately gives her best friend, Delilah, a call and invites her to travel to this tropical island with her for a much needed restful holiday. After this point, the movie only gets more and more obvious. You see, if the external conflict in the story is the business of Stella, and it is solved within twenty minutes into the film, where are we to go from here? 	The writers have no other choice other than to create an internal problem within the secluded happenings. Stella meets a young, sexy, muscular gentleman named Winston Shakespeare, a local resident at the selected Island village. This is where the film begins a self destructive journey into the world of naked subtext, where characters are determined to explain important plot nuggets through dialogue instead of actions. However, How Stella Got Her Groove Back uses this concept with an apparent, unsharpened appearance instead of giving its chemistry-rich characters colorful conversations to gnaw opon. 	I did not buy the relationship between Winston and Stella for anything but physical lust. Winston is twenty, and Stella is forty, so obviously we can understand why she is all for the man after a seductive, one night stand between the two. But what is in it for him? Stella is an attractive woman, but she is old enough to be Winston's mother. Even Stella is confused with his intentions throughout the picture. We know of the conflicts here, but don't really understand them.  	Delilah is used as a plot device here, when she (spoiler) grows ill and dies at midpoint to place more emotional distress on Stella. But what this event is truly doing is acting as a distraction from the true moral of the story. Although her character provides witty charm and engaging humor, for the most part, the film's characters and actors are either over achieved or arrogant. Taye Diggs may have an attractive body, but his character is more humble than self conscious, and the film mistakenly uses him as a sex symbol. 	As How Stella Got Her Groove Back concludes in its formalistic fashion, I was thinking to myself about how some audiences would actually enjoy the story if they merely skimmed across the movie's surface. However, for those who behold a mind that enjoys depth, they could dig deep into the likes of Stella--only to discover there is none.Brought to you by Twentieth Century Fox Productions.  "},{"Title":"Triple treat. Or is that triple threat?","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you like niche movies, you get three for one here, all bad. It's a black movie. It's a yuppie movie. It's a woman's movie. And it's a bad movie, made worse by the blatant promotion of Jamaica tourism. The story develops with the pace of a geriatric snail. Its premise of a May and December relationship is absurd. The music, of which there is too much, is bland disco noise. Most surprising is that the excellent Whoopi Goldberg plays a minor role. If indeed her career is faltering, this embarrassing turkey won't help it. "},{"Title":"Total bore","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Five minutes after the movie started I was already looking at my watch, waiting for it to end.  Other than beautiful people and a sometimes-funny Whoopi Goldberg, this movie was a total waste of time and money.  I couldn't see any actual love between the two main characters and was honestly surprised that Stella ended up making the decision that she did.  Even though I never read the book, I have a feeling that this is a case of a bad adaptation.   "},{"Title":"Nice and lighthearted, but stay away from Jamaica.","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's typical of IMDb to have mindless action films earn an average of 7 or better, but for some reason a light film like this suffers from anti-romance, anti-female-lead bias that permeates this site. It is an enjoyable film with good music and the usual good acting from Angela Bassett. There are some good comedic moments, and good dialogue among the female friends in the movie. If you put aside the baggage of what happened with McMillan's real life marriage, you should like it.Now that I've gotten my review out of the way, I have to say the one thing that bothered me about the film is that it makes Jamaica look like a great place to visit--when in fact it is an island guilty of gross human rights violations, where gay people live in fear for their lives and sexism is de rigeur. I cannot get past that simple injustice even when watching a movie, especially this one where a woman who could afford to go anywhere in the world chooses to give her travel dollars to the place that deserves them the least! "},{"Title":"So bad I prayed for death","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was so desperate for entertainment on a 10 hour flight that I managed to watch it for half an hour. After that I lost the will to live, switched it off and prayed for the plane to crash into a rock face so I wouldn't have to see it on the monitor anymore. "},{"Title":"Forget Her Groove. Find a Screenwriter.","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" How Stella Got Her Groove Back (1998) Dir Kevin Rodney Smith / Cast Angela Bassett, Taye Diggs, Whoopi Goldberg, Regina King, Suzzanne Douglas Dull to the point where I didn't care whether Stella ever got her groove back. What she needs back is her dignity after being part of this hokey flat romance. Stella is a mother and career woman who travels to Jamaica with a friend. Stella finds romance where age difference becomes an issue. Angela Bassett plays Stella whose job is written off inappropriately before sending her through predictable developments. Director Kevin Rodney Smith is aided by beautiful photography but his screenwriter must have been basking in the Jamaica sun too long because the story written here isn't anything to summarize on a post card home. Taye Diggs is the one performance that survives obvious clichés because he is the one with the plot point to prove. Whoopi Goldberg plays Stella's friend whose conclusion is pointless. She just throws in the odd one-liner to remind viewers that she is indeed a comedianne. Regina King also makes an appearance that she hopefully won't have to regret. This is not a good film. In fact it is not even romantic for those couples into a date night. Convincing argument about age and romance watered down with boredom to the point where I wished Stella would take her groove elsewhere. Score 3 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"The best love movie ever!","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Way to go Stella! This movie is awesome. I really enjoyed watching the part at the pajama party, when Stella was nervous about going. She felt a little old, perhaps out of place, just right out weird about meeting the young Winston. When she arrives Winston begins to dance (kind of by himself on the dance floor) eyeing her and giving her but little choice but to dance with him. (After all, who could resist such a young hottie?) This movie is also special in that it confirms that women can pick up a younger guy, and get away with it, after all men do it all the time. Well, that's enough, just watch the movie and you will see what I mean. Tay Diggs is muy caliente!!! "},{"Title":"Me wants some Taye.. and some Angela while you're at it..","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" On the most part, I liked How Stella Got her Groove Back. It's got all the ingredients Angela Bassett, another story by the author of 'Waiting To Exhale', Taye Diggs, Whoopi Goldberg to add some humor to the mix. So what was it that made this movie less than perfect? The simple reason is, the movie runs far far too long. Ending after ending after ending is rolled out, and then when the final ending DOES come along, you're like waiting for the movie to continue, because the way the filmmakers chose to end this, IS somewhat lame and predictable. Irregardless of that, I'll see anything with Angela Bassett in it, and she does just fine in the title role. She plays the part almost as if it was a continuation of her role in 'Waiting To Exhale' (You're expecting Whitney Houston and Lela Rachon to pop out any moment.) And oh my god, where did they find Taye Diggs? He's yummy to look at, and his acting is pretty good too! All in all, very good, except for the length. "},{"Title":"Taye Diggs is fine!","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I fell in love with Taye Diggs!  What a beautiful man and he gave a sensitive performance.  I hope this film will springboard him into stardom. "}{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To me the story line was amazing. And it was brought to life by the brilliant actors. Angela was beautiful, Tay wonderful and amazingly gorgous and Whoopi Goldberg, heartwrenching. It was a movie that showed important issues but never dwelled on them too long. Moved on but was real enough to come back to them but in a way that you wanted. 9/10, Camille. "},{"Title":"Destined for video","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How Stella Got Her Groove Back (or just Stella for short) is an ok film with an already-been-done idea that has little to really offer the true movie enthusiast.  Whoopi Goldberg's character's sudden elimination gave nothing to the film; but Taye Diggs (the only newcomer in this film of note ) is great in his role.  He will be seen more if for no other reason than being in this movie.  When I saw this movie, there were a total of 6 people in a theater designed to hold several hundred.  Within a week I fully expect this movie to be gone and on it's way to video--where it's true market may be found.  This is not to lead you to believe that this is a bad film, on the contrary, but I just feel that it could have been better, much better.  One thing that I would like to point out that I did like is that  one of the characters (Stella's sister--the pregnant one) in the film was married to a white man.  This was never mentioned, was never an issue, and was well done.  Eliminating racism in this way is refreshing to me.  For that aspect alone I rate this flim a whole point higher than I normally would have.  All in all, I can only hope that the book from which this was based is much better.   "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!!","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this is one of the best movies yet. Excellent cast. Angela B. , Whoopie, and Taye Diggs. This movie shows that age should not matter. So long as both people involved love each other who is to say it is right or wrong. I give this movie a great big thumbs up. Everyone needs to see it. If it's ever released for video sales it will go into my collection.   "},{"Title":"Angela is Great, Stella, hmmmm","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wanted so badly to really like this. I read the book but unlike most, that doesn't ruin the movie for me. It just seemed that it went from shot to shot, scene to scene without any purpose and dragged at times. During the backyard BBQ party, what kind of editing was that!? Was the director trying to make a Spike Lee type trademark for himself? However, the funny parts had me dying laughing. Whoopi and Regina King were excellent. Taye, the  Broadway actor is not yet up to Angela's level on the acting tip, so maybe this was good practice as his first film...and I could tell. But I was happy to support Terry and Angela, my 2 favorites. I am happy that Angela Bassett headlined a successful movie and look forward to a role coming to her that's totally worthy of her awesome talent.  "},{"Title":"Will we ever get it right?","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The ingredients were there. The beautiful people were there.  They were even  on an island paradise.  Why don't I see any need for them to be together?   The passion's not there.  There is no chemistry here.  And if I hear that  she's old enough to be his mother one more time I'm gonna puke!! !Whoopi Goldberg deserves an Oscar for her role.  She was TREMENDOUS!! !There was more passion and desire between two lovers in Guess Who's Coming  to Dinner and those two never touched onscreen (at least I don't remember  them touching onscreen). I guess if I hold this as the standard to which I'm  judging Stella I may never be satisfied. "},{"Title":"Romantic and funny... can it be?","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was picked out of my girlfriend in the video-store, and I didn't have so high hopes for it. I was wrong. The movie is funny, romantic and there are enough nice looking babes as well as men (esp. one man acc. to my gf) )Absolutely highly recommended for a saturday evening. "},{"Title":"Updated but old-fashioned","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie for the most part but felt like the mixture of updated sensibilities and old-fashioned movie tricks was uneasy at times.  The actors are great to look at but lack chemistry necessary to make you care if they end up together or not.  Whoopi provided a laugh or two but then another cliche is trotted out to do away with her. This movie could have been made as is in 1961 with Susan Hayward and George Chakiris.  "},{"Title":"This is a must see, especially for women!","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is good on SO many levels!  Angela Bassett and Taye Diggs are just gorgeous to watch on a screen for two hours!  The scenery is beautiful, and the storyline is really engaging (aside from the lame Whoopi Goldberg sub-plot).  This is a sexy, intriguing movie with great characters that really wraps you up in romance and reality and the problems the two have when they connect, especially when it is not anticipated or expected! Ignore the bad reviews.  This is a good movie with positive characters! "},{"Title":"Relationships are in the head, not the heart.","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a happily married male.  When I was 40, I had a wonderful relationship like Stella's, and it was very natural and laid-back.  Stella is every man's dream of the perfect mate, and Winsten is certainly too good to be true, but he's definitely every woman's dream come true, no matter what the respective ages.  This film goes on a little too long, but it's so sweet and so lush in its photography, you forgive it.  Whoopie Goldberg did a marvelous supporting role (I think the movie had 3 stars, not just 2).  It's definitely a date movie AND a romantic Saturday night late dinner movie for old married folks. "},{"Title":"a chick flick for the wrong reason","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chick flicks are never good movies. If the movie is any good, men will watch and it therefore will not be a chick flick. (For example, i'm a man and i love Harry met Sally)That said, this is a chick flick. Whoopi is the only thing that makes it bearable. "}{"Title":"Follow McMillan's Lead","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How Stella Got her Groove Back was a refreshing change from the legion of Hood movies that have infested the 1990's. The movie; based on the Terry McMillan novel by the same name; stars Angela Bassett as a fortyish six-figure income, single mom that falls for a young stud while vacationing in Jamaica.Stella did not have a plot that revolved around violence, guns and drugs. It effectively portrays the stigma attached to a older woman-younger man relationship, without pandering to a lot of ethnic stereotypes! It showed what a fine actress Angela Bassett was. It also showed Angela Bassett in skivvies!Every woman that has been accused of Robbing the Cradle can relate to this motion picture! How Stella got Her Groove Back effectively portrayed an age gap love story. It takes character to see beyond the age difference in a romantic relationship. "},{"Title":"Though provoking film that transcends age, race, and Gender.","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Angela Bassett is absolutely the finest actress working today. Every performance she puts in is masterful, however this is by far her best to date. As a male in my early 30s I normally don't like love stories, but I have always enjoyed Angela's work. The movie was stylish and the 40 year old actress still looks 25. She is tough, but caring throughout the movie. I don't spoil plots, but it is nice to see Angela be in a movie with romance involved. And for all you immature kids out there don't expect to see Angela topless or anything (No Nudity clause in her contract), but she exudes enough sexuality while still leaving it up to the imagination. If you want to see the tough side of Angela go rent Strange Days.   "},{"Title":"Didn't do anything for me.","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What started as promising, turned out to be quite disappointing. Too long, very predictable and might I add BORING! I think I actually would have preferred sitting through 2 hours of Barney with my niece ... YIKES! "},{"Title":"The word GARBAGE comes to mind","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How Stella Got Her Groove Back is the worst movie that has been made in a long time. It is extremely slow and shallow, displays no acting talent whatsoever and the script is shocking. I think the only reason Angela Bassett went in this movie was to show off her body because that's all she does. It looks like getting a bit better when Angela leaves Jamaica but she soon goes back and then comes back and goes back again and just becomes a stupid cycle. I think the author should have kept her love life to herself and should not have let this awful book become a movie. "},{"Title":"It was.....OK","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Taking a look at Stella's life, you never really get the sense that she is all that unhappy being a single mom with a successful career. So, when she does get the desire to go on vacation to Jamaica, it doesn't come off as completely believable. Stella and Winston have no real spark that makes their relationship interesting. One minute she is adamant about turning him down....the next she is dancing with him all night, which is almost confusing. Why did she change her mind all of a sudden?The things that save the movie are the scenery, which is beautiful, and the relationship Stella has with her best friend, and her sisters. That subplot is much better than the original movie subject. Even with that, it isn't enough for me to want to see the movie again.  "},{"Title":"The Theory of Living to 402 is born!","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" So I am going to tell a little story.Me and my best friend are going to live til we are 402 together. We will be sitting in our easy chairs, with our easy walkers in reach, and we will die together. This movie highlights why girls have best friends - and after seeing it, you never want to leave them.It is obviously a chick movie - but its a good one at that. I don't care what it was rated (and I am, a self-proclaimed movie snob) it has wonderful memories.. so girls.. get out there, and rent it with your best friend. You wont regret it. "},{"Title":"Not Quite In a Groove","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Do not get me wrong, How Stella Got her Groove Back was not a bad movie. In fact, I found it a light and entertaining picture.  Some of this pleasure however was derived from the fantasia setting of Jamaica and the marvelous physical appearances of both Stella and Winston.I would have preferred a greater emphasis on how Stella and Winston overcome their formidable 20 year age gap.  The side plot of Whoopi Goldberg succumbing to cancer was an unnecessary detour from Jamaica, and the burgeoning relationship.While I greatly enjoyed the comic elements of Stella's sisters, I thought that the introduction of the friendly ex-husband at the barbeque was pushing it too far.What would be interesting although perhaps uneconomic, would be a sequel which explores if Stella and Winston conquer their sizeable personality differences and come to enjoy a rewarding and stable relationship based less upon raw physical attraction. "},{"Title":"Updated Old Fashioned Comedy","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How Stella Got Her Groove Back is a successful throwback to the old fashioned romantic comedies from early movies with updated humor. This is life styles of the pretty wealthy folks so the film can happily toss out money as an obstacle to love. This type of story needs a vulnerable yet strong heroine and Angela Bassett is simply perfect. Then add cackling sisters and a sarcastic friend in Whoopi Goldberg with decent comic writing and we have a very funny hour or so. The scenes in Jamaica are an obvious plus. Who wouldn't want to fall in love there?Moving on from this light beginning the movie has pretty predictable problems. Toward the end, the film tries a little too hard to be serious but I am not complaining. Romantic comedies are entertainment and not art. So while this is not a great movie, as a light weight change of pace it was fine.  "},{"Title":"avoid at all costs","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" this film is just so bad i felt the need to place a vote to spare others having to go through it -what is surprising is that it gets 3/4 from beradinelli -he either was not feeling well at the time or invested money in it! it follows the other woeful pictures in this series i.e. waiting to exhale and brown sugar. The film has some pathetic effort as well to develop the characters and storyline. Basically a rich well to do 40 year women (bassett) goes off on holiday to jamaica with her best friend (whoppi Goldberg) and falls in love with a 20 year old. Not sure what whoppie goldberg is doing in the film as her character is not developed at all apart from trying to get us to feel sorry for her as she dies of cancer -poignant not!...Bassett character as well is poorly developed and basically everyone falls victim to a bad script. "},{"Title":"love will find you in the least likies places","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Angela Bassett proves that not only she is beautiful but, she has joined hollywood's elite.  Taye Diggs gives a wonderful preformance as her younger love interest.  The chemistry between the two was hotter then that of Gere and Robert's(Pretty Woman). Whoopi Goldberg was totally refresh as a true comedic relief.  Her preformance has rarely been matched and she delivered punchline after punchline.  A movie for everyones library. "}{"Title":"Rich, Silly and Pleasant.","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How Stella Got Her Groove Back is a pleasant, puff ball romantic comedy about a love affair between Stella, a 40 year old woman (Angela Bassett) and Winston, a 20 year old man (Taye Diggs); Mills and Boon with a slight sting; romance in a Jamaican resort.Fantasy romances have their appeal, I enjoyed the feel of this film, but you'd be advised to leave reality back home with your mortgage. If you want to see a much more gutsy movie about such a romance get White Palace out on video, a very strong film where Susan Sarandon has an affair with a much younger, and richer man (James Spader).Superior actor Angela Bassett (Malcolm X, Passion Fish, What's Love Got to Do With It and Strange Days) isn't stretched in How Stella Got Her Groove Back , but true love on a tropical beach is easy. Isn't it?Of course Stella is a high powered, San Franciscan single mum stock broker with heaps of money. What's unlikely is that Winston would be both so nice, so handsome and so instantly smitten by the not so wrinkly Stella.But some very  slinky soul music, the always impressive Whoopi Goldberg as Delilah, Stella's best friend and the rascal Regina King (Cuba Gooding's wife in Jerry Maguire) as Stella's sister add bite. And in particular the oh so charming Taye Diggs as the well spoken boy lover will melt the heart of many a young lady in the audience.How Stella Got Her Groove Back is from almost the same team who gave us the much more meatier Waiting To Exhale (without Exhale's director Forest Whitaker) and is based on the writer Terry McMillan's real life affair with a Jamaican man who was a generation younger. And yes Terry McMillan is female. "}]