[{"Title":"Satisfying, intense emotional drama","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ulu Grosbard has directed this fine adult drama adapted from the best-selling novel by Jacquelyn Mitchard. Michelle Pfeiffer and Treat Williams portray Beth and Pat Cappadora, parents of three youngsters. On a trip to her high school reunion, Beth loses her three year old son in a busy hotel lobby. The boy is absent from the family for nine years, after which he is surprisingly returned to his birth family. This is just the bare bones of the plot. However, it is the touching performances of all of the principals which transcend the television movie-of-the-week sound of the plot.Michelle Pfeiffer adds another moving performance to her gallery of roles. If the film had been released in the fall of 1998, as was originally planned, she might have had an Academy Award nomination. Treat Williams' role is less defined, but it is alway a pleasure to watch this under-used and under-rated actor. However, it is Jonathan Jackson and Ryan Merriman as the oldest son and the lost boy who make this such an emotionally satisfying drama. Whoopi Goldberg adds some needed humor to the serious proceedings as the detective assigned to the case.Stephen Schiff, writer for the New Yorker, has done a lean adaptation of the novel. Grosbard has unpretentiously directed this fine cast. The Deep End of the Ocean is one of the best contemporary dramas to come along in quite a while. "},{"Title":"The Deep End of the Ocean 8/10","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids don't just vanish up in smoke, kids don't just get lost, PEOPLE LOSE THEM! Pat Cappadora (Treat Williams) yells in an argument to his wife Beth (Michelle Pfeiffer) about their three-year-old Ben being kidnapped while at Beth's 15-year reunion. It seems that seven-year-old Vincent (Cory Buck) didn't keep close enough of an eye. Beth's hysterical, and nobody knows what to do.Flash ahead nine years. The baby Kerry is now nine years old. Vincent (now played by Jonathon Jackson) is a rebellious teen with a knack for hot-wiring cars. Pat has his own resturant in Chicago (named Cappadora's). Beth has given up photographing. When a boy, Sam Karras (Ryan Merriman), offers to mow their lawn, Beth takes photos. And, lo and behold, it happens to be little Ben.Touching, superbly acted, well written, and emotionally moving. Pfeiffer and Williams give great performances. When Pfeiffer was hysterical, that seemed a little forced; other than that she was great. Williams delievered a strong dramatic performance, he was perfect in almost every way. The supporting characters delievered strong emotions and were very believeable.Deep End's sap isn't falsely given to you it's done in a very believable way, even if it does seem a little over-the-top and unlikely at first. Not many movies can truly force-feed you emotion and lump-in-the-throats, but this one does.The plot twists actually were somewhat unpredictable. Actually, the movie was divided in half the first half is when Ben is missing, the second is when Sam comes. When the finale comes in, I was surprised, even though they go for the Hollywood Ending.It definately didn't seem scripted. The human interactions were very real, and the chemistry between everyone (especially Jackson and Merriman) were extremely believeable.The Deep End of the Ocean is a touching, sad, yet somehow satisfying yarn of family.My rating 8/10Rated PG-13 for language and thematic elements.  "},{"Title":"This was at the movie theater?","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I never heard of Deep End of the Ocean until it showed up on cable the other night.  The whole time that I watched it, I thought that it was a made for cable movie.  Pretty good performances--I think some of the other reviewers came down extremely hard on this movie.  Not generally my kind of movie(emotional chick/family movie), but I was pleasantly surprised, even though I must say that it did have that Lifetime Channel, feel about it.  7/10 stars     "},{"Title":"A TV movie with spit, polish and a well-known cast","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Beth Cappadora is at a reunion in a hotel when her middle child of three goes missing.  At first the search is informal but it grows increasingly frantic and official as they realise that Ben has been taken by somebody. The family never fully recovers and carry the scars for years.  Nine years later the family have moved to Chicago to start a new life.  When Beth has a local boy come to the block to cut the grass, she believes that he must be Ben because her looks just like him despite the age.  The police recover Ben but is it fair to take him away from the people Ben now considers his family?The plot summary gives the impression that this is just a standard weepy that would easily screen on a weekday afternoon.  However the presence of a couple of well known names in the cast list suggests that this film will give the subject a more serious approach that acts more as drama than weepy. Partly the latter is true but not 100%, and the film is still essentially a sort of weepy that has a control of it's emotions and is actually quite stable but not to the point where it is an engaging debate.The material should be thought provoking but it isn't really.  What I thought would be the main thrust of the film was really just mentioned in the final 20 minutes and it was not only obvious that it was coming but it was quite logically dealt with without real emotion - this is not a `Sophie's Choice' situation but something quite lacking.  The start of the film is OK but it deals with the loss too easily and I never got overwhelmed with the emotions the family must feel.  Towards the end the film does a good job looking at the effects the whole thing has had on the other son's character but even this lacks an emotional punch.The cast are good on paper but they seem strangely stilted.  Pfeiffer is a good actress who sadly doesn't seem to get as much good work as she gets older.  Here she tries hard but can't get across what her character must be feeling inside.  Williams is an OK support for her and does OK.  Jackson is quite good and his character became more interesting to me than the return of Ben itself.  Goldberg hangs around but attempts to give her a character through one line of dialogue about her sexuality and security in her job are so out of the blue that I was left wondering where it came from.Overall this is not a weepy because it aims higher than that and doesn't wrench all the emotion out of every scene to get the audience.  However it doesn't aim high enough or reach the level where it is emotional or thought provoking, the end result being an interesting film that is a notch above the level of daytime TV weepy but not as worthy or moving as it wants to be. "},{"Title":"Decent, but the book is better...","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think that I would have liked this movie a LOT more if I'd never read the book!  If anyone of you have the chance, READ the book!  Oh, it's AWESOME!!! In my opinion, the movie left out some stuff that would have made it a LOT more interesting!!!  Some people seem to think that parts of the movie are unrealistic, but when you read the book and get all the detail and everything, it starts to become a lot more believable than it is in the movie.  Plus, the older brother has a MUCH larger role in the book, which makes more sense than how they protrayed him in the movie.  Anyway, I guess you can tell, what I'm trying to say is, READ THE BOOK!!!!  -)  "},{"Title":"Michelle Pfeiffer looks great and plays her role with passion","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Here we have a story that starts slowly but develops into a tense emotional drama. Michelle Pfeiffer is not only nice to look at but she plays the role of a frantic mother in search of her abducted 3-year old with great passion and at times hysteria. Whoopi Goldberg who plays the part of top policewoman in charge of investigation gives a moving sympathetic performance. What I greatly admire in this actor is the clear enunciation of her speech. I missed not a word delivered with clarity and depth of meaning. The film explores the feelings of children and parents caught up in the problems associated with child adoptions. Where does this baby belong with his biological mother or his adopted father? It's an interesting film because the problem is real and with us to-day.  The ending may surprise you. "},{"Title":"Pfeiffer's best performance since 'Dangerous Liaisons'","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At last a good movie for Pfeiffer. Great performance. If you're a fan of Pfeiffer-and not only-it's well worth this. The stories with illegal adoptions make some people feel uncomfortable. However, this is a movie with great actors. Goldberg as Candy Bliss is great and Jonathan Jackson as Vincent (16 years  old) is a very talented young actor. Generally the movie has 2-3 very POWERFUL scenes, go and see it! "},{"Title":"The Deep End of the Ocean","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well made, superbly acted film about a family who faces the loss of a loved one to a kidnapping. He appears 9 years later, but he feels foreign to the family he once knew. Pfeiffer delivers one of his strongest, most deeply passionate performances as the emotionally torn mother of the missing child and she is complimented by Williams (his best in years), Jackson as a troublesome elder son and Goldberg, in a pivotal role as the detective who helps find the family's boy. The pacing is just right and the performances make you grab for the tissues at the pleasant ending.  "},{"Title":"slow plot but great acting","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i have to admit that i thought this movie was boring at the beginning. but as the film rolled along, it turned out better than i expected. the acting was really good, especially from michelle pfeiffer and jonathan jackson. i would recommend this film for mothers, and it's also good for people who have gone through the same thing. "},{"Title":"See this, Great movie!","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Beth Cappadora (Michelle Pfeiffer) is at her high school reunion when her 3-year-old son disappears from his brother's care. The little boy never turns up, and the family has to deal with the devastating guilt and grief that goes along with it. Nine years later, the family has relocated to Chicago. By a sheer fluke, the kid turns up, living no more than two blocks away. The authorities swoop down and return the kid to his biological parents, but things are far from being that simple. The boy grew up around what he has called his father, while his new family are strangers to him; the older son, now a teenager, has brushes with the law and behavioral problems. His adjustment to his lost brother is complicated by normal teenage churlishness, and the dad (Treat Williams) seems to expect everything to fall into place as though the family had been intact all along. It's a tightrope routine for actors in a story like this, being careful not to chew the scenery while at the same time not being too flaccid or understated. For the most part, the members of the cast deal well with the emotional complexity of their roles. Though the story stretches credulity, weirder things do happen in the real world. The family's pain for the first half of the film is certainly credible, though the second half almost seems like a different movie. Whoopi Goldberg plays the detective assigned to the case; casting her is a bit of a stretch, but she makes it work. All in all, a decent three-honky movie in the vein of Ordinary People. "}{"Title":"The depth of this movie is too measured to fully fathom our hearts","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At first impression, The Deep End of the Ocean can be a story of a mother's courage and all that, and it looks that there's no other way the movie can be but go sappy and mushy. Moreover, it will give anyone who has a rather not-too-good relationship with their mothers a gnawing amount of guilt. But screenwriter Schiff's take on the Mitchard bestseller and director Grosbard's restraint steers the movie away from the hackneyed themes substantially, though not totally. SPOILER ALERT The movie opens with mother Beth Cappadora (Michelle Pfiffer) going to Chicago for her high school reunion with her two children, Ben and Vincent. Ben gets lost in the hotel's crowded lobby. Even with the help of police and detective Candy Bliss (Whoopi Goldberg), Beth and her husband Pat (Treat Williams) are not able to find Ben. While everything around her starts to get on with life, Beth languishes in guilt, anger and grief. She retreats into days of sleep and pills. Her social contacts remain confined with her husband and relatives though most ends in anger and resentment. In the process, she misses much of other things, and one casualty is Vincent (Jonathan Jackson) who becomes a teenager harboring resent ment against her. As life is beginning to go on--Pat opens an Italian restaurant, the youngest child Kerry is growing and they move to Chicago--Beth suddenly meets Ben (Ryan Merriman) after nine years. He has been raised by an adoptive father George (John Kapelos), goes by the name and has no memory of his real family. Here starts the crux of the film, revealing to us the pain and complications of Ben's integration. Different emotions beef up this part of the film joy, disorientation, sibling rivalry, anger, etc. Here the film widens its emotional focus to include Vincent who develops his own take on the situation. Ben, on the other hand, doesn't do well with the Cappadoras, missing his adoptive father and running away at nights to sleep on his own bed. Eventually, Beth comes to realize that they are really giving the boy pain rather than being his shelter. She decides to give him back to George. But eventually Ben comes back and makes a reconciliation with Vincent Though, the film effectively plumbs the appropriate pathos and the meaning of family, it however decides on a snappy resolution effected more by a story's need for conclusion than a desire to depict life's process, which takes a rather long and quirky closure. Overall, Deep End's emotional dose is superbly measured, thus coming out effectively poignant, but not totally convincing. Let's tackle its poignant power. Besides the movie's innate tearjerking quality, Grosbard's manipulations do not fall into the sentimental pits, even though the movie is very similar to a better-quality television movie or special. The direction is what you call sober, that is serious in its intention in spaying out lives torn apart by emotionally turbulent events and not in desperately tugging the audience's emotional chord, playing with their feelings and excruciatingly coaxing tears. His style remains devoid of florid qualities, thus not impressing the audience with startling visuals, momentous scenes and high-grade effects. Thus, nothing is impressed into the viewer's mind visually, but it serves effectively the film's purpose of straightforward telling. Schiff, who was a film critic in Vanity Fair before turning to writing screenplays, adapted his screenplay from Mitchard's novel of the same title. He tries to portray and beef up as many characters in the movie as possible from the father to the delinquent son, which is okay, only these showings of characters and their interests and backgrounds do not do a lot for the film's focus and do not really contribute with the film's organic unity. At best, they are mere appendages. With these efforts, however, he fails to show the adoptive father's side adequately and to think, he strikes me as a most sympathetic character besides Beth Cappadora, the mother and the kidnapped son. Thus, we have this feeling of fullness after watching the film although he sense that there's something lacking we cannot put our finger into. Most probably it is, and it maybe very well is, the film's failure to completely convince. There are certain details left along the trail that is undisclosed and it can be tedious to enumerate. But we tend not to notice because they do not rankle, but still they left marks. And then caps that trail with a end dead. Because the movie must stop at one point, and Deep End does it and rather too neatly as to be abrupt and hurried, thus the unconvincing natureAs for the actors, Pfeiffer emanates with acting brilliance, drawing us to a pain of a loss. After a couple of mother roles before this and she can very well carry on other roles that this, she is effective enough. Matching her is Jonathan Jackson who plays the delinquent son and the brother of the kidnapped-and then-found boy. He radiates with silent power in his character. Noticeable also is Goldberg, not because she steals the limelight, but because of her sparing appearance. The filmmakers likely know of her capacity to overwhelm and keep her at bay. Deep End is drama that can be a powerful drama, which is effectively played up but not to the extent brilliance. "},{"Title":"I had expected more","Date":"7 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is so famous, and has so many great actors in it, that I had expected more from it. As it was, it had some heart-warming moments, handsome people and beautiful exteriors and interiors - but all in all it was not very exciting. The story was the kind of sentimental family drama one would expect on Hallmark television in the afternoon - not a big cinema movie with famous stars.By the way, I think it is not possible to place a lost-and-found kid drama in present times, because DNA technique, finger prints etc. can prove the identity with almost hundred per cent's certainty. The interesting thing in the lost-and-found stories, is to guess if the person found is who he/she claims to be, or an impostor. As in Anastasia.And YES I understand that this kind of mystery was not the major issue here, but the reactions of all the family members afterwards. But it is that kind of story that one expects, when one reads about this movie or watches the trailer. So - it was a bit of a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Overall poor adaption of book","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I read this wonderful novel by Jacqueline Mitchard, the book was so compelling I got through the whole book in 3 days. I thought it was wonderful. So when this movie came out I was quite excited to see it, however I was overall disappointed with the film. I do give the makers an A for effort. It's tough to make a movie about a child that disappears, the family moves away to another state, and just happends to find their child years later living in the same neighborhood. Joshua Jackson played the part of the older brother with an attitude problem right down to a tee. I thought Michelle Pfeiffer played the role as the distraught mother excellent as well. But overall these fine performances to not make up for the poor film.     The book hit some tender notes with me, like the part where Mrs. Cappadora is explaining the loss of a child, and having to choose amongst her children she said It's like having to choose between your mind and your heart. I expected and was hoping the movie would leave me a bit emotional, but it didn't. This movie wasn't really sad,suspenseful, or overall, very entertaining.     Rent this one on .99 cent night at the video store. I give this 5/10.  "},{"Title":"An unusual and inspirational drama.","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I actually found this movie by accident. I purchased a bag full of VHS tapes at a church rummage sale and this was one of the selections. I understand that this movie is based on a book. I have not read the book and will not speak of the movies ability to convey the original material from the book. To me, a movie should stand on its own merits. This is NOT the usual kid goes missing drama which is quite common. Its not based on any particular true story that I know of. It presents a somewhat unique situation of what if a missing child is found, living a very well adjusted lifestyle where nobody is aware of the missing boys past; except for the biological parents of course. What I found amazing was the total strength of character that was given to the boy who had been kidnapped when he was only 3. It is hard to find a more loving and caring child than the one we have in 12 year old SAM who's birth name was Ben. You would have to believe that such a child could only be a product of a very loving and caring family. However, One of these family members had a deep dark secret that she struggled with until her untimely death. Nevertheless Sam, was left with a wisdom love and understanding that most adults don't have. He never knew of the deep dark secret of his abduction or had long forgotten it at least. In contrast, his biological family struggled with their own secrets and feelings of guilt and blame. Each had their moments of seeming to get their lives together, but never really coming to terms with the loss of a young child. Each seemed dysfunctional in a different way, and the dysfunctional aspects clashed with each other much of the time. Suddenly the nearly unimaginable event happens. Their son is found and right in their own neighborhood. The question here is how do you integrate an amazingly well adjusted child, into a family who is still torn up with feelings of blame and guilt and loss etc. What happens to this miraculous child AND what happens to the person who he loves and regards as his father. Ryan Merriman plays Sam, the lost boy who is truly not lost as far as having his life together. He is nearly a picture perfect child. a parents dream come true. I marveled at the strength of character he has and the maturity well beyond his years. Sam is like the glue that binds everyone else together. Merriman's performance is amazing. I became very emotionally involved in the characters and the plot. I especially felt involved with Sam and his father, George, who raised him. The movie was well acted and in my opinion it was well presented as to the storyline. I guess it may be a bit different from the book, but without reading the book, I had no preconceived ideas or expectations. In that respect, the storyline seemed fine as it was presented. I would like to have seen George incorporated a bit more into the ending. All in all, it was a very great movie and I plan to buy a DVD copy for my movie library. "},{"Title":"Watchable for one reason","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All praise goes to Jonathan Jackson who saves this sticky sentimental crap movie. The screen lights up whenever Jackson enters as Beth and Pat Cappadora's oldest son Vincent. You can feel the torment in that adolescent body. Why the heck is it so hard for his parent to understand him?If you like the Vincent character I can recommend you to read the book by Jacquelyn Mitchard. It's about as sentimental as the movie (if not more) but interesting in the way that it is told through a shared view, with both Beth and Vincent narrating the story. In the book we learn a lot more about Vincent and his life, why he became who he is and what he thinks and feel about the whole situation. Most of the time seen from Vincent's view is spent at his psychiatrist Tom, a character they completely cut out of the movie. That's too bad, because that's where all the action really takes place. Vincent is a really messed up kid, and the scenes between him and Tom are both funny and thoughtful.In the book Vincent also suffers from panic attacks, something experienced by many teens and that could have been used in the movie as a good identification issue. Sadly, that was cut out too. Basically, what they have done is taken what is in the book a multilayered and very interesting character, and turned him one-dimensional and less inspiring. What we can be thankful for is Jonathan Jackson who I think does a great job with the little he is given. Ryan Merriman, who plays the lost son Ben/Sam is also very good.But otherwise this movie seems like a made-for-TV-sleeze-thing and I can't stand the bad acting put up by the adults. Michelle Pfeiffer can be really good in roles that are more toned down than this one and her overacting everything is annoying. Treat Williams is mostly just vacant. Whoopi Goldberg on the other side does a fine job as a minority within the majority a black, lesbian cop that befriends the family. Basically you can get a lot out of reading the book if you just skip the parts about Beth. "},{"Title":"'A' for effort","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The worst type of movie is not some comically unsound, poorly acted, low-budget B movie. Rather it's a major studio drama that tries too hard to be emotional, thought provoking, and earnest all at once.  Based on an excellent novel, the movie does not do the book justice.I can imagine Michelle Pfeiffer as she read the novel falling in love with it, imagining herself in the title role.  It's a shame that what little of the novel translated to the screenplay became such an ambiguous and boring movie.  It is quite painful to witness mediocre actors like Treat Williams and Ms. Pfeiffer try their damnedest to look traumatized and devastated by the events of the story, when the result is comparable to a 7th Grade acting class. (i.e. Pfeiffer's reaction to seeing Ben's picture in the hotel lobby)After the troubling events that transpire in the movie (which are terminally frustrating) and the ...GASP... sudden unexpected (and improbable) plot twists.  You're left to wonder so... What next?The characters, particularly their son, Vincent, are downright annoying.  And in possibly the worst casting in history Whoopi Goldberg as Candy Bliss, a gay, black police detective supervisor (which, inappropriately, has nothing to do with the movie, she literally just blurts it out).The conclusion is only worse as the viewer is left wondering...Well now what? A fitting end to a poor excuse for a movie.  "},{"Title":"Stand-out Character Dynamic","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" THE DEEP END OF THE OCEAN **** Jacqueline Mitchard's bestselling tearjerker is incorporated into this heartfelt, emotional motion picture about losing a loved one, rising above certain challenges from which point, and finally experiencing a saving grace. Ulu Grosbard's cast is exquisite, with Michelle Pfeiffer playing the mother of three kids who attends a high school reunion, and accidentally loses the younger son. A search for the little guy wasn't over for weeks upon weeks, until our family had to face facts that he wasn't coming home. But the most unexpected thing happens about nine years later when a boy comes up to mow the lawn, whom the family believes is the long-lost child. Treat Williams is great as the man-to-lean-on husband who wants to do the right thing. Whoopi Goldberg adds a nice touch as Detective Bliss. Amid its interesting theme, the character dynamic stands out - from how the players respond to each other through the horrific circumstance, to mutually reaching a place of forgiveness and comfort, with each other and in themselves. One of the more rewarding films I've seen lately. "},{"Title":"A made for TV movie script that made it to the big screen","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really don't have much to say on this film except that I didn't feel the least bit of sorrow for Pfeiffer or Williams when they lost their son.  I really didn't feel anything for any character on any level in this movie. Let's see Pfeiffer's character spends 9 long years in wallow and self pity for losing her son.  She then miraculously finds her son living only 2 blocks away from her, Pfeiffer's character should have played the lotto in the movie with this kind of blind luck. She then instantaneously recognizes him when he comes to ask to mow her lawn (yeah sure).  A plethora of police cars then go to retrieve her son.  You could swear by all of the police vehicles they are going to go capture a serial killer, but they are just going to get her son back.  The police knock on the door only to find the adoptive father has no clue that the boy is not his son and he just allows his adopted son to leave with the police without so much as a threat of legal action!!!!  The son then discovers that he has no emotional feelings for his real family two weeks later and Pfeiffer then just allows him to move back in with his adopted father?!  What?  She abused drugs, neglected her children and she finally finds her son and now she just accepts that he wants to live with his adoptive father?   The cedar chest scene was also some of the lamest script writing I've ever witnessed.  Wait, I remember that smell.  Yeah kid, it's a cedar chest and the cedar is used to keep moths away.  What, did Pfeiffer lock you in the cedar chest when you were 2 years old or something?  Let's see the kid didn't remember the stuffed rabbit, but he remembers playing hide and seek in the cedar chest?!I love Whoopie Goldberg in other movies, but like all of the other characters I did not understand her role either.  For example, at the beginning of the movie when Pfeiffer goes to touch her in a gesture of kindness and Whoopie shoots back in her chair.  Whoopie then states out of the blue that she is gay and this is the reason for her pulling away from Pfeiffer.  Huh????  What relevance does her being gay have anything to do with anything in this movie????  Let's see Whoopie is the head detective and all she spends her time on is finding an abducted child?  What, there's no drug dealers or murderers in Chicago?  Save your money at the rental store on this one folks.  I've seen some bad made for TV movies that are better than this trash. "},{"Title":"Pfeiffer great","Date":"28 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Beth Cappadora (Michelle Pfeiffer) is in Chicago for her reunion. She loses her son Ben in the crowded hotel lobby. Police detective Candy Bliss (Whoopi Goldberg) investigates but he's nowhere to be found. Many years later, young Sam Karras comes to Beth's door to offer to mow the lawn. She recognizes Sam as her long lost son Ben. It's discovered that Ben was kidnapped by a disturbed woman who has since committed suicide. His new father didn't know about the kidnapping. Ben is reunited with the Cappadoras but life with the family is problematic. Ben wants to go home. His brother Vincent is rebelling. Beth and her husband Pat (Treat Williams) are cracking under the pressure.Michelle Pfeiffer and Treat Williams are both great. Cory Buck as young Vincent does an admirable job. Jonathan Jackson and Ryan Merriman are in a tough situation as the older versions of the sons. So much is expected but they aren't given the tools. This movie tries very hard to get emotional truths but it only gets glimpses. There is so much ground to cover. It would have been better to concentrate mostly after the reunion. Losing Ben is too alluring and takes up half of the movie. The first half is effective and traditional. The second half feels thin and more original. The movie feels split between the two. "},{"Title":"A dream deferred","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Directed by Ulu Grosbard, The Deep End of the Ocean stars Michelle Pfeiffer as Beth, a young mother whose son Ben mysteriously disappears. Nine years later Beth finds Ben living with another family, with whom he's formed familial attachments.Ocean boasts an interesting narrative structure. Its opening scenes sketch a ridiculously cheerful suburban idyll. Such idealisations are shattered when Beth's son goes missing. Henceforth Beth becomes suicidally depressed. Her domestic fantasies are rekindled when Ben returns. Henceforth Beth sets about (re)creating what is essentially a simulation a facsimile of what she thinks the perfect American nuclear family should be like (or would have been). The film's big irony is that this facsimile, the very idealizations which bring Beth out of her depression, promptly forces her newfound son into depression; the kid misses his surrogate family, a family which his biological mom deems fake but which is nevertheless real to Ben.Ocean has fleeting moments of truth. Some scenes between mother and son, and between brother and brother, are genuinely powerful. The film also works well when touching upon the ways in which happiness oft depends upon shared delusions, and the ways in which what we deem to be true love and true familial bonds are subject to arbitrary social/environmental coding. Actress Whoopi Goldberg is also interesting as a lesbian police officer.Unfortunately, much of Ocean is also unbearable. This is a formulaic and safe film which too hastily rushes through its plot points and which becomes increasingly incredulous as it progresses. The way in which Beth ejects Ben's surrogate family from his life is also frustratingly tactless. Designed to whip up easy drama, this is a narrative gimmick found in many similar movies of the era, most of which saw families unnecessarily fighting over cute kids. Based on a novel by Jacquelyn Mitchard.7/10 - See Birth (2004), Like Dandelion Dust and Shadow of a Doubt. "}{"Title":"This is OK","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Michelle Pfeiffer and Treat Williams have their younger (age 5) son abducted. This is a bad thing, and the family barely hangs together. When he is returned 9 years later he does not remember them. They are faced with the problem of a younger son who does not feel he belongs with these strangers, and an older son who has gone off the rails due to the family stress.This family drama is interesting, always keeps you involved, and features good performances all round. The problem - if it is a problem - is that this feels very much like a Hallmark Channel Family Problem Of The Week TV Movie small scale in presentation despite Pfeiffer, Williams and Whoopi Goldberg in the cast. This doesn't really matter, but it makes the film feel as if there is a mismatch between source and destination.It's worth catching on a lazy afternoon, though. "},{"Title":"The Deep End of Pfeiffer.","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Deep End of the Ocean (1999) Dir Ulu Grosbard / Cast Michelle Pfeiffer, Treat Williams, Whoopi Goldberg, Jonathan Jackson, Alexa Vega Drama that inquires how far one would go to obtain information or achieve goals. Michelle Pfeiffer plays a mother who turns her back for only a second only to be confronted with the reality that one of her children is missing. Nine years later she hasn't gotten over it but still continues her job as a photographer. One day her daughter arrives home with a friend to mow the lawn. Pfeiffer is stunned at his resemblance to her missing son. After taking snapshots she involves police resulting in a disturbing film where no one can ultimately win. There is an intriguing twist in the conclusion that ties everything together. Directed by Ulu Grosbard who previously made Georgia. Fine performances by Pfeiffer who suffers for a mistake but will go at lengths to correct it. Treat Williams as her husband is cardboard and basically there to tell Pfeiffer to give up. Whoopi Goldberg has the thankless role as a gay detective with misguided humour. Jonathan Jackson plays the now older son who remembers nothing but is overwhelmed by this sudden life that he cannot reflect. Alexa Vega plays the younger sister who avoids being missing. Depressing film with a strong message about protecting children from society's deep end. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"Still waters run deep","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Based on a true story, this film uses muted tones to express the story of a family coping when a child goes missing, then struggling even more when he returns suddenly to their lives nine years later, as a twelve-year old. The film benefits greatly from finely crafted, understated performances from Pfeiffer and Williams, as well as the moodiness of Jonathan Jackson as the older brother, Vincent, who is trying bitterly to hold things together. Look out also for Whoopi Goldberg, and for an early appearance by Alexa Vega. Prepare to cry several times during this movie. It packs a real punch, and the performances by Ryan Merriman as the abductee, and John Kapelos as his unsuspecting adoptive father, are truly moving. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Movie","Date":"8 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is an original and well-written story &#x97; unlike most movies, which have predictable and time-worn story lines. It's about real people with real emotions, decent people trying to deal with difficult situations.I liked the characters. I liked the realistic way they dealt with the situations. And there wasn't any overacting, like you see so often in movies. People didn't go around screaming or otherwise overdramatizing, and yet their feelings were apparent. It was well acted by all.Most parents consider their children to be their possessions. Some parents have no regard for their children's feelings. Only a parent who really loves his or her child thinks of the child's happiness and best interests above all else. This picture recognizes this fact.This is an excellent movie. I really enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"It called in my mind 'An American Rhapsody'","Date":"8 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A kid of three years old is kidnapped; he will be retrieved after nine years. All of them will face difficult challenges, the parents, the boy, the adoptive father (who was rising the kid in good faith, without being aware of what had happened long time ago). The movie is based on the best-seller of Jacquelyn Mitchard. I didn't have the chance to read the book; some say it is superior to the movie (which would not come as a surprise). What impressed me was the outcome of the story, treated with great sensibility and poignancy.It called in my mind another movie, 'An American Rhapsody', as both of them offer somehow the same solution. The best decision can be taken only by the kid, if they let him find the answers in his own terms. And his decision will be of unexpected maturity he will realize his importance and his responsibilities for the well being of the whole family. "},{"Title":"A Superficial Treatment Of A Complicated Subject","Date":"20 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There's no doubt that this movie brings forth feelings of sympathy from anyone who watches it. You feel sorry for everyone for Pat and Beth, whose 3 year old son is kidnapped; for Vincent, who loses his brother; for Carrie, who never knew her brother; for Sam/Ben, who was kidnapped and lost all memory of his birth family and ends up being torn away from everything he knows; for George, who unknowingly adopts Sam/Ben as his son and then loses him. Everyone in this is a sympathetic character. So, the movie pulls the heartstrings well, but in the end offered very little depth to either the subject matter or the characters. It came across to me as superficial - it introduces the issue but only scratches the surface. Maybe that's inevitable in a movie dealing with such a difficult subject, or maybe it was just the result of a poorly constructed movie that tried to give us a sense of everyone's feelings, when it might have been more powerful had it focused on just one of the characters, and how they reacted to this insane situation. Then, it makes the biggest mistake it could have made - going for the happy, sappy ending, which was just too easy. Yes, there was a sense of uncertainty to the ending, as Sam/Ben admits to Vincent that he doesn't know if his decision to move back with the Cappadoras is permanent, but it still seemed too fairy-tale to me.The opening of the movie works. It draws you in as you share the growing sense of panic after Ben goes missing. Unfortunately, the plot ends up being driven by a device that's just too contrived - Sam/Ben and his adoptive father living just two blocks away from the house the Cappadoras move to in Chicago, and Beth recognizing him when he shows up offering to cut their grass. I also found Whoopi Goldberg's character of Det. Candy Bliss distracting and unnecessary - and why would anyone care that she was a lesbian? That revelation came out of the blue and served no purpose whatsoever. That does, however, serve as a good illustration of another overall problem with this. Some of the script seemed poorly thought out and had little purpose either either too cliché for the situation or extraneous to the story. The basics of the story are interesting enough to keep the viewer watching, but as a two-hour drama, it's really not that well constructed. "},{"Title":"Tragic family story &#x96; including bad acting by children.","Date":"16 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's every mother's nightmare When Beth Cappadora (Michelle Pfeiffer) turns her back for a second, her 3-year-old son, Ben, is abducted from her high school reunion. The search doesn't yield any results. And so, the family has to deal with this sudden loss Beth develops a serious case of depression, her husband, Pat (Treat Williams), tries to hide his grief and move forward, and their oldest son, Vince (Jonathan Jackson), has to deal with both his guilt (he was supposed to be watching his brother) and the lack of attention from his parents.Almost a decade later, the family moves to a new neighborhood. A boy comes by and asks if he can mow their lawn &#x96; and instantly, Beth recognizes her son, Ben. Will the family be reunited after nine years? And is it even possible to make up for the lost time? The Deep End of the Ocean has quite a few things going for it a solid cast and, more importantly, an intriguing premise. What a pity that it doesn't make more of it.The most glaring problem is that the makers aren't sure what kind of story they want to tell. Is this a movie about the loss of a son? Is it about a family's reunion or about the problems afterwards? Or is it about the impossibility of changing the past? Instead of choosing, the movie tries to tell a variety of different stories, and that doesn't quite work out. In the end, the different parts seem too disjointed.A second problem is the partially incomprehensible motivations of the characters. In one case in particular, this is due to a bad child actor. Ben's (Ryan Merriman) displayed emotions don't seem to fit his actions even once.The Deep End of the Ocean could have been a pretty good Lifetime movie. Instead, it was turned into a below-average motion picture.Written by Johanna Schoenfeldhttp//thecelebritycafe.com/movies/full_review/12945.html "},{"Title":"Strong performances shine in this good family relations drama","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I never heard of a Jacquelyn Mitchard's book on which the movie is based but somehow something about Deep End of the Ocean has attracted my attention. After long searches last week I watched this movie on DVD and I have to say that I liked it, though maybe I liked in a different way than other movies. Although I don't rank this movie among my favorites I think Deep End of The Ocean is worthy of your attention and it definitely has its moments. The story begins when we have a look at life of Beth Cappadora (Michelle Pfeiffer) a strong woman, who has an average, relatively successful and happy American family with three kids, but soon their life is falling apart because of an inexplicable disappearance of the youngest of their sons, three year old Ben (the other son, Vincent is seven). Everyone is blaming himself for such terrible loss and getting lost in their own feelings and emotions. While her husband Pat (Treat Williams) is trying to bring his family life back on normal tracks, Beth from the first look is suffered the most and using words of one of the characters she is making career of being unhappy. After nine years of imitating a normal life they move into another city and one day they meet a boy, who lives in a neighborhood. Immediately they realize that he is their son, who they have lost many years ago but after such wondrous discovery the question is what will be a family's reaction as well what will be a reaction of a boy who doesn't remember anything about his real parents and family. So it's easy to notice that the movie consists of two parts, when first smoothly passes into second. The story is relatively good developed and is rather sad at parts, although I believe that overall Deep End of the Ocean is not enough emotional as a movie with such subject is supposed to be. I liked characters development in the movie except Michelle Pfeiffer's character Beth, which in my opinion is overly contradictory and complicated. Somehow such characters are common for Michelle and she is mainly coping with her part. Her husband, Pat, who is trying to restore lost connections looks much more convincing and Treat Williams's performance really impressed me. Finally, characters of two brothers, Vincent and Sam and relations between them are one of the strongest parts of the movie. Both Jonathan Jackson and Ryan Merriman are excellent at their characters and I have to say that I particularly liked the ending of the movie. Obviously some people could find this ending sappy and made for TV but I would certainly disagree with such an approach. Even if it was a little rushed the ending is very satisfying and contains the best (and the most memorable) scenes in the whole movie. This ending made me for some time forgot about any criticism I should notice some minor faults besides already mentioned in my review, which fortunately are unable to make an influence to my overwhelmingly positive impression of Deep End of The Ocean. Although, Ulu Grossbard's direction is mostly decent, some scenes are not so carefully made as most parts of the movie while some other parts (fortunately not many and not in the crucial points) as well as some dialogs are not free from using rather formulaic clichés. But I want to say once again that despite these minor notes of criticism (remember that nothing is perfect) I think Deep End of The Ocean is a pretty good movie, which deserves not to be missed. My grade 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The only thing that made this movie worth the time of day was Whoopi...","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie should've been touching, heartwarming, tearjerkable (is that a word? hmmm!) but it wasn't. If anything, I think that the Lifetime channel would've turned this hunk of crap down.As I said above, Whoopi is the only thing worth watching in it. Although I will add that for some reason the script had a random reference to her characters (Candy Bliss) sexuality which had absolutely nothing to do with the plot (In the words of Kenan and Kel WHY!?). Michelle Pheiffer is totally wasted (at least, she acts wasted) and the other members of the cast blatantly sucked.  "},{"Title":"good acting bad script","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm a big fan of Michelle and when I saw this I was expecting it to be good. The concept wasn't too bad, it's just for me a bit impluasable. like they didn't really identify Sam before they took him, and the ending i found that the worst part, they end up playing basketball at midnight.The acting Michelle was great as usual, but she seems to make a career out of playing dysfunctional mothers, Treant was good didn't really like his character but he portrayed it well, Jonathon played the troubled teenager well making us feel for himi give it 6 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Bad screenplay, unconvincing","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't have enough fingers and toes to count how many times during a scene I screamed at the screen to give me some smart dialogue or content to convince me that the storyline wasn't contrived and that the actors were playing their roles for real, as opposed to robotically running through a script.  I loved John Kapelos (George Karras) the most, because I felt that he understood his role and portrayed it properly.  Too bad the screenplay didn't find him important enough for more screen time, because I would have loved to see how he was dealing with the reality of the situation (one line in one scene doesn't do it for me).  I think the movie could have been better had there been more conversations (not necessarily with social workers, though that might have helped), where Michelle Pfeiffer, Treat Williams, Ryan Merriman (Sam/Ben), and in some cases (for good measure) John Kapelos talked about what they were going through so everyone could come to a mutual understanding, instead of just trying to have things happen by themselves.  Joshua Jackson was OK, but where did Alexa Vega (Karry) go?  Was she just a prop in the family, or did she also have an existence?I liked the last jail scene, and the conversation on the basketball court at the end (the game was a little cheesy). "},{"Title":"Beautifully Acted","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I couldn't asked for a more emotional movie!! The Deep end of the Ocean has really outdone me! But I really have to give the credits to all the actors!!! Michelle was absoloutely beautiful and yet she brings another smashing performance as a mother who lost a child.....her acting was just Amazing! She brings tears to my eyes. Treat Williams......well...I didn't really liked his character..I thought they should've done some more emotional scenes with him! but they didn't...that was one of the down points! Whoopi Goldberg....what can I say..she brought another gorgeous performance....everything was really good for her, except when it comes to the lesbian part.....what was that all about!? One of the most recognise acting sensation was Jonathan Jackson.....he was truly amazing in this movie...he brings his character to an edge! And I couldn't be more teary eyed without his help....he was truly sensation! his acting throughout the years have really shown! and this was one of his best.Overall, The Deep end of the Ocean, was truly a beautiful movie, that every family should watched......I give it a *thumbs-up* "},{"Title":"Good story line, but poorly written. Pfeiffer overacts.","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Don't bother to rent.  The story line had possibilities, but was not realistic and poorly written. Pfeiffer overacts or maybe can't act, I don't know which.  The best part was at the end when the older brother realized the younger brother never held him responsible for the event. "},{"Title":"Nothing New Here","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Standard story, missing child... family anguish.. etc.. Definitely a no brainer if there's nothing else on the tv. Michelle Pfeiffer deserves a better role than this, maybe she needed the money? "},{"Title":"Comes Up Short","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie twice; once before and once after I read the book it is based on.  I liked it better the first time.  The book was more enjoyable than the movie; several smaller plotlines that helped make the book so good (in my opinion, at least) were left out of the film.  Michelle Pfeiffer played Beth Cappadora, the grieving mother, very well, but it just wasn't a very likeable character to me, even though one or two of the smaller plotlines seemed to have been left out of the movie to make it easier to sympathize with Beth.  It seemed to me like John Kapelos and Alexa Vega, who played George Karras and the older version of Kerry Cappadora, respectively, were sorely underused.  The film seemed to be going into the subject of how George Karras felt when Sam/Ben goes back to the Cappadoras, but didn't get far enough for me.  My favorite plotline in the film was the relationship between brothers Vincent (Jonathan Jackson) and Ben Cappadora (Ryan Merriman).  They are both very talented and are the main reason I liked this movie. "},{"Title":"Okay, but the book was better.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was okay but whoever wrote the screenplay didn't do a very good job.  They missed many key events from the book that would have made the movie easier to understand.  Aside from that though, the cast and the acting was excellent! "},{"Title":"Good story + Wasted Talent = Awful Movie","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having heard about the story and seeing the talent that was assembled for this movie, I expected great things.  The best thing I say about this movie is that they at least used an actual Madison, Wisconsin, radio station playing on the car radio.  Direction was at best the quality I would expect from a Made for Lifetime TV movie.  Where a musical score could have been used to enhance the story telling, they chose to use it to barely fill in the silence.Why did they change things from the book?  Could have addressed the pill popping, the affair or ANYTHING.Extremely disappointing movie.  Sure, it was a chick flick, but it had potential to appeal to all.  But even chick flicks can have some appeal to men.  For example, even The Sound of Music had Nazi's as the bad guys. Anyone who found this movie enjoyable has neither read or heard of the book. I have not read it, but both my wife and mother raved about it.  And they agree that this movie did not live up to the expectations of the book. "},{"Title":"Deep End is Right","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's a shame a movie this boring is released, but then I did get an extra couple hours of much needed sleep.  This movie is aptly named too bad it should have listened to its title and stayed submerged in the Deep End of the Ocean where it belongs. "},{"Title":"Really a made for tv effort","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The trailers for this looked really good. As it happens they turned out to be the only engaging parts of an otherwise forgettable film as a whole.The premise behind the movie is an extremely tense and emotional one, but the script and directing let things lag to the point where you realize that this is TV fodder. I half expect to see (better) versions of the same thing on Lifetime TV on some derary Sunday afternoon. What's so confusing is how Pfeiffer and some other apparently great actors wound up in it. "},{"Title":"kept waiting for more emotion","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The acting and the plot were good, but my husband  and I kept waiting for more emotions to be shown.   This is a good movie, but it wasn't as powerful as  we expected it to be.  I would recommend it to  anyone even if they aren't Pfeiffer fans.  We watched it for the actor who played Sam/Ben.  "}{"Title":"Strong performances by Pfeiffer and Williams are the strong points of an OK film.","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Deep end of the Ocean takes a parent's worst nightmare and puts it on screen.  Michelle Pfeiffer (One Fine Day, A Thousand Acres) and Treat Williams (Deep Rising, The Phantom) are a happily married couple with three children.  When Pfeiffer bring the three children to her class reunion she momentarily leaves them in a crowded room.  When she comes back her middle child (her second son) is missing.  At first everyone just assumed he got lost, but soon everyone realizes he is missing seriously.  The film passes on nine years later, the family has moved and their child is still missing.  The one day (completly unbelievable) their son just knocks on their door.  It turns out he has been living only 2 blocks away from them.  They get their child back from a loving father who had no idea what happened.  Soon their are many conflicts and problems with this change.  All this makes for an interesting, but slow and somewhat boring film.  Michelle Pfeiffer is very good as the grieving mother.  Jonathan Jackson (Camp Nowhere, TV's General Hospital) as the oldest child, John Kapelos (Guilty as Sin, The Relic) as the missing child's 'adoptive' father, and Ryan Merriman (Lansky, TV's The Pretender) as the found child are all good in their roles.  The film's best performance comes from the underrated Treat Williams as the grieving father who remains strong to hold the family together.   "},{"Title":"A pretty good movie, would be better as a t.v. movie though","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought the movie, Deep End of the Ocean, is a good movie but would be better as a t.v. movie.  Also I read the book and in the movie it sais nothing about how this movie got it's name!  That's the only part of the movie I really didn't like.  As a whole, the movie was pretty good. "},{"Title":"Not as good as it looks, DRAGS.","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There where only 3 things that kept this movie alive and those are Michelle pfeiffer, Treat Williams and some of the storyline. The one big problem with this movie was that it lagged a lot. In every scene Michelle P. was unhappy. Don't get me wrong Michelle's acting was a grade A acting but the character was just pathetic. It was an okay movie but nothing I would go crazy over. This is not one of Michelle's best. But the acting was great. The storyline had potential but was not well placed or used. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hmm...well, I just recently saw this movie (on video) and I was drawn to it by the plot, I guess. I won't take the time to explain the plot because I've read many of the other reviews and they explain most of it. I very much enjoyed Jonathan Jackson's character and the emotional struggle that he goes through. It was (in my opinion) the best performance I've seen him do. I must admit, it wasn't the best movie I've seen. It was just lacking something throughout the whole movie.Weaker in some points, but stronger in others. I got teary-eyed, but not exactly bawling. All in all, it was a good movie. "},{"Title":"Made for TV movie that somehow found its way onto the big screen.","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not very long into The Deep End of the Ocean, I got the sinking feeling that the only thing that stopped this film from going straight to television was the fact that Michelle Pfeiffer starred in it.  Think the crisis movie of the week with a big-name actress in it, and you've got The Deep End of the Ocean.This film has perhaps one of the worst screenplays I have ever had the displeasure of experiencing.  Luckily, I was watching with someone who had read the book, so I was able to have a few gaping holes filled in.  Unfortunately, those who haven't read the book will be left clueless in a few crucial moments.I guess it was fitting to cast Treat Williams--someone who should stick to TV movies--in what is essentially a TV movie released in theatres and on video.  I personally would have chosen someone more animated than Williams, who is one of the most wooden actors around.The corny attempts at sentiment are forced and predictable, and they ultimately fall flat.  The characters are inconsistent, hating one another one moment and seeming perfectly content the next.  Perhaps the best thing that can be said about The Deep End of the Ocean is the fact that it ends.  This is one movie to avoid. "},{"Title":"Tear Jerker??  Only for the price I paid!!!!","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was in a hotel when I saw this movie - so it was at a high price.  It was a nice film, but I think they could have saved their budget and made it into a made for tv flick.  I was not moved to tears by this movie.  It started off okay, but it fell pretty quickly!I wonder about the title though - since they lived in Chicago and Wisconsin - they were preety far from the OCEAN!  I don't even remember them making any kind of reference to it! Oh well..... "},{"Title":"A nice touching movie","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film was pretty good.  I liked it a lot.  It was very sad from the beginning to the end.  Very good performance by Michelle Pfieffer.  Treat Williams is good as well.This was a touching film that I enjoyed watching.  If you're going to rent this film, don't forget your tissues.  I do recommend this film if you haven't yet seen it.   "},{"Title":"Okay but not the best","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film was okay but not the best I've seen from Michelle Pfeiffer. The whole tone of the movie seemed detached to me. Even during the parts where the emotions were running at high gear the story did not drag me in with it. It's a good enough movie but I don't think you need to see it more than once. "},{"Title":"Another best movie of the century","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a heartwarming movie because it shows how a family who get their child back and start a new life with him.  This is a movie That is also an Infinite must-see movie.  Watch it because you wont regret it. "},{"Title":"The Reader's Digest Condensed Version","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie on a plane in the middle of the night--not ideal viewing conditions--and found it acceptable airplane fare to while away long hours, but nothing remarkable.  I'd read the book earlier, so was curious to see how it might be handled as a film.  Well...They followed the book pretty closely, but it's a 400+ page novel.  Rather than redevelop the ideas in the story for the tighter format required by the screen, they tried to keep in all the various plot elements and cut out the detail needed to preserve the story's integrity.  What a pity.The question of what happens to a family who loses a child to some unknown person/event is an interesting one worthy of exploration.  The twist of having that child found again nine years later opens another can of worms. The book manages to develop the characters of the whole family better than the film, which concentrates on Beth and Sam, but both result in a too perfect ending that doesn't really satisfy.I suspect that the film has a fairly strong appeal for the mature (50+) female audience...but they don't seem to be such keen movie goers.  It might do well on TV... "}{"Title":"The search for the story was over, the search for the screenplay was just beginning","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Deep End of the Ocean is based on Jacquelyn Mitchard's bestseller, which was the first prescribed book for members of Oprah's book club. Unfortunately, Mitchard's tale of a mother's search for her kidnapped son has been badly adapted for the screen - a fault that the talented cast cannot overcome. The plot deals with the emotional turmoil of Beth and Pat Cappadora after their son, Ben, goes missing at Beth's high school reunion. The chief failure of the movie is in the screenplay - simply, too many stories are told in The Deep End of the Ocean.  Schiff (who adapted Lolita for the screen) does not focus the story on Beth or Pat or Ben or Vincent and a mish mash of incomplete vignettes is the result.  The characters are rather stereotypical, having little motivation behind their frequent emotional externalisations. Similarly, the confrontations between the family members in the rarely display the consequences that would naturally follow such arguments - the scene where the Cappadoras debate where Ben should spend Thanksgiving are never resolved - and events tie up a little too neatly at the end of the 105-minute movie. Ulu Grosbard has established a good name with films like Straight Time (1978) and Georgia (1996), but shows a lack of sensitivity in the pacing of scenes in The Deep End of the Ocean.  The first section, where Ben is kidnapped and the Cappadoras search for him is uneven and seems overlong, almost like a film in itself.  The second section is better, steadily building towards the climax of the film.  It is this section that will use up the tissues - although this is as a result of gross emotional manipulation, more typical of those Hallmark television movies than a large budget Hollywood tearjerker. The cast do the best they can, with Pfeiffer faring best as the suffering matriarch.  Her performance is powerful, layered with nuances of rage, guilt and hurt - without unnecessary melodrama and over-the-top angst. Pfeiffer, a dedicated mother herself, obviously understands what this role means and how terrible a mother must feel when she fails. Williams provides good support for Pfeiffer, matching her well as the equally suffering husband. Goldberg, as the detective who handles the case, gives a standout performance in an almost-a-cameo role.  Kapelos likewise provides a solid characterisation as Ben's foster father. The children in the movie are also unusually good - perhaps too good, as they all appear rather articulate about their unusual situation. Jackson is, by turns, strong and sensitive as the older son and Alexa Vega is fine as the younger daughter. Ryan Merriman has the most difficult task and succeeds in a neat portrayal of Ben's emotional suffering as he chooses between his foster and biological parents. This movie spent too little time being scripted - it's as if the pitch went 'Well, we have Michelle Pfeiffer, so why bother?'  So although The Deep End of the Ocean avoids being sickly sweet, it doesn't succeed in being genuinely affecting either. Oprah discovered a great story when she read this book, but this adaptation was filmed when the search for the screenplay had just begun.  "},{"Title":"Very nice Good acting, not too soppy","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The main reason I went to see this movie was because I am a Michelle Pfeiffer fan, but I was very impressed with the film as whole. All the actors gave good performances; I especially enjoyed the young Vincent. Although the movie was billed as a tearjerker, it was not overly sad, just enough to make you want to go for the old handkerchief every now and then. I hope you will also enjoy The deep end of the ocean.  "},{"Title":"Beautifully done and emotionally fulfilling.","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved Deep End Of the Ocean, I found it emotionally touching.  I loved how well the cast worked together.  I had originally wanted to see it simply, because of Jonathan Jackson.  I have been impressed by his acting talent since I started watching General Hospital. But, once I started watching the movie I was hooked, I fell in love with the characters, and felt as though I was a part of their lives.Everyone one in this film succeeded, in showing the emotions and the steps it takes to except something so tragic, as having your son kidnapped. They all sent out amazing performances.  This is a wonderful movie and that you should see it, it will make you cry though, so don't forget the tissues.I'm in the process of reading the book and there is a lot of stuff cut out,but I believe they got the essence and emotion from the book right on track.I thoroughly enjoyed this film and could see it many more times, twice just wasn't enough. "},{"Title":"Ideal made-for-television movie.","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Deep End of the Ocean starts powerfully enough - Beth Cappadora's (Michelle Pfieffer) three year old boy Ben is abducted from the crowded lobby of hotel, during registration for her high school reunion. Despite all efforts to locate the child, the disappearance remains a mystery until nine years later, the Cappadoras have moved to a new city and Ben (now Sam) knocks on Beth's door! To complicate matters, Ben has grown up in a close and happy family some two blocks away... with no recollections of his former family.The subject matter is both delicate and complex - and there are plenty of people to consider here - mom, dad, the careless brother, and the other family, and if anything, this even handedness detracts from Pfieffer's spotless performance as the guilt striken and depressed Beth.What starts out clearly as Beth's story of anguish, drifts melodramatically into Ben's story and then Vince's. In all, the potential emotional intensity of this story is frustratingly diluted. Ultimatley, a frustration is what is NOT said. The resolution to the nine year old mystery is as fleeting as it is anti-climatic. Pat Cappadora (Treat Williams) seems to 'get over' the disappearance of his son quite easily - a curious oversight. Likewise the impact on the new dad (superbly portrayed by character actor John Kapelos) and Vince is sadly underplayed. Overall, this story is too even handed and calm despite the obvious potential for highly charged emotion, tension.Despite these flaws, Deep End of the Ocean is at times an absorbing story and well acted by Pfieffer.Viewers will find more bite in movies like Without a Trace (1981) and Not Without My Daughter (1991). "},{"Title":"Cheap End of the Notion","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I usually read about 10 reviews of a film before I see it.  In this case, I finally went to see a film before reading reviews, so that I can be surprised at plot twists.The Deep End of the Ocean has many, many weak points, starting with an amateurish script, which only reflects the many points where the film appeared to be made on the cheap.To wit  Michelle Pfeiffer is the only A-list star in the film. Supporting players, all adept, include the wonderful Treat Williams, John Kapelos (in a very underappreciated role), and, for some inexplicable reason, Whoopi Goldberg in a role during which her initial appearance defuses the very emotional tension the film's trying to build, and then reveals a personal detail having absolutely nothing to do with the film.The best performance is by Jonathan Jackson, as a surly teen trying to come to grips with his new brother, who forces him to review their common past in a most uncomfortable way.Why does this film look cheap?  Let me count the ways1.  Much of the film is supposedly set in Chicago, a city with hundreds of cinematographer-friendly landmarks, yet not one single scene appears to have been shot there.  Even an outdoor shot showing a Michigan Ave. street sign appears to have employed a set designer who's never been there.2.  The film stock appears at times to have been purchased from a going-out-of-business sale.3.  Aside from Pfeiffer, the only big star is Goldberg, who appears in, for all intents and purposes, a series of walk-ons.4.  A scene purported to be at Thanksgiving reveals full, green trees and chirping birds...in Chicago!5.  Nine years pass, and the adult characters appeared not to age a day...even using the same hairstyles!  Also, the family's Volvo looks exactly the same...9 years later.After seeing the film, I checked out several reviews, including those on this forum.  I now understand that perhaps my venom should be directed at the film editor, for leaving behind a chopped and unsatisfying version of a longer, and presumably better, film. "},{"Title":"Not a Waste of Money","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is really different from other family-relations-drama-movies since it contains a good range of actors and the script is generally good, even though the end is somewhat far from reality, I believe. The story hits strings and poses questions which, I believe, many have pondered over once in a while in their life. So, go rent this movie or see it on the big screen, whatever. It is not a waste of money! "},{"Title":"bright spot","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I totally enjoyed this movie, not because of Michelle Pfeifer, or Treat Williams, or any of the bigger name actors that were involved in it.  I felt that a few of these roles may have been overacted a bit, but due to the subject matter, that is totally understandable.My bright spot in the film was young Jonathon Jackson, who, it seems, may eventually eclipse the stardom of Leonardo DiCaprio for the younger set. Jonathon is amazing, as his work in this film and his continued run as Lucky Spencer on General Hospital show and I will be looking very forward to seeing him in many movies in the future.  "},{"Title":"If There is a Diving board in the deep end of the ocean, then this movie belly flops!","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was a weak attempt at a tear jerker. I think my girlfriend cried more after Armageddon than she did about this movie. In fact I saw this movie with 5 women and I don't think any of them managed to stay awake through out the whole thing. I gave this movie a 3 because it was a solid movie with a beginning, middle, and end (a lot of movies fail to have these essential items). The talent in the film was pretty decent, and the question  posed by the movie was pretty good. This movie does not live up to expectations, and only see it if you have nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"It did not quite the hit the mark","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Deep End Of The Ocean was a movie that was supposed to bring tears from people's eyes but the director failed to do so and it sunk in the ocean after thirty minutes after it left port, meaning after it started. The Deep End Of The Ocean starred Treat Williams, Michelle Pfieffer, and Jonathan Jackson among others. The cast billing is better than the film itself; and that says a lot for the writers and director. I was disappointed in Michelle Pfieffer, I thought she would do a decent job. I was mistaken; she was so selfish and wouldn't listen to anyone who thought her son, Ben was alive. This is just another movie about a kidnapping, no real mystery or suspense to speak of or no real tears came from my face. I mean if the director wants to make a movie surrounding this type of situation I would think that there should be more sentimental moments and cut out the arguments with the child that was kidnapped about what he should and should not do. The only thing that people should bring is a bag so they could put it over their heads to avoid watching it. Treat Williams really is the only actor worth recognizing in this bad mess they call a movie; though, there are good parts in this movie. Williams, your typical villain, plays Pat Cappadora the husband and father who keeps the family together after Ben was kidnapped. When, the mother (Pfieffer) was near a breakdown it was the father who held everything together and eventually was the one who snapped his wife into reality again. My other favorite scene occurred between the two brothers because the older one blames himself for not holding Ben's hand tighter. Ben told his brother that it was alright. I wouldn't force this film on anyone but it wasn't all that bad because I found that it did have its moments. "},{"Title":"Disappointing--lacking in emotional intensity.","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went to see this movie with a friend who, like me, had read and enjoyed the book. We both came away very disappointed in the movie. While the movie's story stays pretty close to the book, the movie is almost completely devoid of the emotional intensity that made the book so incredibly moving. Did the makers of the movie water down the emotional intensity to make the movie more palatable to the movie-going public? Did they consider the book too depressing to be a successful movie? One can only theorize that the almighty buck was their only excuse for ruining a perfectly wonderful story.  "}{"Title":"Made For TV","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All this really is is a made for TV type movie that somehow found its way to the big screen. This is what you would expect to see on for a Lifetime Original Movie, not something you pay Movie Theater prices to go watch. There's no action, no mystery, no suspense, just a lot of sap. There is so much more they could have done with it but if not, it should have never made it to the Big Screen. The only good thing was Jonathan Jackson's pretty face, or if you're a Michelle Pfeiffer fan, her's. "},{"Title":"Great Performance by Michelle!","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have always loved Michelle Pfeiffer and find her to show much depth in all her roles.  This did not disappoint.  She was heartbreaking as the mother who has to deal with the pain of losing her son.  Unfortunately, her performance was better than the movie which was too TV movie of the week. The ending just seemed strange.  Without giving away the ending, It would have made sense for the boy to keep relationships with both families.  More scenes were needed to support the eventual conclusion which was just too pat.  Whoopi Goldberg was wasted in a small role as a detective.  And what was the purpose of making her character gay?  Overall though, I would recommend the film but I would more highly recommend a similar film from a few years back called Losing  Isiah.  "},{"Title":"Very good movie but could have been better","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I read the book, Deep End Of The Ocean only one week before going to see the movie so it was still fresh in my mind.  I found that the movie skipped over a great deal of significant parts of the story that help the audience understand Beth and Pat's heart break.  They didn't even discuss that the only reason Beth agreed to move to Chicago was because Pat had a heart attack.  I think it would have been an even better movie if we could have seen more about the people involved rather than only the story.  Overall I did enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Disappointment Abounds","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The basic premise of the film is absurd.  What woman in her right mind would take three kids (including an infant) to a high school reunion?  Losing the child in a railroad station would have made more sense.  The children's acting was great, and I felt sympathy for the adoptive father who was the only character who basically got short shrift.  Whoopi's talents were wasted in a role that ran from the ridiculous, I'm gay, (what has this got to with anything?) to the illogical in taking a child from a school and having him fingerprinted.  Previews indicated this would be a better developed film.  No tears for me with this one, the ending left me cold, the adoptive father should have the boy!   "},{"Title":"Amazing and heart-wrenching","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had the privilege of seeing this film before most people did, in New York City and SoundOne where it was being sound edited.  When i saw it, i thought it was amazing.  I was the first person to vote for it here, and i gave it a 10.  This film has great acting in it, most notably by Michelle Pheiffer, who will not be nominated for an academy award for this film, but should.  I believe she portrayed a mother whose child was taken from her flawlessly. I'm glad to have had a first-look at this film. "},{"Title":"I didn't read the book, but I'm sure it's a lot better.","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There's a lot of deep emotion in the film, especially where Vincent is concerned, that would be much better addressed in book form, where you can read his thoughts.  As a mother, I could make a lot of intuituve guesses as to what's going on inside him, but it's never clear enough and they focus too much on Beth.  The movie really should have been more about Vincent, less about Beth. "},{"Title":"Jump into the Deep End","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Featuring the most interesting plot to come around in some time, `Deep End' is a involving tale of despair, loss, and family.That's not to say it isn't a very slick Hollywood film, it is, yet this production has more intriguing drama than the typical entry into this genre.  It's a rare film that features a flawless cast.  Michelle Pfeiffer is wonderful here as a forlorn mother who, after having her son kidnapped, must try to find meaning in living.  She conveys sorrow about as good as any, and her moments with Treat Williams (also as good, but should consider a change of hairstyle for once!) are sharply tense and extremely satisfying.  The kids of the film are very unusual choices. I'm just so used to the moptop or square-jawed children that usually pepper current film, that it came as a delightful surprise to see a tubby boy, and another with very unique enunciation.  The film has been criticized by many as too choppy to make an impact.Recently clocking in at 148 minutes, `Deep End' now stands at 108 minutes.  Yes, the seams do show.  There is an aura of missing information now and again, and you cannot help but wish the film was given more time to develop.  But I was glued to the screen the whole time.  It worked for me, even the embarrassingly pat ending, even Whoopi Goldberg's small but warm role as a homosexual cop.  The film is good drama, and a very compelling story.------ 8 "},{"Title":"Fantastic - Tearjerker","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a wonderfully heartwrenching, yet uplifting movie!  I had no idea how many times my eyes would swell with tears.  Such touching moments - my favorite Kleenex grabber was when young Vincent comes to give his baby sister her bottle in the night.  I loved the ending - maybe a little predictable and a little trite, but uplifting and hopeful endings always get my vote!  "},{"Title":"I was hooked, but nt reeled in.","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Michelle Pfeiffer is Beth Cappadora, the mother of a middle class Italian family from Washington D.C. who brings her newborn daughter Kerry, three year old son Ben, and seven year old son Vincent (Cory Buck) to her 15 year high school reunion.  When she leaves Ben with Vincent for a minute, Ben vanishes without a trace.  Even detective Whoopi Goldberg can't find him.Nine years later, the Cappadora family lives in Chicago, and while Beth is still coping with the loss of her son, she has gained a measure of acceptance over the years.  However, her husband (Treat Williams) is emotionally estranged from her, and her son Vincent (emmy award winner Jonathan Jackson), is a juvenile delinquent.  Then one day, Ben shows up at the Cappadora's doorstep to mow the lawn.Thus begins the ethical, moral and emotional game of twister that is The Deep End of the Ocean.  Based on the novel of the same name by Jacquelyn Mitchard, this film tackles some very  serious and interesting issues, but fails to resolve them in a satisfying way.There are fine performances here, especially by Pfeiffer, who imbues her Beth with heartache and hope, and also by the impressive young Jackson, who provides needed relief from the heavy subject matter without belittling it.  Furthermore, the interesting moral issues and the endearing and tear-jerking moments make The Deep End of the Ocean ultimately worthwhile.I only wish the characters swam out a bit further, and dove a bit deeper.  I was hooked, but not reeled in. "},{"Title":"Somewhat disappointed.  Came across like a made for TV movie.","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The story had some real potential, but the characters lacked depth. Michelle Pfeiffer is one of my favorite actresses, but in this movie I kept waiting for the moment when I would feel what Beth was all about.  She was a cold, depressing character whose emotions rarely wavered.  This constant state never gave Michelle enough to work with to bring this character off  the flat screen.  Treat Williams was underwhelming as the strong father figure.  Whenever Treat was on screen playing Pat, I felt like I was watching a movie instead of being part of the story.  The best acting was by Jonathan Jackson playing the older brother Vincent.  I sympathized with him.  I felt like getting involved in the story when I was watching him. The acting by the kids brought my rating of this movie up a couple of notches.  Unfortunately, I'd still only rate it a 5 out of 10.  It came across like a made for TV movie.  Especially the ending which came across like - well we don't have any more material, so we'll just end it now.  Wish I would have just read the book instead. "}{"Title":"Mommy tearest","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tears? Oh yeah. Hell, they just keep coming and coming. This movie was that sad. The acting was great, especially Michelle Pfeiffer. I do recommend this film, just prepare to bring a whole lot of tissue boxes. "},{"Title":"Not a bad drama, though not all of it is good, either","Date":"2 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I kept noticing a copy of this 1999 release in a drama section during my frequent visits to a local video store, and if it hadn't been for that, I would still be totally unaware of its existence, just like the book of the same name which this film is based on. This adaptation of Jacquelyn Mitchard's The Deep End of the Ocean only caught my attention because I could see that the lead role was played by Michelle Pfeiffer. I haven't read the book, and didn't even know the film was based on a book by the time I rented it this week. The film's premise seemed interesting to me, but I knew that this adaptation was polarizing, which gave me mixed expectations. I obviously don't know how good the book is, but the movie is what one can refer to as a mixed blessing.Beth Cappadora and her husband, Pat are the parents of seven year old Vincent, three year old Ben, and baby Kerry. Beth leaves town to attend her high school reunion in Chicago and brings her kids along. While there, she leaves Vincent and Ben together in a crowded lobby only briefly, but when she comes back, she sees that only Vincent is still there! A search for Ben quickly ensues, but sadly, the little boy is not found, which sends Beth into depression, causing her to oversleep and neglect her two remaining offspring. Nine years later, the Cappadora family moves to Chicago. At this point, it obviously seems like they will never see Ben again, but not long after they move into their new house, Beth meets a boy who lives in the neighbourhood and introduces himself as Sam. He looks very familiar, and it turns out that this boy, now twelve years old, really is her long-lost son, but sadly, the family reunion leads to more complications.This is clearly a film that's meant to be emotional, but I didn't feel it much until towards the end, and even then, it certainly didn't touch me the way certain other dramas have. For a while, I even wondered if I should have been watching the movie or not. I think I found myself struggling a bit to try and feel the emotion at times. A major reason why it didn't completely work for me might have been that I didn't know enough about the characters. I found that the film didn't tell enough about them before it got to the part where Ben goes missing. It also felt a little tedious at times. On the other hand, the family trouble did keep me interested, with no desire to stop the film before it was over, and the acting is decent enough I guess, though there is some weak dialogue, and the script of a movie can always affect the performances. Fortunately, at least the dialogue never got bad enough to make me laugh, and I found the film to be moderately gripping towards the end, still not enough to put a lump in my throat or tears in my eyes, but I certainly can't describe it as boring and/or laughable.If you read my reviews on IMDb, you will probably find that a lot of them are for movies based on novels, and in most cases, I haven't read the novel which the film I am reviewing is based on. There are some exceptions, but this is not one of them. I read novels, but unlike movies, I can't get through an entire novel in one sitting, which is obviously the main reason why I've seen so many movies based on novels I haven't read. Maybe the book entitled The Deep End of the Ocean is better than this adaptation (it wouldn't surprise me), and maybe I will read it someday, but right now, I'm reading a different novel. Anyway, this film is severely flawed and reminded me somewhat of Stepmom, though it definitely is at least a BIT better than that film, as this one doesn't have the despicable characters. The Deep End of the Ocean doesn't work with its emotional content as well as it should, but I thought it was alright for at least one viewing. "},{"Title":"Really touches your heart","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie on HBO a few years ago, and even though I saw it only from the time when Sam comes back, I found it to be a wonderful movie. I recently watched this movie again, and I found that the movie was just as great on the second view. That's because the movie is not about the story, but about human emotions, which don't depend on a plot. This does not mean that there is no story or plot here. Indeed the story is something anyone can identify with... Losing someone you love... and finding them all over again.The director does not use cheap dramatics or hysterics to make you feel the loss that the family, especially the mother goes through. There are scenes in the movie where I was moved to tears. Not to suggest that this is a tear-jerker. On the contrary, it has some really uplifting moments to it.I rate this a solid 10/10. Watch this movie! You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"a quality picture.","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" MANY SPOILERS THROUGHOUT POST This is one time I have to disagree with the majority. I thought Deep End of the ocean was a really good movie. I'm surprised so many don't like it. I found it to be a mature, thought provoking and disturbing drama with excellent performances all around from everybody. The cast actually, were not just good but superb. The movie was not overly long and in the time it ran, I was able to really get a good grasp on all the characters and thought the character development was actually excellent. I was really surprised by the low rating.Many have mentioned how the movie glossed over a lot. I can understand that but the movie wasn't all that long-it didn't really have time to go into everything. And also, I rather liked that the movie stayed fast paced and engrossing without lingering to long on just one thing. A lot of what the characters were feeling were picked up in the various scenes and the story was simply to complicated to go into everything-otherwise it probably would have been about eight hours. Though I really could see this having been a mini series....I think, in a way, Deep End was boxed a little into a corner, if it had gotten to much heavier it may have been labeled manipulative. As it is, the ending was considered to Hollywood. I actually thought the way it ended was the best possible ending a story such as this could have had. And it was believable to, though throughout the whole thing, I was thinking joint custody. Although that wasn't exactly the way it was done it was close enough, and I found it a great ending to a very good movie.One other thing I liked was the fact that the story didn't go into never ending tragedy land. By that I mean, none of the main characters are critically injured, , no divorces and custody fights etc etc.... the focus was kept on the individuals and how they dealt with this situation, rather then introducing as many bad things as possible. This played very well as it was a tearjerker in one sense, but also was really thought provoking, and much empathy could be felt for almost everybody from Sam to the natural parents to the adoptive father to the natural brother and sister. All were complex and interesting characters.I'd give this an 8 of 10, I really thought it was very well done and wish it had a somewhat higher rating on here. "},{"Title":"Convincing film from an unlikely situation","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although this film, like many others of its ilk, falls into the trap of weepy scenarios with almost tearful frequency, the end result holds up reasonably well. Given the purported content, I might well have passed this one up, but as Michelle Pfeiffer is usually good to watch, though in this film she does not really rise to the occasion but seems to settle for a TV-series interpretation, I thought I would give it a try, especially as it seemed to be a serious film and not one of those hopelessly unfunny films for which Whoopi Goldberg has become famous. Fortunately she is in a rather minor role and plays it in serious vein, rather like in my recently commentated `Girl, Interrupted (1999)' (qv), for which we can be thankful. Ms. Goldberg in her rather frequent trivial light-hearted stuff does become a little monotonous, to say the least; however, in more serious rôles, which tend to be minor ones, as if directors and producers could not trust her with anything greater, she has come up with perfectly acceptable interpretations. The film mostly suffers from an overladen `made for TV' feel, in which Ms. Pfeiffer is most to blame, heightened by doses of sentimentality which do not go anywhere, even in the soap-opera-like ending.  "},{"Title":"Predictible, but cute","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was so predictable. It wasn't bad a tall though.I used to hate Jonathan Jackson and I didn't like the fact that he was in this movie. But, when I saw it HE WAS SO CUTE!! Vincent Capadorra was too ( lol of course) The plot was sorta predictable but a good movie. 9/10 for the movie and 10/10 for Jonathan! "},{"Title":"Pretty good!","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I admit that that the only reason I rented this movie was because I've been a huge fan of Jonathan Jackson ever since his days as Lucky on General Hospital. To me, he has always had this great onscreen presence in whatever he does, and this movie was no exception.The movie was pretty decent, except the ending seemed a little bit unrealistic when Sam/Ben decided to go back to his biological family again. I loved the emotion in many of the scenes, and I thought the entire cast did a great job. "},{"Title":"Emotion at it's best!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was wonderfully played, and I recommend that anyone who loves a good movie to watch this one.  Michelle Pfeiffer was at her best.  Treat Williams gives an emotion-filled performance.  And Jonathon Jackson was a wonderful supporting actor.  This is the movie to see. "},{"Title":"good film ...","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ... though some of it I felt was a bit rushed. The book went more into detail, but I understand the movie had to be edited down, so some of the crucial things were not included in this movie. The performances were excellent by the whole cast, especially Jonathan Jackson, who is awesome in everything he does. I recommend that people should read the book first...therefore, you'll understand the film a little more better. But either way you do it (see the movie, then read the book, etc...), you'll get it.  "},{"Title":"very deep and very old story","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Deep End of the Ocean is a very emotional and wise story about regular people's very deep, soul emotions about the people they love. The plot is rather common- a kidnapped child, a ruined life of a family.But the message itself is rather deeper than it may seem at first. The guilt that feels everybody in this family, especially Beth (mother) and the elder son Vincent is an overwhelming feeling that destroys their whole lives. And of course the Bible theme of two brothers - anger of young Vincent caused the whole situation - he let his brother's hand go and even told him to get lost. And then he carried the feeling of guilt through all his life on  - and made a revenge on himself and his family. But Jackson's character is really lucky  - his brother is found and he himself forgives Vincent. Gelousy, guilt and every destroying emotion is really healed by love and forgiveness. Like the Bible says, a man is free to conquer his sins. Two brothers are safe and back home - a wonderful end of the story and a perfect chance for all of us. Michelle is perfect here. Jonathan Jackson is young and talented - his Vincent made me thinking about the movie. The whole crue acted brilliantly.  "}{"Title":"Very good picture","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought I would be totally bored with this film, but by the end, I enjoyed it, and was touched by the themes presented to us.Sure, there are problems, the screenplay was not strong in the middle act, but the story kept me interested and I could see the potential - it could've an amazing piece of work if the script was stronger.The film's plot may feature a big coincidence, some will like it, some will not, I thought it could've work better if the scenes around the big twist were longer.The acting is superb, really great. I thought the kids were exceptional as were the principal actors.The direction was good, the frame was used well, but some shots looked rushed.  The photography was fine.The screenplay is good, but it lacked a strong narrative in the middle act and some characters were not essential to the story, Whoopi was wasted. What happened to the little sister in the final act? Overall, a good film, but the script should've been very strong.  "},{"Title":"Michelle's Lost","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I want to like Michelle. I really do and remember her commitment as an actress in `The Baker Boys.'I said some very bad things about her very bad performance in `What Lies Beneath.' And I actually got hate mail. So I viewed this. I know the book, and thought it an opportunity for a competent actress. Knowing that this actress had this movie created for her, I was sure that if there is something to Michelle today, we'd find it here. Sorry.Some actors give with their comrades, so a common space is created among them. Some actors act in their environment, imparting an emotional tone into the scenery. Some can project into a partnership with the viewer, leading, teasing and challenging us. Some can act with their whole body, the better ones moving around with different body parts as elements of an ensemble. Some thrill us. Ms Pfeiffer has none of this. Her face is her instrument, and her first duty these days is to her vanity -- we come second. A good actress could have projected over the weak script -- the idea has real meat. She is earnest enough I suppose, but were she really committed, I think she'd be able to pull this off.Whoopie does another one of her patented wise women roles.I can usually find something worth watching in any film. In this case the book deals with artifacts of the past as never fresh, the boy a metaphor for specific religious traditions (where the title comes from). But nothing comes through in this muddle of an adaptation. "},{"Title":"Tries to do too much, so it's not very good","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie tried to do way too much. It tried to cover lots of the story and the characters' time and plot points, which takes a bit of skillful cinematic cramming to get it right-- but it also tried to be slow and chick-flicky (sorry) and linger on the emotional side of things. But there just isn't enough time to do both tasks well in the course of a single movie. Thus, this one is a little herky-jerky, and clumsy at times; it is a little thin and sketchy at other times. Then again, there are a few moments of genuine emotion and dramatic engagement. So there-- I gave it a 5. "},{"Title":"tearjerker with a T.V. movie patina","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Like far too many films these days, The Deep End of the Ocean begins promisingly then collapses midway under the crushing weight of heavyhanded plot mechanics, incredibility and sentimentality.  The premise of the story is so compelling that the audience can't help but be drawn emotionally into the intense plight facing this family.  Michelle Pfeiffer portrays a young photographer, living an idyllic life in Madison, Wisconsin with a loving and devoted husband (Treat Williams) and three adorable young children. While in Chicago for a class reunion, every parent's ultimate nightmare becomes a reality  her middle child unaccountably disappears in the middle of a crowded hotel lobby.  These scenes, in which she undergoes a sense of mounting panic as well as a crushing sense of guilt and personal self-doubt, are more terrifying than anything contained in a conventional horror film. We cringe too as the investigators come up against one blank wall after another, empathizing fully with a mother driven to desperation in the face of the unspeakable.  As months pass, the family attempts to cope with the horrific reality of their situation and the film promises to become an insightful study of the effects of the loss, fear and guilt that accompanies the disappearance of a child.  But then the film goes agley as it moves ahead a decade and the child is miraculously discovered living a mere few blocks away, happily ensconced with a man first thought to be a kidnapper then revealed as an innocent pawn in an abduction scheme gone awry.  As the child moves in with his true parents, the screenplay settles into a bland T.V. movie formula, in which each character must act out his or her customary little drama with little heed given to believability or originality.  Instead of exploring the various stages a family goes through in the wake of a devastating loss, the film cheats us by coming through with an unconvincingly upbeat resolution.  It becomes quite clear that the filmmakers are far more concerned with jerking out tears than with providing a truly thoughtprovoking exploration of its theme.  This is a shame because the actors (especially Pfeiffer) handle their roles admirably.  Only Whoopi Goldberg, in a totally thankless role as a compassionate investigator of missing children, seems hopelessly miscast. This film might well have been a labor of love for her (and indeed for everyone involved), but for the audience, it only makes one sigh over how much better it might have been. "},{"Title":"Pfeiffer Bombs Again","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1988, a woman attends a school reunion with her three young children. Even as she arrives at the hotel, a moment's distraction leaves her middle child missing. 9 years later, she still hasn't quite adjusted to the loss... Rather than examine the impact of an abducted child on the entire family, this unwisely focuses almost exclusively on the mother, and as the mother is played by Pfeiffer, all other characters become mere backdrops for her performance. With the odd exception, Pfeiffer tends to try too hard, especially in dramas, and here is a case in point. Practically every scene makes her the subject, her emotional state, her actions, her reactions. This quickly becomes tiresome, especially as we are asked to accept that her husband has adjusted much more healthily to the boy's disappearance without really being allowed to know how or why. Thus, Williams is given little to do. Jackson fares better, but again he mostly serves to allow Pfeiffer to 'act' and/or 'react'. Other characters are cardboard cut-out (wise-cracking, tough but tender cop, insensitive mother-in-law, two dimensional best friend etc.). This could have been a fascinating and harrowing study in loss and hope, but as a vehicle for Pfeiffer, it never really moves beyond TV movie territory. "},{"Title":"A realistic melodrama?","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a true oxymoron,because a melodrama cannot be,by definition,realist or plausible;that's the rule of the game ,and Stahl and mainly Sirk always played fair game in the thirties and in the fifties.Charles Jarrot did exactly the same in the seventies with the other side of midnight.Their directing was often mad(see the funeral in imitation of life (1959)or the execution in the other side...(1977) The end of the ocean is a tear-jerker,which has got its share of moving  situations,but it looks like a made-for-TV true story -which it obviously isn't.THe movie is full of improbabilities what a coincidence,the child ,nine years later,happens to live almost next door!And it takes Michelle Pfeiffer hardly one look to recognize her beloved offspring!And she's a photographer,she can make a picture older,and policewoman Goldberg is here with the footprints.Best performance is given by the adoptive father who has a very dignified air.his acting is very introspective and contrasts with Pfeiffer and williams ones.The short scene in which he brings the boy's school report is very sensitive. "},{"Title":"A worthwhile film examines relationships after lost son is found, I rate 7 of 10.","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Interesting premise. Three-yr-old son wanders off in a crowd, parents and police search frantically for him for weeks, finally getting on with life and their other two children, then quite unexpectedly the lost son is discovered 9 years later. What to do? Legally he belongs in their home. But he already has a family that he knows and loves.Deep End of the Ocean examines these tough issues, the impact the actions of the mother and father have on each of the other family members. Will the marriage survive, even? While this isn't a great film, it is a worthwhile film. It gets us thinking of what we would do in a similar situation. Acting is uniformly fine across the board. "},{"Title":"I don't know, I just liked it.","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I dislike tearjerkers for it makes you feel down,sad and whatever.  the cable channel was on, had nothin else to do..and there was Michelle Pfieffer so I just jumped on it. I mean what the heck?At first..yeah,losing child and screaming,sobbing..there were enough scenes looking very shallow & so predictable. I'll just pass here. But usually,this kinda movies end up finding the kid and that's it.  Happily ever after, home sweet home. But this wasn't like that. As last it's happy ending but there were several emotional highs & lows; adjusting each other, starting all over again.What am I saying here?-it's not a perfect movie. Not even remotely. (heck, is there one?) But for some reason, I liked this movie and every one of the casts here. All actors are pretty good to watch. There are films that aren't good enough-your head tells you so-however,your heart tells 'well,anyway I like this one'.  This one is kinda like that. This cannot be explained logically or reasonably. I don't care about the director or writer for this movie. It was all about actors and they made it.  And I've seen one young good-looking fella coming here called Jonathan Jackson. Hope to see more of his THIS kind of acting in the future. "},{"Title":"Really deep...","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the rare wonderful stories in movie history. It is greatly heart warming .I cried through almost all of the movie.I really felt what the characters felt. The story really touches on the relationship between siblings. I thought all the actors did a great job! Michelle was so wonderful.Rising star Jonathan Jackson was amazing. One of the greatest movies ever made...really.  "},{"Title":"Adults need to learn that children are not property but need to be loved and cared for.","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" All I can say is that the parents in this movie are beyond selfish and should never have been allowed to procreate. To start with it was the mother's fault that the little boy went missing in the first place and then instead of allowing herself to grieve and then pulling herself together she instead slides into a depressive state for the next 10 years, thereby permanently damaging the other kids she still has.Everybody faces horrible things in their lives but that is no excuse for the mother's behaviour. They treated the oldest son like a leaper. He was so young and did not deserve that burden. All he needed was for his parents to tell him it wasn't his fault, something so simple but they were too busy wallowing in their own self pity. Also the police detective played by Whoopi Goldberg was completely incompetent. Seriously stop focusing on the fact that your a black gay woman and maybe you would have found the kid. Worse still is when they finally find their long lost son they refuse to even care that they are now stealing him away from the only family he has ever known. His adoptive father was a good and decent parent and they owed it to their kid to at least try to work together to raise him. Along the way the parents completely forgot about every other person in their lives and only thought about themselves. Selfish!!!And finally, I know it's a movie but seriously when will parents learn that you cannot put a 6 year old in charge of a young toddler. Grow up and take responsibility for your children. Parenting is not easy. I'm pretty sure every parent in the world would agree with that but they chose to have kids, if you can't handle it then you shouldn't have had them to begin with. "}{"Title":"Don't go near this ocean","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Deep End Of The Ocean was a movie that was supposed to bring tears from people's eyes but the director failed to do so and it sunk in the ocean after thirty minutes after it left port. The Deep End Of The Ocean stars Treat Williams, Michelle Pfieffer, and Jonathan Jackson. The cast billing is better than the film itself; and that says a lot for the writers and director. I was disappointed in Michelle Pfieffer as it seemed her performance was sub-par and seemed to be at the level of a beginner. The Deep End Of The Ocean was based around a kidnapping, no real mystery or suspense to speak of or no real tears came from my face. I mean if the director wants to make a movie surrounding this type of situation I would think that there should be more sentimental moments and cut out the arguments with the child that was kidnapped about what he should and should not do. The only thing that people should bring is a bag so they could put it over their heads to avoid watching it.Treat Williams really is the only actor worth recognizing in this bad mess they call a movie; though, there are good parts in this movie. Williams, your typical villain, plays Pat Cappadora the husband and father who keeps the family together after Ben was kidnapped. When, the mother was near a breakdown it was the father who held everything together and eventually was the one who snapped his wife into reality again. My only other favorite scene occurred between the two brothers.I wouldn't force this film on anyone, though it did have its moments.  "},{"Title":"Avoid this ocean","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Deep End Of The Ocean was a movie that was supposed to bring tears from people's eyes but the director failed to do so and it sunk in the ocean after thirty minutes after it left port. The Deep End Of The Ocean stars Treat Williams, Michelle Pfieffer, and Jonathan Jackson. The cast billing is better than the film itself; and that says a lot for the writers and director. I was disappointed in Michelle Pfieffer as it seemed her performance was sub-par and seemed to be at the level of a beginner. The Deep End Of The Ocean was based around a kidnapping, no real mystery or suspense to speak of or no real tears came from my face. I mean if the director wants to make a movie surrounding this type of situation I would think that there should be more sentimental moments and cut out the arguments with the child that was kidnapped about what he should and should not do. The only thing that people should bring is a bag so they could put it over their heads to avoid watching it.Treat Williams really is the only actor worth recognizing in this bad mess they call a movie; though, there are good parts in this movie. Williams, your typical villain, plays Pat Cappadora the husband and father who keeps the family together after Ben was kidnapped. When, the mother was near a breakdown it was the father who held everything together and eventually was the one who snapped his wife into reality again. My only other favorite scene occurred between the two brothers.I wouldn't force this film on anyone, though it did have its moments.  "},{"Title":"B Movie of the Week Material.","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was on cable. I watched it because somebody else had the clicker. It was melodramatic and tedious from the first minute. It gets its hooks into you because, well, how the hell does it end?Curious to see how this dog ended, I pulled out the laptop to read IMDB. I think the overall rating of 6.1 out of 10.0 was overly charitable. The plot has promise but stinks. Whoopi Goldberg is simply ridiculous. Is she playing a detective or Guinan from Star Trek? I give it 4 stars. I watched it right until the endingThere are a ton of stinker/groaner lines. Cedar trunks. Groan. Man, I wanted to slap sense into almost every single character. SpoilerThe kid gets kidnapped by some bad mother from a bad mother. Nine years pass. Woman feels guilt for being a bad mother. The family gets him back, but the kid fits in better with his new family. The kidnap kid goes back with the father (the kidnapper is gone). One of the other kids gets arrested for stealing a car. More excruciating stuff, like night basketball and settling of accounts. The kidnap kid moves back with Michelle Pfieffer for the dramatic finale.RedeemingSo bad it just might be enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Only one reason to see this movieJonathan Jackson","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is bad,definitely.Is like a TV movie with all the ingredientsa poor mom who has lost her boy,a sad family and overacting performances(specially Michelle Pfeiffer searching for an Oscar more than for a lost child).All the cast is a waste.Is sad with names like Whoopi Goldberg,but is the truth.The only one that is great here is Jonathan Jackson.His performance is great,moving and full of nuances.His lips and his powerful eyes are specially good here.He's not the lost child but as the older brother of him,Jackson shines as few young actors can shine.I'm sure he will be a great star.He's the only good thing in a movie full of clichés. "},{"Title":"An unsatisfactory tearjerker","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Despite valiant performances from the excellent cast, this is a most unsatisfactory movie. There are too many unanswered questions Why did the woman steal the child? Where did she take him? Where did she keep him - a 3 year old can be very verbal I want my mommy! The case was widely publicised - why did nobody pick up on the fact that she suddenly have a 3 year old son? Why did the boy decide to return to his birth parents in the end - he was so adamant (with good justification)that he wanted to return to his father? It is a pity that what could have been a gripping story of human relations was turned into a fiasco by such obviously contrived situations. Pfeiffer, Goldberg, Williams, all excellent actors, as was actor playing Sam/Ben, did their best with a story that in the end defied credibility. Definitely one for the non critical! "},{"Title":"Very Deep. Haha.","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A soppy drama starring the brilliant Michelle Pfieffer. Her son is kidnapped at age 3, and 9 years later, by chance he turns up on her doorstep.To be honest, the reason I decided to watch this was because my 2 favorite actresses in the whole world star in it (Michelle Pfieffer and Whoopi Goldberg).I'm sure it's moving and touching and the mush is definitely there - I sat through it, but I wouldn't have called it an enjoyment. "},{"Title":"The story of parents who lost one of their child and recover him years after..","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Acting in this film is simply the best. Pfeiffer did an excellent performance and Williams too. The plot is quite real until the day the child decided to come back to his original home, i.e. the one belonging to his false father. After this moment the film became the usual happy end cooked in Hollywood because there is no reason for Ben to come back to his real parents and brothers. The justification for this return is weak and unbelievable.     "},{"Title":"Dull, made for TV movie w/ $40 millon budget...","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ...That made it to the big screen!I wanted to see this movie, because I love Michelle Pfeiffer--Catwoman!  I mean how hot was she in that latex suit.  She could whip me anytime.  Sadly, she was put into this movie with a very formulaic, overly predictable, dull script.  The characters all seemed 1 dimensional, or tired, and didn't wanna be in the movie.  With except of of Pfeiffer and Merriman.  The interaction between Mother and Son was very good, but unrealistic.  Ryan Merriman is a wonderful young actor, and blew away most of the rest of the cast.  Pfeiffer just seemed to be going thru the motions with this one--somewhat like she was in The Story of Us--Another snoozefest!Could have been so much more, but wasn't!4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Can you spell schmaltzy?","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What happens when the 3 year old son of a family of 5 is stolen and returned 9 years later? That's what Deep End of the Ocean explores hitting all the issues in a very idealized way while dripping with schmaltz. Pfeiffer, the mother, is at the center of this film and seems woefully in need of direction as she's goes from teary moment to teary moment. Only for the most ardent lovers of soapy sentimentality in film. "},{"Title":"Surprise Film","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An excellent family movie.  The outstanding cast delivers top notch performances.  I watched the movie without hearing anything about it beforehand, too bad since the movie is better than at least two of the movies nominated for Academy Awards last year. "}{"Title":"Long and drawn out","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Promises a lot but does not deliver.  Casting terrible with Whoopi Goldberg totally miscast ( what has a black, gay police officer got to do with the central plot has me beat!).  Actors try hard to deliver the emotional torment and frustration at not locating their kidnapped son but, in the end, the standard of acting does not portray that feeling of helplessness and despair.  The older son, Vincent, frustrates the life out of the movie and is portrayed as a rebellious individual with little or no sympathy for the plight of the parents.  Overall, very disappointing. "},{"Title":"A gentle healing movie -- presenting a different point of view on missing children and family integrity","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What composes a family unit (according to the dictionary) all the members of a household; those who share one's domestic home.  What is home An environment or haven of shelter, of happiness and love.  So the center of this story circles around a family at home.The film's focus being more on the mother portrayed by Michelle Pfeiffer, the father, Treat Williams' character, does seem to be not as detailedly described (then again, the film might extend to a saga). The story being told we can easily follow. There's a lot of grounds and aspects the film tries to cover --- lots of nuances of feelings and emotions involved in a family unit which experienced the event of a missing child. There is a leap of 9 years. It also includes the aspect of a family that adopted a child, and the feelings of the child in question are explored. The film works as a mystery. There are clues to the suspense. At one point, we have a glimpse of a lost child parent network scenario. The various characters' emotions mount and ebb. Besides sadness and anguish, there are momentary family celebrations and joy depicted. All in all, it's a decent family movie.Besides Michelle Pfeiffer's tour de force performance of the frustrated, fighting the odds mother, and Treat Williams as a seemingly macho head of the family figure, Jonathan Jackson as the teenage eldest son held his own and delivered a superb performance. The guilt he carries, being the eldest, of losing his younger brother -- how the parents both did not have harsh words on him or questioned his lack of duty as the older brother made it more uneasy for him, and these feelings were subtly displayed as the supporting backbone to the whole story. The possible phenomenon of missing children parents focusing only on their own immediate feelings and trepidation and not attempting to explore with the other siblings within the same family unit as to how they felt about the whole event -- the assumption that grown-ups know more of the realities and harshness of life, needs a refreshing outlook let's get down to the children's level and also be there for them (sometimes a simple hug can dissipate nameless grudges or discomforts). All siblings involved should be taken into consideration and we need to take the time to respect the children's sentiments without simply dismissing them -- this is vital to the integrity of a family unit in distress. Time will heal and fate takes a hand. There's no preparation for such an event, and we can't push things -- things, human healing, take their own course.Another missing child movie came to mind is Without A Trace 1983, with Kate Nelligan as the mother in distress. I vaguely remember there's a rather scary movie called The House Under the Trees 1971, with Faye Dunaway and Frank Langella, also dealt with looking for lost or trapped children.Director Ulu Grosbard has directed several diverse films, yet their core storyline has a palette of family strife and complex human elationships  -- The Subject Was Roses 1968 a veteran trying to live with his parents at home (Martin Sheen, Patricia Neal); Straight Time 1978 a small time thief trying to go straight (Dustin Hoffman); Falling In Love 1984 a man and a woman trying to keep up with their extramarital love (Robert De Niro, Meryl Streep); and strained emotions between siblings (True Confessions 1981 two brothers, a cop (Robert Duvall) and a priest (Robert De Niro); Georgia 1995 two sisters, an accomplished singer (Mare Winningham), and a not so accomplished singer (Jennifer Jason Leigh).  "},{"Title":"Shallow and Emotionless. ** out of ****","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ulu Grosbard's The Deep End of the Ocean should have been called The Shallow End of the Ocean simply because the film has such a fordable aspect of its situation and ideas that it is almost if the filmmakers thought they were too good to turn themselves into making a tear-jerker. And tears are something we don't even think about while watching this movie, and it is supposed to be a tear jerker.The movie's plot is handled with great UN-certainty and mis-direction. Even the closing scene is week because of awkwardness. The plot itself is strong and solid, and knows exactly how it wants to present itself of screen. That is the problem. The search for the lost boy is greatly detailed, but even more so than the return? And the discovery, which should have been reacted to with immense surprise, is somehow, not overly startling.There are so very many pointless distractions and plot clinches in the movie as well. Lets take the Whoopi Goldberg character for instance. In one particular scene, she reveals a secret, for no apparent reason other than to throw in a simple audience pleaser. That is so un-necessary, so needles, so insane that I laughed out loud.The performances in The Deep End of the Ocean were quite the treat indeed. Pfeiffer, who hasn't made a movie is some several years, comes back with a drop dead stunningly great achievement. Her confusion is involving and her reactions are to die for. Treat Williams is very good in his role, but sometimes a bit over the top and too aggressive. Goldberg delivers minor momentum in her first appearance, but could have easily been replaced with a newcomer and presented just as well. John Kapelos, as the foster father, is handled gently and seems to conquer his role with ease. Just too bad the script didn't provide these across with enticing dialog and juicy roles. As a matter of fact, the whole movie seems slow and dry.It is unfortunate that the film misses the emotional side of the story completely. There could have been some inspiring material from the foster parent's point of view, but there isn't . Director Grosbard threw in as many characters' feeling as possible, but none of them really hit the spot, kind of like the recent Stepmom, which suffered from the exact some imperfections. Stepmom was tear resistant because of a jumpy-paced screenplay, with effort involved. The Deep End of the Ocean didn't even try for tears.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly great","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went to this movie figuring if it's lousy at least I get to see Michelle Pfieffer.  I ended up loving this movie very much and I cried like a baby, at several different points.  It is not at all predictable, boring or overdone. I would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Why does it have to have that all encompassing, feel-good ending?","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Noble, decent film about a crises in suburbia a boy, kidnapped nine years ago from a nice, normal family, is returned to them--a virtual stranger. This premise was done great justice in the grittier TV-film, I Know My First Name Is Steven. This theatrical drama has fabulous, full-throttle performances by Michelle Pfeiffer and Treat Williams as the parents, some interesting plot turns, but nowhere to go after the boy comes home. We've seen it all before--even Whoopi Goldberg as a detective seems shoehorned in from somewhere else (it's virtually the same character she portrayed in The Player). I would forgive the film for its assembly-line construction were it not for a downright drippy finale. Sure, it wouldn't have been as uplifting had the film ended a different way (turning on the kid's decision), but why do we always need to be uplifted at the movies? Is there some Hollywood legend that says all downbeat endings result in flop films? Well, this one did flop, so there's a double excuse not to end the thing with everyone leaking happy tears in the driveway. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I enjoyed this film very much and it was also very touching, but it wasn't that sad, so I didn't cry. It had great acting from Michelle Pfieffer and Jonathan Jackson.The storyline was good and was also original, the way the little boy got kidnapped in a split second but it became more than just a child kidnap movie when this boy arrived on the Cappadora's door step nine years later. And is the same age as Ben would be now. Then the mother finds something in the boys face that resembles Ben and she starts thinking what if.... So in conclusion to this review I give this film an 8 out of 10 because it deserves this rating and because I think anyone who watches this film will enjoy it. And I recommend this film to people over 10 years but no person under because of the adult themes, sexual references and little language.  "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Deepend of the ocean i think is a fantastic movie to watch. This movie was made in 1999. This movie is about a woman who's son gets kidnapped at the age of 3, then 9 years later the woman of the child meets him again and spends time with him. i give this movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"pffffft.!!!!","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie may be one of the worst movies ever. If MST3K was still on the air this would be one for them. The screenplay was horrible and the acting was just as bad. Although they had nothing to work with. Treat Williams might as well have been a stump. Bleech!!! "},{"Title":"Dreadful. Clumsy and irritating. (spoiler, sort of)","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the most superficial tearjerkers I've seen. I couldn't believe how badly this script treated the foster father. Here is a man who raised this child for nine years, and his views on the proper upbringing for this child are just tossed away as meaningless or irrelevant. What does this kid want? I am never convinced that the screenwriter knew. The dialogue is very clumsy - Michelle Pfeiffer's character only comes off as snotty and Treat Williams's character as a moron. I could not bring myself to feel anything for any of these characters; all I could feel was contempt for the movie's attitude and shallowness. "},{"Title":"This is a really stupid movie...","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie does not deserve a long comment. Is stupid, with stupid options, a rather strange cast, boring plot (promising during the first 15 minutes, idiot the rest of the time). It would be useful for someone who works in Communication teaching to explain how a movie should no be done. "}{"Title":"Candidate for Worst Movie Ever (1/10)","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This one was so bad, I have to warn others. Not that you get me wrong. I enjoyed the acting. I only sat thru this movie because it was a sneak preview (you don't know the movie you are going to see). I think the back-and-forth of the whole story is just to much. After a lot of discussion we came to the conclusion that the typical Hollywod happy-end was totally wrong. If the filmmakers would have spared us that, the film might have just been worthwile. So, I give it a 1/10 for a complete waste of time. "}]