[{"Title":"An excellent movie that I've enjoyed through many viewings","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"33 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I suppose this is actually a B movie, but there's something about this movie that keeps me coming back to see it again every few months. Maybe it's the rather unique (for Hollywood, anyway) relationship between Meg and John. I mean, they don't even so much as kiss each other and barely touch at all! But I think they make the screen sizzle, nonetheless. I must admit I love the action in this movie, too. Every once in a while I wonder how a small time forger learned to fight and shoot like she does, but then I blissfully ignore it and just enjoy the movie.Great action scenes, wonderful relationship development and great acting by Mira and Yun-Fat Chow make this a movie I'm sure I'll see many more times. "},{"Title":"Hits the center of the bulls-eye with hair-raising accuracy.","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"31 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Wild and absolutely menacing thriller involving Chow Yun-Fat (in his American film debut) as John Lee, a quiet yet resourceful hit-man who along with a sarcastic forger, Meg Coburn (Mira Sorvino), become involved when Lee refuses to take out someone close to a cop (Michael Rooker), who shot and killed his mobster boss' drug-dealing son during a drug bust and in the process, Coburn and Lee are also targeted by his superiors.It's a brilliant debut for Yun-Fat and director Antoine Fuqua (Bait, Training Day), both of whom show their skills with such respect. Some of the shoot-outs that take place in some areas that you wouldn't even think of (car wash, alley, movie theater, etc.). Plus, the cinematographer Peter Lyons Collister and composer Harry Gregson-Williams excell in making the movie even more entertaining. The scenery has a very colorful and artistic look to it and the music doesn't get too loud. I think of the movie as Lethal Weapon made like in the style of John Woo, who is one of the film's producers.The Replacement Killers certainly hits the center of the bulls-eye with hair-raising accuracy. "},{"Title":"FAT'S THE WAY I LIKE IT!","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This Hollywood debut for Hong Kong superstar Chow Yun Fat does no disgrace to the image of the cool as ice heroic persona established in his Chinese movies.He is not asked to do much here other than engage in long and protracted but beautifully filmed gunfights which he performs with consummate ease and establishes a persona which should serve him well in subsequent projects.A memo however to stupid British movie critics who called this a kung fu movie and referred to Mr.Fat as a martial arts star.There is no kung fu to speak of in this movie and the star is not famed for his skills in this field.Maybe British critics did not even bother to see this movie but just pretended they did assuming that it was a chop-socky flick.I wouldn't put it past them. "},{"Title":"This is superb Hong Kong action stuff !!!","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"26 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, this movie just blew me away !!! I am a fan of the John Woo type of action movies and I must say that even he was just one of the executive producers, his mark is all over this movie!!!The result is very good  Nicely paced action sequences, more story and emotions than in your average Hong Kong action movie (But not as much story development as in an American production, but in this genre this just isn't needed that much, it would just slow down the pace), well acted , you kinda start feeling sympathetic for the leads and you'll certainly hate these villains. This is a thrill ride from beginning till the end. And this is where I have my only point of criticism  The movie is way to short !!! 80 minutes and the credits start to roll!!! You'll almost start to beg for more...  I'll best describe this movie as a cross between Face-Off and The professional from director Luc Besson. A must-see for every action movie lover.  "},{"Title":"papa sorvino is right to be proud","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" i think this movie rocks -- it is the best place to watch Mira Sorvino be entertaining and hot. i just bought the DVD in a bargain bin and i can't stop watching it. OK it's a bit of a TV movie script. but it's a year ahead of the matrix, and i dare you to watch it without making production comparisons. in fact, i can't watch the matrix any more. so much for movies with great scripts. so much of the goodness of this movie relies on Mira Sorvino's screen presence that it plays a bit like a bit music video -- it's just plain fun to see her on screen. Chow Yun Fat is good, and this American Chinese boy (me) likes seeing a hybrid movie like this... well, it's fun to see the Chinese guy wear nice suits and kick some a$$ too. i can't watch any of the crappy hong kong stuff that the other users seem to think is superior to this. i can see how HK martial arts lovers wouldn't like this -- it's a very different, very American movie. personally, i'd rather see more clones of this movie than more jackie chan. hey, did i mention Mira Sorvino is hot? i even like the relationship chemistry that develops here -- sort of like the David Carradine character wandering the desert in the Kung Fu TV shows -- he never even gets to kiss the pretty girl who falls for his decency, but the mutual respect is better that way. more movies need to take this route. i'm not a Mira watcher -- i've only seen her aphrodite and some awful film school $hit i'm sure she wishes she never made, and her happy day on the Oscar alumni stage. as a Harvard guy, i'm not sure i want to see her in romy and michelle. this was simply a great role for a very underutilized actress at the right time in her life during the era of east-west action fusion. if i were producing movies, i'd kick myself for not watching this movie sooner and taking advantage of Mira Sorvino in her prime. it's not too late -- check our her recent IMDb pics. papa sorvino was right -- his daughter is great, and anyone who says otherwise should get a cap in his knee. this movie is the proof. "},{"Title":"Chow Yun-Fat brings ultra-cool to Hollywood","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Some may call this film derivative but many HK productions are about revenge and/or organized crime. While it may not be as kinetic as other CYF films like Hardboiled or The Killer, it also lacks the campy moments found in those films. In this respect, CYF's performance is slightly superior to his HK work because he is required to be far more subtle than some of his more over-the-top roles. Heresy, i know, but what many people might see as the film's vices could be considered virtues less action and fewer lines of dialog allow a more authentic emotional story to develop and CYF to do more actual acting. The opening sequence is brilliant as pure cinema and must be seen. The relationship between John Lee and Meg Coburn is unique in this genre in that it's basically a buddy situation with romantic undertones; it is one of the best things about the film. (It's such a cliché when characters just hop into bed 10 minutes after meeting.) Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Watch this movie for it's action, you'll enjoy it more.","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Those of you who desire a deep, thought provoking, plot.  One which leaves you asking questions, after the movie is done.  Well, guess what?  This is not the movie for you.  However, if you are seeking a high intensity, past paced, exciting, action-packed, drama, stay tuned because the ride has just begun.  This is the second time I have watched this movie.  I watched it when it first came out and then again just last night.  I can't help it but Chow Yun-fat is definitely the Sean Connery of our eastern brothers.I will admit that this movie is not for everyone.  Then again, you can't make everyone happy all of the time. You can make some people happy some of the time.  This movie made it's money's worth, so apparently it made most people happy most of the time. "},{"Title":"Roller-coaster ride from start to finish","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" From the start of the film you know what to expect. This is Chow Yun-Fats first film in America and I think he does a brilliant job. Gets his character spot on. The directer Antoine Fuqua did a brilliant for his first feature film and can't wait to see his films in the future.The shootouts he produced were brilliant and reminded me of some of Chow Yun-Fats past films. They lasted a good time and were not boring at all. Chow Yun-Fats movement with the gun is just like he did in The Killer. He moved like some kind of ballerina with guns which reminded me of him in Hard Boiled. I love shootouts and the ones in these are some of the best I have seen. The shootout in the car wash was brilliant. Loved the way the made it look in there.The story was OK. Not great but OK. I no the story has probably been done before but most stories have been. I liked the way they made Chow Yun-Fats character to be caring person, not someone who goes around killing people for fun. Mira Sorvino acted her role brilliantly which showed she was a Academy Award winner.Overall I really enjoyed this film and thought it was a brilliant action film. I'm sure this will be a great film for action fans to watch and also for you Chow Yun-Fat fans. The shootouts will blow you away "},{"Title":"Good stuff","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When the son of a powerful underworld boss, Mr. Wei, is killed in a police raid he swears vengeance. John Lee is the hit-man assigned with the task to carry out the hit, but despite a successful career as a contract killer he finds himself unable to pull the trigger. Even more upset, Wei sends in a duo of ruthless assassins, the replacement killers of the title, to kill both John and carry out his assignment.This is the first feature length film for a successful music video director so it probably doesn't look so hot, but don't be fooled this is one terrific action movie. Antoine Fuqua serves up a very assured and stylish direction while keeping the film going at an exciting pace. The shootouts are spectacular and are among the most furious seen outside of Hong Kong cinema. The film's performances are also strong and while the action makes the film exciting, they make the film involving.The film is not to high on the originality scale as Chow Yun-Fat has played the self-conscious hit-man going against a ruthless underworld many times and the screenplay is for the most part predictable, but as an action movie it works very well. 8/10Rated R for intense violence, and profanity "},{"Title":"A Chow fan","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I bought the video only because I wanted to see Chow in his other American films after seeing him in Anna And The King.  I have now watched it many times.  He is the most magnetic presence on screen I have seen in a long time.  I am not a shoot um up fan but I can just zap through most of that and watch the characterization develop between the two main people and they are very good.  I wanted to know more about both of them and that is the only criticism I have, since I know that this was made for action fans and those who like non stop guns blazing away.  For me, I wanted to know about John and Meg. But that would have been another film.  Just for Chow and Sorvino, I give it a 7 of 10. "}{"Title":"Mindless Shoot-em-up","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This could have been a good movie with just a bit more thought and better plot. I get very tired of heroes that can gun down four bad guys (all shooting back with machine guns) with just a pistol. Mira Sorvino and Yun-Fat Chow wasted their talents creating believable characters in this.  "},{"Title":"Fast-paced, enjoyable fun.","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Lee (Yun-Fat) is an expert marksman/gunman/assassin/gun enthusiast who works for crime lord Mr. Wei (Tsang). All his life he's followed the orders of his superiors, but when his latest hit is meant to be carried out not just on a hardworking cop named Zedkov (Rooker), but also his seven-year-old son, Lee finds he can't pull the trigger. In order to disappear and get back to his family in China, he needs forged documents, so he goes to see Meg Coburn (Sorvino), an expert in such things. Soon enough, Wei sends many waves of goons to kill off the unlikely duo. When an underboss, Kogan (Prochnow), can't kill them fast enough, Wei sends for The Replacement Killers - played in the movie by Schweiger and Trejo - to kill not just Zedkov but also Lee and Coburn. This all sets the stage for lots and lots of gun shooting. Who will get killed and who will get replaced? Find out today...It seems pretty obvious, especially looking back now, that The Replacement Killers was an attempt to bring John Woo-style action to Hollywood. Woo did act as executive producer, after all, but did not direct the film. That, in this case, went to Fuqua, and this was his first feature-length production after a career making MTV videos in the 90's, and it really, really shows. There is a lot of style and flash, but not much of a narrative structure, as you might expect from a background like that, and certainly on someone's first attempt. (Evidently there was more character development at one point, but it was left on the cutting room floor). If this all sounds like negative criticism, it's not. The movie is lightweight and entertaining, and without a doubt it delivers the action goods.Chow-Yun Fat is one of the coolest cats around, and no one looks more awesome shooting guns or putting on sunglasses. In the 90's there was an attempt by Hollywood to also put Jackie Chan in theaters, and that was appreciated, but seemingly did not last long. We, of course, enjoyed seeing Operation Condor (1997) and Jackie Chan's First Strike (1996) on the big screen. If it could be done with Kung Fu, why not Gun-Fu? And who better to play the classic killer with a conscience than Chow-Yun Fat? With endless gun battles and slo-mo moments (slo-moments?...actually that would be misleading as there are no slow moments in the film), all set to the sounds of the prerequisite late-90's electronica such as Tricky, The Crystal Method and Death in Vegas (apparently Portishead was unavailable), how can you lose? If you're a fan of action setpieces (and who isn't), you don't.Such things as described above were tried unsuccessfully before, i.e. Killing Time (1998), but, thankfully, The Replacement Killers gets the simply-plotted assassin shooting movie right. There's enough cannon fodder for the good guys to shoot at and it never really lets up. Backing up Fat and Sorvino is an impressive cast of Comeuppance favorites Michael Rooker as the cop, Danny Trejo as one of the Replacement Killers, the fascinatingly-named Clifton Collins Jr. is the Machine Gun Joe character, Patrick Kilpatrick as a baddie, Jurgen Prochnow as another baddie (looking a lot like Robert Davi here), and, in blink-or-you'll-miss them goon roles, action mainstays James Lew and Al Leong. And at only 84 minutes without the credits, it all comes in at a good running time. More movies - hell, ALL movies - should be 84 minutes. Kudos to the production for a reasonable length here.So while wags may complain that there's not much substance and the whole thing is like an extended music video, those people are missing the point. There's no time to waste as The Replacement Killers remains fast-paced, enjoyable fun. "},{"Title":"Chow Yun Fat chews up Hollywood perfectly!","Date":"22 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'm a huge fan of CYF - for almost 30 years now. His on-screen persona is just the finest and he is one of the best actors out there!But with other HK stars transfers to Hollywood - where the big wigs all claim that they know what is best - I was quite concerned for his debut.Replacement Killers actually plays quite well!Still carrying that 90's look, we are treated to 85 minutes of stylish Hong Kong wanna-be shoot outs and angles that sometimes overdoes the John Woo homages - some of which are pretty good, some that just ended up quite slow.Regardless, it was a great introduction to the US audience for HK's coolest actor, and an enjoyable film nonetheless! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but pretty bland.","Date":"17 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Chow Yun-Fat is extremely famous for his work with director John Woo. He has established an ice cool persona, and is highly recognized for his diving through the air with dual pistols signature. Director of The Replacement Killers seeks to play to Chow Yun-Fat's strengths, by making a movie that is in many ways similar to a John Woo movie. But it doesn't quite succeed. While The Replacement Killers seemingly offers everything your average Chow Yun-Fat/Woo film does, it is all delivered in a fairly bland fashion, resulting in a fairly forgettable movie. First and foremost, the is HEAPS of action in this movie. Chow Yun-Fat fires his two guns like he always does. There's shootouts in car washes, there's shootouts in apartments, there's shootouts in video arcades, there's shootouts in cinemas, and a variety of other places. The problem is, the action just seems pretty uninteresting, and the answer to why I can't quite explain. The story is decent for an action movie, and resembles that of The Killer, one of the most famous Chow Yun-Fat/Woo collaborations. Chow Yun-Fat himself looks pretty much exactly like he did in that movie. All the acting is quite good, with the exception of the HIGHLY ANNOYING Michael Rooker. There's some pretty big names in this movie. All in all, The Replacement Killers is a decent movie, but it doesn't really do anything above average, and just comes off as fairly uninteresting and bland. A shameless copy of a John Woo movie. Yet that isn't an entirely bad thing. "},{"Title":"fast furious, non-stop and stylish","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" OK, so it's hokey with no proper storyline and no character development or believable interaction between those on screen, but boy does it work! You can keep your over long pretentious tales of what real gentlemen the mafia, the triads or whatever are. I'm not interested that whilst they're busting my old lady they're being good to theirs. Goodies versus baddies or even baddies versus baddies means action and if we are to have action let's have it like this, fast furious, non-stop and stylish. It doesn't have to look as good as here but it helps. This film is a wondrous ride and do we pause for a romantic interlude? Do the fantastic pair, Chow Yun-Fat and Mira Sorvino even touch each other? I don't think there was time for that, time only to pick up two or two dozen guns and fire them all at once, all the time. Wow this is silly comic book stuff, but real fun. "},{"Title":"NOT Woo... just cold water","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Chow Yun-Fat dancing and rolling en ralenti with 2 guns in his hands is not enough to make a John Woo's movie. In Italy we say style is not cold water, and almost all i can see in this movie is water. Yes, there is some good action, good choreography, but at the end Fuqua is not Woo, Mira Sorvino is not credible and everything sounds like useless even if Chow Yun-Fat is always a great actor, you can wash your face with this cold water, but soon it will be dried. 4 to 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Average shooter inspired by superior Hong-Kong Flicks","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Right. This was more or less what I expected. I hoped to find an hidden gem,but all I got was a stylish  shooter largely influenced by movies like HARD BOILED (John Woo is in fact one of the producers of TRP, and we have Mr.Cool himself, Chow Jun-Fat as the lead). What saved the movie from being a boorrrinng action movie were these 4 things 1) Chow Jun-Fat maan, he oozes charisma and screen presence from every pore. In his 1st US movie he plays the same role for which he is famous in his homeland the troubled hitman. And he's great! 2) Mira Sorvino I liked what the authors did. Hell, her role HAD to be that of the mega-babe,right. And a gorgeous mega-babe we have, of course. But tough as nails. Must have been fun for her playing this role. Dumb, but fun 3) The very stylish photography and colors It's all very fast and quite stupid, but sometimes beautiful to watch. 4)The last 10 minutes this is where the movie redeems itself. The final showdown is the high of the flick-fast,furious and exciting. If only the rest of the movie had been the same,we could have had a contender. What we have is quite a decent shooter,instead. Rating5 "},{"Title":"I don't think they had a script!","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shoot-outs, cool-looking Actors and a story that you can write down in less than a minute make this movie a total disappointment. Yun-Fat and Sorvino should use their talents better than pseudo-acting in this Videoclip. The only good thing about 'REPLACEMENT KILLERS' is, that Schweiger doesn't say a word.2/10 "},{"Title":"Chow Yun-Fat comes to America!","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie in a near empty cinema! After viewing it again recently, my perception of the film remains unchanged.Even though John Woo gets a production credit, this film lacks the overall input of the HK action flick king.True to form, Chow Yun-Fat looks cool. The action sequences are very well done, but the plot is too thin and the characters are not allowed the room to develop.Overall a bit of a slow start for Chow in Hollywood.3/5. "},{"Title":"All firepower and no substance...","Date":"31 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Replacement Killers is an ultraviolent exercise in destruction, nihilism , and termination.  Hong Kong action superstar Chow Yun-Fat makes an unfortunately ill-fated debut in this poorly written actioner.  Mira Sorvino is Chow's ally and as a forger, she serves as the only  hope to helping Chow escape the pervaling wrath of the Triads and the rest of the belligerent Mafia...  The Replacement Killers has tons of violence, action, and blood, but amid all the decoration, the film is missing vital substance.  Through one shoot-out after another, The Replacement Killers becomes a redundant.  No character development, and a lack of a surreal environment all maim The Replacement Killers.  Stick to Chow's earlier Hong Kong efforts including The Killer (1989) and Full Contact (1992).  "}{"Title":"They needed Replacement Writers","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Bigger budget and better production values than the HK flicks it parrots, but ironically this film ends up feeling cheaper and lower-grade due to the utterly bland, unoriginal plot. If they made Mia Sorvino a hooker with a heart of gold to go along with CYF's killer with a conscience, then at least it would have been a unique combination of 2 totally recycled movie stereotypes.I wish they had spent even an ounce of effort on crafting a somewhat compelling setup/ plot, as it would have likely redeemed the movie as a slick, enjoyable actioner (which is exactly what I wanted to see.) I don't need life-changing character moments or Oscar-worthy roles, but throw me something! The worst part is that the leads are good- CYF and Sorvino do their best with what they've got, and a romantic relationship could have helped even more. The movie is also pretty short, but short and to the point is fine, as long as there is a pulse behind it all. I just want something that's just a bit more substantial than the CGI cut scenes from a video game. Have I used enough metaphors to express my frustration with this movie?I was not looking for anything special or life-changing in Replacement Killers, I was just looking for some CYF coolness in a Hollywood movie. But because there was literally nothing else in it, the movie fell completely flat for me. Go see The Killer, Hard-Boiled, or the Corrupter instead (not great but better.) "},{"Title":"As disposable as a spent casing - 67%","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Considering that the last three films I've viewed and reviewed on the IMDb were Hard Boiled, Kill Bill Volume 1 and Battle Royale then I guess it's no surprise to see this film next. Chow Yun Fat, in his first US role, plays a contract killer with a conscience (don't they all?) who goes on the run with Mira Sorvino after failing his mob boss. Essentially, it's a long sequence of bullet-ridden action scenes in a style similar to John Woo's superior Hard Boiled.Clearly hoping that US production values would improve the fast-paced martial arts movie, the director forgot one key ingredient martial arts. Aside from escaping a few loose holds, Chow simply guns the bad guys down like Dirty Harry on speed. In fact, the whole movie runs like an extended shoot-out as bullets and protagonists fly through the air with the greatest of ease. Not since Desperado have I seen such a huge amount of ammo being fired and so much of it missing. The template seems to be shoot the Hell out of the scenery and then pump the baddies full of lead several times over, extra points if they fly backwards through a window. True, the action is well shot and exciting but when it's a relentless barrage on screen, only the location changes and the viewer begins to lose interest. I played two games of Backgammon on my mobile, meaning this film fails my so-called Nokia test for keeping my attention span.Despite the special effects and choreography, the US (in general) can't make action films as good as the Far East. Acting in this is pedestrian at best, wooden and stereotypical at worst. Can someone think of any film where Jurgen Prochnow plays a good guy or where he doesn't have a forty-a-day vocal growl instead of a normal voice? The Replacement Killers does nothing new to interest the viewer and does nothing to inject some new ideas into a rapidly declining genre of film. The best thing about this is the fact that it introduced Western audiences to Chow Yun Fat, who can be a good actor when he wants to be. But, like Jackie Chan, his best stuff is made on the other side of the Pacific. Consider which of these films you'd rather see - Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon or Bullet-Proof Monk. Sadly, The Replacement Killers is more of a Monk than a Dragon and left me feeling disappointed. Like most of the gun shots in this film, this one misses its target and should have been much better. "},{"Title":"Not bad for an action flick","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you're looking for a basic action movie this may be for you. I think its a very underrated movie. It is stylish, fast paced, well acted, and has a reasonable plot. Most importantly for me its not pretentious. There is actually a pretty good character development too. The characters are actually quite believable and one can feel for the characters played by Chow Yun Fat and Mira Sorvino. It is not a martial arts movie (see Return of the Dragon for that) and its not high drama (see Leaving Las Vegas). However for anyone who wants an action movie that is reasonably intelligent this is a good choice.  "},{"Title":"*1/2 OUT OF FIVE","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Chow Yun-Fat stars as John Lee an assassin who bulks at killing a kid for a mobster (Kenneth Tsang) who becomes a target when the replacement killers come to finish his job, he teams up with a forger Meg Coburn (Mira Sorvino) while they run for their lives in this sub par and empty actioner. I guess my mistake was expecting much more from CYF's American debut, because Don The Dragon Wilson could star in the movie in CYF's part, and the movie would have turned out the same. Too much style and not enough substance make The Replacement Killers a movie better left replaced. "},{"Title":"Well, its what I expected really!","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Yay, blood, gore, shootups, hitmen, whoopee.If you go for that.Let's just say it's not particularly unsurprising the lack of Oscar nominations this film got.Chow Yun-Fat is OK enough, but to be honest it's a predictable, silly and dull film. "},{"Title":"Action films aren't SUPPOSED to be boring, are they?","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sheesh!  Chow Yun-Fat has the silky charm and coiled rage of a tiger, and Mira Sorvino has great legs, but they are both wasted in this dull, Hong Kong action flick-wannabe.  The film, about a hitman (Yun-Fat) who refuses to kill a young boy and becomes hunted by mercenaries, is the cinematic equivalent of a fast-food restaurant's neon sign.  Flashy and colourful, noisy and shallow, The Replacement Killers is never as cool or as exciting as it could have been.There's one great sequence - a shoot-out in a car wash - and any film with Michael Rooker in it isn't completely worthless.  Most of the film, though, is a cluster of pedestrian action scenes centred around a group of characters with no depth.  Sorvino is on autopilot as the brash, hard-as-nails chick; the villains are instantly forgettable; and Yun-Fat only gets to glower.To tell you the truth, I have no desire to write any more about this movie.  Having never seen an actual Hong Kong action movie, I can only guess they're better than The Replacement Killers.  In any case, you'd be better off renting one of those.   "},{"Title":"Stray Bullets","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Replacement Killers is as mindless, senseless, tasteless, worthless a movie as you will ever watch on the big screen. It consists essentially of one huge shoot-out which is interrupted a couple of times in order to give the characters the opportunity to walk from one building to the next or to exchange a few comments on the last shoot-out or the one that's going to take place within a couple of minutes. If you love the sound of machine guns, this is definitely your movie. If not, beware! "},{"Title":"Replicants...","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Chow Yun-Fat stars as John Lee (Such an original name) as an assassin who fails to carry out a mission that mobster Kenneth Tsang orders him to carry out, seems Lee doesn't want to kill a police officer's son and so he trades gunfire with the replacement killers sent in to kill him and the police officer's son. He also finds welcome help from a document forger (Played by Mira Sorvino) in this stylish yet ultimately shallow and dull actioner which fails to live up to the expectations set by CYF's Hong Kong standards, in fact The Replacement Killers fails to live up to even Van Damme's standards. The problem with The Replacement Killers is that the movie is just so routine and clichéd. The assassin who has one more hit to complete, the mobsters (Or triads) who mark our hero for death and characters without any sense of personality or distinction to the action sequences that follow. If the action had been good, this would've at least made it a passably fun action flick, but the overall one sided shootouts as well as the hyper camera angles fail to make this enjoyable for fans of CYF's HK work. Even more disappointing is Chow Yun-Fat himself who is so held back and one dimensional that his part could've been played by Jean-Claude Van Dmme without any difference. All the movie is about is a guy dressed in cool garb systematically destroying anyone in his path without any form of plot or soul. Once again had the action sequences contained more suspense, more grit and indeed a sense of danger to the horizons this would've been fun, but alas this is not the case, and The Replacement Killers is a disappointing cliché brought to life. *1/2 out of 4-(Poor) "},{"Title":"Derivative thriller delivers the action goods","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" THE REPLACEMENT KILLERS Aspect ratio 2.391Sound formats Dolby Digital / SDDS-8John Woo (who else?) co-produced this debut US vehicle for Asian superstar Chow Yun-fat (or 'Mr. Fat', as he's known to some careless movie fans), in which Chow plays a hired killer pursued by ruthless gangster Kenneth Tsang Kong (BISHONEN) after refusing to assassinate the family of a cop (Michael Rooker) who killed Tsang's son during a drugs bust. Mira Sorvino plays the plucky con artist hired by Chow to provide him with forged documents so he can flee the country, only to find herself caught up in Tsang's lust for vengeance, as monstrous hit men Til Schweiger (DER BEWEGTE MANN) and Danny Trejo (BLOOD IN BLOOD OUT) arrive on the scene to exterminate both Chow and his immediate family. For all its flashy visuals and explosive soundtrack, Antoine Fuqua's derivative film ploughs a well-worn furrow, slavishly imitating the Hong Kong action-thrillers which first brought Chow to Hollywood's attention, whilst completely disregarding the emotional/thematic resonance that distinguishes Asian cinema from its western counterparts. Chow is OK, as usual, but the part doesn't require him to do very much, and the entire cast (including an underused Jürgen Prochnow) plays second fiddle to the slam-bang pyrotechnics. Routine stuff, with few redeeming features. "},{"Title":"embarrassing","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is simply one of the most embarrassing, unfascinating, stupid wannabe-action movie I've ever seen. I wonder why some talented people like Mira Sorvino and Jurgen Prochnow accepted to do this. This should be prohibited by law. Not talking about the Blade Runner citation... rated xxx. "}{"Title":"forgettable, uninspired, not bad","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  an instantly forgettable film, with instantly forgettable characters and plot. tells the story of a hitman who has to do one last job so he can return home or something? has a crisis of conscience when the cop he is to kill is there with his son. he cant go through with it thus incurring the wraith of the big boss, mr wei who wants him dead. the film is really three or four gun fights tagged together with little dramatic inbetween. We never care for the characters, never are bothered what happenes to them as we can predict the outcome of the film after the first 5 minutes. its obvious sorvino and fat will end up liking and respecting each other, obvious fat will kill all the baddies thus gaining his redemption, obvious rooker will have a heart and let our protagonists escape. overall the film is uninspired paint by numbers rubbish which is admitedlly easy to watch. like alot of more recent films these days the film isnt bad, just very very average and forgotten as soon as the credits role "},{"Title":"Lots of action with one fatal flaw.","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has lots of shooting action with one fatal flaw.  Did anyone notice that throughout the whole movie the heroes were totally out-gunned? And, they never corrected this problem?  Even with two automatic pistols each, they would have been slaughtered by the bad guys with automatic rifles!  Of course, the bad guys couldn't hit anyone who counted!  This is so far from reality that it's just awful.I want to make clear that you do not use automatic pistols for an offensive assault.  Even if the bad guys are incompetent, eventually they will hit you!  "},{"Title":"Mira Sorvino needs a Replacement Agent","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has almost no plot, and so it relies on an almost endless series of shootouts to make up its hour and a half length.  Don't get me wrong, I like a good action shooter film, but this just isn't one of them.  The trailers for the film touted Academy Award winner Sorvino, but her acting contribution is non-existent.  This one isn't even worth a rental. "},{"Title":"Forgettable action thriller.","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Replacement Killers starts late one night during a drugs bust on the dock's, cop Stan 'Zeedo' Zedkov (Michael Rooker) shoots Chinese smuggler Peter Wei (Yau-Gene Chan) in self defence but Peter's father & crime-lord Terence Wei (Kenneth Tsang) is rather upset about his son being killed by a cop & orders John Lee (Chow Yun-Fat) to kill the cop's seven year old boy in revenge. John cannot bring himself to do it though which also upsets Terence Wei & John is soon added to his hit list, John needs to get out of the US & back to China & hires forger Meg Coburn (Mira Sorvino) to knock him up some fake papers. However before she completes them Wei's men catch up with her & John, after a shoot-out John & Meg are left stranded on the run from Wei's men & influence as he wants them both dead at any cost...Directed by Antoine Fuqua I personally think that The Replacement Killers is a very shallow & forgettable HK action style US action thriller that I didn't like when I saw it in the cinema back in '98 & still didn't like it when I saw it again last night. The Replacement Killers is yet another one of those films available in more than one version, there's the common theatrical cut which was widely released & then there's the 'Extended Cut' (interestingly not known or advertised as a 'Director's Cut' anywhere) which runs for around ten minutes longer give or take a couple of minutes & I will be basing my comments on the ordinary theatrical cut which is the only version I have ever seen. The plot is very thin, it contains all the hallmarks of a John Woo Hong Kong action flick dealing with themes likes trust, betrayal, honour, family, loss & revenge but The Replacement Killers is a very shallow & forgettable US attempt at copying that distinctive John Woo action style. The character's are paper thin (although to be fair to it the 'Extended Cut' apparently has more development), the dialogue is sparse & almost minimal & the actual action scenes are surprisingly poor & lacklustre. Virtually every action sequence in The Replacement Killers is the same as the last with constant shoot-outs between bad guy's who can't shoot straight & good guy's who rarely ever waste a bullet. It becomes very tiresome & I found it pretty tedious too, I just thought it was a poor story with poor repetitive action scenes & overall I am really struggling to say anything particularly positive about this film.Apart from a shot up car & an exploding van at the end every action scene in The Replacement Killers feels exactly like the last with lots of people shooting at each other. OK sure the locations change but various people jumping over things, sliding across the floor & dodging bullets are essentially exactly the same from one scene to another. I usually like the big budget brainless Hollywood action films & find them very entertaining but this I just couldn't get involved with or get into at all. Although the shoot-outs are well choreographed they are fairly flat & repetitive in my opinion. The film tries to be very cool with lots of dance music, stylish cinematography that keeps the camera moving & darting about & there's lots of posturing & posing as various character's wear the latest sunglasses, carry & shoot using two guns instead of one & dress in sharp suits but there's absolutely no substance to go with the style.According to the IMDb this had a budget of about $30,000,000 which amazes me, I can't really see where all that money went at all. There are no big Hollywood stars, not much in the way of action & I don't understand why this cost so much to make. Shot in Los Angeles in California. The acting is alright but no-one is given too much to do, this was Chow-Yun Fat's US feature film debut, Sorvino is OK while Michael Rooker is wasted in nothing more than a cameo.The Replacement Killers is a Hong Kong style action thriller that I thought was actually pretty poor all round, a really shallow & dull plot along with some repetitive action scenes kill it for me. "},{"Title":"Not Enough Gunfights","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie, despite what you think it may be about, is really about gunfights.  There are more gun battles in this film than there were in the Civil War.  Pistols capable of shooting dozens of rounds without reloading, criminals who could not hit their target (even wounding it) despite blazing away with - oh let's say - a billion rounds of ammunition, and a hero that is capable of killing them by the dozens.  Did you know that you cannot be shot if you drop and roll?  Yes, it's true, the gangster shootout version of duck and cover during an atomic attack. Drop and roll deflects all bullets headed your way.  So, if you like gunfights with automatic and semi-automatic weapons, and the only reason your life has meaning is to see gunfights with automatic and semi-automatic weapons, then this, believe me, is the movie for you.   "},{"Title":"THE REPLACEMENT KILLERS (1998)","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Tarance Wei son is killed by a detective, so he decides to hire John Lee to kill the detective's son. John can't do the job and figures his family will be in danger. He attempts to get to China and meets up with Meg. The two become partners in this action packed movie. The movie has a lot of style but there isn't real strong substance. The action scenes are quite good and there are funny scenes throughout the movie and the final action scene was done quite well. I give this movie 3/5. Rated PA "},{"Title":"Excellent, but not a movie for everyone.","Date":"12 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A mindless action movie, from a mindless action director Antione Fuqua, this being his second directorial debut. Those who are fans of Chow-Yun Fat and the Hong Cong action genre will be more than able to enjoy this more than decent American interpretation of the energetic direction of John Woo. However, those not familiar with the genre, (which is considered most people), will have trouble toning in to this action thriller due to the lack of a fully constructed plot.Now that I have written my critic consensus on the movie itself, I will give my personal opinion on this extremely underrated American take on most John Woo Hong Cong Action flicks. Personally, this movie doesn't have many problems in terms of an action movie, it is just overlooked due to its motivation of the story that leads to the action. Performance wise, I had never seen Mira Sorvino is any other films, but her performance was satisfactory due to her smart remarks and corniness, she also has great chemistry down the line with Chow-Yun Fat's character. I also happen to be a fan of Chow-Yun Fat, who in most cases, gives his best performances in Hong Cong action flicks, but this performance is not to be overlooked, as he might not say much, but in this case letting the handgun do most of the talking is just fine with me. My final thoughts of the film is that it is much worth seeing due that all Chow-Yun Fats masterpieces are made in China. Personally, I would say just make an exception, you more than likely will not be disappointed, and if it does, it was worth the try. "},{"Title":"kick ass reverse revenge.","Date":"7 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" One word can describe this film - AMAZING. Chow Yun-Fat has proved that he has action in his veins. Mira Sorvino has proved to the world of cinema that she is by far THE performer of her family, good looks and kick ass skills. Michael Rooker is one of my favorite actors and this role proved to me that he can handle the roles put out in front of him. In the world of Chinese triad, Yakuza and all things illegal this film rolls them into one great script adding in three great performances and a mix of action, intrigue and witty one liners makes for a blockbuster. All three characters have good/bad qualities and makes for great viewing pleasure. The chemistry of Mira & Chow is fantastic. Hated Mira in high school reunion but this has changed my opinion of her. Action from start to finish - BRILLIANT. Mystery - Who is the good guy? Leave it to you to decide. "},{"Title":"Second time around isn't a charm.","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Saw this way back when, but it hasn't aged well and now just seems kind of mediocre rather than gripping. The cinematography is crisp and stylish and the acting is solid, but the plot is actually wisp thin and the casual ultra-violence is really heavy, which has lost some of its appeal to me as I have aged. With age and wisdom it's clear now that this film is mostly fluff and little substance, but I was a lot shallower way back when, and either I just didn't notice or didn't care. This is basically a simplistic high-body count, high-voltage, action movie in which it's pointless to count the bullets, especially given that firearm magazines don't seem to be constrained by reality. If that's what you're looking for you won't feel like you've wasted your time watching this, but I doubt you'll be left feeling that you've just experienced a cinematic masterpiece either. It is what it is, which in my book is now only slightly above average for a movie of this type. "},{"Title":"Replace This Film!","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Replacement Killers (1998) Dir Antoine Fuqua / Cast Chow Yun-Fat, Mira Sorvino, Michael Rooker, Kenneth Tsang, Jurgen Prochnow Mindless action film where villains are required to miss their targets while the heroes hit dead on. Replacement killers have nothing to do with anything. It regards Chow Yun-Fat who is sent to kill a cop who put away his boss's son. The cop had no choice but upon showing up at the funeral the father voices his hate. Yun-Fat spares the cop's son and meets Mira Sorvino who concocts an I.D. card until her residence becomes plastered with bullet holes. Lame and predictable with director Antoine Fuqua handling the action, which may be the only ambitious element of the film. Yun-Fat rises above the material playing a guy who can express mercy to those unable to defend themselves such as the boy he is ordered to target. Sorvino is hardly involved and exists mainly as a possible love interest. Michael Rooker as the cop is placed in a difficult position but will realize that Yun-Fat is not against him. Kenneth Tsang plays the true villain whining over losses. The action is fast and furious but the screenplay is dull and full of familiarity. The third act is basically one huge violent blow out where the good guys triumph and the bad guys wish they had signed on to a better film. Well made action farce that needs more than just the killers replaced. Score 2 / 10 "}{"Title":"This is '90s action in its purest form.","Date":"12 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Chow Yun-Fat has an distinctive screen presence; suit-n-tie, stylish sunglasses. Dude just screams lethal. And when the man dual-wields a pair of Berettas, it's like watching a master artisan plying his trade. And the people behind THE REPLACEMENT KILLERS know this all too well. There's the promise of some sweet gunplay and very little else. Sure, there's story, cute Mira Sorvino as tough guy, and plenty of gun porn, but it's all about the promise of high energy well-choreographed shootouts. Style over substance? You bet, but here it's a shameless badge of honor.7/10 "},{"Title":"Solid and stylish late 90's action","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Replacement Killers is not only the US debut of Chow Yun Fat, but also the first film project for director Antoine Fuqua. Before his masterpiece Training Day, Fuqua was known for Coolio's Gangsta's Paradise video and this film. Heavily influenced by John Woo's The Killer. The Replacement Killers is a very stylized, sharp looking and well acted action film. Of course, there is only one John Woo and this film is not nearly as good or as intense as his best work. Though somewhat restrained by comparison, The Replacement Killers is a solid action film in its own right and has an excellent cast. Chow Yun Fat, Mira Sorvino, Michael Rooker, Jurgen Prochnow, Kenneth Tsang and Danny Trejo all give incredible performances that elevate the material beyond that of standard action fare. The film looks great and the shootouts are abundant and high quality as well. In today's world this sort of film is nearly extinct. For what it is(straight up action), The Replacement Killers is well done and much better than most of the action films coming out recently. "},{"Title":"I'll need more guns....","Date":"5 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Lee owes a debt to Mr. Wei, a Notorious LA drug-lord. When a cop kills Wei's son during a drug bust, Wei instructs Lee to kill the cop's seven- year old son while they are at play. Lee can't pull the trigger, and he knows Wei will punish him by going after Lee's mother and sister in Shanghai. To reach them fast, Lee needs a hot passport. He seeks out Meg Coburn, an expert in counterfeit ID.But Wei's men are already on Lee's trail, and they must fight them off, evade the cops, face the titular hit men imported to finish Lee's job.....If the film were about The Replacement Killers, then it would have starred Trejo and Schweiger, sounds more intriguing. But that would be if it was made now, and the film would have sounded a lot like a romantic comedy if it were called John and Meg.But to get maximum enjoyment from this movie, you really need to take Chows earlier movies he did with John Woo, because if you go into this expecting something like that, you will find that you will dislike it a lot.Its a big explosion of a film, light on plot and narrative, huge on big, loud set pieces, wonderful mid nineties techno soundtrack, and very clunky dialogue.And its a lot of fun, Fuqua gives the audience very little time to breath between set pieces, and Chow is as cocky as you'd expect him to be, and you will forget Sorvino won an Oscar two years prior to this.All In all, a big dumb, loud summer action film, very cool to look at and to listen to, but it will rot your brain if watched lots and lots of times. "},{"Title":"Exercise in Style","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Lee (Yun-Fat Chow) is a skilled killer. Terence Wei (Kenneth Tsang) is his boss. He's given a final assignment after which his obligation ends. Corrupt cop Michael Kogan (Jürgen Prochnow) wants fellow cop Zedkov (Michael Rooker) dead, but John can't pull the trigger as he plays with his kid. John needs to get a fake passport to go back to China before Mr Wei takes him out. He uses forger Meg Coburn (Mira Sorvino), but Wei's men tracks him down. John is in the wind and Wei brings in other professionals, the Replacement Killers.It's a very superficial action movie in the HongKong style. It's a lot of flash but very little depth. Directed by Antoine Fuqua, the style is copied with mixed results. It feels very much like a transplanted movie especially with Chow Yun-Fat's Chinese accent. He's playing an unemotional killer, and quite frankly Mira Sorvino is almost as cold. Antoine isn't experienced enough yet but the style already shows promising signs. This is an exercise in style rather than a compelling story. "},{"Title":"A replacement of better story needed here, folks","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Cool new wave action extravaganza, you can wonderfully wile your 87 minutes away, easily, sees Asian superstar, Chow Yun Fat, (and this guy can act) break into the Hollywood market, but this movie doesn't do it for him, thanks to a not so original story. Supercool hit man Fat, turns down and job, and rightfully so, when asked to take out the little boy of a cop, (Rooker in top form) responsible for killing the son of a mafia boss. In walking away from this job, he brings a whole ton load of trouble on himself, when the boss's associates come after him, weapons blazing, which makes for great action sequences, with Chow Yun Fat setting a new standard in coolness. A young woman forger (Sorvino-loved her) gets caught in Fat's dilemma, and the two team up, proving a great match against our baddies. Sorvino, a rebel here, who grew up hard, can really dish it back at New York's finest, I really admired her independence and defiance. She grows on ya. Chow too, sees to it, the little boy stays unharmed, as the new merciless replacements arrive, one of them real scary, and it's the much less known one. As an action spectacle, this movie, too cool for school, rides a lot on coolness, but is evidently let down, cause of it's weak story. Performance wise, I really loved Rooker in this as cop and family man, who you don't want the bad guys to lay a finger on them. This film just doesn't cut it as a successor for Fat, while his following pic, The Corrupter was of much better ilk. Why? Story. Cheap forgettable opening sequence here, amidst titles, too, doesn't actually inspire a quality pic is to ensue, either. "},{"Title":"Hollywood's Attempt at a Hong Kong Action Movie","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I went into this movie expecting heaps of action and I was a little disappointed but if there was any more then there would not have been a reasonable plot. The Replacement Killers is a mix between Hong Kong Cinema and Hollywood. The ending is good but still very Hollywood though the action and the story in a sense is very Hong Kong. The main character, John Lee, is a hired killer that has a special weapon, and that is the hand gun. He doesn't run round with machine guns blowing away villains, nor does he jump into a martial arts extravaganza, but just relies upon his pistols. Thus there are a lot of gunfights in this movie as the police and a criminal organisation try to put down this rogue killer.John Lee is a professional assassin who has been blackmailed by a criminal organisation to kill people for them. The son of the boss, Mr Weing, is killed in a drug bust and Mr Weing decides that he wants the son of the cop who killed his son dead. This is an eye for an eye mentality. The problem arises when John Lee discovers that the person he has to kill is a seven year old boy. Thus he refuses to do the job, angers Mr Weing and is hunted down to be punished.This movie is about style and pride in one's job. John Lee is a killer but there is a line he does not cross. He only kills those that he has been paid to kill and those who are trying to kill him. He is not ruthless, which Mr Weing considers to be a flaw, and will not kill innocent bystanders nor will he kill children. One gets the impression that John Lee did not want to start killing anyway.There are a number of similarities between the Replacement Killers and the Killer. The Killer is far better than the Replacement Killers could ever think of being because Replacement Killers has been dragged down by the Hollywood dream world where as the Killer has no such restriction. One big difference we can see between the two movies is that John Lee is much more in control of his situation. Jeff was continuously on the run and in the end the fight came to him. John Lee began on the run but then took the fight to his enemies and defeated them. Victory was fleeting in the Killer, but victory was absolute in the Replacement Killers. "},{"Title":"A Decent If Not Really Superior Action Movie","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The beginning had the gritty Miami Vice (2006) look and beat of director Michael Mann. Antoine Fuqua in his first directorial job and known for his subsequent hit Training Day (2001) and more recently Olympus Has Fallen (2013) did reasonable well. The plot was understandable if not original and his attempts at humanizing the characters and time spent was reflective of his future efforts. Surprising its the main character as a hit man played by Yun-Fat Chow that's a letdown. His scripted behavior as a hit-man doesn't have the finesse or the dazzling exploitation of martial arts that other action movies has shown to retain a high level of interest. Other preferable viewing options would be Matt Damon's Bourne Identity (2002) set a high bar for cool-headed and engaging assassination work. Shadowboxer (2005), Wild Target (2009), Leon The Professional (1994), Enemy of the State (1998), Elektra (2005), The Air I Breathe (2007), Pulp Fiction (1994). "},{"Title":"Boring boring boring","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This shockingly dull actioner stars Chow Yun-Fat as a hit man who refuses to carry out a contract on a cop's son and then scarpers to avoid retribution from his boss. Blazing a trail of rotten ideas across the screen, the screenplay saves most of its atrocious dialogue for Mira Sorvino, who tearfully pushes her Oscar to the back of her broom closet in order to play a forger caught up in the whole sorry mess. Antoine Fuqua batters us into submission with his frenetic direction and throws in more slow motion shots than John Woo would find acceptable, none of the cast bothers to act, and Michael Rooker's doormat beard is irritating. Some of the music's not bad, and that's the film's only tolerable element. "},{"Title":"Stylish, Silly and Wild Woosian Failure","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" First time Director Fuqua will go on to make better Movies, much better. Chow-Yun Fat has made Movies, with John Woo, that are Classics. But here is a frustrating attempt to bring Chow to American Audiences and it fails on almost every level.There are more bullets than words in this shallow and derivative Script. The Actors are solely determined and the Movie looks great. The problem is that there are a numbing number of Gunfights that consist of not much more that the firing of Guns with little or no Style.Two fine and engaging Stars and a Director with a future are the only reasons to give this a view, or maybe if you like the sound of steel on steel and the firing of automatic weapons. But be warned, this may put you off the better Movies of the Genre and that includes just about all of them. "},{"Title":"Chow Down On Yun-Fat's First American Crime Movie","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A deadly Chinese assassin with a sense of scruples and a woman who forges passports team up in freshman director Anton Fuqua's gritty crime thriller The Replacement Killers that marked Chow Yun-Fat's American film debut. Naturally, Chow plays the killer with a conscience who has no qualms about terminating his targets with extreme prejudice until he is required to kill a seven year old child. As it turns out, the man who hired John Lee is crime kingpin Terence Wei (Kenneth Tsung of Die Another Day); he wants to see the man, Detective Stan Zedlov (Michael Rooker of Mississippi Burning), who killed his son lose his own son. A child is irreplaceable, Wei assures Lee who is an outsider. Scar City scenarist Ken Sanzel penned this straightforward shoot'em up. The Replacement Killer is neither as exciting as either The Killer or Hardboiled, but at 88 lean, mean minutes, it doesn't wear out its welcome. Poetic Justice lenser Peter Lyons Collister makes everything look dark and polished in this high body count actioneer. The Rock composer Harry Gregson-Williams furnishes an atmospheric orchestral sound track score that enhances the suspense. Lee has Zedlov's son in the sights of his rifle when he decides that he cannot kill a child, so he asks his friend for the name of somebody not associated with Wei who can create a passport for him. No sooner has John Lee gone to visit Meg Coburn (Mira Sorvina of Mighty Aphrodite) who has an office in the Olive Building than Mr. Wei's henchmen are on to him. A brief but lethal shoot-out ensues with our hero making a clean getaway, but the police nab our heroine. Four of Wei's gunmen die in the shooting. Detective Zedkov doesn't have enough to arrest Meg so he lets her hit the street again in the hope that she will take him to what he wants. John Lee visits Meg again and they go to the car wash business that Eddie owns where they find not only his dead body but also Michaek Kogan (Jürgen Prochnow of Beverly Hills Cop 2) and more gunmen. Zedkov and the cops show up after the main shoot-out but our hero and heroine manage to escape. Don confuse luck with skill, Wei reprimands Kogan after the assassin eludes the villains at the car wash. Wei has Kogan hire the eponymous murderers. Til Schweiger plays Ryker, and Danny Trejo is cast as Collins. They arrive by airliner and try to ice Zedkov at a movie theater when he has his son with him. Lee and Meg show up to thwart their plans. Ryker dies, but Collins survives the fracas. At this point, John Lee decides to remove Wei as his primary source of trouble. Along the way, Meg helps him obtain is forged documents and firearms. They make a good team when they go into action gunning for the bad guys. Mind you, this potboiler isn't any great shakes, but you'll be entertained, especially if you're a die-hard Chow fan. "}{"Title":"Lighten up folks....this is an action movie, not a bleeping art film.","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I beg to differ with the people who criticize the film as a disaster. The action is unbelievable; the dialog is not Shakespeare; the plot stretches one ability to suspend disbelief.And with those negatives, I still found this movie entertaining because of the chemistry between the 2 leads. Chinese actor Chow Yun-Fat and Mira Sorvino (daughter of veteran character actor Paul Sorvino)definitely worked well together. Danny Trejo--the tall menacing Mexican-American actor from Desperado makes a short but menacing appearance. The action is all most non-stop. I also found myself caring for the two main characters.If you watch or buy this movie expecting to see academy award acting, forget about it. If you do with the intention of getting 90 minutes of entertainment, you should do OK. "},{"Title":"Boy, is this silly!","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When the replacement killers step into the airport, I burst out laughing. You expect to see a limo driver with a sign that says, Real ugly killers, please?This is not to say it wasn't fun. Chow Yun-Fat and Mira Sorvino are both excellent and, given the nature of the movie, believable. But people standing around in movie theatres and game arcades, etc., ratcheting off round after round ... give me a break. Chow refers to the two killers as assassins, but assassins should be a little stealthy. These guys just walk in and start shooting. Chow and Sorvino run down the street carrying their guns up and out in plain sight and walk down the aisles of the movie theatre that way and NOBODY NOTICES! Right.Maybe this is the nature of this genre - with which I am not especially familiar. Oh well.  "},{"Title":"OK movie","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well I was skeptical at first then I started seeing very familiar scenes and hearing very familiar music. When I heard the familiar music I could predict what would happen when an assassin pulled out a put-together sniper rifle. The same guy happens to some how be above someone to pull them off their feet and snap their neck. Watch Leon The Professional(1994) once or twice before this one and you will be amazed at how much The Replacement Killers tried to copy it! It's amazing. I was shocked!  "},{"Title":"An Action Ectravaganza","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"       I went with my brother to see this film the first day it was out. I remember seing the trailors for it and thinking it was going to be awesome. To tell you the truth I really didn't like it that much. There wasn't anything I could pick out of the film and say That's why I didn't like it, I just didn't like it.      Well, my brother liked it and bought it. I since then have sat down and watched it several times more. It really started to grow on me. I guess the more I thought about it, the more I liked it. I must say I like it now.      First off, the direction. It was directed by the same guy who did Coolio's Gangsta's Paradise video. Well, I guess we have to all start somewhere. But you can tell that John Woo was involved with the project. His style was all over the project. It would have been nice if Woo had directed this a couple of years ago and made his american debut with this instead of Hard Target.      One of my favorite things about the film was the filming of action scene's in unusual places, (Car Wash, Movie Theartre, Arcade). It is always nice when you get to watch something new rather than recycled old cliches'.      I'm going to take off a couple of points because I didn't like it all that much at the beginning and for really not being anything more than a stupid action-flick. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointing U.S. film debut for the otherwise great Chow Yun Fat.","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  From the first moment I saw Chow Yun Fat in John Woo's The Killer in the early 90's, I became a big fan of the works of both men.So when I heard that Woo was going to executive produce Chow's U.S. debut film,I was really looking forward to seeing it.Watching the film was a totally different story.While Antoine Fuqua is a talented director with a visual style similar to that of Woo, the whole film seems empty at the core with Chow delivering his worst performance since Woo's A Better Tomorrow,Part 2.The otherwise cool Chow appears to be uncomfortable in his acting and delivering his lines in English.The only thing that saves this film from being a total waste are the woderfully staged action pieces that are on the level of Woo's best work as a director.I also found that while I thought Mira Servino out of place in a film like this,she is such a doll it didn't bother me after a while.While not a bad film,it could've been better.To see a more relax performance from chow in a U.S. film,check out his follow-up film The Corruptor.  "},{"Title":"So-So Reproduction of Hong Kong Action","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Replacement Killers is a so-so Hollywood reproduction of Hong Kong action. It boasts performances from John Woo veterans Chow Yun-Fat(John Lee) and Kenneth Tsang(the villain Mr.Wei) backed up by Mira Sorvino, Michael Rooker, Jurgen Prochnow and Danny Trejo. While the film does have some exciting action sequences, especially at the car wash and at the end of the movie, it doesn't fully exploite the acting talents of Chow Yun-Fat. Because Hollywood emphasizes story over style or stunts I was hoping to see Chow Yun-Fat really break through to the next level. In Hong Kong, several stunts or shootouts are brainstormed and a story is built around that, stunts over story. In Antoine Fuqua's freshman effort, he places style over substance that really does nothing to advance the story. The aerial shots of the city and the filtred shots of Wei's lair serve as distractions rather than enhancements. The main saving grace is the acting in this film...Prochnow,Chow and Tsang turn in incredible performances considering English is their second language. Overall an okay movie to rent or own. "},{"Title":"Very good Hong Kong stylised action movie Excellent","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Very entertaining movie however too short and lacks just a small bit of background story yet still mind blowing action.Although its too Americanised and also the influence of a music video director as main director takes away a small bit. "},{"Title":"Nothing for your brain but much for the eye!","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, most of the people who don't like it said the story was crap... well actualy they are right! There is no story at all, but actualy who cares? I've seen the movie on a rainy saturday with some friends... and I loved it.. great action, cool actors, Till Schweiger in his first Hollywood role and bullets everywhere... Just lean back and enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Pretty Average","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I Bought This movie, bearing in mind that John Woo, had something to do with it, and the fact is not letting you down. The Story is pretty thin, I admit it, but the scenes are absolutely brilliant and the movie does what it is supposed to Entertain!If you forget about the story and just enjoy the fighting scenes then this is absolutely the movie for you! "},{"Title":"What's wrong with senseless violence?","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Replacement Killers was indeed a violent film, with little in the way of a plot. However, it was well done and enjoyable, many notches above typical action films. I read the comment regarding the movies pointlessness and was curious as to why people today think every movie must have some higher moral message? What happened to making films just to keep you on the edge of your seat? In short, I thought Replacement Killers was very enjoyable for what it was a fast paced action film. "}{"Title":"Guns, Guns, Everywhere!","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best explosive movies I have ever seen. This movie is all about shootings this, shootings that. Chow Yun-Fat is another good man I am looking after; he is like a professional in guns and shooting (very talented and skilled). I own this movie too. This kind of action movie made me feel so good that this just reminds me of a hero. I like shootings mostly. Chow Yun-Fat is the man!!!    "},{"Title":"Dumb Fun","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Replacement Killers is a stylish, dumb action movie that does nothing for the brain, except entertain. An highly enjoyable - if routine - thriller where Mira Sorvino (though hardly in another Oscar Winning role) stands out. Fun, but flawed.  "},{"Title":"Great action","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Regardless of what many other people say, if you like action then you should check this out. Granted, the film is not going to win any awards for storyline, in fact the storyline is fairly weak, but in terms of action this is one of the most adrenaline filled action packed movies I have ever seen. I am a big Chow Yun Fat fan and although this is not on par with some of his HK films, it is better than the debuts of many other HK actors/directors (John Woo and THAT terrible Van Damme film anyone?). Mira Sorvino is a great co-star too. Overall, if you are looking for an action packed roller coaster of a film then check this out, but if you prefer to have a little more substance in your movies then you should check out The Corruptor which places more focus on the storyline. "},{"Title":"Good enough for Hollywood.","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Replacement Killers was good enough, but that's it.  I came to expect more from John Woo, who executive produced it (whatever that means). Chow-Yun Fat was excellent, of course.  I wanted to hear him speak English, and he did a remarkable job.  He's more fun to watch when you don't have to read the screen every time someone talks.  Action flick.  Bang bang.  Big guns.  High body count.  It just makes me want to see his new film with Mark Wahlberg, whom I have a newfound respect for - Boogie Nights was quite good. "},{"Title":"Art is what you make it.","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What can be said? Whenever Chow Yun-Fat gets on the theater screen, one can't help but be drawn to his charisma and super-human presence. Whereas other actors may depend on their physical presence or witty lines to carry them through a movie, Chow Yun-Fat is able to catch the average viewer off-guard. This film is rather short on plot, admittedly. However, one should remember that John Woo started out releasing films like BlackJack and Hard Target for American audiences. Face/Off was quite popular, riding on the laurels of Broken Arrow. Speaking personally, I'm glad John Woo hasn't sacrificed his trademark gunfight sequences for plotlines that go nowhere.Having the main character have a sense of honor is not a new concept in John Woo action films (i.e., Face/Off) but it is a welcome one. Chow Yun-Fat and Mira Sorvino are also an unlikely match, but their combined presence makes this an enjoyable film. As long as one can put the reality button on hold for a short while, this film offers an enjoyable bullet-fest that should sate the pallet of any action fan.  "},{"Title":"Shoot em up!!!!","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Actually, I really enjoyed the movie. It had non-stop action. I hate those supposedly action movies, but there's always those boring, lagging, character development scenes. In the words of my hometown critics. I give it 2 thumbs up!!! "},{"Title":"A view from another sight","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Replacement Killers is an attempt to bring the successful and more realistic action genre pioneered in Hong Kong to the mainstream movies of Hollywood. With production crew coming from the Hong Kong school of moviemaking to the lead character, played by Chow Yun-Fat, success is almost guaranteed.The movie is as any action movie should be, fastpaced, quick dialog and explosive action. The gunplay and fighting scenes are not the standard Hollywood I-have-a-bigger-gun-so-you-die mentality but more realistic in execution. Here the hero doesn't shoot down helicopters with arrows or crawl out of an exploding building with a slight rip on his jacket. He gets shot, it hurts enourmously from just a single wound. Reality is that way. Another sidetrip from the normal Hollywood guideline to have a bit of comic-relief and/or a male sidekick that gets into trouble or a ghastly female who spends her time onscreen screaming and strutting around with no clothes on. Mira Sorvino (plays Meg Coburn) is tough, sexy and has her own agenda during the entire movie. A small love/romance/friendship-what-ever develops between the the two main characters (John and Meg) but it stays on a realistic level. No shady bedroom-scene, no passionate kissing after a gunfight, no 'I-cant-be-without-you' scene. Just the work of the eyes and voice hints to the romance motif. In all it's a good action movie, maybe a bit more commercially viable than most Hong Kong productions are, has a good soundtrack and holds up to repeated viewing. "},{"Title":"Chow Yun-Fat kickin butt.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Most people think this movie is mindless and pointless, and one of Chow's worst. I think people look to deeply into the film. This film is not about havin an indepth story or plot line. It's not a movie that's supposed to make you ponder on life. It's just a flashy movie showin Chow kickin butt to kickin music, period. Sure, it might not be good compared to The Killer or Hard Boiled, but it is still a fun movie to watch. And that's what watchin a movie like this is for, fun, not thought. To those people who criticized it for all that was wrong I say Sit down, shut up, and watch the movie. Don't compare or think about what your watchin, just watch it.  "},{"Title":"a satisfying fix.","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is NOT for the hard-to-please self-proclaimed film critics out there. Plot-wise, there is little substance in this movie, but who cares? In the end it's a clever action film with an appropriate cast and satisfying mix of gunfire, bloodrush, and chemistry among the characters.  "},{"Title":"Chow Yun-Fat the man.","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I don't see many action films.  I don't like most action films.  Bullet sprays do not turn my crank.  But this was a good movie in a genre where those are exceedingly rare.The inscrutable majesty of Chow Yun-Fat is the best part of the movie.  The near-slapstick action only accentuates the rather frightening stoniness of the killer as he walks through the door, into the club, et cetera, et cetera, and--oh yes--fires his weapon now and again.Bang bang bang.  Bang-up job.  Extremely well-filmed and nicely put together.  Not a must-see, but a worth-seeing.  Wish I'd caught it in the theatre... "}{"Title":"Cool action flick (not the best)","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After he betrays Mr. Wei, the ruthless crime boss who hired him to avenge his son's death, professional killer John Lee (Chow yun-fat) goes on the run. Enlisting the aid of beautiful document forger Meg Coburn (Sorvino), Lee attempts to return to his family in China before they are victimized by his betrayal. But Wei's army of replacement killers is hot on his trail, and now both he and Meg are targets of their impressive firepower. With both sides fully armed and determined to fight to the death, an ultra-violent shoot-out breaks out when they finally face off against each other. International superstar CHOW YUN-FAT(John Woo´s Hard-Boiled & The Killer) makes his Hollywood debut with Oscar winner MIRA SORVINO(1995 best supporting actress for Mighty Aphrodite) in THE REPLACEMENT KILLERS, fierce and explosive action thriller from director ANTOINE FUQUA(Coolio´s gangsters paradise video). First off, the film is straight action and doesn't try for much in the way of character development or plot it is not trying to pretend to be more than it is. What it is is a good, old fashioned shoot em up action picture in the style of John Woo (who produced). This is not as good as Chow Yun-Fat´s The Killer, A Better Tomorrow and Hard-Boiled(all movies directed by John Woo) but it´s a good fast-paced, action-packed movie. "},{"Title":"Artistic violence","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Those who focus on the violence and character development aspects of this movie miss what I consider to be the central strength and intent of Replacement Killers - its style and artistic ex- pression.I usually pass on what I consider to be violent action flicks, but this one made me stop and look past the violence to the contextual richness of the way in which this one was filmed.I'd like to see more from this director. "},{"Title":"A fairly decent underrated movie.","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I remember my dad renting The Replacement Killers sometime around 1999 or 2000 from blockbuster for me and him to watch. I was very young at the time and I did not remember a thing about the movie. I watched this movie today on netflix. Chow Yun-Fat plays John Lee, a contract killer working for Terence Wei, a ruthless Chinese mafia boss. John baulks at an assignment requiring him to kill the seven-year son of a cop; Wei sends other killers after the cop and his son, and after John to punish him for his disobedience. John seeks a false passport from forger and petty criminal Meg Coburn (played with grit and street-smarts by Mira Sorvino) to return to China to protect his mother and sister from Wei's revenge. John ends up kidnapping Meg while trying to stay one step ahead of Wei's thugs and the police. I thought this film was fairly decent the acting was pretty good, the camera angles were good, decent action and not a bad soundtrack to go with it. About the action there were no physical fights, just a lot of nonstop gun fights. I'm not really a fan of Chow Yun-Fat but his performance in this film was pretty good, but i wish he had more dialogue. "},{"Title":"Stylish martial arts actioner","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Generic Hong Kong style action thriller that, although produced not directed by John Woo, has his fingerprints daubed all over it.Chow Yun-Fat plays John(!), a lapsed hit-man, no more interested in blood letting and unable to kill due to a crisis of conscience he won't kill when children are in the room. The soft touch. His bosses are none too pleased at his change of heart and send in someone to take his place in their posse of Scaramanga's - a replacement killer - and, with the help of master forger Mira Sorvino he must get back into China to face his nemesis.Whilst the action pieces are played out with a great deal of panache, this is very much a case of style over substance and, it's not too long before the mind starts to wander, the on screen bullet-riddled mayhem no longer sufficient to hold the attention.Hardcore action fans may love it, but the rest of us will probably be dozing off by the time the end credits begin to roll. "},{"Title":"throws believability way out the window","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" wow.if you like relentless fast and furious action and stunts that completely throw any semblance of believability out the window,this is your movie.if you're really good at suspending your disbelief,you 'll probably like this movie.personally, think there's only so much the human mind can accept,and for me,this movie far exceeds that limit.as in another movie i reviewed,it would have been better if the characters were all dressed in matching red capes and blue underwear.i also think more bullets were used in this movie than were actually even made.again,that's not to say that this is a bad movie.it's just that it could have been so much better.after awhile,when moviegoers are bombarded by wall to wall action and stunts that defy reality,they become desensitized and are no longer impressed with such things.people are smarter than filmmakers and studios think they are.anyway,i give The replacement Killers a 6/10 "},{"Title":"John Woo - NO  Mira Sorvino - YES","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best sequences is when an 'innocent' blond soccer mom in a SUV gets caught and the cross-fire. They spend a little extra time showing her being blown away, which for 1998 is a bold statement against SUV drivers. Props.Plot CYF is a indentured hitman caught in a wicked contract with a Chinese mob boss. He decides to gain morality towards the last mark and creates a rumble with the mob. Two non-indentured assasins are then hired to finish the job and CYF. Then Mira Sorvino happens.Antoine Fuqua was still a little fresh around the collar when creating this John Woo attempt, but he does a Grade B+ job. He has since then blown us away with 'Trainng Day' truly his cup of tea. However, this movie has many redeeming qualities, one being Mira Sorvino, I have a thing for sexy women with automatics (ugly women, well that's just plain threatening). CYF is a bad ass, always was, always will be. The villans I think destroy this movie, they are too 80's 'Lethal Weapon' type, very shallow, with no character, supposedly just plain evil I guess, but they aren't, they even pull the Now I'll leave and let my henchmen kill you, and I'll assume that you will be dead. This didn't work for the Joker vs. Batman either.Bottom Line This is the kind of movie you would find on TBS or TNN but it would be ruined by comercials, so try renting it when you're in the mood for some solid gun play, and a very Sexy Mira Sorvino "},{"Title":"Two actors saved this farce","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The two lead actors saved this sorry story. I like John Woo films, but there reaches a point where fantasy action scenes aren't enough. If I had a weapon like these guys were shooting...eventually I would place one bullet(by accident) on target. It seems Woo thinks his heroes are made of Kevlar.  The story had it's points. The assassin's second thoughts on his main hit brought out a good story line. Sorvino's character always was in good makeup even after some greasy action scenes.   I love action movies. But there has to be at least a small amount of reality built in to make the movie interesting and not a cartoon.   "},{"Title":"I would call this a cool movie.  It wasn't very deep, it wasn't particularly written well, or acted well, but it was cool.","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What do I consider a cool movie?  I'd say the coolest movie I've ever seen is The Crow.  This wasn't as cool as The Crow.  Another movie I thought was cool was Face/Off.  This wasn't as cool as Face/Off.  I'd say on a cool factor, The Replacement Killers was slightly below those two movies, and much higher than movies that try to be cool (like Two Days in the Valley, or crap like that).  Killers marks the Hollywood debut of Chow Yun-Fat, one of the most highly regarded Asian actors ever.  A couple years ago, another Asian import had this mystique about him.  You remember Jackie Chan?  Very popular all over the world, except in the U.S.  So they brought him over here, had much success with Rumble in the Bronx, and since then has faded away.  Chow Yun-Fat is not Jackie Chan.  While Chan's movies tend to be comic-action, Yun-Fat's films are dramatic action (The Killer, Hard Boiled to name a couple).  He only learned English a couple years ago, so when he speaks, it's a little hard to understand at times, but you understand what he's trying to get across.Yun-Fat plays John Lee, a hired assassin, who is hired to kill a cop's son. He can't bring himself to do it, so the man who hired him, hires replacement killers (get it?) to kill Lee, and to kill the cop's son.  Along the way, Lee needs a fake passport to get to China to save his family, and the lovely Mira Sorvino happens to be the one who makes the passport.  So the two of them end up on the run from the replacement killers, and to save the cop's son.  Now, why is Lee a hired killer?  The explanation given is murky. Wei, the man who hired Lee, seems to own Chinatown (to be honest I don't even remember what city this took place in... I think it was L.A.).  Wei forces Lee to kill for him.  But like I said earlier, Yun-Fat can be hard to understand at times.  But this movie isn't about story, dialogue, it's about action.  And it has a lot of action.  It's the actions sequences that make it a cool movie.  First there's the mystique about Yun-Fat being the action star of the world.  Then there are the slow-motion camera shots, and the slow-motion sounds.  The cool music in the background, the scenes in the temple.  The best thing about Face/Off was the action sequences. Poetic violence is what I called it at the time.  The Replacement Killers has that same sort of feel, although not as deep as Face/Off was.If not for the action scenes, this movie wouldn't have been worth the money. But if you want a cool movie, something that makes wishing you could walk in slow-motion with background music playing for you, go check The Replacement Killers out. "},{"Title":"a cool action flick","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Chow Yun Fat gives a suave performance in this cool action thriller.  Chow plays an assassin who gets refuses an assignment only to become a target of replacement killers (hence the title).  Mira Sorvino pops up as the blond, babe documents forger who helps him try to escape.  With good performances by both leads, stylish directing, cool action scene, and the sexy Miss Sorvino, The Replacement Killers is one cool flick. "},{"Title":"Killer movie, but a please kill me script.","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Don't you just love movies that have intense action, an amazing use of editing, and a fantastic cinematographic style?  I sure do, and I loved this movie for that reason.  As far as technical aspects go, The Replacement Killers was great, as far as the rest of the movie goes, umm...well....let's just say, it should have been made as a silent.  The screenplay was horrible, and it was hard for even a pro like Mira Sorvino to deliver it in a manner that seemed halfway desent.  It was fun, and I liked it; and you will too, as long as you ignore the obvious mistakes and loopholes in the script. "}{"Title":"Top quality post-pub idiocy","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not entirely sure what some people out there were expecting from a film called The Replacement Killers, but if you can spot the cunning suggestion of an hour and a half of manic gunfire and ridiculous slo-mo death scenes in place of a coherent plot up ahead then you're in for a treat.Basically it's just Mira Sorvino standing around looking gorgeous while Chow Yun-Fat spins all over the place pulling an endless succession of guns from his magic crotch holster, filling the bad guys with at least five times as many bullets as necessary, and it's great fun. Purists may disagree, but you can't really go wrong when applying sky-high Hollywood production values to the sheer aestheticism of modern-day Hong Kong gunslinging shenanigans. The Replacement Killers it's great.The only niggle I have is the fact that Jurgen Prochnow's actual choice of replacement killers, when he's told to hire men of John Yun-Fat's talent, turn out to be a couple of trigger-happy gibbons every bit as hopeless as all the other goons in their bullet-riddled wake. He probably just gave some guns to a pair of tramps and spent the change on sweets. The dirty swine.  "},{"Title":"All style, no substance","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The success of director Michael Bay, and to a lesser degree Simon West means everyone wants a hot young hip music vid director to helm their next $50million action picture.Uber-producing team Bernie Brillstein and  Brad Grey, whose recent successes include the action spectaculars Just Shoot Me, Newsradio, and The Larry Sanders Show get into the action ballgame a day late and a dollar short with discard vid director Antoine Fuquay.The film looks good, lots of camera tricks, plenty of hip production design. Like a 90 minute music vid, with no music, no commercials, no VJ breaks-nothing to break up the never ending monotony. Never ending monotony may be redundant, but it's oh so appropriate.The story is so weak, the script, so bad that you hardly realize that Yun-fat Chow still hasn't learned a whole lot of English. 'English is my first language Mira Sorvino lays so many accents on at one time her English is only barely decipherable as well.Buy this film at the vid store when it goes on sale for 99 cents, then use the cassette to tape your favorite show over the Replacement Killers. You'll get good value that way.  "},{"Title":"A Gritty, Visceral Crime Drama with the right cast and the right pace.","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Low angle shots, slow motion scenes, and a host of well chosen techniques show why Antoine Fuqua has become a force of nature in the film industry. The film combines elements of Blade Runner with a dark, gritty plot and a no-nonsense dialog that keeps you riveted to the screen. The influence of Ridley Scott and John Woo are evident, and the resulting picture stands out as an epic in crime stories. Chow Yun-Fat, a star in the orient and a cult favorite in the US, is John Lee, an unwilling but able assassin bound by duty and honor to his boss, played elegantly by Kenneth Tsang. Mira Sorvino is the hard, independent woman working on the fringe of the law, but careful not to get involved in the business of criminals. Jurgen Prochnow is the trusted right hand man of Mr. Wei (Tsang). Of particular note is Clifton Collins Jr as the street thug who turns informant. Micheal Rooker and Carlos Gomez work well together as the detectives looking to bring down the killers, and both Schweiger and Trejo convince you they are the people your mother warned you about. The action is non-stop, the plot logical and plausible, and the overall effect will draw you into the film sitting on the edge of your seat. Lots of violence, lots of language, not for the kiddies. If you like a fast paced action film with gritty, visceral action, this is it. "},{"Title":"Like firefights??","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When the baddest of the bad guy's bad guys can't kill the good guy, they call in the replacement killers which makes them even badder. Of course, the hero then proceeds to take out the replacement killers and presto; he's now the baddest dude on the planet. In The Replacement Killers, Chow, the hero, teams up with Sorvino to take on a few regiments of assorted pock-marked faced villains in a series of fire fights with pauses in between where the meager story telling happens. Stylish, slick, and packing a magnum wallop, what this flick lacks in story it makes up for in spent brass and hot lead. A good action watch but don't expect any major stunts, pyrotechnics, vehicle chases, sex or nudity.  "},{"Title":"The Blown-Away Gangster","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If action movies are characters, then 'Die Hard', 'Mad Max 2', and 'The Killer' are my dominant heroes.  'The Matrix' is the villain.  Junk like 'The Replacement Killers' is one of many low-level thugs that get blown away by the heroes in their battle of wits/survival/pure fun.Compare Antoine Fuqua's MTV-style with John Woo's.  Woo has influenced many Hollywood folks including Michael Bay, the Wachowski bros., and Quentin Tarantino, but none of them understand his depth.  Going from 'Replacement' to 'Training Day' and 'Tears of the Sun' and the upcoming 'King Arthur' only goes to show how devoid of stimulation Fuqua is in his work.Woo began with drama, or at least tried, and chivalry.  Considering he's one of the 10 best visual directors ever, I'd love to see him handle material more mature than the usual flying bullets.  Image what he'd have done with 'Gangs of New York'.So, sadly, 'Replacement Killers' is not hard-boiled, not killing, and won't make a better tomorrow for any film viewer.  Chow has done better movies and 'Bulletproof Monk' only goes to show that Hollywood doesn't know how to use him.  1 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Bottom of the heap","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lousy, worthless, dull, stupid, meaningless, insipid, weak, childish, wasted.... there are many ways to label this movie. But the most important one is meaningless. This film has absolutely no point whatsoever - at least not an intelligible one. I feel like I've seen most of the action a million times, there is NOTHING special about it, and there are lots of films where the action is a hell of a lot niftier and cooler. And with that said, this film becomes really, really, really bad.It wouldn't have gained publicity at all if there weren't the possibility to slap a John Woo-label on it, and the lengths one has to go to, to actually see anything worthwhile in this film makes one wonder is there a special place some movie directors go as pilgrims to learn How To Make John Woo Flicks or is this just another piece of trash that should've stayed on paper? If this Woo-school really is, well then this film sure is a freshman's job. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I ever saw","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Now I've seen some of Chow Yun-Fat's Hong Kongese movies and I can understand why he's so popular there. Some of his movies are really good. BUT this. What the heck was this movie anyways. The worst movie I ever saw in my life. It had no plot, no real story, just something even I could have made up in 5 minutes, no good action , no acting, NOTHING. It sucked. If you like PURE action and nothing else. And I mean 'nothing else' then watch this. But let me warn you. I'm very tolerant with movies. I love many action movies with no meaning at all, but this movie sucked too much. And the action scenes also sucked. IT SUCKS. "},{"Title":"Cho Yun Fat is fantastic! As usual!","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Cho Yun Fat is fantastic. The music was good in between thebullets! Movie plot could have had more depth though. It was a lotof fun seeing assasin Johnny Trejo with his hair couffedobviously fresh from the salon ala Travolta style in (Pulp Fiction)! "},{"Title":"A true action classic that needs to be viewed","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this film because I like Chow Yun Fat and other Asian action stars. In the film, Chow Yun Fat plays an assassin. After his mob leader's son is killed by a police officer in a shootout, the leader sends Fat on a mission to kill the cop's 7 year-old son in retaliation, eye-for-an-eye. But as the boy appears in the hands of his father seen by Fat through the crosshairs of a sniper rifle, Fat decides he cannot kill the boy. This angers his boss, who sends in replacement assassins to kill Fat as well as his family over in China. The whole film Fat is dodging bullets with Mira Sorvino, who specializes in making false passports and ID papers and Fat is trying to get papers so that he can travel to China to save his family. This movie is full of shootouts and excellent action scenes, which are probably the best that I have ever seen in a film. There are many stunts and although this movie takes place in the US, it has an Asian-like feel to it, which makes it more suspenseful and a lot of the movie is in dark locations, which make the gunbattles more exciting. SEE THIS FILM AND YOU WILL THANK ME. Feel free to email me if you have any questions or comments. "},{"Title":"Beautiful action movie","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a great action movie w/ Chow Yun Fat and Mira Sorvino(who is pretty damn sexy when she acts bad-ass).  The shoot out scenes in this were intense the way they're supposed to be, and Chow Yun Fat the gun-ninja gives a solid performance as an asian hitman who is targeted after he refuses to take a job involving a little boy(nobody else could've played the part besides Yun Fat anyway). Last but not least, this movie had good stone-cold villains.great, explosive movie  "}{"Title":"Kind of fun, if you don't care for plot or character development.","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  ** 1/2 out of ****A major criticism of recent action films has been lack of plot or character development.  1998's The Replacement Killers is the perfect example of such.  It barely runs over 80 minutes, and spends most of it displaying as many gun battles as possible.  That's the film's sole appeal, that and Chow Yun-Fat, probably Hong Kong's most effortlessly charismatic actor, and it's quite obvious this movie exists as nothing more than a vehicle for him as an introduction to American cinema.  Did it work?  Hard to say.  Only the success of Bulletproof Monk can tell.Yun-Fat stars as John Lee (one of the most painfully generic Asian-American names I've heard in a while), a hitman with a conscience.  When he refuses to kill a cop's seven year old son, the Chinese mob's after him, hiring (drum roll) replacement killers!  Through a tiny bit of contrivance, Lee is teamed up with Meg Coburn (Mira Sorvino) for the remainder of the film, and from there on out, it's one massive gun battle after another.For what's being aimed at here and for what little the script offers, the acting is actually quite good.  Yun-Fat is still as likeable as ever, even if he does struggle with his English.  Mira Sorvino is almost always solid, though roles like this have done little to expand her career.  As for the replacement killers, one of them is played by none other than Danny Trejo, and he and his partner have all of two lines of dialogue between them.  There's also Michael Rooker, who's making a living out of playing cops.The action is what matters and for what it's worth, Antoine Fuqua does a reasonable job.  Granted, he's not John Woo, but the shootouts are fast-paced and exciting.  Every action sequence plays out the same way, it's only the setting that changes so action fans looking for something creative might find themselves a bit disappointed.  Equilibrium or The Transporter this most certainly is not.  The Replacement Killers rates poorly on plot and characters, but it has a distinct style, and while it probably could have gone further with the Yun-Fat/Sorvino chemistry, there's more than enough action to entertain.    "},{"Title":"Great gun fights","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Typical of the Hong Kong movie genre, The Replacement Killers is an awesome display of big guns, fast bullets, and overall arsekickin' action.  Chow Yun Fat is undoubtedly one of the best Asian action stars today and he displays his excellence in this movie.  Mira Sorvino also does a good job as the female lead of the movie.The entire flick is testosterone-driven, accomplied by metal and techno music, it's blast. "},{"Title":"Mindless, but mildly entertaining","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Gratuitous violence everywhere here...if you've ever wanted to see half a million shotgun rounds emptied at nothing in particular, this will be a non-stop thrill ride for you. If you're more concerned with plot, you'll find a somewhat inane story. This is movie is also the only one I know of that deals with sniping a 10-year-old boy. I won't call this a terrible movie, if you're a big fan of shoot-'em-up movies, this is a worthwhile rent. But there are still finer films out there. "},{"Title":"Sythentic Hong Kong Action","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Chow Yun-Fat's Hollywood debut is less then impressive.  This film is a Hollywood version of the Heroic Bloodshed films without the drama and style.  Replacement Killers(1998) looks more like a vehical for Sylvester Stallone then Chow Yun-Fat.  The actors do their best espically Chow Yun Fat & Mira Sorvino in trying to make things interesting.  The shootouts in the Replacement Killers(1998) lack flamboyance and visceral action.  Chow Yun-Fat is a great actor whose talents are wasted in this mediocre affair. "},{"Title":"Ohh dear not again!","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Put on the cover the name of a big name director, chuck (it's an English word) in an international star, an Oscar winning babe and promise of hong kong action stylee production (that isn't the tech term) and what do you have? A big let down. This film lets us the veiwers down on so many levels, yet it is still a watchable film, purely for the fact two of my favourite actors around are present. Chow yun-fat isn't allowed to explore his role further than that of many of his previous hitmen-come-good-guy role, he seems to be stuck in the same character as all his other decent films. He doesn't seem to break a sweat in this unchallenging and at times dull thriller. The only saving grace in this film belongs to Mira Sorvino and an above average soundtrack. You get the feeling she has taken this role only to get away from the bumb blonde role that have earned her the hollywood star status she deserves. Her character is wasted, the two do not connect on any level whatsoever and you don't see enough of her damnit!!! Overall, it stuck to the tried and tested routine of action thrillers not very thrilling. And what's the point of those actual replacement killers in the film anyway? They weren't very good.  "},{"Title":"a good movie","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The first american's movie of star chow-yun-fat was interesting but i think that there is not the lyrism of his other film like the killer. Mira was very sexy and beautiful in this movie and confirms that she's one of the best decade actress.  "},{"Title":"Cool Movie for Coolest Actor in the World","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Having seen a completely different screen persona of Chow Yun Fat in Anna and the King (and been dang impressed with someone I never ever heard of before then), I rented The Replacement Killers. Husband, a stodgy old John Wayne movie fan, actually called it Good...really different. Dark, cool, stylized and elegant, with a tint-and-hint of the supernatural -- like Chow Himself.  Mira Sorvino held her own, but she kinda washed into the background there in most scenes with Chow (except for the famous grapple-for-the-gun-on-the-bed scene -- wow, what potential was wasted there).  Wish there had been more character and human interaction evolution -- one of the few movies I've seen which left me hanging, wanting to know more about a screen character. After we rented it and watched it, we bought it.  What does that tell you? "},{"Title":"Teletubbies is more stimulating","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I saw The Replacement Killers in New York when it first came out, expecting it to be a good action movie.  I was wrong.  This is an absolutely horrid display of gratuitous flashing images and people with guns spinning around like dervishes on crack. Evan Mira Sorvino in VERY nice lingerie did not save this movie.I would not go so far as to call this the absolute worst movie I have ever seen, but only because I have seen King Ralph. Why Miss Sorvino could have ever agreed to make this film is beyond me. I have always the utmost respect for Miss Sorvino, partly because she is a beautiful girl, partly because she has always comeacross as a great actress (Mighty Aphrodite), and partly because her father (Paul Sorvino) is also a phenominal actor.  I don't see Miss Sorvino's line of thought here. Mr. Chow Yun Fat may be a very good actor.  He was unintelligable in this film, and had only one facial expression, that of extreme consternation and pain, much like the face I had on while watching this movie.Out of ten stars, I would give The Replacement Killers about a negative three, and that is very generous. "},{"Title":"Style Personified","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Replacement Killers oozes the a style that only few movies in recent times (Out of Sight, Face/Off) have been able to do. Although plot and characterisation are limited, the brilliantly choreographed action scenes are almost reminiscent of John Woo's old movies (The Killer, A Better Tomorrow).John Woo once said that he tries to make action scenes like the ballet, and he has emulated dance choreography brilliantly in the Repalacement Killers.The chemistry between Meg (Mira Sorvino) and John (Chow Yun Fat) also added to the overall sense of the film. Whilst not the most thought provoking film ever created, The Replacement Killers is a great showing of how style is created. "},{"Title":"Vastly Underrated","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, so its not The Killer. Its a fast-paced movie with little story but great action and plenty of style. Its not up to the standards of the Chow/Woo collaborations that came out of Hong Kong in the late 80s and early 90s, but its still great fun.The Replacement Killers, a story of an assassin with a conscience (yes, we've seen this before) was my introduction to Chow Yun-Fat and Heroic Bloodshed-style cinema in general. I must say that when I first saw it I was blown away. The action sequences, though paltry compared to those in, say, Hard-Boiled, appear hyper-kinetic and downright innovative as presented in American cinema. And Mr.Chow is cool personified. Furthermore, even with limited dialogue (he's still learning the language people!) its clear that the man can act. He conveys much more emotion and presence with his eyes alone than many actors do with all the dialogue in the world. We see his tortured soul when he peers through the scope of his sniper rifle, wrestling with his decision to do the right thing, and we know he means business by his dark brooding glances in the night club. We see his guilt when he sees his reflection in the mirror. Then there's Mira Sorvino, an amazingly beautiful and talented actress, who's obviously having fun here, and looks as good as ever as she guns down the villains. A very good supporting cast also plays its roles expertly.Antoine Fuqua is not the greatest director ever. But he knows style, and the film is one of the most visually and stylisticly impressive action movies I have ever seen outside of Hong Kong. Furthermore, while the story is weak, the dilemma that John Lee faces is a real one, and the decision he makes is heroic. We all hopes he saves his family, and kills as many bad guys in as cool a way possible along the way. In this way the movie engages the audience and works in doing what it set out to do be a very cool action piece, with bullets and sunglasses standing in for plot and dialogue. It works far better than, say, The Corruptor which repeatedly seemed to forget it was an action movie. The Replacement Killers never does, and it delivers on its own premise. If you don't like that premise, fine, don't watch it. But it does succeed at what it tries to do. Conclusion TRK is a good and under-appreciated movie, 7.5/10. It is a fine introduction to Chow and the genre; after this move on to The Killer, A Better Tomorrow and Hard-Boiled, all of which combine action with story and characterization in a way you have never seen or imagined in American cinema. "}{"Title":"Inanely enjoyable","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I, of course, was not expecting such things as Character Development, Plot, and Deep Meaning from this film when I decided to rent it. Those things are usually always good in a film, but sometimes ya just wanna not have to deal with 'em...Really, I just wanted to see Mira be a badass.I had notions in my head, transposing Meg Coburn with Romy White at her reunion... somehow, you could think it might almost work..There were some great shots and sequences though.. I think my two favorites are the opening in the nightclub, and when John faces down Wei's limo with that look that seems to say I am here, in my perfectly tailored pants, to kill you. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  An excellent movie starring the East's best known actor, Chow Yun-Fat (The Killer, City On Fire, A Better Tomorrow, and many more) and the West's sexiest actress, Mira Sorvino (Mimic, erm...). The film is worth buying for the soundtrack (I hear the soundtrack CD itself is rubbish, though).And look out for that Chinese guy who appears in all Hollywood action movies including Die Hard, etc. and has also been in a few A-Team episodes, I think! "},{"Title":"What A Shame!","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   It is a shame when Hollywood makes trash like this! Chow Yun Fat(the corruptors) and Mira Sorvino(mimic) star as people on the run(surprise) from almost anything that moves. I love action. There is however, a little difference between intelligent action like Face/Off and the Rock, to action like this that makes the audience watching it feel like they want to be somewhere else. Sorvino and Yun Fat are fine. Nothing wrong with their performances, but I think the writers need to think long and hard before attempting to do something like this again.  The best thing about this film is Danny Trejo, as an assassin. Although, he is starting to get a little predictable. Avoid this 'film' at all costs. Unless you are a lover of movies where you don't have to think. Rating=2/5 "},{"Title":"style, style, style","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The replacements killers is not a movie with a message, sensitive acting, good characters, or intricate plot. But damn, it sure is fun to watch! As far as sleek stylish thrillers go, this one is the tops. Sure, Sorvino is annoying and bland, Chow Yung Fat speaks with monotone accent. But who cares? It's mindless action for the film buffs and art house crowd. It's a trance inducing escape, nothing more. Much the same way Lola rennt(Run Lola Run) is, although critics have responded much better to that one. Hmmm, I wonder why? "},{"Title":"Good not great","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Being a fan of Chow Yun Fat I saw every showing of this movie for a day and a half when it first came out (i worked at a movie theater at the time), so it gave me time to reflect on it being able to see it a few times (8 actually). This movie is really strange. I dunno but to me it seems almost surreal. It just never really feels like I am watching a movie, more like one of the director's music videos. Don't get me wrong I liked this film, but for Chow's first American release I was hoping for something more. An average action flick with some grade A actors.   "},{"Title":"If you like action, this is your movie","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  My age 13John Lee, played by Chow Yun-Fat, is a deadly assassin, who is forced to do a job for Terence Wei, played by Kenneth Tsang, who is threatening John with the lives of his family.  This is the third job John must do for Wei, but the first two were criminals, this one is different.  A cop named Zedkov, played by Michael Rooker, killed Wei's son in self-defense, and now Wei wants John to kill Zedkov's son.  John can't do it, and knowing that there will be consequences, John tries to get out of the country to protect his family.  To get a passport, he goes to Meg Coburn, played by Mira Sorvino. At the same time, Wei is bringing in professional replacements to take out the kid, and John.If you are an action fan like myself, this is your movie.  This film is filled from start to finish with violent shootouts, and it has one of the better stories in the action genre.  The acting is fair, but I believe it is a great debut Hollywood performance from Hong Kong action-star Chow Yun-Fat. This film is a fun ride with plenty of excitement and noise, so if action isn't your preferred genre, forget about it.  But if it is your preferred genre, you'll enjoy it.  I love the slow motion shots of the replacement killers and how John disappears when people walk in front of him.  The only downside is the deaths of the main bad guys.  They are all too simple. They are all shot. Surely someone involved in the making of the film could be a little bit more creative.  But The Replacement Killers is still one of the better action films.  It also has a nice asian-type music score.Australian Classification MA 15+ Medium Level ViolenceRating 82 out of 100  "},{"Title":"Here we go again","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I read a couple of reviews recently giving this movie 5/5 and 10/10. I thought, this must be good. How wrong could I be. Replacement Killers is the kind of movie that is made on the cheap and as a last minute replacement for another project-in-development. When I saw John Woo as executive producer I had high hopes and since this was Chow Yun Fat's first american breakthrough role, there had to be some good things.The plot was lame, the acting wasn't helped by a feeble script, and Chow Yun Fat looked embarrassed throughout the movie. I suspect anybody who sees this without a knowledge of Fat's Hong Kong work will instantly stay clear of any future movies he's in. Compared to the classic Killer and Hard Boiled (the non-dubbed versions) replacement killers is just one long embarrassment.2/10. "},{"Title":"Unfortunately too short ...","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There are some reasons why I enjoyed that flicChow Yun-Fat is as cool as ever, and he shows a great performance as a good man who has been forced to be a killer by a real bad-ass.Second, there is a nice Style throughout the flic. Especially the first scenes in that Disco, when Yun-Fat walks through the hall and that Acid-Track hammers your ears.Third, I am a fan of Danny Trejo since I saw him in From Dusk till Dawn. Together with Till Schweiger, who is very popular in germany, they form a very good Replacement-Killer-Team.And last, but not least Mira Sorvino is sweet, isn't she? "},{"Title":"What? Not as good as HK movies, but worth a watch","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There are going to be different opinions to every movie, and I think This movie rocks! I heartily disagree with people who think that movies should all be brainy please, if I want to watch a brainy movie, I'll go for a French, Spanish, Italian, Chinese movie any time over a Hollywood production!The crux of the movie is, will Chow Yun Fat deliver the goods as the top billed actor of the movie? Yes. His charisma clearly shows examine the style, the flair with which he unleashes his wrath and the exquisite manner with which he seems to whip his guns out of nowhere....what a style.If we are talking about his best work, no this is not it, not even close. His HK releases were much better by far. But this is definitely a good movie, entertainment wise. The gun fight scenes are good. The plot is classic (perhaps to the point of cheez?). Chow Yun Fat carries the movie. If you're a fan, watch it. If you're not a fan, still watch it.  "},{"Title":"Action Movie with style","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Any director can make an action movie.  But not too many can make one as fast-paced and stylish as this one.   Okay, so the plotline was a little thin, but it was the way that it was done was to me what held my attention. I wish I could take this movie intact and go back in time to the late forties and play it in a theater.   I would love to see the reaction.   "}{"Title":"A fun watch","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Just as anything related to John Wu is expected to be, this was a fun movie to just sit down and watch.  The camera work made it a very interesting visual journey and the acting was easily good enough to carry a plot that did not try to overcomplicate itself or out-smart the audience.  It was straight ahead, shoot-em up fun and was well done.  Chow Yun-Fat made a wonderfully cool hero who was very easy to root for.  He was larger than life without being larger then everyone else in the film, which is a refreshing change at times. "},{"Title":"Chow's American debut only okay","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Like most people, I checked this out because I'm a fan of Chow Yun-Fat, but this movie was a little disappointing.  Chow does go through the movie with his usual grace and action smarts, but doesn't get much of a chance to act. Sorvino does what she can as the forger who helps Chow out, but she doesn't get much of a chance to act either.  Director Fuqua made this with frequent Chow collaborator John Woo as executive producer, and he certainly knows how to copy Woo; many of the action scenes, especially the movie theater, are quite exciting.  But at the end, this is just a copy.  Then again, Woo had to make HARD TARGET when he first came here.  Hopefully, Chow's next film, THE CORRUPTOR, will give him more of an oppurtunity to show his talent. "},{"Title":"Mindless, but that's not a bad thing.","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Violent? yes.  Unecessarily so? probably. Intelligent? no.  Stylish?  Oh yeah.  Nice looking cast? uh huh.  Action? YES!  From the mind of noted music video director Antoine Fuqua comes a fast paced, violent, stylish shootemup.  Want substance?  go see Remains of the Day or My Left Foot.  Want some escapism nonsense?  Here you are.  I liked it. "},{"Title":"Thin on plot but fun to watch and beautiful to look at.","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Watched this flick for the first time on DVD. The plot, while existent, was thin. (But then again, aren't all action movies?) Yun-Fat Chow makes for an interesting gun-slinger, not necessarily better or worse than your typical action star, but he is different. Mira Sorvino shows that she can diversify herself by taking a role in the action genere and running with it, she did a good job. What really caught my attention with this movie though is the visuals. The director flaunts his eye and the result is beautiful, neon-lit scenes of the concrete jungle. To get an idea of what I'm talking about, view the trailer -  the scene inside of the dance club, the fly-by of glass skyscrapers at night - it's all put together to good effect.Thin on plot but fun to watch and beautiful to look at, makes for a good rental. A must buy if you have a large screen TV, but I don't think the DVD is anamorphic. "},{"Title":"The laconic king of cool makes an entrance!","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Chow-Yun Fat is the man. He has a presence and a grace unlike any other man in film today. If that doesn't impress you, watch the way he handles a .45. It makes Bruce and Arnold look like girl scouts.The Replacement Killers itself is not a terribly original film and to me is very reminiscent of 'The Killer' and shares a lot of the same themes. The plot line is thin but that doesn't matter.The Replacement Killers is more a showcase for Chow-Yun Fat's first American performance. Watch his moves, the graceful spins and slides. He exudes such an attitude you would be hard pressed not to idolize the man.As for direction, Antoine Fuqua is visually gifted. The rich colours, particularly in the opening scene and in Meg's office are spectacular. The slight tilt and zoom as Fat walks down a car wash hallway make it interesting to watch. The slow motions are similar to John Woo, but there is nothing wrong with that. However, Fuqua still has a few things to learn about action choreography and editing but considering this is his first feature film, completely forgivable. I certainly hope to see more from Antoine Fuqua than I do from Michael Bay or Simon West.Mira Sorvino provides a sassy smart edge to her character and holds her own well considering who shes acting against. Much more enjoyable than Romy or her turn in Mighty Aphrodite.An enjoyable well-paced, visually lush, techno action romp, made all the more better with the too-cool-for-school Mr Fat. The opening scene is one of the best action scenes I have seen in recent memory. "},{"Title":"Not your average shoot'em up movie","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is absolutely beautifully filmed. Too bad as much effort into making a visually great movie isn't taken by other movie productions.While a very violent film, it has likable characters, a good storyline, great action (not overdone like many of the Hong Kong action films).A definite must see movie.randallc "},{"Title":"Action with an artful twist.","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Replacement Killers could easily be one of the best action movies of all time. Although the film is admittedly shy on a few innovative plot twists, the art direction and stunts make up for the traditional action plot.Under the wing of John Woo, Antoine Fuqua manages to pull of his own artistic child that astounds, and at times, even surpasses Woo's own work in the US. The colors that Fuqua uses really set the tone for the scenes where the action is more mute, allowing for the character development which is surprisingly rich for an action film. As for the action sequences, they are done with superb skill and direction, allowing the viewer to see what is going on without making them feel like they're trapped in a box. The entire movie is truly an artwork in motion, filled with graphic sites such as innocent bystander being killed and the audience actually gets angry instead of the passive emotion that would normally follow such an act. Along with the sights, the sounds and music of the movie sets the mood in exactly the right direction, pumping up the audience for a fantastic shoot out sequence and then toning down letting the audience recover and reflect about the character's dilemmas.Overall, The Replacement Killers takes you for an hour and a half ride through an art museum, while still letting you bring the guns along. If nothing else, see the movie for its fantastic climax that few movies rival in sheer entertainment. "},{"Title":"Not a patch on Fat in HK films of the same genre but a passable action movie","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When police officer Zedkov kills the son of Chinese crime lord Terence Wei he becomes a target of professional hitman John Lee.  However when faced with having to kill Zedkov's seven year old son, Lee backs out and prepares to flee the wrath of Wei.  Going to Meg Coburn for a passport is the setting for an ambush where Lee and Meg escape together, both targets of Wei's  associates.  The stakes are upped when replacement hitmen are brought in to kill Meg, Zedkov's son and Lee.Already a global star due to the iconic films and choreographed violence of John Woo films, Chow Yun Fat came to America, had English lessons and was put in a film that copies the formulae that had made him a huge success.  The plot here is similar to that of The Killer, in that a hitman is crossed by his employers with the end result being gun fights a plenty.  However the themes running through that film are absent here and noise and action replaces them.  That doesn't mean that the film isn't good, but rather than be different it feels like an average retread of the Hong Kong formula.The action scenes are good without being great, lacking the flair of his HK work.  Partly this can be put at Fuqua's door.  Even with Woo as executive producer Fuqua can match the master for this sort of stuff.  They are exciting but where in the same way that Woo's first US film (Hard Target) felt like it was watered down, so too does this film feel like HK action done for a teenage American audience.Fat is an excellent actor of great range but this film seems scared to have him do anything beyond diving around with guns.  His English dialogue is limited to a few lines at a time and any more detailed scenes are carried in subtitles.  However in Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon Fat could not speak mandarin and had to learn his lines phonetically &#150; he can speak English here so why not trust him enough to speak it.  Sorvino is OK but her character is a little bit of a cliché and is a tough chick side kick at best.  Rooker is alright but lacks screen time or a character to speak of.  Likewise Prochnow is just a bad guy sidekick with little to do.In HK Fat had great roles in ultra-stylish violent ballets with Woo.  In his first American film he has a standard American actioner which owes a lot to HK but never reaches the impact of those films at their best.  Worst than that he is not allowed to act beyond limited dialogue and gun play.  Is this film bad?  No, it is just quite average for anyone who has seen any of the Woo/Fat collaborations from HK although for an American action film this is pretty good value for 85 minutes. "},{"Title":"My first Chow Yun-Fat movie","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Replacement Killers is an average action movie. I happened to like it a lot, but upon reflection, it is not the movie, but the stars, Chow Yun-Fat and Mira Sorvino, that make this movie so likeable. Sorvino is a higher calibre actress than most action films can boast. She is an oscar winner for a reason.But Chow Yun-Fat!! I know that he has better films to his credit, but this was my first time to watch him and I watched this film three times, virtually back to back. He is the epitome of cool. I will see his other films (John Woo's The Killer is next on my list), but if nothing else, The Replacement Killers has introduced Chow to moviegoers, like myself, that have yet to see him act. I have a new film idol. And he is cool. "},{"Title":"This is a cool movie.","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Replacement killers is never dull, it is wildly entertaining and has lots of shocks and plot twists to keep you on the edge of your seat. Mira Sorvino and Chow Yun-Fat are great. I suppose this movie can go a bit far sometimes, but overall the result with it is awesome. A great thriller.The Replacement Killers is a must-see for all action lovers.My rating  8/10. "}{"Title":"A great movie, that is not long enough","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Replacement Killers is the American debut for the international action star Chow Yun-Fat.  I was a bit sceptical about Chow making ultra-violent action in America, but the movie turned out to be excellent.Chow Yun-Fat plays John Lee, a deadly assassin, who is pursuaded by a ruthless gangster boss, to do some killings for him.  At the beginning of the movie, there is some splendid action-scenes at the disco, where John kills 5 criminals.  A cop kills the son of the gangster boss, then the gangster boss calls in John to assassinate the son of the cop.  John is as always an assassins with a heart of gold, so he can`t pull the trigger.  The gangster boss then sends a bunch of killers after John, who tries to escape to Chine, so he can save his family from the gangster boss. He needs a passport, and Mira Sorvino is the one he visits to get it. During his visit, the killers appears at the front door, and then the fun begins again. TRK is the first movie directed by Antoine Fuqua, and what a debut it is too! The only downside of this movie is that it is too short, it needs at least another 20 minutes of running-time. John Woo is an executive producer of this film, but this is better than some of Woo`s own American movies. It`s better than Hard Target, Broken Arrow, Blackjack and even the mighty Face/Off at times. I give this movie 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Fast paced thriller","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I watched this fast paced thriller already the third time and I like it especially because its running time with 88 minutes is just right and it gives to me and my wife the needed thrill. It's packed with full of action and twists. There is perhaps too much bum-bum but the story itself is interesting. I see a sense watching this movie but I don't want to spoil that; just make an opinion by yourself. The actors did all a great job and were very cool in their roles. Director Antoine Fuqua created and creates every time a masterpiece and I hope he will continue to surprise me. I rate it with my wife again with a solid 7/10 as the TEARS FOR SUN. "},{"Title":"over the top","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In this movie we find out that bad guys are completely unable to shoot toward the ground. So if you're in a gun fight with bad guys, simply hit the ground and to a somersault, then you can shoot them because they will be totally disoriented. In fact, they will stand there with their guns still pointed straight out even though they can see you're on the ground now.We also learn it's quicker to shoot people near you by completely spinning all the way around so your jacket flings in the air, rather than simply aiming and firing at the target, as Chow does about 60 times in this film. We also find out that Chow actually has the ability to leap from one end of a theater row to the other, if he's attempting to block a bullet from hitting a child. It's also never established how they knew that the cop and his son were at the theater - this is worse logic than Passenger 54. They just show up, the same way Wesley Snipes just shows up at the carnival where the bad guy went in the latter film. Filling us in on how they know this would only slow the film down.What amazes me most about this film, besides the fact the two heroes are fired upon at least 500 times and get hit once, where every shot they make hits their targets with dead on accuracy, is that this is another movie where a guy treats a women with total disrespect, kidnaps her and does nothing to make him like her, she knows him for about two days and doesn't want him to go for some reason. It's like a reality show where the contestants have known each other for two days and one person always says I love you guys. Except there's no reality in this show. "},{"Title":"Second Class Replacement","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" My God, what a disaster. The idea here is to take a well established style and bring it to the states, using top notch performers. Not too many chances are to be taken, and even the story should remain in China to minimize risk. But get a white girl who specializes in professionally exploring sexual projection, better that she speaks some Chinese.The style is everything. Saturated colors, lots of reflections and folding, mixed POV and dancing camera - especially when Chow swings one way ablazin' and the camera another, lots of strokes sweeping up and all in an easy to read package. This time, they put it in the hands of a director that is expert enough in the sense that he knows the motions. But he has no fire, no creative eye. He has no rhythm. The workmanlike photography and editing copies the template by the numbers, but there is no dance here.This is a jazz medium. Either you are in the groove, or you fake it. Don't settle for these replacements, go to the real thing.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"A Cinematic Masterpiece","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Replacement Killers ranks among the finest movies I have ever seen. With over 1,000 DVD's and 2,000 Video's in my movie collection, I have a large reference library to compare this film.The film takes on the edge of The Professional, however an middle aged illiterate man is not protecting a 10 year old child. A master mercanary is protecting the lives of a stubborn woman, whom he falls in love with, and the fate of his mother and sister.The film mixes the violence of Chinese Mafia, Mercenary Killers, and a solid emotional love story in the background.The film begs to know more about John Lee, he is the perfect assassin, however, he is not brutal.  Just as Tony Montana in Scarface refused to blow up a car with women and children in it, John Lee refuses to kill a child in his father's arms.The confidence John Lee brings to the screen is unheard of, he simply exudes it.  With his black on black outfit, his black shades, and his pinpoint accuracy with a weapon, reminds me of the original Lethal Weapon, before it became a soap opera.  Mel Gibson's character, as well as, Gary Busey's character were truly Lethal Weapons, however, I would take John Lee at my side over the both of them, in a heartbeat.This movie was widely passed over because of its budgetary constraints. Yes, Sorvino is an Oscar Winner, but has done nothing of significance since her Oscar, until this film.  Chow Yun Fat makes a stunning debut, before reaching the stardom  as the King of Siam, or Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.  In addition, Antoine Faqua known primarily for music video's, was widely ignored as an uproven commidity.  Now, after great fanfare and success with his new creations, he has taken the steps to rank amoungst the finest filmakers in the world.How did this little publicized, low budget thriller miss so many viewers? I believe it to be a combination of the unknown, Chow Yun Fat, Antoine Faqua, and a grossly under publicized marketing of the film.  Maybe Hollywood believed only Spike Lee can make a movie of importance? Not any more...In short, Antoine Faqua creates a brilliant masterpiece of cutting edge, Matrix like graphics, with brutal and violent overtones similare to that of a Scarface, Lethal Weapon, and a dramatic love story a.k.a and Officer and a Gentleman.  This movie is a reference action movie, and I believe a sequel would give it the justice it has earned.Respectfully,Jamieven  "},{"Title":"One of our Favorites","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is my wife's favorite movie (she should be commenting). The chemistry of Fat and Sorvino coupled with Woo's direction just make this a killer movie (in a positive way).This is not my favorite movie, although it was the first time I really noticed Mia Sorvino. (Though I had seen her w/Kilmer, etc...) She played with a lot of confidence in this movie and really delivered some good one liners (When I have the gun, we're going to have this conversation again). Some favorite character actors to boot just make this a real good DVD buy.We keep it in our Master collection for easy access. "},{"Title":"Fat and Sorvino Added Substance to the Movie","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Assuming that anyone watching a movie with the name, The Replacement Killers, has to love action movies in the first place, it has to rank among the best. The replacement killers themselves were as colorful as they were ruthless. The shootouts at the movie theater and especially at the car wash were different and interesting. I liked the character Loco. Though he was a minor character, he definitely added some color to the movie. Besides the almost nonstop action, it actually does have a plot with substance, and Fat and Sorvino work well together in adding feeling to the movie. I think that, overall, the characters were strong. "},{"Title":"One of Chow Yun-Fat's best and his first Hollywood movie","Date":"26 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I have watched this movie so many times that I can't remember how many. Although I have read that Sorvino and Chow didn't get along very well during the filming, you would never know it based on the chemistry between the two of them on the screen. They are perfectly paired. The gunfight scenes in this movie are some of the best I have ever seen. More bullets fly than you can ever possibly count, and Chow Yun-Fat can shoot two guns with more determination than anyone else in the industry. He moves like art in motion. I have seen many of Chow's movies, and I consider this one to be one of his best, so if you like John Woo Hong Kong action movies you need to watch this one and watch the sparks fly. "},{"Title":"Trash","Date":"26 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" There are many words to describe how awful this is, but why waste time. This is just the sort of one-dimensional, violent trash that deservedly ends up in the bargain bin at the local gas station.Sorvino was a recognised talent at this stage of her career, so why she got involved with this is a mystery. In fact the cast as a whole is not too bad, and there is some competent camera work and beautiful lighting - almost stylish.But there are too many negatives - ridiculous plot, silly script, terrible editing and a lousy soundtrack. The violence is gratuitous and totally OTT in this context. Watch something else. "},{"Title":"Great Action, but left me wanting more","Date":"6 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" While I am not a huge fan of Anton Fuqua, I do believe he made a great feature with Chow Yun Fat's North American movie debut. The studio made so much bones about getting it right that while the finished piece smoked the box office, I can't help but feel that Anton had much more in mind than just an action piece when this was made. I would think that fans of AF and CYF would want to see a Director's Cut at some point to see the dramatic elements that were left on the cutting room floor, especially the romance that developed between John Lee and Meg Coburn. I continue to enjoy this movie and the vibe it leaves is always thrilling, but I get the feeling that Anton's vision was dumbed down for public consumption. "}{"Title":"Chow Yun Fat rocks...","Date":"25 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Wow, this movie just blew me away !!! I am a fan of the John Woo type of action movies and I must say that even he was just one of the executive producers, his mark is all over this movie!!! The result is very good  Nicely paced action sequences (Chow Yun Fat with two guns, it's not action, it's belle), well acted , you kinda start feeling sympathetic for the leads and you'll certainly hate the villains. This is a thrill ride from beginning till the end. And this is where I have my only point of criticism  The movie is way to short !!! 80 minutes and the credits start to roll!!! You'll almost start to beg for more... A must-see for every action movie lover. "},{"Title":"very very entertaining - action-packed - movie","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I love this movie. it's actually one of the movies that you can own, and watch over and over again when there is nothing on TV, which is actually almost always the case ?!.The acting is excellent, the chemistry between Yun-fat and Sorvino worked 100%. Some critics (french Premiere magazine) wrote at the time that Yun-fat is not charismatic at all in this film, unlike his parts in john woos'. I completely disagree, I think he was as convincing, present and elegant as ever. (where do they get these suits ?!)Sorvino is always good. I think she never really deserved the stardom she should, but that's a personal opinion.the music is good, the editing perfect, and the supporting cast - Jürgen Prochnow, Michael Rooker - as good as they always are.as I wrote above, you can watch this action flick over and over, which if you think of it, few movies would fall in this category (kiss of the dragon, deep rising,...) "},{"Title":"Chow Yun Fat is awesome","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The first time i heard about the movie and reed about it i was a bit confused if i was gonna like it or hate it. I saw the movie and i enjoyed it because it had the kind of action i enjoy. Chow Yun Fat stars as John Lee and Yun Fat is one of my favorite actors he's awesome and cool. The film is about John which is an assassin and is preparing his final murder which e can't do, so he's on the run back to his family in china. One of my personal favorite clips in the movie is the opening scene when John makes his move in the disco. A cool, Violent, bloody Action film with Chow Yun fat, this i one of my personal favorite films. "},{"Title":"Repeat","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This was an excellent movie. No Sequel? Mira Soivino and Mr. Fat worked so well together. Mira's witty dialog We're gonna have this conversation again when the gun is in my hand is great! I'd like to see a sequel where John comes back to America and finds that Mira has been imprisoned by Chinese bad guys, and tortured. He puts her back together using Zen medicine. Unfortunately they find that the plot is thicker than they knew because Chinese bad guys are planning a Coup in China by blowing a nuke in the U.S an blaming the Chinese government. Enter Secour (now works for the CIA). They hook up, stop the American threat, then switch to China and do in the bad guys using CIA Intel. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of choreographed violence.","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Replacement Killers is a masterpiece of choreographed violence. The movie was superbly acted and the storyline flowed well through the use of narrative and flashback.  Chow Yun Fat is an excellent actor who improves with each performance.  Yes, John Woo's influence is clearly present in the action scenes and his slow motion choreography has been honored in this film. "},{"Title":" NONE STOP ACTION AND PLENTY OF THRILLS!","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"                        Yun-Fat Chow ( John Lee) and Mira Sorvino(Meg Coburn)(Paul Sorvino's daughter and former star of The Guiding Light TV Series '52) burned up and exploded the entire film without even taking off their clothes.   The photography was fantastic, showing scenes of Chinese culture in San Francisco's Chinatown along with a boat ride down San Franciso's Bay near the Golden Gate Bridge and the container shipyards.   Meg Coburn had her phony passport business blown away and her skirt seemed to get shorter and shorter in each scene.  There was a great scene in a Car Wash with all the brushes spinning and plenty of bullets flying all over the place.   This is a NO STOP ACTION FILM, which is just what you are going to see, there really is no room to be critical about this film, just sit back and try to keep up with all the action if you can!     "},{"Title":"Stylish indeed!","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I've watched this film about eight times and still can't get enough of it. The story is exactly what you expect from an fast-paced action movie 'good' killer vs. bad killers. And lot's of monks between the bullets. Weapons very well chosen. Only weak and strange point is the 'replacement arrival', thus looks a bit like terminator-coolness(too evil-looking). But Replacements very well chosen, too Trejo and Schweiger make an excellent looking, cold-hearted killer-team.If you're an action fan, watch it! If not, you'll probably find it too unrealistic. "},{"Title":"There's no replacement in action like this one...","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Replacement Killer IS action at it's best. Place top stars like Chow-Yun Fat and Mira Sorvino and you have a major hit on the big screen. Sorvino as a forger, Fat as a assassin, a big BANG! This movie had plenty of suspense, wonder, awe, and non-stop excitement for all those shoot'ems up types. I've seen this and enjoy it many times, my mom loves it. I liked everything in this movie. I liked the part where Mira's character went to the washroom and woke herself up, and changed clothes. Her body is HOT! And after the bad guys dislocated her knee, she showed some ungratefulness when she threw the ashtray at Fat's character. He smashed it with the gun to prevent a concussion. For Chow-Yun Fat's character, I liked the part where he slows himself down with the gum. Lot's of skills to do that! It should be a winner in action. I give it a 10! "},{"Title":"the best action movie in years!!","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie reminds me of the classic action movie the Killer.  It has great actions and a great plot.  The music was super awesome as were the acting. I recommend this movie to all action fans.  You would be glad that you seen it. "},{"Title":"Unspectacular actioner","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   A fairly ho-hum actioner, not bad or anything just short on innovation and novelty. Chow Yun-Fat is of course pretty fair as the family man blackmailed into a life of hired killing, Mira Sorvino's OK too as his sexy forger assistant, but the story is a little limp and the action clunks along somewhat. OK for a mindless few hours if you like the genre though. "}{"Title":"Mira Sorvino and a Lot of Noise","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Replacement Killers is a typical action film.  It is loud, disruptive, and completely empty.  Hong Kong action star Chow Yun-Fat stars as a hit-man who refuses to do a job.  Now his associates are after him instead and they hire a group of replacement killers to take care of him.  Yun-Fat wants to leave the country, but needs to have some fraudulent documents made.  Enter Mira Sorvino as a hot document forger who gets sucked into the middle of Yun-Fat's predicament.  The film is not short on action, but it is on everything else.  Yun-Fat and Sorvino both do great jobs with the weak screenplay, but Antoine Fuqua's outlandish direction ruins any chance that the film has to be successful.  2.5 out 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Decent Hong-Kong-action-in-America movie","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Replacement Killers has some great, stylish action sequences, which salvage it from a flimsy plotline (Hitman doesn't kill, and is chased by mob leaders). Chow Yun-Fat is his usual hitman self, but Mira Sorvino is miscast. Overall, this is a pretty good movie for action fans that need a quick fix. The best bit is the opening sequence, set to The Crystal Method's awesome Keep Hope Alive. 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent, brilliant","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  this has to be one of the best films i have ever seen.  The gun fights were superb and Chow-yun fat plays john lee brilliantly and really suites the role.  The story line is a bit basic, hitman goes against boss, boss goe's after hitman's familly hitman saves the day and everyone else.  But who needs a really good story line when you have John Woo (director or Hard Target and Mission Impossible 2) weaving his magic touch in here and there.  It's a great action packed film that will keep you on the edge of your seat in excitement, i give it 10/10 and highly recommend it to anyone who likes a good shoot 'em up film. "},{"Title":"Action, Action, Action!","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Okay. Let's start with the obvious. You shouldn't watch this movie for it's great or original plot. You should watch it because of the Action with the capital A.When you put this movie into your DVD drive, you should start with the expectations that are on the cover. Hot Action!This movie has it. International action star Chow Yun Fat does not disappoint us here. Director Antoine Fuqua did a hell of a great job!great stunts, effects and an awesome eye for the smaller details, which isn't seen very often in a movie like this. It are these details that add that incredible value to the atmosphere this movie breathes.The plot isn't very original, but it isn't boring or unconvincing either. In Holland we got this saying Better to do a good stealing job than making a bad creation. This is what applies to the plot of The Replacement Killers.If you like action and don't want to think too deep, than you should rent this movie, grab a beer and sit back and just watch. I promise that when you don't have the wrong expectations, you won't be disappointed.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The peak of style (potential spoilers)","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the most stylish movies I've ever seen, and exceptionally well filmed. It is not a complex or deep movie, but a simple morality tale told with poignancy and emotion. Anyone doubting the worth of this movie should remember parts like the amazing scenes in the temple, set to a haunting Asian score, the superb slow-motion camera work and the excellent use of music and visual imagery (again, the scenes in the temple are a fine example). The emotion is very powerful in the scene where Lee finds Alan's body, as well as when Lee struggles with his conscience whether to shoot the boy. The style is evident throughout the movie, from the well-choreographed gun fights to both main characters. Chow Yun-Fat is as excellent as ever in this movie, playing his 'killer with a conscience' role once again with his usual style and talent, his perfect facade only cracking when faced with the death of his friend. Mira Sorvino is convincing in her strong female role, quite capable of taking care of herself but forced by circumstances to ally with Lee. Overall, a superb movie, one of my personal favourites, and well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Totally Underrated","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'm amazed how negative people are being about this movie. It has to be judged as what it is an action movie. It does not attempt to have a complex plot, mystery, moral exploration etc. Considered on this basis, it is certainly one of the best examples of the genre it is supremely stylish, well filmed and entertaining. Chow Yun-Fat is as great as ever like the rest of the movie, his performance is stylish and he acts well throughout. I know many fans of Chow Yun-Fat may be put off by the 'over simplicity' of the movie, but as a fan myself I consider his performance in this just as riveting as in his Hong Kong movies. Don't analyse the film, just sit back and enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"hoping for a better tomorrow (4/10)","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Not the american debut for Chow Yun Fat that fans would've hoped for but still a half-decent flick. I thought Sorvino was pretty good in it too. Its way too cliched and dramatic for its own good but you can do a lot worse. Fuqua's style is quite distinct, I loved the use of color in this film. Good soundtrack too, watch out for the brilliant opening sequence that uses 'keep hope alive' by the crystal method - that was worth the price of admission! "},{"Title":"A good action movie - nothing more, nothing less.","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  MTV hits the big screen - that was my first impression after I have seen this movie. You can see for yourselves what I mean right at the beginning with Chow entering the club. This film is no bad one; it is a good action movie in the Hong Kong tradition with a superb cast, including Chow Yun-Fat, Mira Sorvino, Jurgen Prochnow, Danny Trejo and the silent Hollywood debut of Til Schweiger who is one of the most famous movie stars in Germany. When I read about John Woo producing a movie starring Chow, I had (maybe too) high hopes. I imagined a movie like Woo's and Chow's masterpiece The Killer, but I was disappointed. As I said above, this film is a good action movie - nothing more, nothing less. It lacks the depth of characterization and entanglements of its characters as well as their tragic development. It is just too straight, although Yun Fat's acting is very cool; somehow he can be considered to be the Eastern Robert De Niro. What is good about this movie is the art of presenting it Fast, stylish and violent. The camera seems to be in motion all the time and it really shows the grace and the elegance of Chow's motions especially during the shoot-outs; just like John Woo, director Fuqua makes a ballet-like dance out of these scenes and this is exactly what Yun Fat's fans are awaiting. What I also was happy about is Til Schweiger being featured in this movie. As he always played the good & friendly guy in Germany (e.g. Knockin' On Heaven's Door), it was a pleasure to see him as a ruthless, yet cool killer who seems to be a real maniac (e.g. the way he looks when he recharges his machine-gun). Finally I'd give this movie 7 1/2 stars out of 10.    "},{"Title":"Flashy, fast paced, flying bullet-fest","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What a stylish movie. Great visuals, great sound (including background music), and great cast. Chow Yun-Fat is electrifying as a hired killer under obligation to a Chinatown kingpin. In his U.S. film debut, he shows immense promise. Is Mira Sorvino THE hottest woman on the screen these days? My vote is ABSOLUTELY!!! She does a great job as hostage turned partner. In true John Woo fashion, he's a producer this time, this movie has more flying bullets than any action flick around, save for Woo's own movies. It has enough action to downplay Micheal Rooker's sub-par performance. A great movie for fans of intense gunplay... "},{"Title":"Stylish and technically impressive from first to last","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Oozing style from first till last, the scenes are typical of the real world HK action style, but with Hollywood production values. A complementary partnership indeed! Chow delivers an enjoyable performance, but the real stars are the overall feel and vision of the film.Belonging in the modern day (non-detective) noir genre, Fuqua weaves cinematic poetry similar in some respects to Luc Besson's Leon (The Professional - US Title) except that it's lighter on in the real world department. There are also strong parallels to Blade Runner's overall cinematic presence.Whilst the plot is somewhat thin on the ground, the film stands on its own in terms of both hard-boiled action, cinematic vision and sheer enjoyment value!Anyone who didn't like this either didn't take the time to appreciate the atmosphere, or should go back to watching something more up their intellectual alley, like American Ninja.9/10 "}{"Title":"The best Hong Kong action movie ever made","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  My rating- ***1/23 1/2 StarsThis is the best Hong Kong action movie I have ever seen. This is the first action movie that has had a load of action and managed to have great acting and storyline to it. This movie is the first movie that introduced me to Chow Yun Fat who is now one of my top favorite action stars and I'm looking forward to seeing him in The Corruptor. Two other stars starring in this movie are Mira Sorvino (Mimic) and Dany Trejo (Con Air, From Dusk till Dawn and from Dusk till Dawn The Henchman's Daughter)  "},{"Title":"Points for Style","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There is no plot to speak of... Essentially, a killer Fat develops a conscious he might have had all along, so his employer brings in replacement killers to finish him (and the job) off. Along the way this compassionate killer finds a friend in a headstrong ID forger Sorvino. I need illegal documents.But man... the elegant, colorful, exaggerated, slow-motion camerawork is to die for. And the soundtrack is definitely a crutch any faltering picture can lean on.  "},{"Title":"finely done comic book bulletfest with excellent actors","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This accomplishes what I believe it sets out to do A visual treat of comic book, simple good vs. evil, sexy, rhythmic violence. Yet much less violent than most such movies, it's mostly the sound and flash of bullets, speeding cars, etc. Only a few moments of up close gore. Both Chow Yun-Fat and Mira Sorvino are great to look at, and carry off their emotionally cool yet highly ethical postures superbly. I was completely entertained.....what a relief after seeing the disappointing, posturing Rushmore the same day.  "},{"Title":"Pure Adrenaline","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a film that can be enjoyed only by those viewers who accept it for what it is  a quick, no-nonsense Shoot-Em-Up.The plot is straightforward and thin.  The characters are cliches (the heroic assassin, the hard-boiled cop, the smarmy street girl).  This film does not even pretend to be about plot or character, however.What this film offers -- and delivers, in spades -- is adrenaline-pumping action with stylish direction.  With a running time of approximately 90 minutes, it is brief and to the point. The action sequences are frequent and well-paced.  Meanwhile, Fuqua's direction turns typical gun-blazing sequences into works of art.For the most part, the film serves as a showcase for Chow-Yun Fat's style and grace (I presume that he's a trained dancer).  He's the type of performer who plays essentially the same character each time he's on screen, and that character is an Asian James Bond.Our hero receives ample back-up from our heroine.  Anything that Mira Sorvino does tends to be fine with me for the simple reason that it's Mira Sorvino doing it.  In this case, she proves herself capable in a role that requires running and jumping rather than acting.The greatest flaw in this one is its inclusion of typical action-movie problems ('professional killers' who can't seem to hit a barn door, submachine guns that don't run out of rounds).  Such mistakes, however, are fewer and further between than in a typical Hollywood action flick.If you can handle action served straight up, don't miss The Replacement Killers. "},{"Title":"For the intelligence of the view.","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It is not the sound of machine guns that one has to love to enjoy The Replacement Killers.  It is the elegance of violence.  The visuals that transform each scene into an exciting, impossible romp through the ability to survive. Talented choreography with the added difficulty of a constant grasp of a piece of iron in hand. Far beyond any filming of this genre that I have seen in a while. Not for those who can't live without fine dialogue, but then again, while watching this movie, who needs it and who cares. "},{"Title":"X-cellent!","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Wonderful movie. Fantastic action. Cool actors. Really enjoy. I´ve seen this movie twice in a day, and I consider it my favourite movie. Following John Woo´s style, Fuqua has performed an elegant film, full of action and empty of scenes that you don´t like to see in an action movie, like romances, stupid dreams, or other class of sentimentalism. If you like PURE ACTION (or Mira Sorvino´s beauty face) and Chow Yun-Fat style (this film is his best, better than John Woo´s Hard-Boiled or The Killer (!!!)...). Enjoy the film, the music, the legs of Mira and the coolness of Chow. Very elegant film.   "},{"Title":"A Slam-Bam Action Thiller","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Replacement Killers is a mind-blowing & shoot-em-up success. International Action Star Chow Yun-Fat is truly an action hero and Academy-Award winner Mira Sorvino give a stunning performance. The beginning of the movie was the best part. The rest gave a worthy effort. This is an action movie that you don't want to miss. "},{"Title":"Thrilling, and extremely black humor","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Black humor is a good word for describing this film.  It was good, it was exciting, and it was funny.  Chow Yun Fat was great (he is always great actually) in the role of John Lee, and Mira Sorvino was nice in her act. The music was fabulous and the way we saw things made the movie a wonder, specially on the big screen though....It doesn´t come very neat out on a small TV.Absolutely explosive is my comment on this movie. "},{"Title":"would have been better without Mira","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A hit-man who develops a conscience when he can't kill a cop because he's with his family when he attempts to, teams up with a female counterfeiter to stop the replacement hit men that were sent when the word got back that he couldn't finish the job. Why does Hollywood import foreign actors, just to put them in lousy movies? Chow Yun Fat, Jet Li, etc. Actually as strictly a popcorn flick this would work. But putting Mira Sorvino in the film was a misstep.She is NOT, nor ever will be an action star.My Grade C DVD Extras Commentary by Antoine Fuqua; Making-of featurette; Chow Yun Fat goes Hollywood featurette;4 extended scenes; 1 deleted scene; Alternate ending; Filmographies; Theatrical Trailer; Trailers for the One (so bad), and Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon (good) "},{"Title":"Shallow Action Flick....","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" .... Though I guess that really shouldn`t be taken as a terrible criticism . After all John Woo appears in the credits as executive producer so you know what to expect , you know that the man walking through the disco floor in the opening sequence is going to get into a shoot out and you know what type of shoot out he`s going to get involved with . That`s right one of those shoot outs where he flings his coat off , turns 360 degrees fires his gun in a ridiculously held manner , throws it away ( Even though there`s no way he`s used up all the rounds ) pulls out another gun and kills even more bad guys As I said it`s not really a criticism but like a Jerry Bruckheimer production I do get bored with these type of balletic choreography action scenes rather quickly . Impressive first few times you see them , boring by the time you get to the millionith time , and as you can imagine everything is style over substance with people running around in slo-mo dodging bullets that seem to explode with everything they come into contact withI will give the producers some credit for making a serious revenge flick that tries to paint the characters as something more than just one dimensional cyphers , but like I said I`ve seen too many of these type of action sequences to still be impressed by them  "}{"Title":"It`ll blow you away!!!!","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Replacement Killers is the first American movie of Hong-Kong superstar Chow Yun-Fat.  Yun-Fat plays John Lee, a professional assassin.  In the opening scene, Lee is entering a techno-danceclub, he walks up to a table, where some criminals are sitting, he puts a bullet on the table, and starts shooting them. Next, a police-officer kills the son of Terrance Wei, a powerful syndicate leader.  Wei calls for Lee to take out the police-officer`s son, and Wei`s goons will kill Lee`s family if he fails.  Lee is unable to pull the trigger, and must therefore run away from the killers sent by Wei. Chow Yun-Fat demonstrates what he does best in this movie, he kicks a#¤.  The actionscenes are beautifully choregraphed, but not quite as good as John Woo(but they are very similar). Still, this is a powerhouse of a movie. The action is non-stop and will blow you away. 10/10  "},{"Title":"Action that falls really short","Date":"15 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I was just watching the movie and was hoping to give it a second chance since I really love the action films directed by John Woo and enjoyed the works of chow yun fat. The reason this movie falls flat is because it is not a John Woo movie. It was produced by Woo but he had no hand in the story. A story that really sucked too.The story starts with chow walking to a night club. You know he needs to stretch out his double pistoled action arms for the beginning. I'm saying to myself Okay he messes up some people so we are gonna get action. Heres the bad part, THE OTHER CHARACTERS. Every other character that comes out seems like a reproduction of another character we've seen in similar action film. Another faulty problem is the action scenes are really dull and boring compared to the rapid style like violence we see in John Woo's other films. In this film, Chow kills like 5 or 8 men in his usual style like persona. Whats the problem? In The Killer (Which replacement killers is a knock off of.) He is mowing down 20 to 30 henchmen and they die ugly deaths. Replacement killers doesn't have that heart pumping stop til you drop action that made Hong Kong Cinema legendary and often imitated.Acting by chow isn't bad but he doesn't have a lot to go on. He really doesn't. At least Jackie chans US action vehicles have him as his usual self. in replacement killers he's just not dynamic or persuasive as a cold blooded killer. Mira sorvino is also misused, I like her acting but the writers should've looked over the script again to realize that her character seems more of a comical sidekick then a sexy love interest. The Asian gangsters are very wooden and very uninteresting. They don't know how to write them in. In John woo's films they are just regular people with different personalities and interest. In this film they are all stereotypically the same. Michael Rooker really sucked in this movie so I won't talk about him. Danny Trejo is in it but isn't used as he is in desperado playing the sophisticatedly cool and deadly Navas.Overall this movie is no John Woo film. I recommend Hard Boild The Killer A better tomorrow part 1 and 2, Bullet in the head and his American vehicles Face off and Broken Arrow. I also recommend just sticking to Hong Kong films if you want action that is really gut gripping and has stunts that'll blow CGI out of the water. Sorry Antoine, just let Woo do all the action. "},{"Title":"Replace the actors!","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The first thing to say about this film is that i enjoyed it for what it was, a Chinese/American shootem up/beatem up  .The story is about a Chinese assasin ( Yun-fat chow) who fails to carry out his last job to the annoyance of his gangster boss, somewhere along the line he gets caught up with a documents forger( Mila Sorvino) and they battle against the army of Hit men deployed to kill them. It is pretty much run of the mill stuff , very violent hence the 18 rating  . I Thought both lead actors sucked pretty bad but this was never gonna be an oscar nominated movie! 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"long on gunfire, short on story","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was plain sorry. Thin plot, pitiful acting, senseless action scenes. This was just another program aimed at the mindless action crowd. Two or three million rounds were fired between 2 groups at odds with each other. Very few of them hit their targets... who teaches these hit men to shoot? This was nothing but Last Man Standing done in Chinatown. Instead of hiring a high priced actor like Bruce Willis to make the film, the producers opted for some Chinese guy named Lo Fat Wu or whatever. His performance was a joke; I haven't seen this much ham since last Thanksgiving. 2 thumbs down. "}]