[{"Title":"Cold, hard truth","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"110 out of 126 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a little surprised by the negative criticism this film is attracting.I'm old enough to be the father of the two main characters; they seemed like accurately drawn teenage girls to me. And I've probably hung out with both of their fathers before. I've been to the Far East. I've stayed in both better and worse places than the girls stayed. I had the pleasure of seeing the inside of a police station after I was robbed. I'm glad I had no more direct exposure to the local judicial system than that; that was more than enough. Everything in this movie seems awfully familiar to me.I think Brokedown Palace represents something pretty close to stark realism. It certainly reminded me of Asia.Of course it's true that the attitudes of the girls often don't do much to improve their situation. But they are meant to be an example of what not to do overseas. And the portrayal of some of the Thais did make me uncomfortable. But then many of my own personal travel anecdotes don't paint a complimentary picture either.This is a cautionary tale. An unfortunate consequence of too many people having too much money to spend these days is that you will find unescorted, unprepared, streetwise, naive young people popping up in places where they have no business being. And when that happens, you end up with situations mirroring this movie.I suspect people choose to denigrate this one because they are too embarrassed to accept how true it is, and how vulnerable they would be if placed in similar circumstances.  "},{"Title":"Can you trust your best friend and how far will you go for them","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"56 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Although I go to the movies regularly, I didn't see a trailer for this film, and the few reviews I read beforehand suggested it would appeal mainly to women under 35.  Being neither, I could have been excused for missing this film, which would have been a shame, because I enjoyed it. The acting from Danes, Beckinsdale and Pullman was excellent and a pleasant change from watching films where special effects try to substitute for quality acting. Brokedown Palace is one of the few films I've seen this year where I haven't been able to correctly predict the outcome half way through.For me this was more than a repeat of the tourist taken advantage of by nasty local/foreign low life film.  While it is clearly a cautionary tale of the risks of travelling abroad, it is also very much about trusting your friends and the extent you are willing to make sacrifices for them.It is also a reminder that in any country, justice is dispensed by people with power, and the extent that truth features in the dispensing of justice is largely at their discretion.  The film correctly portrays that crying I'm an American citizen, I have rights rarely sees an immediate release from jail and humble apology from the local police, nor does enlisting the help of the US embassy result in a company of marines landing at night to storm the jail and rescue you.Brokedown Palace is one of the few films I have seen this year which I intend to see again.  "},{"Title":"Worth my cash.","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film at a store in the cheap section. I actually vividly remembered seeing the commercials and trailer for it years ago. I thought What the hey' and bought it, basically because the plot sounded interesting and Claire Danes has always been someone of talent in my eyes (this was also before I became a huge Kate Beckinsale fan).So it's about two girls who sneak off to a vacation in Bangkok, get busted for narcotics (which they are innocent of) and then are sent to a Thailand prison. The film follows what will happen to them and at times questions their innocence.Both Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale give great performances, and the plot of this film wraps itself up unconventionally, and raises some nice moral discussion questions.I think this is a solid good film, but there could have been some improvements. It could have been longer...it would've helped to solidify these characters and more insight into the politics of Thailand's justice system would've helped.Nevertheless, other than that, it's a good film with some great performances.P.S. For all you pop-culture junkies be on the lookout for a two-minute role by Paul Walker. I didn't even notice him the first time I saw the film.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie...powerful message...incredible story!","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie by luck, just because I was going through a phase where I had a new found admiration for Bill Pullman and wanted to see all of his recent movies and thank God I did! This Movie has stuck with me ever since and remain one of my favorites! The story revolves around two girls who embark on a dramatic journey in a foreign country where they'll learn the true meaning of freedom.Alice and Darlene were just trying to spend a vacation together before going to college but their trip ended up a much more complicated story. The struggle they go through as they are arrested in Thailand and became prisoners is very moving and intense. The acting is amazing, the images extraordinary, the soundtrack is fantastic and so right for the movie and the message transmitted definitely powerful. I actually can't even find the right words to describe how this movie makes me feel every time I watch it. I know some people haven't appreciated as much as me by the rating the movie has but I swear, this one, you have to see!!! I promise it will stick with you! "},{"Title":"A gripping dramatic thriller that works thanks to the terrific performances.","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  *** out of ****Brokedown Palace has an intriguing premise two best friends (Kate Beckinsale and Claire Danes) fresh from high school are on their summer vacation in Thailand, but are arrested for possession of narcotics, found guilty and sentenced to 33 years in a women's prison.  Admittedly, I'm aware of several films with similar stories (Midnight Express, Return to Paradise, and Red Corner), and I must also admit I've only see one of those three aforementioned films, which might be why much of it felt fresh and engrossing to me.  Either that, or it's just a story that's told damn well.Bill Pullman also stars in the picture as an American lawyer named Hank Greene, who feels for the girls' plight and fights to prove their innocence.  But the real focus is on Beckinsale and Danes, whose wonderful performances are the anchor to the film's drama and moral quandaries.  Beckinsale's Darlene is the more reserved and quieter of the two, the kind of person who sort of follows her friend without question, and certainly not the type to take unwarranted risks (unless her friend persuades her to).  She's almost a direct opposite of Danes' Alice, whose outgoing and semi-rebellious behavior is the indirect link to their current troubles.I hesitate to give much more of the movie away, suffice to say that their friendship is what's ultimately put to the test, and watching the twists and turns (almost all of which are perfectly believable) in the story is utterly captivating.  The film slinks to melodrama in its climactic moments, but still rings true thanks to the tour-de-force turns from Beckinsale and Danes.It's an open-ended question as to whether or not either of the girls committed the crime of smuggling narcotics, and such ambiguity might upset some, but I liked not knowing for certain, and it's not as if it makes the final scenes any less believable.  In fact, the ambiguity only makes it all the more compelling.  Yes, the plot has its share of head-scratching moments (what purpose does that Thai girl who despises Darlene and Alice really serve?) and lacks subtlety on occasion, but it's a well-crafted film that boasts great performances, and has the guts not to cop out in the end. "},{"Title":"Two girls get caught up in drug smuggling while on holiday.","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is cold, bare truth. Often we think oh no, that won't happen to me. But it can. Drug smuggling is big money and often people are unknowingly (or tricked) into doing things for smugglers. The story of these two girls is the story of many young people who like them, only wanted a exotic holiday - which turned into a nightmare. People need to know that these sort of events aren't improbable or exaggerated - this IS a major problem in today's society.I would recommend this movie to mature viewers because of the understanding needed to truly appreciate this movie. It is very emotional and raw. Well worth watching and certainly stays in your memory. "},{"Title":"Great, but too short","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie a million years (5 years to be exact) ago for the first the time. In the light of recent events with the Australian woman Schapelle Corby being imprisoned in Indonesia for so called smuggling pot, I decided to watch this movie again. I excepted to cry my heart out, 'cause I'm sucker for hot girls in need (just read my review of 'the stalking of Laurie Show'). Some moist escaped my eyes, but it were hardly buckets filled with tears. Why? Not because the two heroines weren't utterly adoring and helpless, not because the movie wasn't heartbreaking at the sight of these two kids in the prime of their live locked up in almost inhuman conditions. Why then? Why did I not cry? I wanted to cry! When I rent a movie like this, I except to be moved, to sob like there's no tomorrow, to feel miserable and like it. This movie was simply too short to do this. It was just like the script was reduced to the main plot elements, and while doing this the psychological aspect was thrown aside. Clare Danes and Kate Beckinsale did an excellent job portraying the emotions of the two friends, but this movie just screamed for more footage of these girls in their depressing (and oppressing) surroundings. The mental journey is missing here for some reason. You only get to see the key moments of it (which are very touching, I admit), probably because of bad editing. Sometimes I felt these girls were walking around in a postcard. The relationship with the family members could also have used a bit more attention. What's up with the relationships between the girls and the parents (especially between Alice and her dad)? You catch a glimpse of it, but the film doesn't quite offer the whole picture, sadly enough.Nonetheless this was a great movie, and at the end I even had to bite my lip a bit. But I guess this has more to do with the acting skills (and the looks) of the actresses (and the music) then with the merit of the director. To be honest, I hardly knew who Kate Beckinsale was before I watched this movie (again). Now, I am a fan! Great movie, as long as you don't expect it to be classic cinema. "},{"Title":"Claire Is Great","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Alice(Claire Danes) and Darlene(Kate Beckinsale) have been best friends since forever and after they graduate they decide to take a trip to Thailand. Due to a incident, they meet a young attractive mysterious stranger who invites them to go with him Hong Kong for the weekend. But at the airport, Alice and Darlene are mistaken for drug smuggling heroine and they are sent to prison. Now it's time for ultimate survival and true friendship. This was a pretty good movie, i've seen it a couple of times and after a while you notice that they are a few holes in the plot but the movie still keeps you entertained. Claire Danes did a great job as usual, she is a great actress. I would give Brokedown Palace 8/10 "},{"Title":"A film about the power of friendship.","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  We all have friends.  Some of us have more than others but there really are only one or two people that you feel really close with, people that you can say are like your brother or sister.  Alice ( Danes )and Darlene ( Beckinsale ) are like that.  You can see that from the beginning.  They graduated together, they go to parties together and they decide to go to Bangkok together when they were supposed to be going to Hawaii.  They also get busted for attempting to smuggle drugs into a third world country and that spells disaster.  The rest of the film is about survival and not giving up hope.  It also has a strong message about the power of friendship and what it can mean to someone.Brokedown Palace is a very good film, it is not excellent and that is due to a few issues that I want to talk about.  But first I want to say what is good about the film.  And for starters the acting is top notch, and you can look no further than the two leads.  Danes and Beckinsale are perfect in the roles that they have.  Alice is always fiery and seems a little rough around the edges, but she seems more fun than Darlene.  But sometimes that fun can get her into trouble.  Darlene is always a little on the conservative side and although that can get irritating sometimes, it would have served the two girls better if her way was adhered to instead of Alice's.  Bill Pullman is adequate as the American lawyer living in Thailand.  The film is photographed very well also.  The inside of the prison while not the same as Shawshank or Natural Born Killers or Return To Paradice, but it does show the necessary ( but underdone) hopelessness of the situation that they are in.  Johnathin Kaplan's direction is quite good as well.  We see the two girls struggling to make it through each day but you can see their spirit is being put out a little more each day.  Brokedown Palace is excellent when it talks about friendship and it shows how they have to rely on each other to survive.  The other thing that I had to comment on is the soundtrack for the film.  It heightens and compliments the mood of the film to perfection.  The song that you hear in the trailer is also played in the film and when it plays you feel the plight of the women in this prison.  You can feel how alone they must feel and how desperate they are to get out and get back to the simple things in life.  And it also makes you look at yourself and realize how lucky we are to live in the society that we do.  We have it easy compared to some country's and believe it or not the music is a perfect catalyst for reflection on this subject.  Some of the music is done by a group called Delirium ( I think ) but it is Sara McLaughlin( wrong spelling, but how do you spell her last name? ) that does the lyrics and her voice is beautiful and haunting and it adds so much to the film.What I didn't enjoy about the film was some of the stupidity that the girls exhibit.  I won't say what it is that they do but when you see it for yourself you'll know what I am talking about.  Also I didn't really feel that the prison they were in was all that bad.  It looked more like a minimum security prison and that may be because when there are similar circumstances in other films that invlove men doing time in a foreign country, the prison scenes are always brutal and sadistic.  But I didn't get that here.Overall this is a great film and it really does make you ask the question,  How far would you go for a friend?   That is a tough question and maybe one that none of us could honestly answer until put into the same situation.  Let's just hope that it never comes down to that. "},{"Title":"A Fantastic Move, a Definite Must See For Anyone","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brokedown Palace is truly a one of a kind. It's an amazing story, showing two girl's plight for freedom against the Thailand justice system. They soon find themselves placing faith into a system they know nothing about.Alice Morano (Claire Danes) and Darlene Davis (Kate Beckinsale), are two best friends, strait out of high school. They suddenly change their vacation plans from Hawaii to Thailand, and are immediately captivated by a young man, Nick Parks. He flirts with them both, and suggests that the three of them go to Hong Kong for the weekend.When the two arrive at the airport, they are immediately searched for drugs. Someone tipped off customs, and in an instant, their life is changed forever. In the mix of the confusion of settling into their new life, they learn about a highly respected lawyer, named Hank Green (Bill Pullman).An American who knows the Thai justice system, he fights for the girl to be free. But they soon find out, when they leave or go is all up to them.If you're looking for a great movie that'll stay with you for years - Brokedown Palace is definitely the way to go. "}{"Title":"Shallow Characters In A Shallow Film","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" !!!! MILD SPOILERS !!!!One of the main criticisms from people who dislike BROKEDOWN PALACE is the character motivation . Since I dislike this movie I couldn't help but notice the shallow characterisation and perhaps the characterisation and my dislike of the movie are linked ? A couple of young American women Alice and Darlene lie to their parents that they're off to Hawaii when in fact they're going to Thailand . it's never actually explained why they feel the need to lie since from what little we see of their family leads us to believe they get on well with their parents . It should also be pointed out that both Alice and Darlene are obviously old enough to look after themselves so why lie ? there's also another problem later on with the characters of Alice and Darlene later on where they sneak into a plush hotel and order drinks on someone else's tab . This sets up a chain of events that leads to the two girls being convicted of supplying heroin . Now I'm saying they deserved what they got but ask yourself this  If you were staying at an expensive hotel and someone was ordering expensive cocktails on your hotel bill what would your reaction be ? Would you be sympathetic ? Neither would I and the more you think about it the more you come to the conclusion that Alice and Darlene have brought their problems on their selves This actually sums up the problem with BROKEDOWN PALACE , you never feel any great empathy let alone sympathy for Alice and Darlene . They come across as being fairly dumb . They never think of checking their bags before they go to the airport because if they had they might have noticed a couple of kilos of smack in their luggage . One of them happily signs a sheet of paper even though it's written in Thai and later on they bribe a guard so they can escape . Being completely dumb neither girl understands that escaping from prison and escaping from a country are two entirely different things , they're still wearing a prison uniform , have no false passports and no money so how are they going to get back to America ? Obviously America has a surplus of bimbos . If you think that's daft wait till you see Alice at the end At the risk of sounding sexist I doubt if BROKEDOWN PALACE was made to be anything more than a chick flick involving prison with the theme being how far would you go to save your best friend and I doubt if it will appeal much outside of the market it was intended for "},{"Title":"What would you do?","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What would you do? is a question that will stick in your mind for weeks after watching the emotional Brokedown Palace. You will also be left wondering if Alice (Danes) was telling the truth or not - a issue that is left unresolved, and rightly so. This is a particularly well acted and beautifully shot film. Although it is slow at times, its pace is reflective of the story line - but a lot of the film will have you on the edge of your seat; wanting to know what happens next. The ending will also leave you imagining yourself in the shoes of the lead characters, which are brilliantly played by Kate Beckinsale and Claire Danes. Bill Pullman's performance is commendable, too. "},{"Title":"The actresses keep it interesting","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's refreshing to see a movie that you think will end happily just like almost every other American movie, and then be surprised when that doesn't happen. I like a happy ending as much as the next guy, but sometimes it's better to portray things in a more realistic manner, and I thought Brokedown Palace did this very well.The ending, with one friend basically sacrificing herself for the other, thus redeeming her earlier poor behavior which got them into the situation in the first place, was very moving. I almost rather would have done without the last line, which proved that she didn't actually do the deed she confessed to, because that would have made the movie more about the friendship between the two girls, and less about the crime. Whether she did it or not wasn't that important.The story itself bordered on the cliché, but the actresses kept my attention with their excellent performances. Very realistic, very captivating.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Tale Of Redemption- and One True heroine.","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I love Claire Danes, and Kate Beckinsale looks amazingly immature in her role. The movie is flawed only because it seems the two accused seem to be in some Monastery, working like monks in the grass and under strict almost martial-arts-like discipline. The acting and filmography and amazing colors of what is supposed-to-be Thailand is eye-catching, but Claire Daines steals the entire movie, and is unexpectedly profound in her learning the hard lesson of life itself to the very end, in an act of amazing unselfishness unheard of and completely unexpected in the real world. The flaws are minute and I recommend the film, which seems buried sadly forever to rare TV showings. I for one want the film for my collection- a collection of only 10 rated films. Watch it, you will be very touched. "},{"Title":"My number one favorite movie, and is perfect in every way to me","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" WARNING I advise anyone who has not seen the film yet to not read this comment.Where should I begin with how much I cherish and praise this absolute masterpiece? Let me start off with how I came upon it; I remember it perfectly. I was staying the night at my sister's house one night, and it was after she and my nephew had fallen asleep that I had watched a few films already and still really had nothing better to do, but was not going to sleep any time soon. I was sorting through her DVD collection, searching for films I had not seen before, and luckily enough stumbled onto this film. I had never heard of it, and though this might sound crazy, I felt drawn to the film. I mean, I really loved the cover, and I really love a lot of Asian themed films, and so I read the brief description on the back of the case and decided it sounded decent enough to pass the time. Since it had Claire Danes, who I love in every movie she has been in, except maybe Romeo + Juliet which I had not seen at the time, I decided it would be entertaining. Giving this movie a chance was one of the best decisions I have ever made in my life, and I am not exaggerating. It is simply perfect, flawless, in my opinion, in every way possible and fully deserves any positive recognition it receives, plus all the other recognition it should have received and should be receiving now.First of all, it is executed so much better than any other film I have ever seen, and was so beautifully crafted and put together with perfect performances and poignancy that it makes my head spin. I was so entranced in the story and I am amazed at how perfect I believe this movie to be. It is sheer brilliance from beginning to end. It has the perfect atmosphere of intensity and brilliance that keeps me entranced in it from the get-go. The performances are perfect. Claire Danes does wonderfully as Alice, and her splendid portrayal was perfect with enough sincerity and an amazing climax scene that goes down as my favorite scene in cinema history. Kate Beckinsale is perfect, and her character, while annoying some reviewers, did not annoy me one bit. Bill Pullman is perfect, and I have never really cared for him at all. Jacqueline Kim is perfect. Lou Diamond Phillips is perfect. I could list the entire cast, but I am sure you get the point I am trying to prove by now.It has an excellent plot with authenticity and pain, rending the viewer helpless to submit to every kind of emotion they intend you to submit to. I love how it unfolds; them wanting to have a more memorable vacation by going somewhere exotic, meeting and becoming infatuated with Nick Parks or Skip, and then how they are thrown in jail for heroin that neither of them claims to know how it got into their luggage, and their lives are slowly turned upside down on a vacation that was supposed to be their last great time together. It is so achingly beautiful. I love the whole backstory at the beginning, and it immediately clicks with me and I know these two girls' lives and traits, which is why I care for them so much throughout the entire remainder of the film. It inspires sympathy in the utmost manner for them. Nothing is superficial or played out about it, because the way it is told is like everything is fresh and new to our senses. It is grotesque without being violent, it is heartbreaking without being depressing, and all the material you think is irrelevant is revealed as being important pieces of the puzzle little by little.All the troubles and faults that go on in the prison make me pull my hair out and grit my teeth. The cruel inmate that causes Alice to be punished, the failed escape, the cockroach in Darlene's ear. Those poor girls; I wish I could help them. It is not as violent as it could be, but it did not need to be to berelevant. I know this is sometimes compared to A Midnight Express and Return to Paradise, and a few other drug-smuggling in foreign regions films, but I can assure you, in my honest opinion, none compare to the brilliant execution and poignancy of this magnificent work of art. The soundtrack is even perfect as well. I love Rock the Casbah, Silence, Damaged, Party and then Deliver Me is positively beautiful, and a perfect song choice to an absolutely wonderful ending, which brings me to my next appraise. I am baffled by the movies last minutes. The best climax/ending in cinematic history, and the most effective, in my honest opinion. The movie's ending made me cry my eyes out, but the song just added on to the tears. There is the cliffhanger that just makes this movie even more amazing. You never know if Alice did it or if she didn't, you just know she did what she had to do set her friend free in the end, and after all, that's all the matters, is it not? All of this does not even begin to explain how perfect I think it is. It is extremely underrated, not winning one award and is hardly conversed about in today's film society, and a hidden gem for anyone who has seen it and loved it. It is a beautiful, perfect movie with a powerful message and incredible entertainment value. It has been my favorite movie for awhile now, and I believe that I might not find another movie that I love as much as it anytime soon. "},{"Title":"American Teen-agers In A Foreign Land","Date":"4 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brokedown Palace is a drama starring Claire Danes, Kate Beckinsale and Bill Pullman. The story deals with two American friends imprisoned in Thailand for drug smuggling. It presents a critical view of the Thai legal system.Most scenes were filmed in the Philippines; and some panoramas and views were filmed in Bangkok.It was directed by Jonathan Kaplan.Two carefree Americans embark on an overseas vacation that soon becomes a nightmare. Alice is a headstrong teenager who wants to do something different to celebrate her high school graduation, so she persuades her more reserved best friend Darlene to join her on a trip to Bangkok. While enjoying sun and scenery, Alice and Darlene meet Nick Parks, a charming Australian who shows them the sights and sweet-talks Darlene into a romantic assignation, which is something of a surprise to her bolder friend Alice. Nick then suggests that they join him on a side trip to Hong Kong, but they soon discover that Nick's interest has been neither friendly nor romantic he has hidden a large amount of heroin in their luggage and is using them as drug runners without their knowledge. When the heroin is found by customs officials, Alice and Darlene are quickly tried and sentenced to 33 years in a hideous prison known to inmates as Broke-Down Palace. Their plight comes to the attention of Yankee Hank, a renegade American attorney in Asia, but while Hank struggles with the court system to get Alice and Darlene released, they must deal with the living hell of life behind bars, and their own doubts about each other. The main lessons of this film are the following friendship is powerful, don't trust strangers, nice girls shouldn't drink and sleep around. The film's bleakest moments, in the jail, aren't all that bad, and in this respect Brokedown Palace has nothing on the intensity of films such as Midnight Express or even Return to Paradise. Yet Danes and Beckinsale prove they are strong actresses, and their characters' friendship is suitably complex and believable. This is a tale of self-discovery and the ultimate sacrifice for a friend.It could have been compelling but unfortunately Danes and Beckinsale struggle to bring some conviction to a story sorely in need of it. "},{"Title":"I would highly recommend this great action packed drama.","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I think Brokedown Palace was an excellent movie.  It kept me on the edge of my seat the entire time.  I thought that Kate Bekinsale and Claire Danes were great.  The parts of the film that kept my attention the most were when Alice and Darlene were caught giving a wrong room number to a hotel employee. The parts of the film that kept my attention the most were when Alice and Darlene were arrested at the Bangkok Airport and when their fate was determined by the Thai Supreme Court Justice.  I highly recommend this film to anyone who may not have seen it especially if you like Claire Danes and Kate Bekinsale. "},{"Title":"Two best friends are in for the time of their lives when they thought they where on the trip of their lives","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In the film Brokedown Palace, directed by Jonathan Kaplan, two best friends, Alice (Claire Danes) and Darlene (Kate Beckinsale) decide to celebrate high school graduation by taking a trip to Hawaii, but hear that Bangkok, Thailand, is much more fun. They switched plans and decided to go to Thailand without telling their parents the change of plans. While they were in Thailand, Alice and Darlene met a really handsome guy named Nick Parks (Daniel Lapaine). He tells them that he would trade in his first class ticket to Hong Kong for three economy tickets so that they could spend the weekend in Hong Kong. They accepted his offer and upon entering the airport the two were arrested for smuggling drugs. They were convicted and sentenced to thirty three years in prison. I think Kaplan was trying to show the audience that it is wise to make good decisions because in one instance one bad decision can change the direction of a life forever. Also, a friendly face may not be as friendly as we think once we find out the real intentions of that friendly face. Those girls made a decision not to tell their parents that they had switched their plans and it changed their lives forever. Things have a funny way of happening showing us what decision we have made verses the decision that we should have made. Sometimes life is not fair, that is why it is important to think long and hard about the choices that we make because we can never go back and change the choices that we have made.This movie has a great setting; it was filmed mostly in Bangkok Thailand. This film also has great music; a few of my favorite songs are 'Silence' by Delerium, 'Damaged' by Plumb, 'Deliver me' by Sarah Bightman and 'Party's just begun' by Nelly Furtado. I went out and bought the soundtrack after watching this film. These girls where young and naive and failed to think their plans out thoroughly, a mistake that anyone could make, therefore this film is good for any audience. It makes no difference young or old -- we all are human and subject to mistakes. Even though, I did not like the way this film ended leaving me in question of --who really smuggled the drugs? -- I would definitely give this film two thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Well-done drama.","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I like films that don't provide the typical happy ending, and that's my main reason for my liking of this movie. Alice Marano (Danes) and her best friend Darlene (Beckinsale) are arrested in Thailand for narcotics smuggling after a tip anonymously phoned in to the Thai authorities. The film does a solid job of keeping viewers guessing as to whether (or which) of the girls was involved, and Bill Pullman is perfect as their sleazy lawyer. Jacqueline Kim turns in a terrific performance as his more kind, magnanimous wife, Yon, who is also an attorney. I wish the girls had been abused more in the prison, as another commenter has suggested, as I've heard that Thai prisons can be quite brutal. Where this film grabs me, however, is its ending. Alice subjects herself to a sentence of 96 years in total so that Darlene can be pardoned, and we (the viewers) realize that they are both innocent. Any film that defies my expectation of the ending wins extra points with me, and this well-acted drama is certainly deserving. "},{"Title":"True test of friendship","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I caught this movie by accident on cable in the middle of it and had to rent it to see it's entirety and I'm glad I did. I was immediately drawn by the storyline and cared about the girls involved. Naive high school graduates, best friends since childhood, take a high school trip and are taken in by a con man named Nick who get them into serious trouble. They are used as sacrificial mules in a heroin smuggling ring. Taken in to custody the girls learn to cope with their incarceration while trying to find a way out of their trouble. Everything that they try to help themselves falls short when the Thai criminal justice system shows shortcomings and the girls end up in more trouble and lose the trust of their American lawyer Yankee Hank. Hank gives up trying to defend them after he feels betrayed by Alice(Claire Dane). However, the Thai native wife of Hank smells a rat in the case and does some further foot work of investigation and finds out the girls really were victimized. The end of the movie when Alice does a selfless act to save Darlene (Beckinsale) had me in tears. I really enjoyed this movie and would recommend it. "}{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Have you ever wondered what would happen if a couple of characters from Beverly Hills 90210 were thrown into a Thai jail?If so, this is your movie. This is Midnight Express for the MTV crowd. That would be ok, but the story was poorly executed. Contrived plot twists, poor dialogue and unresolved issues abound. This slight film did not earn the right to be as cryptic as it ends up being. Potential spoiler and impossibly preposterous plot line-the faux tension filled moment when the hotel employee discovers the girls do not have a room there and is about to kick them out. (This moment is innappropriately played with the same solemnity and gravity as the moment when they are arrested at gunpoint). Later the same hotel employee is somehow found-and Bangkok is a big city, mind you, Ive been there- and testifies against the girls, as if a couple of free Mai Tais warrant 40 years in prison. C'mon. Rent Another Day in Paradise instead. "},{"Title":"Like a cockroach in the ear, annoying and unnecessary","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Brokedown Palace reminds me a lot of Midnight Express, except Midnight Express was a good movie. Claire Daines (Romeo + Juliet) stars as the girl who is always getting her best friend played by Kate Beckinsale (Last Days of Disco) in trouble.  The script really hits the fan when she convinces her friend to take a trip to Thailand rather than Hawaii after high school graduation.Every time I go to Southeast Asia there is a highly publicized story about two foreign girls caught attempting to smuggle drugs out of the country. The story is always the same, some really cool guy asked them to take a bag for him and they had no idea what was in it until the cops hauled them away. So I had a mild premonition as to the plot of this movie, when a dashing young Aussie saved the girls from embarrassment after they tried to get free drinks at a posh hotel by giving a phony room number.The bulk of the movie focuses on the trials and tribulations of two heroines who claim that they did not know they were smuggling between four and six kilos of heroin (depending on which scene you are watching) in a backpack, and the strain that is placed on their friendship by a little thing like a 33 year prison sentence.The movie has its moments, but ultimately fails because every time it starts to get believable or good something is thrown in that just makes the whole thing seem silly.  The plot has so many holes you could drive a mule train through it.  There are only three things worth seeing in this movie 1. A good shot of the Golden Palace (very impressive), 2. Beckinsale tasting a surprisingly spicy Thai dish, and 3. Beckinsale in an half-shirt.Wait for HBO. "},{"Title":"A Frightening and well acted movie.","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" While I do not think this was a perfect 10, I do agree it was way above a 6 which is what it's rated here. No, Brokedown Palace was not perfect and yes it's plot has been done many times before. That doesn't mean it shouldn't be done again if it is done well and I think this movie had some strong moments. The acting of Claire Danes, as already mentioned many times, was flawless as was Kate Beckinsell and I Think Bill Pullman was absolutely terrific as was the supporting performances(Pullman's wife, the crooked cop, skip or trip or whatever his name is). The cinematography was also beautifully filmed, there was a lot that's good to this movie even if there were some negatives(three major ones that I found) as well.Here is what I didn't like about it-the friendship between the girls-In fact, the girls' own individual personalities-were not developed in depth until the late middle of the pic. It would not have been improbable to lose interest before then, because, despite the positives, more character development should have been done earlier on and certain scenes like when the girls were originally arrested, were almost glossed over so there was a bit to much Jumping around without the character and scene development I think would have been appropriate for this type of film. That, however, is not my major problem. And WARNING-SPOILER ALERT.The ending as mentioned dozens of times already, was AWFUL. It was awful in two respects. Firstly, even though it would have been predictable and very Hollywood, I wanted a happy ending! Yes, it was an emotional and powerful ending but in a movie such as this, there is a Sense that justice will be served and I did sit through it to see that. I was Genuinely shocked at the ending and It was performed with excellence by all involved but I feel both girls should have got out or, barring that, at least the cop should have got what was coming to him. I mean nothing happens To the bad guys, they all get away with it. Very disturbing.Also, I do not understand the ambiguity of the ending. I understand endings that are inspired to make one think, but this was not a mystery or Clue type movie we were watching, and I would have liked to know something about what actually happened,who was guilty etc, with this ending we were left to decide that ourselves but since I somehow doubt there will be a sequel, I did not want to be kept guessing.Still, there was a lot to like about this movie, and the acting is definitely at the top of the list,I would rate this a 7.5 and say it is definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"That's all freedom is... an illusion.","Date":"18 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Two carefree teenage girls are jailed in Thailand for allegedly smuggling Heroin while on vacation.It has become the stuff of reality nightmares, seemingly every year there is the reports of foreigners abroad caught smuggling drugs. Quite often the innocence is starkly protested, claims of being duped or threatened into being drug mules through customs borders. Brokedown Palace is an interpretation of one such instance.There's a viable complaint about the film that it condenses the harsh realities of the surroundings, this Brokedown Palace is not portrayed as the dirty hell holes they so often are in reality. This initially gives the film a sort of false feel, that we are being fed a watered down Hollywood production of something very serious.However, looking deeper into the picture as a character piece, Jonathan Kaplan's film beats a mighty heart and has brain staying power as well. Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale (both superb) are the two friends at the centre of this mystery. Story is more concerned with how their friendship copes under the trying circumstances. Through the initial shock of their situation, to the faux trial, the interactions with others and the relationship they have with their American lawyer, Hank the Yank (Bill Pullman). There's also the not small matter that one of the girls might actually be guilty as charged? Which really gives the piece an intriguing kick.Unfortunately it falls down in other areas. How come the girls are perfectly coiffured? Quite often splendidly attired in cosmetics? As Kaplan strains for authenticity in human interactions, he loses credibility elsewhere because these two girls look like actors who have had a don't make me look ugly clause inserted into their contracts. Ultimately when the story is dialled into the two girls and their friendship, Brokedown Palace hits the heights required, elsewhere it's a disappointment and it's not hard to understand why the two lead actresses practically disowned the film shortly after their publicity commitments were over. 6/10 "},{"Title":"It's About Friendship More Than Drug Smuggling","Date":"6 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" My real quibble with this movie is that it seems - strangely enough - to portray conditions in a third world jail that are just a little too comfortable. At least that's my sense - having never been in a third world jail I can't honestly say what the conditions were like. Still, what was shown here was prison, sure, but it didn't look like the absolute hell hole I would have expected.That aside, this is an interesting film from a number of angles. The first is the drug smuggling angle, and the depiction of how lost as a foreigner you can be when you find yourself at the mercy of a justice system that you don't understand and that seems stacked against you. Darlene and Alice (Kate Beckinsale and Claire Danes) are a couple of American girls, newly graduated form high school, who celebrate by taking the trip of a lifetime to Thailand. Unfortunately, they get unwittingly caught up in a drug smuggling scheme and get sent to prison, and it seems that hopes for their release are pretty much zero, unless a local American lawyer (Bill Pullman) can pull some rabbit out of his hat. The portrayal of the Thai justice system isn't complimentary to the Thais - and take note. Saying I'm an American citizen. I have rights! gets you nowhere. This was a decent portrayal of the system, and a look at drug smuggling and the tactics that very well could be used.More interesting, though, is the study of the friendship between Alice and Darlene - a friendship that is tested by this. Lifelong friends, Alice has historically been the bad girl of the pair, with Darlene the good & respectable one. But it's Darlene who gets the pair into this mess by letting herself get swept off her feet by the smuggler, and in the end, the story turns into a powerful one of sacrifice as the girls' friendship is ultimately demonstrated by a noble and unselfish act on the part of Alice, who (bad girl past aside) was the one who WAS NOT responsible. In fact, the last 15 minutes of the movie are the most powerful scenes here.Overall, I can't say that I found this to be the most exciting movie ever made - which is perhaps appropriate. Life in a third world jail probably isn't exciting. But it is an interesting look at friendship and how far friends will go for each other. (6/10) "},{"Title":"A Trip to Hell","Date":"11 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" To the first half of this I thought it was going to be a complete rip- off of Red Corner, because they had such similar plot and story. Two young girls go to Thailand and end up being arrested for something they didn't do, just like in the film I mentioned-- OK, that was in China, a different country, but it's no big difference. Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale deliver a good job in showing their acting skills, I never heard about them before but I'm glad I'm aware of their work now. They are very believable in this flick, making you feel very sorry for them throughout the whole thing. I just felt it was poorly written when the girls were worried because they tried to scape from prison, which would add 15 years to their sentence-- what does it matter when you're already sentenced to life imprisonment? Soundtrack is touching and fits well in the scenes they are used, these great songs made this rating earn 1 or 2 points. Summarizing, the film is averagely good and the ending will make you feel very sad and moved for these girls... "},{"Title":"Interesting prison-drama about a girls accused of heroin trafficking in Thailand","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The film concerns about a pair young girls(Claire Danes, Kate Beckinsale) take a vice-filled vacation to Thailand . Then they're deceived by an Australian drug dealer. Suddenly, they're busted in the Thai airport attempting to smuggle hard drug in their luggage . Then, they're are sentenced to a nightmare and cruel prison as an example to other potential smugglers. The young girls are convicted long time in a squalid third world prison. They're only helped by an expatriate advocate(Bill Pullman) in law and his supporter(Jacqueline Kim). Later enduring tremendous physical and mental , the girls seek their chance at escape.This powerful and gripping movie is a jail-drama based indirectly on true events. The picture relies heavily on the enjoyable relationship between Beckinsale and Danes, more than on legal problems and brutal conditions from prison. Despite contributing a final twist to the extremely suspenseful climax , Claire Danes 's role feels too contrived and is the greatest gap in the movie. The story follows the wake of ¨Midnight express(Alan Parker)¨ and and ¨Return of paradise(Joseph Ruben)¨. The film is shot in Phillipines , as the government of Thailand was none too pleased by the screenplay. The motion picture is well directed by Jonathan Kaplan, he's a veteran director with hits ¨Accused,Love field¨ and flops  ¨Unlawful entry, Bad girls¨and today working for television ¨Law and order, Without a trace, Crossing Jordan, ER¨, among others. Rating Good and well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A really great film","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When i saw this film on theater, i couldnt believe it, it was the best film ive ever seen, and i couldnt wait the video release, and when i browsed it i couldnt avoid it, i saw the film once and again, think that claire danes did a wonderful performance, as lou diamond phillips, and the BSO is really really good. I cant wait to buy it. "},{"Title":"Unpredictable","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    I honestly thought this would be like Bangkok Hilton starring Nicole Kidman and Denholm Elliot, but I must say this movie was unpredictable. I thought Claire Danes, Kate Beckinsale and Bill Pullman's acting was excellent, it was so sad to see the torment that they were going through. It also showed the true act of friendship, Daniel Laphaine should have had more of a role in it but then again it wasn't meant to be focused on him. However I really enjoyed this movie, it should have been advertised more. "},{"Title":"A touching film...","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ...but not nearly as good as its predecessor, Return to Paradise.  The performances of Beckinsale and Danes were sufficient at worst, good, at best, but simply not mature enough to measure up to the trapped in a third world country on drug smuggling charges presenting a moral dilemma and testing true friendship standards set by Vince Vaughn and Joaquin Phoenix in the 1998 film. If you're just dying to see the inside of a third world prison and have your heart strings pulled by drug smugglers, definitely rent Return to Paradise, but skip this one. "}{"Title":"Straight to the Heart","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is extremely inspiring. It portrays a very poignant occurrence of what friendship is truly about. After watching this movie, I was deeply touched with the abrupt change of the ending. The way the film told about letting go of someone else even to the extremity of grief was truly remarkable.Moreover, what was truly magnificent was how the actresses played, especially Claire Danes who gives a compelling performance that even I was truly amazed that she could act! (no offense) With her, one can feel the passion of one's strength, weakness, and the frail hope that one feels at the brink of human despondency. And in the end, where one is truly mystified of Alice who seems incomprehensible herself, I have to admit that the film truly struck me straight of the sacrifice that one must do to overcome our fears of losing someone we truly love.Solid plot, good soundtrack, and compelling performances. 4/5  "},{"Title":"Strong performances by Beckinsale and Danes in an updated Midnight Run","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale are high-school friends who travel to Thailand the summer after they graduate, before going to college.  Caught leaving the country with a large amount of narcotics, they are imprisoned for 30 years.  Both young actresses give strong performances in this drama reminiscent of Midnight Express. "},{"Title":"Clare danes, magnificent again","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The acting is magnificent by all concerned.  This surprised me as I expected Bill Pullman to pull (no pun intended) the film down.  But he portrays the slightly sleazy lawyer with a conscience extremely well.The story is on two levels  one, what happens to drug smugglers (or their duped mules) in Thailand, and two, how bad friends can get you in really serious trouble.  Commenting on the first storyline, one never really knows whether the two girls were actually duped or if one of them did it intentionally.  I must watch the film a second time to try to figure this out.Reading the credits, you will see that the film was not made in Thailand.  Not surprising as it is very uncomplimentary about the corruption in the police force and the crude justice system.  If this is true, then boycott the country and vacation somewhere else.  The Americans fare little better as the US embassy staff are depicted as totally uncaring. "},{"Title":"Outstanding script superbly acted delivers an important movie.","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  An intriguing plot that stays true to human nature.  How did the Oscar voters miss the excellence of this movie?  First rate direction, writing and acting.  This movie relies on the intelligence of the audience to weigh the motivation and actions of the characters, and that is asking a lot, isn't it? "},{"Title":"A wonderful surprise","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.Some movies are great for me that I am involved with the moment without looking forward to the next action or the end.  This was one of those movies that could have continued for another hour and I would have been completely engrossed.Also I enjoy movies (such as Under Fire) that places naive Americans in a foreign situation where they suddenly find themselves drawn into a situation that puts them in over their heads without the normal help that we take for granted as Americans.And the ending was so awesome that I'm still pondering it one day after watching the movie.I recommend it.  I'll have to rent Return to Paradise next. "},{"Title":"Two lives pulled together, torn apart and pulled back together again.","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't sure, I would like this movie.  Having spent some time over seas, I didn't believe that it would give an accurate portrayal of a third world country.  Even though, I don't believe that these girls would have had it as easy as they portrayed, in the movie, I feel that the portrayal of abandonment was accurate.  The acting was great, showing how two best friends, in the midst of tribulation, could become enemies.  It also showed how true friendship will always prevail, note the keywords true friendship.  I feel that it was money well spent, in renting this movie. "},{"Title":"For me the best film of 1999","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A very interesting, dramatic and good film. The best is the interpretation of Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale, hey! they are very very good actress. Bill Pullman and Jacqueline Kim are very well too. The story is very exotic and beauty, doing you laugh and cry with the girls. Congratulations Jonathan Kaplan for this film! And Claire and Kate too! "},{"Title":"Excellent movie! By far underrated","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I hadn't even heard of this film when it was playing in the theatres. Someone at work suggested I see it and I'm glad I did. Claire Daines is terrific. The movie seemed very realistic as to what life is like in a prison in Taiwan. i liked the soundtrack as well. It's about time I see Lou Diamond Phillips in a good movie too. I would highly recommend this film to anyone. i give this an 8/10. "},{"Title":"And yet another amazing performance from Claire...","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I waited in anticipation for this movie to come out, and never once thinking it would be nominated for a Academy Award, and I still don't.But just to watch Claire Danes, a brilliant and exceptionally talented actress, was enough for me. Ya, we all know that the storyline was used before.  SO WHAT??? Get over it, movies are remade all the time, with the same storylines.  So, I think people should look past this aspect. I was never bored, and yes, I enjoyed the soundtrack! I could ramble on and on about the plot, but I just want to comment on how I DO think this is a truly great film, and if you don't want to see it-DON'T.  You already know the storyline, but you could not even imagine Claire-her best performance to date-even though I always thought it would be impossible to get any better than her one before. "},{"Title":"Don't understand the negative comments--","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  --unless they're a reaction to the unusual, deliberate ambiguity of this story.  I found this film very striking, with good performances and interesting locales.  I'd expected it to be Clueless meets Midnight Express, but instead I thought it was intelligent and thought-provoking. The filmmakers made some very unconventional story choices, especially the avoidance of what seemed to be the inevitable ending.  I liked the central mystery of the story, something that we're left guessing about as much as the characters are.  The film had the feeling of a true story brought to the screen, with all the loose ends and incongruities of real life.  I think I'd see it again when it comes out on video. "}{"Title":"EXCELLENT.","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time on July 22nd in Manhattan at an advance screening specifically requested by Claire Danes. I got chosen by MTV to interview her for FANatic. To make a long story short, this movie is AWESOME. It is about these two rebellious teenage girls who go on a trip to Thailand at the last minute, through a friend's offer. In Thailand, they illegally get into a really ritzy hotel and almost get caught being there, until a stranger helps them out and covers for them. This stranger ultimately sets them up to get busted for drug smuggling... and the two girls are thrown into a horrible Thailand prison... I won't give the rest of the movie away... I just wanted to let all of you know that it's awesome, heartwarming, downright thrilling, sad, hopeful..... and it was one KICK-ASS SOUNDTRACK. The movie's got it all, especially Claire Danes.... her performance in this is absolutely amazing. I highly recommend this film. It opens August 13th, so check it out!!!  -Skip from the band Downinside (southern California) "},{"Title":"For me It was the Perfect Movie Ever seen in a while!","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is absolutely incredible!The cast is amazing,and Claire Danes performance is remarkable!I couldn't believe it that she's such a good actress! This movie is really good and honestly it is a movie that everyone should of watched! The story itself is magnificent,full of adventure/drama/violence! Not to mention the soundtrack of this movie is perfect!When you listen to it alone it makes you feel love,passion and drama like the movies does. This movie deserves a ten(10) for the incredible story and cast! The ending is perfect as well,not like every other movie that ends good,it ends like in real life,so the movie shows the truth! There for everyone should watch it! "},{"Title":"Makes you want to call your best friend","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie in the theater, and was thoroughly impressed by it. Then again, that was when Claire Danes was a good actress, not the foolish, arrogant, Hollywood-ized bitch she is today. Anyway, this film really struck me as one of the more raw, realistic, beautiful friendship films. How far would you really go for your best friend? I was moved to tears at the end, and still tear up when I watch it now (I own it). I remember as soon as I left the theater, I called my best friend and sobbed to her how much I loved her. This is a great film to watch with your best girlfriend. However be prepared for the almost certain conversation afterward where she turns to you and asks if you'd do something like that for her.... "},{"Title":"An AMAZING Tearjerker","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale perform beautifully alongside an amazing supporting cast and beautiful cinematography.  This emotionally stimulating movie brought me to tears more than one time, and the finale (which I will not divulge) brought me to a full-out sob.The story is a frightening one, about two girls caught up in the web of a drug-smuggling business by a handsome foreigner after a last-minute trip to Thailand.  During the movie they are faced with many problems that make you feel for the characters.I give this movie a 10 out of 10 unquestionably.  I have never cried so much during a movie or felt so much compassion for the characters before. "},{"Title":"flawed but worthwhile tale of redemption","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  High on the list of sadly neglected and wholly underappreciated films of the past several years stands 1998's Return to Paradise, a tale of three American vacationers who inadvertantly run afoul of the laws of Malaysia, two of whom must decide whether or not to sacrifice themselves and return to the brutal third world country to serve their prison sentence so that the third who has been caught can avoid execution.  What is most remarkable about this film is that it manages not only to set up a fascinating moral dilemma for both the characters and the audience but, most amazingly, to stay true and honest to it throughout the course of the entire film.Brokedown Palace, whose plot echoes Return to Paradise, falls several notches below the earlier film mostly because it saves its moral dilemma until the very end of the story.  The resolution is a powerful one when it comes, but the delay robs the film as a whole of some of its interest.  In this film, Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsdale play recent high school graduates who opt to visit Thailand instead of Hawaii and run into a sleazy young con man who plants heroin on them - an act for which, when it is discovered by the authorities, the girls are falsely imprisoned.  The bulk of the film concerns itself with the attempts by an American lawyer (Bill Pullman) to clear their names and secure their freedom. Much of the film plays like a rehash of Midnight Express, as the girls are badgered and threatened through their interrogations and forced to endure the rigors of a Third World prison - although, strangely enough, the horrors seem oddly downplayed at times.  These are the weakest sections of the film for the visualization of the experience seems almost too glamorized at times, as if the commercial-minded filmmakers didn't dare risk alienating these actresses' many fans by offending their sensibilities.  Still, the situation is a ripe one for intense audience identification since who cannot empathize with a couple of fun loving adolescents caught in a nightmarish web not of their own making?  Actually, the sharpest aspect of the film is the underlying theme of the scary part seemingly insignificant actions and decisions can play in determining the course of one's entire life.  Constantly, the girls are forced to wonder what if we had gone to Hawaii...what if we had not met the drug smuggler...what if we had not snuck into the hotel to order drinks on a stranger's room bill, etc.  The movie also achieves some depth in its final moments as Alice (Danes) grapples with a major moral decision and discovers the redemption for a life built on a pattern of seemingly insignificant deceit and lies.  She realizes that a person's character is made up of ALL the actions she performs in a lifetime, regardless of how trivial or benign they may seem at the time.  In addition, she learns the often horrifying price true friendship sometimes demands - and her final actions betoken a personal maturation that helps lift her character far above the rung of conventional movie heroines.Brokedown Palace may occasionally seem tedious in its details, but the thematic depth and moral underpinnings that lie within it make it a film worth watching. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous filming, and terrible screen writing...a maddening mix","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brokedown Palace (1999)Who wouldn't have some curiosity and tension about two pretty young women (played by pretty young actresses, anyway), trapped in a Thai prison system for drug smuggling? But boy is this a clunky construction for a movie. First of all, the women are stupid. They admit to being stupid, but they are selfish and frivolous and you really couldn't care less if they went to jail. On the other hand, you can picture being in a foreign country and losing track of things a little and getting victimized and so you do, after all, get involved and hope for justice.There is (sometimes) a tense progression of increasingly discouraging events, and the prison system is a tough place. And the sets and filming are really great. If only the writing was remotely convincing and smart. It's not. Even the direction is painful, emphasizing not the facts or some sense of possible realism, but an armchair version of what this kind of scenario might mean to two relatively innocent girls is just a little embarrassing. The director (Jonathan Kaplan) is the same one who missed a huge opportunity with some amazing material filming In Cold Blood, and he is, understandably, most known for television, which takes a different kind of sensibility. And it's also very slow, taking a few turns or progressions and stretching a two hour movie out of it.It's a tough ride if you take it at face value. And it's a shame, because there is a Midnight Express hidden in here somewhere. There are some really gorgeous moments, aside from the travelogue stuff, and I think Claire Danes, at least, is a good actress. Just an example of how many elements it takes to align and get a great movie. "},{"Title":"Makes you think about many values of human nature.","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie 11 years ago in company with my best female friend. I got my judgment teeth pulled out so I didn't feel very good.I ended up liking it big time. It's a hard watch if you take in account that it deals with friendship, unwanted betrayal, power, money, drug traffic, and the extreme hard situation that deals with living in a foreign jail.The acting is on it's prime level. Two of the women that I lust the most star and that's a good thing. Claire Danes is as cute and charming as always while Kate Beckinsale is extremely hot and delivers a fine performance. Bill Pullman is also great and demonstrates his histrionic qualities.There are many plot twists to dig from and make it an interesting visual experience. Plus it shows the difficult times at Thailand.This is an underrated movie. Not many films like this one have come up in recent history. It should make you reflex about many things... "},{"Title":"One of the most powerful movies I've seen; grabs inside and touches one's soul","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Being one of the most powerful and moving films of all time this movie pulled me into the plot and kept me there, smiling along with the characters on a positive moment and holding my breath on a recession in the film.The choice of casting was insanely accurate. Claire Daine's liveliness and upbeat flamboyancy had made us do more than sympathise with the characters, thinking that they do have something of a heart of iron to go on in the shithole jail.Kate Beckingsale's sweep-off-the-feet charm and stunning beauty makes one's heart drop to the ground in the realization of the future the situation was to take away from the high school graduate she was playing. The innocence, however, she generally gives off makes the viewing experience even more breathtaking.Bill Pullman's persistent, yet calm traits that he's dazzled us with for almost 20 years add up perfectly in the equation. The last scene where he takes Alice's hand behind bars has such a thunderbolt effect on one's emotions that I can never watch the movie with friends, for simply break down. Yes, I did have to share that.And what sums it all up are the songs, mainly Silence by Sarah McLachlan. The last time I've seen the movie I began to listen for the words more carefully, and found them to be very in-line with the plot.In the end, the movie seems to reach deep inside the soul and pull it out, leaving nothing left unreavealed. It reaches deep down inside enough for the viewer to understand oneself in a way life's everyday experiences simple cannot do. Simply having to imagine the sincerity of the decision the girl has to make in the end makes one question their whole existence. What if? To those who've already seen the movie, I'd recommend Splash and the Flight of the Navigator. Here, the characters are also faced with life-altering decisions and the movies are powerful enough to express the gravity of both sides the decision entices.See this movie, though. Missing it would be missing a once-in a lifetime performance. Even if your reaction isn't as strong as mine. You may find your own little message that'll change your life. "},{"Title":"Emotional, dramatic film","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Brokedown Palace (1999) D Jonathan Kaplan. Claire Danes, Kate Beckinsale, Bill Pullman, Lou Diamond Phillips, Jacqueline Kim, John Doe, Daniel Lapaine. Emotional, dramatic film about two girls vacationing in Thailand who get falsely arrested for narcotics, then get represented by a rather eccentric, obsessive attorney. Well-acted and well-paced, however the overload of soundtrack songs makes it seem like you're watching MTV. RATING 7 out of 10. Rated PG-13 for violence, drug use, and strong language.  "},{"Title":"Romy and Michele Get Busted","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  `Brokedown Palace' would have been better as an intentional comedy.   Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale do their best to portray two high school graduates accused of trying to smuggle drugs out of Thailand.  Instead, they come across as clueless girls who've wandered into the wrong movie.The movie doesn't have the courage to go all the way.  Prison life is portrayed as inconvenient but not brutal or threatening.  A conflict between the Danes character and another inmate is never played out.  The producers must not have seen `Midnight Express.'And to make it worse there are at least three semi-obligatory video interludes and a guard with the most annoying voice possible.  She made me want to confess to the crimes Claire and Kate are accused of.  "}{"Title":"Two young women are imprisoned in Thailand on drug charges","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In 1995, four years before Brokedown Palace was released, there were 54 Americans in Thai jails after drug convictions in Thai courts. Thailand had no parole and no time off for good behavior at that time and maybe now. Conditions in Thai jails were bad, as depicted in this movie. Thirty-two were women, and 44 of the 54 were not eligible for transfer to the U.S. because of the 1-kilo rule. This rule stems from the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee. In 1989, a bilateral prisoner-transfer treaty between the U.S. and Thailand became effective. Its purpose was 'to relieve the special hardships on prisoners incarcerated far from home, to improve the prospects for rehabilitation' and to promote diplomatic and law-enforcement relations between the countries. As part of the supporting documentation for the treaty, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee had advised the Justice Department that 'except under extraordinary circumstances, no person shall be transferred to a prison in the United States under this treaty who at the time of his arrest had on his possession one kilogram or more of heroin.' This became known as 'the 1-kilo clause.' In a broader context, this is a consequence of the War on Drugs.Brokedown Palace (1999) dramatizes a true situation in which vulnerable men and women were being recruited in the U.S. as drug mules. They included cash-strapped mothers and men of low income and education. Recruitment was through West Africans, it is believed. However, the movie alters this feature of the reality. It makes the two young women more upscale, with decent jobs and education, and the person who traps at least one of them is a white Australian guy. We can't tell for certain that one is an innocent victim of being made a mule or whether she knew she was carrying drugs.To create drama and tension, we have Bill Pullman and Thai movie wife being lawyers who attempt to track down the Australian and who find that he's connected and protected by a Thai police official. That cop or prosecutor later double crosses Pullman in a deal to get the women pardoned. This part of the film comes and goes, and it is the main neo-noir part. Another neo-noir part is the treatment of the U.S. State Department official (Lou Diamond Phillips, who is shown as worse than useless, feathering his own nest, unhelpful and to some extent in bed with the corrupt Thai persons.The other part of the film that tends to predominate shows the girls, the Australian and the prison life. It shows their emotional reactions and their frustrations. It brings in some family and friends as visitors to the jail. It could have been made into a neo-noir treatment. In fact, there is one scene in which the father of one of the girls accuses the other of being the instigator and in on the drug courier aspect. The film clumsily explores this possibility, eventually opting for a conclusion that is not really foreshadowed. Instead the story mainly goes over into straight depiction of the buildup to their arrest and their life in jail which is actually pretty standard for prison movies.By altering reality and pulling its punches while tacking on an ending that emphasizes the lifelong friendship of the two girls, the movie departs from the focus on drugs, entrapment and prisons and attempts to make the story one of noble friendship and self-sacrifice. While this choice of story line has some appeal, it doesn't really come across as genuine the way it's filmed. In order to make it genuine, earlier scenes would have had to build up to this by focusing on the emotional transformation of the one girl or even to show that she was actually guilty.The movie has the makings of a very good drama but the execution doesn't reach the heights to which it aspires. It needed a different balance, editing and some sharper characterizations. It felt like it pulled its punches and went slack and manipulative, rather than real strong emotion. "},{"Title":"Brilliant acting that holds the movie and some weak moments that ruin it","Date":"2 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a common movie line about a horrible situation that happens every once in a while when people from better off countries go on vacations into more exotic locations. I haven't watched the movies other reviews compared Brokedown Palace to, so my review is not a result of having seen better movies.I didn't really get if this was a movie based on a true story. Some things that I found online say so but I couldn't find much information on the girls involved.The story idea itself is pretty good. I didn't find the girls were too stupid. sure, very young and naive. These days I would not fall for what they did, but who knows what would have happened back then. Never was in this situation fresh out of high school, but definitely remember that I was having way more trust in people. So it was not hard to sympathize with the characters.The problems in the movie come from certain cheesiness and unbelievable moments. The phrases used were very often very common ones. The lawyer suddenly wanting to help them without money being left was unbelievable and cheesy. The prison sure didn't look horrible nor were the other inmates where even the biggest bitch was nothing I would be too afraid of. The final decision of Alice and what it resulted in was like an ending when one couldn't come up with anything better. Sure she could have sacrificed herself for her friend, but the scene was just a joke.That said, what holds the movie is the great performance by the actors. Claire Danes is especially great. Her acting was brilliant and navigated the emotions of the viewers. I loved the scene where she hears from the lawyer that he believes her. Another thing that I liked is that even after it ended we were never told if one of them was indeed guilty. One keeps on repeating hat happened in one's head and find the answer. If only one would polish up the problematic parts I mentioned before the movie would have been much better. "},{"Title":"bland start gets better","Date":"31 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ex pat American Henry 'Yankee Hank' Greene (Bill Pullman) receives a tape from Alice pleading her case. Life long friends Darlene Davis (Kate Beckinsale) and irresponsible Alice Marano (Claire Danes) traveled to Thailand after high school graduation before leaving for college. They are befriended by charming hustler Australian Nick Parks (Daniel Lapaine) who rescued them at a high class hotel. Darlene started going with Nick and convinced Alice to travel to Hong Kong. Two tins of heroin are slipped into Alice's bag and the girls are interrogated by the police. Darlene is tricked into signing a false conviction in Thai. Darlene's father (Tom Amandes) believes that Alice is guilty. They are both sentenced to 33 years. Embassy staff Roy Knox (Lou Diamond Phillips) is too jaded to find Nick Park.The movie doesn't really work until the girls get arrested. That's when things start to get interesting. Before that, the girls are simple, naive and entitled. The movie is better to condense that section much more. That part is predictably bland. The girls' relationship gets better and more complicated in prison. Overall, there are other better third world prison movies around. "},{"Title":"Visually stunning and haunting with a great soundtrack.","Date":"8 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Americans Alice and Darlene decide to take a trip to Bangkok to celebrate their high-school graduation, they are naïve when befriended by a charming Australian who convinces them to join him for a weekend trip to Hong Kong. At the airport they are busted, unjustly arrested, convicted and sent to prison for 33 years for smuggling heroin in Thailand.This movie, as well as being disturbing was visually stunning and also comes with a great soundtrack. Claire Danes is awesome, giving a near perfect performance in her role as the more headstrong of the two girls, (damn can she act) and the ending is absolutely haunting, I'm still thinking about it now days later. 07.13 "},{"Title":"The trouble teens can get into.","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I had heard about this movie but had never seen it until this week when I found it on Netflix streaming movies. I didn't think that much of Claire Danes back in the 1999 time frame, but she was so good as Temple Grandin in the movie of the same name, I approached this one with a fresh perspective. She really is a good actress and already was when this was filmed in 1998, when she was still a teenager.The story immediately reminded me of an actual jury trial I was involved with in the 1990s, as jury foreman. In a very similar real-life case two teenage girls were caught at the airport with suitcases containing drugs, and they claimed a mysterious man had bought their tickets and asked them to each carry a suitcase onto the plane for him. The man never was found.Claire Danes is Alice and her best friend is Kate Beckinsale (actually 25) Darlene. They had known each other since they were babies crawling towards each other in adjacent yards, and now they have just finished high school together. They are supposed to be going to Hawaii for a week, but on a whim Alice convinces Kate to go to Thailand instead. Their parents don't know.This is a familiar theme in movies, the more recent Taken with Liam Neeson also plays on the theme of young daughters not telling the truth about their plans for travel abroad.Naive, the girls meet an Australian man who invites them to Hong Kong for a couple of days, they go, and on the way back to Thailand are caught at the airport with a few kilos of drugs in the carry-on bags. They are put in jail, they get sentenced to 33 years. It looks bleak.One of them gets a tape recording of her story to Bill Pullman as American lawyer Hank Greene, married to a Thai woman, also a lawyer. Pullman plays almost the same character as Daryl Zero in The Zero Effect, a 1998 movie. But here his motivation is simply the fee, and he gets the girls to have their parents send him $15,000. Not all goes well, when he thinks he has a deal to free the girls, it backfires and they appear doomed. It is a heartbreaking story, but very realistic as this sort of think can happen, and probably does more often than we realize. It took me 15 years but I am glad I finally saw it.SPOILERS When Hank Greene finally unraveled the whole story, it is one of corruption. The Australian was a known drug smuggler, and on that particular flight had 8 young women carrying drugs for him. As his fee he reported Alice and Darlene, so the cops could find their drugs and arrest them, as a diversion of sorts to assure the other 6 went through. The cops knew about this, and being able to arrest the two girls was their compensation for looking the other way. In the end Greene was not able to get the girls off, but Alice did the right thing in her own eyes, she pleaded to the judge that it was all her idea, Darlene was completely innocent, she should go home and Alice would serve a term for both of them. And that is how the movie ends, with Darlene being freed and Alice as a convict perhaps for the rest of her life. "},{"Title":"Very good movie about friendship","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed this movie, despite of the fact that I am far past that age, when a girl friend could be the most important person in your world. One asks oneself the question how far would I have gone for a friend? I say it in the past tense, because when one has children you cannot sacrifice for someone else than them, and a true friend - and a good partner also - will understand that.If I shall be absolutely honest, the answer is that I would NOT have sacrificed myself for any of the girls whom I, during my child-hood and youth, considered my best friends. Because I had my life plan clear to me, and I knew that even if my girl friend and I had fun at the time, the greater part of my life would be taken up by other people (husband and children at the foremost) and other things (such as my intended career). I would not have sacrificed all that for a friend, because I would have known that friends today are not friends tomorrow anyway. Maybe this proves me shallow? Or maybe I was just unlucky, who never met that wonderful girl who could have inspired those strong feelings of friendship and loyalty unto death..? We will never know, now...Except for this main theme, there were several other things I liked as well- the very good acting all around - the way we got to see some of Thailand (I have never been there myself, so I am curious) - the realistic, but still not unbearably depressing depiction of the Thai women's prison... in fact I believe the reality is worse - the very realistic depiction about how the girls after a time became part of the prison and Thailand, how their friends and families despite of everything went on with their life at home, and how they did not have much to say to each other anymore when the friends and family came to visit - the American lawyer, who started out very cynic, but proved he had human feelings as well - the ending which was altogether unpredictable, but still not contrived. This is VERY unusual - and last but not least the way this story can act as a warning to other young and naive people, travelling in this part of the world. We have had several of these cases also with Swedish Tourist I found only one week point in this movie the escape attempt. There was too little information there who organized it, who would come with the escape vehicle, why did this not arrive, and who told on them? Well worth watching, especially in the company of your children, if they are teenagers or young adults! "},{"Title":"Gripping","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Anyone who has seen the National Geographic Channel series Locked Up Abroad will understand how believable this story is. However, it would have been better had it been based on a real-life arrest.The only part that fails to impress and satisfy is the facile, somewhat saccharine ending. (Another element that rang untrue for me was the girls' age. How many parents would send a couple of graduating high-school seniors to Hawaii on their own?)The performances here are uniformly excellent and the settings appear highly realistic.I loved the musical score, and the friendship between Claire Danes and Kate Bettinsale was entirely credible. The always-excellent Bill Pullman shines as a lawyer who toils on low-glamor cases in Thailand but hasn't abandoned his ideals. It is perhaps a strength of this film that the nature and responsibility for the crime remained somewhat ambiguous.This should be viewed by every young person traveling to an exotic locale. When it comes to one's bags, one can never be too careful! "},{"Title":"Often moving, but with some significant problems","Date":"19 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was shown this movie in my high school civics class, which was a few years ago (I have since graduated from high school), and didn't get much out of it around the beginning, but for the most part, it had me in suspense. It had been over 4 ½ years since that unforgettable experience when I very recently rented it and watched it a second time. I was once again intrigued by a lot of it, but this time, certain things bothered me.Two young Americans, Alice Marano and Darlene Davis, are long-term best friends. After graduating from high school, they plan to go on vacation in Hawaii before going to college. However, when they are convinced by peers that Thailand is a better choice, they decide to go there instead, but without informing their parents! While in Thailand, they soon meet a young Australian man who introduces himself as Nick Parks. They become friends, and Nick convinces Alice and Darlene to fly to Hong Kong. As the two lifelong friends wait in line for their flight, they are in for a shock, as they are suddenly arrested! It turns out that heroin has been found in their luggage (which they both claim they did not put in there), and in this country, being found guilty of drug smuggling leads to very long prison sentences! Do they have any chance of getting out, or are they doomed to spend the next several decades in a Thailand prison?! What are the problems with Brokedown Palace? Well, first of all, it starts out rather dull. For the most part, prior to the arrest, I did not see too many merits in the film. I did feel tension at times during this part of the film, but that was just because I knew what was going to happen. I also found Claire Danes' narration (as Alice) to be rather poor, and I have noticed quite a bit of praise for the acting (not a lot of criticism), but I myself was not too impressed with it (at least not from the two lead actresses, Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale), so I'm a bit confused. Maybe I'm thinking too much of the script (which I'm not surprised to find a lot of criticism for), and/or I just don't like the two main characters, who don't seem too bright. I must confess, I am not an expert on Thailand, so I don't know how accurately Brokedown Palace depicts the country, and if I were to go there at some point, it could negatively change my view on this film.Since I was impressed with quite a few parts of this drama, I can't give it any less than a 6/10. The film could also remind people in first world countries of the harsh penalties for crimes in countries like Thailand, so I guess I'll give it credit for that as well. However, 6 is not THAT high a rating, and because of all the problems I found in the film, it wouldn't feel right to give it a rating any higher than that. In my opinion, Brokedown Palace is not that bad (though those who are more enlightened on the subject matter of the film may disagree), but if it wasn't for certain significant problems, I think it would have had a lot more potential. "},{"Title":"Good plot, but Thailand is not that bad.","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I just watched the film because one of my American friend recommended and she asked for my opinion. As I watched, along came a bad feeling. I'd say I like the plot and the theme, also the cinematography. The love of two friends especially in the unfamiliar places in bad situation. But me, a Thai, don't think that Thailand is that worst; the justice system, the people (of course, there must be some bad ones). It's kind of what the maker just imagine themselves the way they want and absolutely make it look so bad. I don't know why Thailand banned the film not to get in the movie or video here. I think they should have been banned since the filming process, why didn't they think about it at first? Most of all, I thanks for good pictures the maker captured, those are the real beautiful places.  "},{"Title":"Far better than expected.","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Brokedown Palace wasn't a great success and passed through theatres in Japan quicker than a bullet train. There might be several reasons for this.I doubt it affected audiences in Japan, but Claire Danes became persona non grata in the Phillipines where the movie was filmed because of some of her none too complimentary remarks concerning the cleanliness of the country. Also, like The Beach at first glance, the story looked unconvincing and formulaic - wealthy American kids caught up in events beyond their control while partying in third world Asia.However, like The Beach, this is actually quite a good movie. In the case of The Beach, I think many reviewers canned it because the whole story looked like it was constructed around DiCaprio. In reality however, the Beach was amazingly true to the multiple threads of Alex Garland's novel, and I felt had significant resonances with those of us young foreigners living and travelling in South East Asia. Brokedown Palace though doesn't require that kind of experience or identification with the subject matter from the viewer.Contrary to expectations of a movie where you can tell the plot twists a mile off, Brokedown Palace keeps the audience guessing. There were a fair number of surprising dramatic twists which actually served to carry the story along rather than simply to maintain interest eg. Darlene's father's prison visit, the luxury hotel staff member's sudden appearance in court and the ending. Beyond this, there were also moments of poignant drama when the girls' friends, who've gone on to college and are getting on with their young lives, come to visit them in prison. What can the two groups, yelling at each other from behind wire across a divide to make themselves heard over all the other prisoners and visitors, really say to each other?There were a couple of loose ends I would have liked to see tied up. The primary one being how the drugs got into Alice's backpack. Surely it was the cheap hotel clerk in league with Nick Parks when he put the girls' bags in the back of the taxi - the camera sure lingered long enough with the car boot hiding him to suggest as such. The question is never answered. Alice's background and the character of the lawyer Hank Green could also have done with some filling out.As for the movie's comment on Thai justice and perhaps the bureaucracies of such SE Asian countries in general, no-one seems to have come forward to protest, and the system as portrayed in Brokedown Palace has been the subject of a number of other films, the best of which is undoubtedly Bangkok Hilton (1989) featuring Nicole Kidman (http//us.imdb.com/Details?0096540). I even thought that the women's prison portrayed in Brokedown Palace seemed rather benign compared to reports of the true conditions of such places.Overall this was an entertaining and convincing movie which steered clear of expectations. It deserved better treatment at the cinemas, although the best of the genre I would recommend is Bangkok Hilton. "}{"Title":"Worth The Rent","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw the poster for this movie in the street about a year ago, maybe less. I didn't even bother reading about it, I thought it was some kind of teen drama. Well, in a way it is, just not the kind I thought it would be. Then I rented a movie and saw the trailer for this film and it looked good, I was surprised when the name of the movie came on my TV screen. So, I decided to rent it, and it was worth it. Claire Danes may have a very weird cry (it sounds more like she's laughing) but other than that, she did a great job. The other actors were good too, and I didn't find the plot boring, not one bit. Sure, the film has a few flaws here and there, but doesn't every film? "},{"Title":"Haven't I seen this before??","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw Return to Paradise, I was bothered by how similar the story was to that of Midnight Express. However, I thought it was a solid movie all around. Brokedown Palace is not only the same story as the other two, but it is also a lousy movie. The characters are not at all interesting, the plot is trite and predictable, and there are some outright ridiculous scenes that defy belief. I watched this movie on Pay-Per-View only because I get it for free. What a waste of two hours. "},{"Title":"the moving finale saves this film","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  (ATTENTION SPOILERS AHEAD)It is a average picture but the ending was very unexpected and moving (to the song Deliver Me by Sarah Brightman). This movie deserves a second viewing if you want to know who put the drugs in the bag...  When Bill Pullman said to Claire Danes We both know that you didn't do it... we can see the trouble that passes on Alice's face. She's very guilty indeed and she knows how to lie ... and she was the one who was alone with the bags before they got to the taxi... The movie includes a terrific song by Delerium called Silence performed by Sarah McLachlan... The final shot when we see Alice in prison with a smile on her face is a moment of grace. She has done the right thing and feels delivered ...  Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Really Good Movie","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw all the advertisements on t.v. for this movie back in the summer time, I DID intend to see it just for the shear joy of saying that I saw it, not expecting it to be that good, but boy was I DEAD wrong, I enjoyed this film greatly, it made me laugh and made me cry. Well, what else drove me to rent it was of course the lovely and VERY talented Claire Danes, and I also really like Bill )  This movie really moved me, shows you the loving relationship between two best friends and how one of them sacrafices their freedom for the greater good of giving the other friend freedom, but I wont give anything thing away for those of you who havn't watched it yet ~*smiles*~   "},{"Title":"Interesting and odd","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this with no idea what it was about.  Somehow I missed all the ads for it I guess (were there any?)  Anyway, I quickly realized this was not the typical teenie-bopper movie, and really dug into it.  I enjoyed the story, and the outcome.  The movie resisted the urge to be the feel-good film that so many are today.  It is one of the few tragedies I think I've seen in years.  It is well worth the time to watch, and I recommend you rent it some night when you aren't in the mood for a comedy. "},{"Title":"How far would you go for a friend?","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is not just a movie about drug dealing and tourists, or the Thailandese judicial system. It's more about friendship. Can you trust your best friend? Would you sacrifice your own life for your best friend? Claire Danes is a great actress. I wish she appeared on screen more often. And some say it was a predictable story. It was not predictable, we had already known everything in the trailers. But it's the story treatment and the situations that make this movie an entertaining and reflexive one. It would help you understand what this girls went through if you've ever been in a foreign country, alone, knowing nothing about the city you're in. I've lived that, but it was like 0.0001% of what Alice and Darlene lived. And someone here related this movie with Dawson's Creek. Who said DAWSON'S CREEK was current teen trash???? Have you ever watched it? Have you seen the pshychological depth of the characters? I'm not a teenager anymore but still I can relate to many situations in that show. Don't be prejudiced about this show (like I once was). It's not 90210!! "},{"Title":"Suspense and intriging plot says Jennifer","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  	Brokedown Palace is bursting at the seam with adventure. Suspense fills the air with every part of the movie. This is definitly a sitting on the edge of your seat movie.When the judge of the supreme Thailand court was going to make a decision determing the fate of these two girls, it is soo suspenseful you can barely breathe.Also, when the girls were escaping from the disturbing prison ,where they were forced to cut their long hair and wear tattered clothes, you couldn't help but cheer for them to make it out past the prison walls.It not only has suspense though. It has an intriguing plot that keeps you thinking about what's going to happen next. Are the two going to survive? Are they ever going to get out of their Brokedown Palace. Another thing about the intriguing plot, is that it makes you ponder and think about the situation of the smuggling drugs. Are one of the girls lying? Did one of the girls know about the hidden drugs in the knapsack? Are the police involved in a scam? Was this actually planed? Who is the good guy and who is the bad one? Are the girls guilty or innocent? But the main question you are thinking is, how is this movie going to turn out? This plot is full of twists and turns and keeps you thinking and questioning the characters throughout the movie.You can't help getting involved with this intricate plot that is full of suspense. Ask anyone. This movie is a two thumbs up!!!			By SRVHS student, Jennifer     "},{"Title":"This movie is good","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  	Brokedown Palace was a very good, but very emotional movie. The story really made you realize how much friends mean to people, and just what they are willing to sacrifice for their happiness and well being. I was very impressed with this movie and feel it is a must see for all movie lovers. 	This movie was very touching and very realistic. When the supposedly innocent girls get caught smuggling drugs into Hong Kong, they are very shaken up. They are placed in a prison with people who have been there for years, and the girls had no idea what was going on. The only thing they could rely on was each other. 	This movie is also very exciting. It takes so many different paths that the viewer isn't expecting at all. For example, when a kitchen helper told the girls it was okay to take some fruit, they did. Little did they know, you had to earn the fruit, but instead of punishing the helper who told the girls it was okay, the prison guards punished the girls. 	I think that the way they are treated is completely unfair, but i enjoyed the movie because it was very touching and exciting. It made me, and many others, realize the importance and love everyone has for their best friends.~Carrie (SRVHS STUDENT) "},{"Title":"Midnight Express in skirts","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Brokedown Palace is very interesting. Its idea is not exactly original. It shows American citizens being mistakenly arrested for drug dealing in orient countries (this time Thailand) with severe laws regarding drugs. We've seen in wonderful Oscar-winning picture Midnight Express, and recently in Return to Paradise. But what is indeed new to Palace is that the characters this time are young ladies Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale. That brings a whole new element to the story since they're girls, the script allows itself to show cleverly the union, envy, jealous and secrets between them inside the prison. Thus, the spectator is never really sure of who's guilty or not. Director Jonathan Kaplan deals very well with the story and the cast, that also includes Bill Pullman as a Thai lawyer. I think the plot jumps too soon from the heart of the story to the climax. It could have been a bit more developed. Brokedown Palace will never be as good as Midnight Express, but it has enough freshness and good suspense to be rated as a worth watching flick.  "},{"Title":"Not bad, but missed golden opportunity","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a frequent traveler to Asia, and have spent several months in Thailand, so I was interested in how they'd handle this, a subject so frequently raised among budget backpackers in the region.  Unfortunately, Broken Down Palace not only propagated Yellow Peril stereotypes (there's really only one token good Thai), it also missed a golden opportunity to really investigate the issue of drug smuggling among tourists overseas.  Each time (and there are several) it seems as if we're finally going to find out 'whodunit' and why, another senseless plot twist backs away from the consequences of that direction of the story.  Worse still, there are really no sympathetic characters here, and everyone seems to deserve what they get.  At the end you feel let down -- as if you've wasted two hours because everyone has done so much lying the ending settled upon is not convincing.  It's a shame really.  At least the Asian actors are really speaking Thai, and it's true that it does make you think.  My feeling, though, is that if you've seen Midnight Express, there's no need to go to this one. "}{"Title":"Clare Danes an actress for today and tomorrow.","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Hey GangI went see BROKEDOWN PALACE with some reservation. Word on the film do next. She gives a truly gut wrenching performance as an American student falsely accused of drug smuggling and thrown into prison in Thailand.  A pure hell hole known as The Brokedown Palace. The film co-stars newcomer Kate Beckinsale as Danes' friend and codefendant.  This young woman sparkles on the screen and surely has a wonderful career ahead of her as well.  This film is about friendship and responsibility and recognizing even when one is right, one can still be wrong.  Bill Pullman does a yeoman's job as the girl's attorney, while Lou Diamond Phillips surprised me a truly unique portrait of a young US Ambassador. This one is well worth seeing every time you think you know where it is going, it surprises you.  It reminded me of RETURN TO PARADISE from last year which has been out on video for some months.  That too is a good one on a similar subject, but is however a bit more predictable.  You can't go wrong checking into THE BROKEDOWN PALACE. "},{"Title":"My comments concern how great the movie was!","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I waited all summer to see a movie that was this good.I have  seen so many movies this summer and this one definitely tops them all.I truly cannot sing its praises enough because it was  wonderful. "},{"Title":"had potential - a few holes in the plot","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I felt that there were too many holes in the plot and a number of issues could have been examined more deeply.  Most of the people I was with left the theater with a few questions they were still asking themselves.  I found the movie very similar to Return to Paradise, which I thought was a much better film.  I'm really not inspired to write much about this film at all. "},{"Title":"Good, but you'll want more..","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you see the trailer once, you'll be sitting wishing the first half would go faster since you already know what's going to happen. It's that simple. After that, things blur by quickly and there's too many times when the movie doesn't focus on the friendship of the two, but instead on the many sub-characters and things-going-on. The ending comes, eventually, but more as a footnote than a defining moment.It is a good movie that makes you dreamy and want to be there with the two (ala Titanic); unfortunately, that doesn't happen. If they trimmed the first part shorter, and let the emotional moments draw out as they should, I think it would have been a far better and memorable movie (ie. Awards night). Instead, moments you wished they'd follow longer are interrupted by cuts to side stories, and you never quite feel the story builds to the climactic ending as nicely as it should.After you see it, you wonder many what-if's.  What if they had done something differentely?  What if you could go in and beam her out?  What if they had tightened the focus of the movie a little more?This is certainly a movie I'd recommend seeing at the theatre vs. video rental, but it leaves you wanting just a little more satisfaction after the ending.I'd toss it into the same bunch as I Love You, I Love You Not and Polish Wedding, and I'd still feel like fast forwarding through parts like these others.In any case, Claire does come forward with strong moments that carry the movie well; hopefully, she'll get a stronger script someday that'll let her true talents shine brightly and win awards.  She's really a good actress looking for an awesome movie, and in this and the others I've listed, I feel like she's trying on different clothes.  Just a taste of what she'd be able to do in a great movie and brief look at her various acting talents. "},{"Title":"Best of the Summer","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'll make this short. I'm not one for fancy words about a simple thing like a movie. I thought Brokedown Palace was excellent. As a recent high school graduate, wanting to go on a last vacation with my best friend before I leave for college, I can put myself in the place of these girls. Unfortunately (or fortunately, as it pertains to this story), college shopping broke my budget and I couldn't afford to go anywhere but Florida. I will admit that the original decision to sneak into the hotel to go swimming was rather rash and stupid, yet I can understand why they did it. I understood why they made the decisions they did, and would probably have made similar decisions in the same situation. I suggest to everyone that you try to put yourself in the characters place and see if you can come up with a better solution than they did. You might find it difficult. I give this movie 9 of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Most of all, Turn It Down!","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  So the plot was as interesting as IT ALWAYS IS - It's okay that we just saw a similar story in Return to Paradise.  The leads were really convincing (particularly Danes); Bill Pullman was likeable as always; but what the heck was the deal with the guy who played Darlene's father??!!  Could he have been any more gleeful to see his daughter sitting in that prison??!!!  I realize that we were supposed to be struck by his change of demeanor when he then spoke to Alice, but good lord!  What was the director thinking?  Now, what I want you to do here when you see you poor daughter in such total devastation is...ACT AS HAPPY AS YOU POSSIBLY CAN!!!  But my biggest complaint about this movie is that damned sound track...I am so tired of these bad soundtracks (or even good ones, actually) TAKING OVER THE MOVIE. There were reasons music originally became a part of movies...and sitting and listening to a concert was NOT one of them!   "},{"Title":"6.5 out of 10","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Claire Danes was wonderful, Kate Beckinsale was great, Bill Pullman should have been on screen more, Lou Diamond Phillips was annoying as an American diplomat working for the DEA.The screenwriter apparently did a lot of research about the Thai legal system, and everything in this film can and does happen, according to the PR.  Still, I couldn't help feeling as though the experience had somehow been prettified for a teenage audience.  The image of Claire Danes lounging in the sunlight with a roach clip in hand somehow doesn't seem like torture to me.Still, I was surprised by the ending, and am looking forward to more, better performances by Danes and Beckinsale in the future. "},{"Title":"8 out of 10","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I might understand about those negative comment toward to this movie, however I still love this movie. I was fully moved while every time those two together-suffering girls are holding hands firmly, supporting each other in that dim situation. I think we should see this movie at the point of friendship, price of sin and humanity. And the not-so-happy ending was very appropriate because they at least deserved it. Clare eventually was stayed in the jail, well, she practically was undeservingly punished by the not-so-just judge. But anyhow, a jail is not just giving the prisoner the physical affliction, but actually the more of mental loneliness and isolation. Then eventually you will be like institutionalised (The Shawshank Redemption). But for Clare, although she is left in the jail, but I believe that she will be able to rejoice and feel delightfully when she knows that her priceless best friend was saved by her and their gap had been solved. That kind of best friendship makes her able to sacrifice for Kate and that's what can make her feeling peaceful. At least she had a true friend which is worthy to trade for with her life. If a man has a significant reason to rejoice and live, he can indeed guiltlessly face himself, he will be able to live joyfully wherever he is in white house or cell. And actually, they were not completely innocent, cause they deserved the affliction due to their sins which are lust, greed and envy. I wish myself could do the very same thing as Clare did for my friend. Well, most of the comments here are quite negative and complaining about the plot. Methink I probably am not at their high level or viewing a film. I don't even notice background music or the details they mentioned. But I just genuinely say I was touched by that film deeply and hope those demanding folks can somehow view the things with a little bit of sentiment and pure emotion. At least that is a very scarce rate PG-13 picture in this summer. "},{"Title":"Good, but fell just a little short.","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As a fan of Claire Danes' work I try to see all of her movies, and that's what brought me to this film. I thought the film was generally a good one, but it did fall a bit short to me. I don't think the script really allowed Claire to show how good an actress she really is. I also though Bill Pullman was very good in his role. I was just hoping for something with a little more substance and closure. I sincerely think if a little bit more attention to the legal history and policies of Thailand were included, it would have enhanced this film greatly. On a 1-10 scale a promising 7. "},{"Title":"Finally, a movie about young ADULTS!","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film on its opening day quite by happenstance, as I had intended to see a showing of DICK which was inexplicably cancelled. I can only be grateful for that occurrence, since this is one of the more compelling films to come along in quite some time. Nothing is given away by my noting that it will, undoubtedly, be compared to MIDNIGHT EXPRESS, a classic re-telling of yet another true story that is a variation on the same harrowing subject. The difference here is really the characters. Namely, two recent high-school girls of privilege who haven't a clue what goes on in the real world. Their journey into that disturbing realization serves as, generally, compelling fodder for dramatic story-telling. As I've said, this isn't the first time we've visited this genre, but its theme is decidedly different and the first-rate performances and script make the trip well worthwhile. Though kudos are in order all around, add this performance to the already impressive repertoire of the luminous Claire Danes, who makes every moment resonate with truth. Always in control as an actor, she opts for unique, informed choices, not only as the character but also in the projects she undertakes. This is not the sort of teen flick a lesser actor with her celebrity would/should ever attempt. I applaud her restraint and unending good sense, an unfortunate rarity with most persons of her age. Sorry, that's the truth, kids. Even so, I really like the way the screenplay seems to be telling baby boomers not to be so quick to pat themselves on the back for their parenting skills (i.e. - all that baloney about being your child's best friend, UNEARNED self esteem, etc.). Almost in spite of these despicable excuses for parents, their children (at least these two girls) emerge as selfless, mature adults with more compassion than the generation that came before them.If you'd like to be entertained AND engaged by something far more frightening than make-believe witches in the woods, this is the choice for you. PLUS...this story really IS true. "}{"Title":"An ok film that lacked emotional impact until the ending.","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In this film two naive young girls, Claire Danes  as Alice and her best friend Darlene  played by Kate Beckinsale, decide to vacation in Thailand after graduating from high school. They are set up by a drug smuggler Nick Parks played by Daniel Lapaine who plants drugs in their backpack landing them in jail.This film had a very good script behind it, and excellent photography, but it failed to make an emotional impact on the viewer until the last five minutes of the film.This appears to have been due to dismally poor editing and an equally poor sound track. There were so many opportunities within this film to make a deep moving impact, like when her father shows up at the prison. But repeatedly the editors cut to a different scene so quickly that you felt no emotion whatsoever. A few more seconds of a tearful face would have meant so much more for this film. Additionally there were times when the lack of background music to add emotion was also painfully obvious.In the last five minutes of the film editing & musical score finally did manage to coordinate their efforts, making for an emotionally powerful ending, earning the film four out of ten bullets on the Hit Man Critic's scale. "},{"Title":"A great movie to see with your very best friend","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Claire Danes was brilliant, you could really feel her anguish and pain. She really is a talented actress. I dont know Kate Beckinsale from any other films, but I must say, she was excellent. The movie was happy, sad, scary and thoughtful all at the same time. I'd give it a 9 out of 10. Go see it. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was really a good movie and the ending was very touching and made you feel sad for Claire Danes but one problem with it was it was unrealistic. Another thing was many things in the movie were left unexplained (when did the Australian guy have time to put the drugs in the carry on and what really happened when he was with Claire Danes). Even with these problems I managed to enjoy the movie as the acting by the lead actresses was very good and they made you feel for them. "},{"Title":"OK, but not great","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Danes was, as expected, wonderful. She can act, across a wide range, really act. This was a role which asked her to use a fair amount of the that range. Unfortunately, the rest of the movie is just not up to that standard. Beckinsale is not ever quite credible as anymore than the goody-good her character is supposed be on the surface. I blame most of the problems on Kaplan, who (I've long felt) doesn't quite understand how to transmit from the screen to the audience.A real strength of the film, of the script, is that it doesn't have the Hollywood ending. It's not the pat answer tying everything up nicely and sweetly. Furthermore, it doesn't make sure it answers every question that the plot asks. Major kudos. "},{"Title":"Fast Moving Flick","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Enjoyable movie which was very well acted by the two female stars of the film.  A familiar smuggling story, but fast paced and an enjoyable film overall.  Worth the time to go see it at your local movie house. "},{"Title":"Great story!","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought Brokedown Palace had an awesome story line.  It was a really heartwarming tale of two girls and their friendship until the end. I thought Claire Danes put in an awesome performance.  Although I do not usually like Bill Pullman I felt he acted good as well.  My only complaint about the movie was that I felt it went fast in some places where it should have gone slow and slow in some places where it should have gone fast. There should have been more time in the beginning of the movie before the girls were arrested.   There should have been less time spent on some of the discussions that Bill Pullman had with the authorities.  Also I feel it should have told how Claire Danes was able to send the tape out to the lawyer.  Overall I feel that the film is an outstanding work that will stay with the viewer forever. "},{"Title":"Powerful  Movie","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just returned  from seeing this Movie  and am awe struck by Claire Danes performance.  She was Magnificent, her performance was her best to date. A Movie that really  makes you think about  how much  we as Americans take for granted in terms of freedom. A Movie I will absolutely see again  and again! "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie, Brokedown Palace, is one of the better movies portraying Thai Prison Hardships in the last few years. It had wonderful performances from established actors Bill Pullman and Claire Danes and also another great breakthrough performance from Kate Beckinsale (Last days of disco). All in all a wonderful movie, go see it with a friend.  "},{"Title":"A true test of friendship","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Brokedown Palace was so good.  Although you never find out who actually agreed to bring the narcotics across the border, you are left wondering who would have done it.  When Alice gives up everything for Dar is just goes to show who real friends are.  I just wish Alice would have gotten the girl in the cell with the attitude, some of her own medicine.  I gave this fill a 10 because it gave me goose bumps about what real friendship is. "},{"Title":"Another summer flop","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I knew we were in trouble when, before the movie started, a woman got up to tell the audience about how moving this movie is, especially since her brother was recently arrested for growing marijuana, and slapped with a sentence unreasonable for a small amount of drugs.  This film is a little different seeing how the two girls were innocent.....It has its heart in the right place, but the story is all over the map.  Conflicts are introduced but barely resolved by the end (at this point I still don't know what Claire Danes' intentions were--was she lying about not sleeping with that Australian guy?  Why should it matter now?  After all, both girls are in prison!)  This is where the movie falters---the prison scenes are really unbelievable.  The girls are seen joking about the food at one point.  And of course, Kate Beckinsale's snubbing of Danes after she learns the truth about her and the Australian guy.  Couldn't these girls see right through him?  I guess I missed the point--these are innocent girls, naive in every way (except, once again, Danes' character, who is supposed to be hard-edged and street-smart).  Another problem with the movie is the introduction of the family members and friends.  Beckinsale's father is an idiot.  Period.  Predictably accusing Danes of getting his daughter in jail.  Danes' father (an unexpected cameo from John Doe of X) is a blue collar man who mentions diabetes at one point--this plot thread is left dangling.  Bottom line--the film should have concentrated on the prison scenes, making them a bit more gut-wrenching (I guess they were aiming for the MTV crowd and the PG-13 rating), leave out the parents (and friends), and show more of Bill Pullman and his firm working on the case.  Assets of the film Pullman's performance, Beckingsale, a few effective moments from Danes, and the soundtrack. "}{"Title":"Danes' performance is heart wrenching, Pullman and Beckinsale were no match for Danes","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I entered the theater with high expectations for Claire Danes' performance film, and was not disappointed.  Her acting credits in the past, starting with My So Called Life and then moving on to Romeo and Juliet and the Rainmaker have established a coveted reputation for this young actress. The combined performance of Bill Pullman and Kate Beckinsale paled in comparison to Danes, she deserves all the credit for carrying this film.  I can't wait to see what she'll do next. "},{"Title":"Brokedown Movie.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brokedown Palace (1999) Dir Jonathon Kaplan / Cast Claire Danes, Kate Beckinsale, Bill Pullman, Lou Diamond Phillips, Daniel Lapaine Similar to Midnight Express and Return to Paradise only reduced tremendously due to its teenage delivery. Title refers to the destruction of fantasy to a dark reality. Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale are vacationing when a stranger invites them to Hong Kong where they are arrested for possession of drugs. Both girls suffer horribly and make a failed escape attempt. Danes sent an audio recording to a lawyer with her story. Setup is familiar and the prison scenes are standard with a conclusion of self sacrifice. Director Jonathan Kaplan does his best but this is not done on the same level he used on The Accused. The big issue is its familiarity and structure. It plays like a feminine Midnight Express with prison scenes in full overload of clichés. Their vacation is familiar, their time in prison is everything we expect, then Danes gives a halfhearted revelation that plays like a crowd pleaser as oppose to conviction. Bill Pullman as the lawyer is the best performance as he attempts to help these girls. Lou Diamond Phillips appears in a flat role. Daniel Lapaine plays the loser whom the girls hook up with thus leading to the trouble they land in. Theme of sacrifice is sidelined by its lame teen appeal that works against it thus bringing the palace down. Score 2 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Extremely Disturbing.","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Here's a movie that depressed me deeply. It is a rough, intense, brutal, and very hard to watch film that is so effective and so shocking, I have to recommend it. It is not only disturbing due to what happens to these two girls, but also how hard it is on the country that it takes place in. I can't say the film is prejudice because these kinds of things can happen. It's an extremely realistic depiction of two girls, who are best friends, who are accused of smuggling drugs into Thailand and put in a Thai woman's prison. Meanwhile, back in the states, a lawyer(Bill Pullman) tries to get them out. Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale do a wonderful job as the two girls. I was especially surprised with Kate Beckinsale, in one of her earliest roles, because she plays in really meek and innocent, which isn't the way I'm used to seeing her. I was able to really sympathize with Claire Danes since she had a much more normal reaction, while Kate Beckinsale was in denial a lot of the time and was a little oblivious to the situation at first. None the less, they both do wonderfully. The film's structure is interesting. It starts out pretty innocently, kind of like a type of vacation movie crossed with two girls who cause some trouble. But then it switches gears and turns really nasty about 45 minutes in. It never lets up until the heart wrenching ending. The score in the film is sort of an intense kind of Oriental type of melody mixed with a sort of industrial beat. You hear it a lot early on, but it's especially effective in the last act when it's used. It just moves you. This film is quite a tearjerker. I can't ruin the ending, but I'll say that it's a difficult to take. It's not the kind of ending that leaves a bad taste in your mouth, because it can't really end any differently, but it's a very anti-Hollywood type of ending, meaning it doesn't end as happy as one would like. This is the kind of film that just draws you in. Right from the start, the narration just draws you in and keeps you interested. In the middle of the film, you'll want to stop watching but you can't because you've gotten so far in, but you get the feeling that it won't have a happy ending. After that, when you feel the girls still have a chance, you want to keep watching just to see the ending. When the ending occurs, you'll feel affected. It's the kind of ending that makes you think,Wow. What an effective and well made film. It's not fun to watch, but if you want to see a really good movie, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"What she did was divine","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When I looked at her calm, serene face in this difficult plight (Rachmaninov, Piano Concert No2 in C minor), at the very end, after the sacrifice, I thought Only Jesus can do that - not Jesus the God, but Jesus the man. The human, who becomes God through such an act, without the need of doing any miracles. The man... the woman... the girl - who entered the harsh realities of life and grew up in the space of a few days. And turned from a stupid, naive, careless teenager into something completely different - something magnificent. As the event turned her life and destiny upside-down, she didn't fall, she didn't surrender, but did something great and unimaginable - to the disbelief of the whole modern world, which is - as all of us know very well - materialistic and cynical one.I know that such people don't exist. I am aware that at the end she was only an actress - great actress though - because of this movie, and also because of I love you, I love you not. Yes, it is a movie, and she is an actress, and there are not such people in the real world. I fully understand it, totally, period. And I admit, with a pain in my heart, and with envy towards her character - that I'm also not one of them. I admit, I confess, I realize that I don't have a friend, for whom I would sacrifice even a tenth of what she gave. Worse - thinking and rolling the faces of the REAL people who I have encountered in my life - to my great dismay - I don't recall anyone, who deserves such a sacrifice. I desperately hope that I am wrong. And if I'm not - the only thing which remains for you is TO DO IT FOR YOURSELF - for your own fulfillment. But to make yourself a villain when you are not, to suffocate the truth, to reject yourself your natural right for justice - by ripping your heart cruelly with your own hands, and watching it bleeding with no sorrow, to humiliate yourself like that, beyond any imagination, to sacrifice your life and your happiness with no mercy... No, I cannot do it. I'm not that strong, and I want to live.I don't have idea how she played it at all, without vomiting or fainting. Maybe it's true that women are stronger than men. Or maybe they are much more masochistic. If I had to play it precisely on script, I would get at least seriously sick and needing to sit somewhere, and if it was for real, I would simply curse and swear in violent rage throughout the whole trial, and, given the chance to get close to a judge, he could lose an eye - there are pencils in court. This maybe yes - when everything has gone so horribly wrong. But not what she did.So, I see it was a fairytale. I KNOW IT WAS A LIE. But I wanted it so much to be true - regardless of the suffering, regardless of the supposedly lost life in that prison - that I engraved it like irreversible fact in my mind. There was a young, yet quickly grown-up, pure, yet wise already, innocent, yet incredibly brave girl in Thailand, who sacrificed herself fully for her best friend, redeeming everything - bad or bitter, that had happened in the past. Redeeming it tens of thousands of times more than needed, and thousands of times more than needed, even if she had actually placed the drugs in the backpack... It was overwhelmingly beautiful and that was enough for me - I didn't care for any inconsistencies, whatsoever. Yes, it was not true. I know it didn't happen. But it was so great, so wonderful, so strong, so gripping, so heroic, so beautiful, so divine - that I believed it. And I believe it. Yes. I believe it. "},{"Title":"A Strong Psychological Drama","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The above average drama presents a pair of great acting performances and a script that allows a multitude and various levels of emotional outlets. The twists and turns in this movie are subtle and not overly dramatic, but sufficient to make this substantive movie a superior production. The stereotypical elements are softened, the hard clash of uncertainty, friendship, loyalty, deception are well portrayed in this movie. Brokedown Palace offers a strong statement and experience in a different country and a great examination of the test of the bonds of friendship or betrayal. The one major flaw in the movie is a legal scene weakness in the appeal scene that avoided a strong defense line of questioning and cross-examination, Bill Pullman's character so some reason (likely the scriptwriter) failed to incorporate it and defuse it. Eight out of Ten Stars. "},{"Title":"intense movie, important subject","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie reminded me again of the worldwide suffering caused by insane drug laws. It's reassuring to see so many reviewers have a positive attitude about the suffering and sacrifice demonstrated in this movie but chilling to see those reviewers who lacked compassion for these characters. While Traffic was probably a more entertaining movie, I thought the message here was much more positive. I was especially horrified by the father who taunted his daughter's friend about being in prison. And there was nothing racist about the movie given similar horrors in U.S. 3 strikes laws and the movie's positive depiction of several characters including one Thai prison guard and lawyer.  "},{"Title":"Best friends Alice and Darleen struggle for freedom and mutual trust after being sentenced to 30 years in a Thai prison for a crime neither admits to committing.","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I rated this movie as a 7. I really found myself caring about these girls and the outcome of their situation. The story is so well written and true to life that we are pulled into it, believing that this is indeed a true story.The message boards want to know whatever happened to Alice and Darleen, where are they know? Regardless of whether there really is an Alice and Darleen it is indeed a story of truth. The truth in the beauty of love and friendship as well as the true ugliness people can show one another. The movie leaves it's viewer asking ourselves how would we behave in this situation, what sacrifices might we make for freedom, for justice, for love.  "},{"Title":"A brave yet underrated movie","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As far as I know the Thai authorities have denied the permission to shoot a movie in their our own homeland, because they didn't want Westerners to criticize their policy, their law administration, simply their own way of life.This happened in 1954 when The King And I starring Yul Brynner and Deborah Kerr had to be shot elsewhere and the same happened for its remake Anna and The King starring Jodie Foster and Chow Yun Fat more than forty years later. Since the Thai authorities denied to represent their past, it was impossible and inconceivable for them to approve the shooting of a movie where the injustices of their law system are so clearly depicted by director Johnatan Kaplan. Young Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale act very well and the lack of the  traditional happy ending (SPOILERS)make the movie much more interesting.    "},{"Title":"A cautionary tale for young adventurers or Don't let your daughter out of your sight!","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  ***SPOILERS ***SPOILERS***The world is a dangerous place, and this film serves as a cautionary warning lesson for all the young adventurous students taking trips to exotic locations that were just not possible before cheap flights. American hedonism, brashness and chuztpah can be viewed very differently in another culture. What the two girls see as adolescent fun and winging it is seen as deception, fraud and arrogance by the Thais. Two young high school graduates decide to take a budget vacation in Bangkok before going on to college, or on to the next phase of their lives. Once in their fleabag hotel (they go into hysterics at the sight of a cockroach) they begin to realize that the budget holiday was a bit too cheap, and crash a swanky first class hotel, lounging by the pool and ordering drinks using someone else's room number. When the hotel staff realize that they are not guests and call security, they are rescued by a handsome Australian who claims that they are with him and invites them out for the evening. romance follows, and within a few days he invites them to go to Hong Kong for a quick trip, trading in a first class ticket for three economy. The staff at fleabag manor takes their bags to place in the taxi and ...... By now warning bells should be going off like a fire alarm. SPOILER AHEAD - DO NOT READ ON IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN THE FILM.You guessed it, they didn't. Big time trouble. They are arrested at the airport and charged with drug smuggling, found guilty and sentenced to 30+ years in a jail which makes fleabag manor look like the Hilton. Unfortunately, their previous actions (gate crashing the hotel, ordering drinks) are seen as evidence of low deceitful character, and of course there is no trace of the handsome Australian. Seduced, abandoned, and betrayed! To say more would be unfair to anyone who has not seen the film, but just say that it does not end with the sentence. There are many twists and turns. Clare Daines and Kate Beckinsale are very effective as the two young women who get into trouble. It is easy to say that they were stupid, but they were literally innocents abroad. Nothing in their lives had prepared them for the way they were duped. A lot of pressure has been put on countries by the US to stop the drug trade and several young people are now in jail for carrying drugs, sometimes unwittingly. In the 1980's two young Australians were executed in Malaysia after a show trial. Their story was told in Dadah is Death, starring Julie Christie.  "},{"Title":"OMG fabulous","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was one of the best I have ever seen. The acting was wonderful, and completely believable. The story revolves around two girls, Alice Marano and Darlene Davis, who have grown up together. They are best friends with completely opposite qualities. As a last trip together they decide to go to Thailand. They arrive and do all of the regular turist things but they run into the attractive Nick Parks. They both fall for him and Darlene spends the night with him. He invites the two to come to Hong Kong with him, after convincing Alice her and Darlene decide to go. While Darlene is resting Alice goes to the market and coincidently meets up with Nick. They have a small fling but when Alice goes back she doesn't tell Darlene. They have to quickly pack as they are running late for their flight to Hong Kong. They get to the airport and as they are waiting in line a huge group of security officials come at them with guns. They search their bags and found a few kilograms of narcotics. Drug smuggling is a very big deal there. They are arrested and thrown in prison, it soon comes out that neither of them no where the drugs came from. The movie continues with revaluations and shocks. I won't spoil the end because it really is a fabulous ending, a shock. You really don't expect it at all.To sum it up I absolutely love this movie. The twists, the love between these two friends, and how far they'll go to protect the other. In Darlene's own words It was great, but weird and intense  "}{"Title":"Vastly underrated","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Much better than most people give it credit for.Probably the only really decent thing that Beckinsale has done in the last 5 years.Don't rush out to buy it, but if it's on the TV then make an effort to watch it.Beckinsale and Danes are both watchable and the story is actually quite interesting and moving at times.It is reasonably gripping, and relatively realistic in that what happens to the main protagonists is not that uncommon amongst female backpackers especially Brits.Worth a go in my opinion. "},{"Title":"So-So","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Just rented this film and had no idea what to expect. Its not earth shattering or Oscar-like but a simple laid out story that requires some effort to sit through. Its uneven in places and doesn't follow up on a lot of points.Has some interesting scenes but nothing to get excited about. Bill Pullman does OK but I felt everyone else could have been replaceable with other actors and there would be no difference. 4 stars out of ten    **** "},{"Title":"good for the naive but not flawless.","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  i've seen some flawkess films. i think Pay It Forward, Moulin Rouge! and the LOTR movies were perfect. This movie wasn't. it was okay, but it wasn't oscar worthy. it had a good storyline. Claire Danes was good but everyone else wasn't that amazing (Bill Pullman was okay i geuss) and when there's an awesome actor who doesnt have any other helping actors it's kind of hopeless for that one actor. it ended too soon with out much plot resolution, the movie was also much to vauge. like, who did it?  what the hell happened to nick parks? too confusing. directing was..... adequate. boring camera angles. increative.  but claire danes was amazing. Bill Pullman plays a good jaded guy. he always has. i LOVED him as Joseph Korso in Titan A.E. anyway, the movie's okay, but dont lie on your deathbed thinking you missed out on something inportant if you never got to see it.  "},{"Title":"Don't let this happen to you","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)The story of friendship tested is interesting, the characters are engaging, the sets are beautiful, the acting is good to excellent, but somehow this tale of two American girls unjustly jailed for drug tracking in Thailand doesn't quite convince. It's hard to say just what director Jonathan Kaplan might have done differently to make this promising movie an outstanding movie. But maybe it has something to do with the wrong kind of detail, the accumulated effects thereof.First we have the sight of the pretty American girls, just out of high school, Alice Marano (Claire Danes) and Darlene Davis (Kate Beckinsale) dressed in USA young miss outfits that show off their figures like models on a runway. You'd think they would dress down a little for the natives, remembering that when in Rome do as the Romans do. I've watched the Globe Trekker on PBS and the young women there never wear tight skirts and lipstick. The girls prance about the streets of Thailand on display as though looking for Mr. Right.Well, of course this being the nineties and not the fifties, they instead find Mr. Wrong. He charms them and divides them by invoking jealousy, the one of the other. All of this makes for an interesting premise. And then we have a nice (if predictable) twist, and the girls end up in prison.The prison sets are beautiful in a dark and somber way, full of open spaces and diffused colors, guards in pressed uniforms, the other prisoners mostly healthy--pretty even--in clean uniforms with neat tags like charms hanging from the necks. The fruits and vegetables stacked in the corner of the mess area that the girls are tricked into sampling are fresh and attractive. Strange. A palace as a prison.Somehow--perhaps it was the beauty of the sets--I never really felt the kind of outrage and horror and near hopelessness that such a situation might evoke. It seemed clear that everything would work out, and the girls would go home soon, leaving the misadventure behind them.That is not exactly what happens.See this for Claire Danes who gives a fine performance and almost sells the not-entirely plausible ending. "},{"Title":"Pretty intense actually...","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale are two young girls vacationing in Thailand. They are accused of smuggling drugs and are then thrown in jail. They soon pin their hopes on a lawyer (Bill Pullman) who holds their fate in his hands. Lou Diamond Philips co-stars.Well, the acting was pretty damn good. The script was well-written and the director, whoever he/she is did a good job! If you like dramas or thrillers, then BROKEDOWN PALACE would be a good title for you.I am not really a fan of these type of movies, but this film was pretty good. It is in a way similar to some movie with Richard Gere (I forgot the name of the movie) where he is accused of doing something bad in a foreign country. If I could remember the name of the movie, I would say it, but I can't. But if you like trial movies like A FEW GOOD MEN, RULES OF ENGAGEMENT and stuff like that, then you might like this film. I happen to like all of them, but that's just me. See this moving if you are in the mood to be shocked by all of the things that will make you think Oh my god, I can't believe that's happening.BROKEDOWN PALACE gets 4/5. "},{"Title":"...that a woman lay down her life for her friend.","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Greater love has no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. -John 1513This bible verse could have possibly been the inspiration for this movie. I loved Brokedown Palace, not for the girls or the sights, for the story. All to often in movies and TV, friends are not loyal.  How often do friends steal each other's girl or boyfriends?  How often do friends lie to each other to get things their way?  All to often on the big and little screens, and real life too.  This movie shows true friendship straight from the Holy Bible itself.  This movie is a perfect example of what Jesus Christ taught in the verse above.  If you haven't seen this movie, then you need to, before you see any others.  The story grabs you; the acting by the principle actors is Oscar worthy.  Unfortunately, the Academy must have missed this one.Above all the message to this film is what is most important  No matter what struggles people face, all we have is each other.  If we can't do what is right for our fellow man, we have no right to live!  By the end of this film you will, as did the characters in the film, realize that fact.  One of my friends is a Youth Pastor, and he used this film as an example of Biblical Friendship.  This movie should be shown in ALL classrooms throughout the world, once a year.  If students learn this nugget of wisdom at a young age, the world will be a better place.  Enjoy the film. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Done","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Now I had absolutely know expectations of this movie, I rented it on a fluke. That said, I really enjoyed to movie.  At first it seemed like it was going to be another one of those teen girls learn to grow up after high school type movies.  The story was interesting and I found myself actually caring about what would happen to the characters.  Kate Beckinsale in particular did an excellent job. The best part of the movie though was the cinematography.  It was a very nice looking movie.   "},{"Title":"A surprising and interesting film that gets the point across excellently.","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  BROKEDOWN PALACE (1999) Rating 7/10While critics hard out bashed this movie, I really liked it. Okay, so it wasn't exactly Oscar material, but I think the film reviewers were very unfair to it. I mean, think about it, if this movie starred perhaps Susan Sarandon and Robert DeNiro people would've adored it. Because the films morals were based around friendship of a young generation, I don't think many critics older than these people really understand. Myself been around that age, I can see where the writers are coming from. Their goals are good, they achieve them and the script is very well organised. The film is also not too far-fetched, unlike I expected. The plot is different and interesting, and it's a mystery the way the movie turns out. Brokedown Palace's premise wins it over because of how well developed and atmospheric the movie feels. Claire Danes gives another stunning performance, her best since William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet in 1996. She is one of the most underrated and most talented young actresses in Hollywood today, and her performances are well chosen. She gets into her character and chooses the right ways to descriptively put across her characters anger or happiness or whatever feeling. Usually Claire chooses to play complicated characters, and she plays these excellently. I just really enjoy her acting style and wanted to put that across! Kate Beckinsale also does well, and it is impressive the way she has moved from Brokedown Palace to one of the most anticipated films of all time, Pearl Harbour. Kudos to all actors who participated!Of course, there are some faults that bring this movie below 8/10 or 9/10 material, and one of those things is the ending. I felt like it just left the movie on a bit of an unfinished note, although it was not at all predictable. Some scenes are pointless and the court sequences are a bit repetitive. A few audiences may note how unlikeable Claire and Kate's characters are at the start of the movie. But, as time goes on, the movie builds more excellence and gradually becomes some very good entertainment for a Friday night.  "},{"Title":"Lightweight and unoriginal","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not sure why this film exsists really.  As previous reviewers have commented Return to Paradise was far better and the best of all being Midnight Express.  This was more like a lightweight version for a younger audience (rated 12 in the UK).  Unfortunately it fails to get it's message across - simply not powerful enough.You can't mix sugar-coated teen angst film with this subject matter, it just doesn't and shouldn't work. "},{"Title":"It truly takes you on a journey of true friendship!","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I previewed this film a long time ago, right when it came out on rental, and I truly enjoyed it! Yes, the stories plot has been used before in such films as Return to Paradise (which I also enjoyed!) but there is a uniqueness to this film! I think it might be the fantastic performances by the two leads (Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale), or it might be the sadness of the story. The movie starts out with Claire Danes narrating how the two Americans got themselves into trouble in the first place. They you see their downfall after that. Bill Pullman portrays there lawyer Yankee Hank, and Jacqueline Kim plays his wife/assistant. Then you hear about Nick Parsons/Skip Karnes who is the ring leader for the two girls imprisonment. You witness the girls hope running dry and you feel as an audience member you just want to do something about this unfair accusation placed upon these two American girls. Then you have to glue the pieces together on who is innocent and who isn't. Throughout this depressing tale you get worked up and mad at Kate Beckinsale's characters parents and Claire Danes' father and everyone else whose not in the prison w/ them. The story does have a fantastic and emotional finale that will leave you w/ your jaw dropped to the floor and leave you definitely with a broken heart! It's definitely 10/10! You must go see this whenever you have the chance! "}{"Title":"A terrific performance by talented and charming Claire Danes!","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's beyond me the reasons why Brokedown Palace didn't get a theatrical release in many countries, including Brazil, because it's a surprisingly interesting and good court drama. Claire Danes puts in what anyone might expect from her - a terrific and true-to-life performance, as the independent and daring friend, but Beckinsale seems wooden and apathetic during the whole running time. Bill Pullman is an excellent actor ,and he has an important part, as the lawyer who tries to get the girls out of the jail, but he didn't get enough screen time to develop his character.I liked the story, because it really catches your attention, and it also gives meaningful lessons about the importance of having friends and keeping them inside our hearts. I don't want to disregard the job of the cast, but Brokedown Palace really belongs to Claire Danes who is the heart of the movie. She has one particular scene that will stay with me forever it's when Beckinsale, the weaker friend, gets sick and Danes, the stronger one, takes care of her, watching her sleeping and protecting Beckinsale's head with her leg. Talented, charming and easy-going, she proves once again why she is the greatest actress of her generation! "},{"Title":"A cheap imitation of Midnight Express","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Interesting movie if you are laid up in bed and can't get to the video store.  I would recommend Return to Paradise or Midnight Express, instead.  In reading all the reviews, I found that most of your readers do not know what a Third World Country really is.  Any country that does not fall under the Soviet sphere of influence or the Western sphere of influence is cosidered a Third World Nation, regardless of their prosperity, or lack of.             "},{"Title":"The best movie no one knows about!","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"       I have been waiting for such an original picture such as this for quite some time now.  Brokedown Palace has that `hard to believe' aspect, however with the ingenious directing, and screenplay, &#145;Palace scores big.      I've really never enjoyed watching Claire Danes in any of her movies, but I'll tell you what, she really changed my mind with this one.  Kate Beckinsale joins Danes on a vacation to Thailand where they meet up with a young man who convinces them to take a trip to Hong Kong with him.  However, he neglected to inform them that they would be carrying an obscene amount of narcotics for him.  Well, ultimately they get caught, and end up in a Thailand prison.      I know, I know, how could you not know that you have 18 pounds of drugs?  Well if you can get by that one tiny miscue, you will find a very well written, and acted out story.   Lately I have found myself getting drawn into the storylines of the movies I watch, and developing a personal feeling for the characters that I watch.  This movie is no different.  By the end of the movie I found myself caring more for her than any of the other characters in the film.      Bill Pullman plays Hank Green, an attorney who lives in Thailand and specializes in international relations.  As always Pullman delivers with an excellent performance and ties the movie together beautifully.      There are a few twists and turns that will, by the end of the movie, have you in tears.  This is one of those movies that you have most likely passed by when searching for that movie to watch at home.  It is my opinion that the next time out at the video store, do not pass by this one again.  "},{"Title":"A movie that should've been great but isn't","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really wanted to like this film because Claire Danes is one of my favourite actresses. Actually to give credit where it's due, she is very good in it. Unfortunately she is let down by a poor script, unimaginative direction and a lacklustre supporting cast.The story about two girls being arrested for the possession of drugs is good and would be an opportunity to create a tense, harrowing and dramatic film. One would think...What we do get instead is a light, glossy movie that merely scratches on the surface of the situation. The girls never seem to be too depressed at the thought of spending the next 35years of their life in a prison. And who could blame them? The prison allows them to roam freely around in the sun all day and sleep whenever they like. They also get free stylish haircuts while they're there.Kate Beckinsale in the best friend role, with an American accent demonstrated much better in The Last Days of Disco, is bland and too nice considering she is stuck in jail and has cockroaches crawling around in her ear! Bill Pullman is adequate in his role of the girls' lawyer but there is a badly miscast Amanda DeCadenet as a British prisoner.Add to this a boring and standard direction by Jonothan Kaplan, who is never brave enough to execute the sporadic bursts of imagination he occasionally has, means that Brokedown Palace is a film that could've been great but instead is merely watchable and ultimately forgettable, despite a good performance by Claire Danes. "},{"Title":"Could have been better.","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I think that Brokedown Palace misses an oppurtunity to become a really interesting film. It's not even a good B-movie about girls in prison. Kaplan seems to know the territory, but lost his direction. I never really cared for the characters. There are so many better films about this subject.  "},{"Title":"Nice Prison!!!!","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Getting busted for heroin smuggling in Thailand has seen many a traveler, some Australian, slammed away in nasty Thai jails for years and years.	So what sort of a film might you make about such a predicament? Well you could hire a couple of attractive young actresses (Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale) as the victims, lighten up on the prison bit as much as possible, and at every opportunity throw over the top a soundtrack from which a CD could be made.	At the same time turn the film into a teen angst movie about two friends. Have them argue meekly about who slept with who and who's been telling lies.  Surround these girls with prisoners and guards who are hardly noticed or noticeable, and throw into the mix a good dollop of cockroaches for a tasty third world effect.And by keeping the mood of the film frivolous, let the audience know from the start that everything is going to be alright even after the arrest and incarceration.   But Brokedown Palace could have been made another way.  In this version there would be no long, happy, holiday prologue about the events leading up to the arrest. Or if there was that would be only to accentuate the horror of what's happened to the girls.The mood of the movie would be coloured  without abundant sunlight, using dark, discordant  music.Then end the movie with suicide or murder. That would be much more in tow with the more normal, real life (Australian) experiences following imprisonment in Thai Brokedown Palaces.Guess which way the film was made?Not all films need to be gut wrenching dramas but presenting this sort of material in such a light weight, optimistic fashion seems to be a bit rich.Midnight Express and  Return To Paradise are films that treated similar subjects in their proper fashion.Brokedown Palace is pleasant enough but should it have been?  "},{"Title":"Bitter Disappointment (possible Spoilers)","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had been looking forward to seeing this film for a long time, after seeing Return to Paradise, which I found to be gritty. I was so disappointed. The most realistic thing about it was the unpredictable ending which I think was partly stolen from Return to Paradise. Maybe I was expecting too much. On the positive side Danes, Beckinsale and Pullman were fantastic in their roles. Although I didnt like Danes's character and first and found her very annoying. I couldnt see anything realistic about the film. It could of been done so much better, for example there could of been more emphasis on the prison conditions and the sheer horror. It was too cheery a movie to be realistic. There could also of been more action and tensionThe best thing about this film is the tragic ending. I couldnt of predicted that. But by that time I really didnt care what happened to them.3/10 "},{"Title":"If teen formulas grow stale...try some old-school racism","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If Alan Parker's MIDNIGHT EXPRESS seemed like a railroading of the Turkish, wait until you try on this number for size. Two American girls (Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale) go on a pre-college vacation in Thailand. After a dalliance with an Australian bohunk--and much Kevin Williamson-like neuroting about who's going to get him--the bohunk plants heroin in the girls' Le Sportsac, and before you can say Giorgio Moroder, they're in Hell--represented most pungently by a Thai girl prisoner who's so envious and bitter about the girls' creamy white skin that she tricks them into misdeeds that get them caned.The filmmakers dispense with the usual baloney in which certain characters of a sinisterly displayed foreign country are made nice and palatable for balance. In this world, anything outside the purview of Mom, Dad, buds and boyfriends is colored, scary, evil. (A scene in which a girl is driven mad after a cockroach crawls into her ear is like a true-life horror story in Jane Magazine.) When Claire Danes is ejected from a kangaroo court, her parting exclamation--This is all a Third World joke!--is presented without irony.Unconsciously, the movie is like a Noam Chomsky analysis of contemporary teen culture writ large. The point of the movie seems to be that the entire world should be made safe for nice white girls who just want to go to college and snare a foxy guy. Anywhere in the world less safe than a Miata drive to the local food court is dirty, unsavory, and generally a Third World joke.Claire Danes' frighteningly lifelike impersonation of a face crumpling into helpless tears was raw and impressive the first time out. Now, she's starting to seem like a manipulative kid pulling familiar strings (and wanting you to applaud the effort). The director, Jonathan Kaplan, seems to be cursed. Since his dreadful but inexplicably beloved THE ACCUSED, his stock in trade seems to be tricking up exploitation-movie material for young actresses into something that's both vehicle-y, and extremely self-important. He seems unable to shape a scene here, so he lets the spine-cracking orchestral score do that for him.It's time for a demographic shift. I pray for the day when the DAWSON'S CREEK generation finally goes to college, and this chapter of cinema draws to a close.  "},{"Title":"Broken Production","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brokedown Palace seems to be a hybrid between a gal-pal movie and a women's prison film. This odd combination does not work for either of these genres.This film tries to sell the idea that the two female leads , Alice (Danes) and Darlene (Beckinsale), are inseparable friends since childhood. It is a good thing that they go to such lengths to point this out because you couldn't tell that from either the screenplay or the performances of either Danes or Beckinsale.The story about the foreign imprisonment of the two girls from Ohio is difficult to believe. This creates a fundamental problem with Brokedown Palace since this is the centerpiece of the film. I do not know whether this plot point was based on any historical event but it appears to be entirely fictional.The depiction of the Thai judicial system is also problematic. While there are advantages to the U.S. judicial system relative to those in some foreign countries the treatment here seems self-serving and even borders on propaganda.On the positive side, Brokedown Palace delivers some compelling cinematography, some good musical accompaniment and some compelling scenes delivered by a solid cast. "},{"Title":"Horrid melodrama","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale portray characters that are so annoying that the viewer might actually want them to stay in jail forever. Their descent there begins when a young gentleman invites them to accompany him to Hong Kong while they're vacationing in Thailand. Drawn by his looks and initial charm, they agree to come along. However, he is really looking for some people that he can pin his heroin possession on before he gets busted. He hides the drugs in their luggage and then sets them up to meet him at the airport. Shades of Midnight Express come along when the girls are caught by the Thailand authorities and charged with drug possession and trafficking. The guy who set them up is not seen or heard from for the rest of the film and the viewer is basically stuck with having to suffer with Danes and Beckinsale the rest of the way through. Eventually, Bill Pullman comes along, portraying an American lawyer who believes their story of innocence but it's going to take quite a fight to tell that to the judges and authorities. By the time it's over, the viewer probably really won't care what happens to these young ladies anymore since their adventures are some of the ultimate exercises in lost patience in recent Hollywood history. "}{"Title":"Where is the conclusion?","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A very good story for a film which if done properly would be quite interesting, but where the hell is the ending to this film?In fact, what is the point of it?The scenes zip through so quick that you felt you were not part of the film emotionally, and the feeling of being detached from understanding the storyline.The performances of the cast are questionable, if not believable.Did I miss the conclusion somewhere in the film? I guess we have to wait for the sequel. "},{"Title":"Unoriginal premise, boring movie","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was almost painful to sit through. The idea behind it-two friends in a foreign country wrongfully accused of smuggling drugs-has already been used (see Return to Paradise, which also happens to be better than this...and that's saying a lot). The legal struggle that takes place is also reminiscent of Return to Paradise, or even Red Corner. That's not to say that it couldn't have been a decent movie, because the themes of friendship, freedom, justice, etc., will almost always work when done well. Unfortunately, this one just drags. I fail to sympathize with Danes and Beckinsale's characters, probably because they were just incredibly stupid. Seeing Bill Pullman speak Thai is amusing, but that's not what I paid to see. I think the only thing that caught my attention is hearing a Delerium song; otherwise, stick with one of the other two movies I mentioned to get a more compelling version of the same basic idea. "},{"Title":"A poor film that failed to get to grips with the country in which it was set","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Having lived in Thailand for the last seven years, I was interested in seeing this film; another typical story of drug smugglers being caught in South East Asia, with everyone to blame but themselves. Having endured the first few minutes of the film, it became incredibly apparent that whoever put their name to this film did not have the first inclination on how to portray Thais or Thailand properly, which is a shame, as it distracted from what otherwise could have been an interesting focus on the girls' tested friendship and the touched on subjects of the corrupt Thai justice system and politics. Apart from the dull panoramic views of Bangkok they were wide of the mark in the portrayal of Thailand, Thai people, their mannerisms, their demeanor and of most things in general. I mean, a Thai courtroom without a Garuda and a picture of the King? Just a ridiculous, basic error, amongst many others that exposed the amateurish way this was produced. The actors playing Thai people couldn't act like Thais, their mannerisms, actions and language often too ridiculous to keep a straight face. Unfortunately, without such glaring errors, this may have stood a better chance of addressing a serious subject, and telling a good yarn into the bargain. This film will probably appeal to those not familiar with Thailand, those that are should give it a wide berth. "},{"Title":"Good story with a few flaws","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Two adventurous teenagers, best friends, take a trip to Thailand for one last experience before separating and going off to college.  It seems like a fun time of touring an exotic land, until they meet an attractive stranger who seduces them into taking a trip to Hong Kong and puts drugs in their luggage.  They get nabbed by the local police and find that justice in Asia is very different from justice in the U.S.This is the main story line for Brokedown Palace and it was a good one.  The film does a decent job of portraying the arbitrary and corrupt justice systems of third world nations.  Actually, the portrayal was rather mild, as the prison conditions are often far worse than depicted.  It serves as a reminder that no matter how bad we think our justice system is, it is pristine by comparison to much of the rest of the world.Unfortunately, there were too many contrived situations in the film that hampered the story.  The whole escape attempt was bogus fantasy.  To think that friends would be able to smuggle money for a bribe into the prison in a padded bra, and not be discovered by the guards who were systematically checking everything brought in from visitors, assumes that either the guards or the viewers are utter blockheads.The story also fails to bring closure to the nagging question of how the drugs got in Alice's (Claire Danes) backpack.  Did she actually agree to transport the drugs?  We are left to guess.  It was intriguing to be kept guessing about the girls' innocence throughout the film, but we finish the movie never really knowing if one or both of the girls might be guilty.  Except for this considerable flaw, the ending was excellent and the results unexpected.The acting by Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale was very solid and well done.  Danes, who has been oversold and over hyped, actually arrived as an actor in this film.  Though her portrayal was frequently immature (as was her character), she improved as the film progressed and the circumstances became more dire.  Beckinsale, in contrast has been flying under the radar her whole brief career and shines as the goody-two-shoes who suddenly finds herself in prison.  Her's was the best performance in the film.Bill Pullman was miscast as the lawyer.  His wry and diffident style is an asset in films like While You Were Sleeping, but as a lawyer in a third world country on a crusade to free two innocent girls from injustice, he had the wrong personality.The tourist's look at Thailand was interesting, but it didn't make me want to go there.Overall, an entertaining film made implausible in parts by the insertion of some ridiculous scenes.  I gave it a 7/10.    "},{"Title":"Not worth your $7.50","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this film was incredibly boring and contrived.  It was just like the other dumb movie, Return to Paradise.  When will Hollywood wake up and stop making such garbage?Out of thousands of writers and thousands of screenplays, the studio decides to make another We Hate People of Other Races, But Please Don't Hate Us movie.  Another film made by same hypocrites who wonder why people of all races can't get along.   "},{"Title":"A simple story of friendship","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brokedown Palace is the story of two best friends, Alice and Darlene, who go on a spontaneous trip to Thailand and wind up in prison after being caught with planted drugs in their luggage. In this way, the movie had the potential to turn into a serious and moving film, such as Return to Paradise, but instead, the movie chose to focus little on the girls' situation and more on their friendship.Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale both turn in excellent performances, and the movie is much more about the interplay between them - the suspicion, the jealousy, the questioning and testing of their friendship and ultimately the sacrifices made in the name of friendship. This movie chooses not to delve too deeply into politics or even into the harshness of prison life (which is a bit glossed over), and focuses more on these friendship issues.There were some plot holes here, and some parts that just didn't seem believable or realistic. We didn't feel the real fear or hopelessness of their situation as well as we might have. And we get very little feeling of life outside the prison walls, with Bill Pullman playing the supposedly sleazy lawyer who actually turns out to have a heart of gold. In short, this should, by all rights, have been a much darker movie than it was.But overall, I enjoyed it. The acting was good, the soundtrack was perfect, and the storyline had enough twists and turns to stay interesting. Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Prejudice","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The girls in this film have so much contempt for other cultures and peoples of other countries that it doesn't seem like such a bad thing when they get arrested for an unrelated reason.  Sure, the cops are crooked that framed them, but what is more damaging, the idea that cops are crooked, or the idea that every one who is not an American is second rate and second class citizens of this world?  It was hard to find sympathy for any of the main characters, as they all seemed to have this type of prejudice inbred into them.  The fact that this movie was made in the first place shows that there is still a ton of prejudice in this country towards peoples of other nations and that the general populace holds true to.  It is sort of the afraid of the youth movies they were making in the 50's and 60's, except this is xenophobia.  And what's with the cheesy Adult-Alternative New Age chick songs every five minutes thrown in to swell the scenes?  Talk about style over substance.  It's like watching a really LONG episode of Dawson's Creek or something.  I think they were more concerned with selling a ton of the soundtrack albums than anything else.  This film would have had more redeeming qualities if it were based on a true story.  But, as it stands, it is more like watching a TV show than anything really compelling or of immediate substance.  "},{"Title":"No closure","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I loved the movie, but like everyone said, there were some bits that weren't developed enough. I thought personally that the girls were very vapid before they landed in prison; sure, they were supposed to be innocent American girls but still...I felt like they lacked that bond that best friends are supposed to have. For example, in the montage where they're sight-seeing, the way they held each other for the photograph was very awkward-looking.Then, there are some parts that were very ambiguous. I think it's pretty much understood that Danes' character didn't do it, but I can see how that could be confusing. Also, why did the camera dwell on Manat bearing a very grim expression after he put the bags in their taxi trunk? I thought it was suggesting something, but it turned out to be nothing.Apart from that, the movie was great. I cried when Claire Danes took the blame; she's a GREAT actress.Also, I wanted to see that bitchy Thai inmate get her ass kicked. Talk about lack of closure... "},{"Title":"It doesn't add anything new to the genre","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brokedown Palace is a movie with a typical dramatic story, used in probably more than 100 TV-movies. So why do they use it yet again in a bigger production like this one? I don't know, but what I do know is that it certainly doesn't add much to the genre. I really didn't see anything renewing or original about this movie and that's too bad, because I'm sure there is still some potential...This movie tells the story of two friends, both young women, who are going to celebrate their high-school graduation by taking a trip to Thailand. At first everything goes smooth, but when they get into trouble at the swimming pool of a fancy hotel where they don't stay, a young good looking Australian called Nick Parks helps them out. They start seeing him more often and when he asks them to fly with him to Hong Kong they first hesitate, but eventually give in. But they never even make it to the tarmac, because the police immediately arrests them in the airport. The police officers believe they were trying to smuggle drugs in their luggage and indeed, heroin is found in their backpacks. But the girls are innocent, they don't know anything about the drugs. They have been set up by Nick Parks, who used them as a decoy for the police so the rest of his smugglers could get on the plane without problems. Both girls are convicted in a show trial and sentenced to 33 years and when the father of one of the girls fails to free them, they contact Yankee Hank, a sleazy American lawyer based in Thailand who has been reported to be helpful if you've got the cash...As I already said before, this movie doesn't add anything to the genre that you haven't seen before. In fact, this entire movie didn't have anything special to offer. The acting is OK, but not exceptional, the story has been told too many times before and the way everything is told and shown isn't special either. So should you watch it? Sure, why not, if you've got some teenagers who are planning a trip to Asia and want to use is as a warning or if you're a big fan of this kind of movies, then you'll love it. Personally I'm not too much a fan of this movie and that's why I give it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"A good movie that try's too hard to be Midnight Express. And fails might I add","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Imagine Midnight Express, only with chicks. That pretty much sums up the premise of Brokedown Palace. The story revolves around two girls who have been best friends their entire lives. Alice (Claire Danes) is kind of a troublemaker and Darlene (Kate Beckinsale) is more of the naïve, goody goody type. Right after graduating from High School they decide they need to cut loose, so they go to exotic Thailand (of all places).There they meet a mysterious Australian. Both girls fall for the guy and Darlene talks Alice into flying to Hong Kong to meet him. But vacation plans can really change when Customs finds two kilos in your backpack. Now sentenced to over 30 years in a Thai prison, they must rely on a shady American lawyer (Bill Pullman) to prove their innocence. But, in Thailand, being innocent may not be enough.To be honest, I didn't think I was going to like this movie. I mean, yeah, the idea of two girls in a Thai prison sounds intriguing, but I was pretty sure it wasn't that kind of movie. It does start out slow, but once they get busted the movie really holds your attention. These two young American girls are in a totally messed up situation and there?s nothing they can do about it. As a viewer, I could actually feel their frustration. There are also a few exciting, edge of your seat scenes. I don?t want to give too much away, but let me just say that trying to escape can be punishable by death.The only complaint I have is that they made the prison too nice. I wouldn't want to spend my vacation there, but compared to other film prisons, this one?s pretty tame. One of the highlights of Brokedown Palace is the acting. Claire Danes and Bill Pullman are excellent and Lou Diamond Phillips (it?s good to see him working again) is great as a slimy DEA agent. Overall, with great acting and a compelling storyline, Brokedown Palace definitely deserves at least one viewing.***/***** "}{"Title":"Damn Japanese!","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I think this is what this movie wants us to say at the end of the movie! or Damn Australian? I still don't know, but what I know is that I really liked this movie but that couldn't be my favorite movie!Great story with great actors but with a terrible end... To make you cry and say 'Oh, she's so good'... Still, who made it? What really happened? Who's that guy? No answer to these questions...Mysterious movie with a good mark overall... I give it a 8/10, going on the 8.5! "},{"Title":"What if?","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" *Possible Spoilers* Although done before (and better) in 'Midnight Express' and 'Return To Paradise', Brokedown Palace still strikes a chord with me.Here we have the tale of two young girls who travel through Thailand, and get arrested on charges of trafficking drugs. Was it Clare Danes' Alice? Was it Kate Beckinsale's Darlene? Was it the handsome stranger whom they met on their journey? None of that really matters, for this is a tale of friendship and trust and the limits they can be stretched to. Throw in Bill Pullman as an unenthusiastic lawyer and Jacqueline Kim as his Thai bride (and better lawyer than he is) and we have a nice little story that holds the audience's attention.Brokedown Palace is nothing extraordinary, or notorious for any reason - it is not an original concept, it doesn't show sensationalised violence that leads to the wannabe-avant-garde crowd talking about it's gritty realism or hard hitting truths - it is merely a good story with some fine performances. Bill Pullman is weakest with his lazy drawl and gravelly way of talking - I was quite bored with the character.Kate Beckinsale, while decent, is nothing spectacular. She acts well, but it's not exactly a memorable performance.Jacqueline Kim however, is in fine form, crafting a likable and defined character where, really, there is not much to work with.But make no mistake - this is Clare Danes' movie. I've long been a fan of her work, and this is no change. She captivates in every scene she appears, and were it not for her, the film would probably stoop into boring fare. I particularly applaud her performance in the scene between her and Darlene's father.The film also has a brilliant soundtrack.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"starts strong but gradually loses impact","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ambitious prison drama about two best friends, one college-bound, the other a chronic delinquent, who celebrate their high school graduation by vacationing in Thailand. Once there, they meet a charming stranger who invites them on an all-expenses paid trip to Hong Kong, but while awaiting their flight at the airport they're busted for heroin smuggling&#x97;an offense considered worse than murder by the Thai government. Sentenced to life in prison, they call upon an American lawyer (Pullman) who knows the Thai justice system but questions the alleged innocence of his two clients. Has some effective moments, and is carried a long way by the performances of its three leads, but eventually turns overly melodramatic and predictable. **½ "},{"Title":"di maa, good movie","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Good exciting movie, although it looks to me that it's not been recorded on location in Thailand, it still looks realistic. Nice story about some girls having 'fun' in one of the most beautiful countries on the world. In real the Thai people are very kind.   "},{"Title":"just average","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale play best friends who get set up for drug smuggling, then get tossed into a rugged prison in Hong Kong. The cast is good and the story is above average, but there are many moments of boredom and a tendency to become much too melodramatic. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Beckinsale Shines in Above Average Film","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I did not expect to like Brokedown Palace,I only rented it to see the talented Kate Beckinsale take on a modern day role.The film itself was a pleasant surprise,well constructed and intense. Beckinsale,is of course outstanding in her role,showing us an entirely new facet of her vast talent.Claire Danes fairs less well as the other half of the duo,but even she has her moments and does in no way hamper the film. The other outstanding performance is Bill Pullman as their Unconventional lawyer.He turns in another engaging characterization. Some of the plot may seem contrived at times but the performances and direction will pull you in. "},{"Title":"Who can you trust?","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After high-school graduation, best friends Alice and Darlene, decide to take a trip to Thailand. Whilst they are there, they meet a charming Australian guy named Nick. After spending some time with Nick, he asks them if they want to take a weekend trip to Hong Kong with him. They agree. At the airport though, they are get busted for smuggling drugs and then get convicted for 33 years in a Thai prison for something they say they haven't done. Not really knowing what to do they end contacting Yankee Hank, an American lawyer who lives in Thailand with his wife. Word has it that if you have the money he can help you.  Things start of well, but they still can't get out.The movie is really good because it doesn't let on what's going to happen and it's interesting all the time. I couldn't believe the ending though. It was one of those endings where you don't know the 100% truth, but you still kind of know what really happened with Nick and the drug smuggling because of the 'owning up' etc. Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale both give quite good performances here. Beckinsales performance was a little weak though. Both Danes and Beckinsales characters friendship is good but could of seemed stronger. Paul Walker even has a small uncredited role here. ;)Anyway, I thought Brokedown Palace was a good movie and I give it a 7/10.  "},{"Title":"More than a female version of Midnight Express","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Brokedown Palace is of course a film about Americans in a foreign prison, but it delves deeper into the themes of friendship and loyalty. You see what people do for each other in a bad situation, and how far friends will go to stay loyal to one another.The prison itself is not a place one would want to spend time, but it does seem like the two girls have a crew of hair stylists and makeup experts at their disposal behind bars, which makes it seem somewhat less realistic than it ought to be. Even considering their young age, you kind of don't feel too sorry that the two girls got caught. They come across initially as frivolous and somewhat spoiled, for example charging drinks to another room at the hotel and not caring about it. They also seem incredibly naive to allow someone like Nick Parks romance them and then con them into going to Hong Kong; you can see what he is planning a mile away, and want to kick the girls for being so blind.Brokedown Palace is worth watching, as it is more than a women in prison film or Americans in foreign prison movie. Despite some plot flaws it tells a good story about loyalty and friendship, and how far two friends would go for one another.  "},{"Title":"Low budget High quality","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a low budget film with a cast of unknowns and a minimum of on location shoots. The Philippines substitute for Thailand and nobody actually goes to Hong Kong. The stock shot of a Cathay Pacific jumbo jet landing at the old airport makes the transition perfectly. This film proves that you need neither mega budgets nor a headliner star to produce an excellent movie. It contains neither the gaffes nor the excesses that young filmakers often stumble into. Solid workmanship from people who know all the aspects of movie making and who understand the compromises between art and box office. An excellent piece of work!   "},{"Title":"tears rolling down my cheeks","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  i just finished watching Brokedown Palace for my second time, before tonight i hadn't seen it in maybe half a year. for the ending 10 minutes of it and even now while i am writing this review, 5 minutes after it ended, i have been uncontrollably crying. this movie touches me so much. darlene and alice's friendship is so amazing, the movie in general is just so powerful. i completely forgot how amazing a movie it is until watching it again tonight. everybody, please, this is a movie people shouldn't miss. i can't begin to express how powerful this movie is and what an affect it has on me. "}{"Title":"Good, but nothing special","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A good film with strong performances (especially the two leads). The film is about two American girls who are caught with 6 kilo's heroin on an airport in Thailand. They're both thrown in prison and one of them signs a confession. Bill Pullman plays the lawyer who tries to get them out. All they have to do is find a Nick Parks who put the narcotics in the bag of one of the two girls. So far for the story which isn't that original (it has many resemblances with the better Return to Paradise).The acting and Newton Thomas Sigel's beautiful photography make this film worth to watch. A 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great Acting (Contains Spoilers)","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is about two girls(Claire Danes, Kate Becinsale) that go on a fantasy vacation to Tailand. When they get there they meet a handsome Australian man. He acts like he loves them, minipulates them, and suduces one of them. Then he asks them to go to Hong Kong with him. The girls agree to go. When they get to the airport, they get stopped by the police. The police search threw their bags and find drugs in their bag. Through the rest of the movie the girls are in this prison like camp. Many times almost getting out. In the end, the good girl gets out and the bad girl stays at the prison camp.There is some very good acting in this movie. I suggest that everyone goes and sees it. I gave a very brief discription of the movie and there are a lot of other things that happen in the movie. Some people say that it is basicly a remake of Return to Paridise. If you haven't seen Return to Paridise (like me) you will think that this is a really good movie. 7/10. "},{"Title":"so - so flick with a great Claire Danes","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I happened to see this flick late one sleepless night on cable and it kept my interest, although considering what else was on at 330 AM, that's not saying too much.The story is interesting (think Midnight Express with two chicks in Thailand instead of Turkey) but the real draw is Claire Danes.  She looks GREAT in prison garb with that fabulous tousled blonde hair... God, she's fine. "},{"Title":"Aah!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this last night and it was one of the worst movies I have seen. Bill Pullman is a great actor but doing films like this doesn't give him the credit he deserves. Claire Danes gave a good performance but Kate Beckinsale was very weak and Daniel Lapaine was very good too despite limited screen time.A few things was missing from this film that being tracking down Nick, exposing the corruption and finding out who of the two was responsible for the fiasco. Also the ending could have been better.This was a huge let down and one to be avoided. "},{"Title":"more filler and thriller","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While this film is based on a good idea, I felt it never really got to grips with it`s subject, or explored the potential depths of the issues it focuses on. While Danes, Beckinsale and pullman give competent performances they never really shine, and I found the film sluggish in places.On current standards this film doesn`t really live up to other psychological thrillers, eg instinct and By the time i`d reached the end of the film, I found it boring and mediocre, perhaps it would have been more suited as a made for Tv film.  "},{"Title":"Dickens' Morality in the Late Nineties?","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING  May Contains SpoilersI liked the premise of Brokedown Palace.  Succinctly, teenage Americans have no business treating the world like their own personal Disneyland.  When they do, as does Alice, played by Claire Danes and Darlene, played by Kate Beckinsale, calamity ensues.  The two girls meet a charming young Australian, whom they both become enchanted with.The Aussie is more interested with making money in a most sordid  way.  He uses naive girls to smuggle drugs, with or without their knowledge.After the bust and seeing our leading ladies sent off to a third world prison, the viewer is given interesting glimpses of friends and family abandon the convicted girls.  If the film had quit with a depressing yet striking tale of languishing westerners in a Thai prison camp, it would have been successful.Oh no.  The end produces a Tale of Two Cities scene in which friend takes the fall for friend.  To be sure, it is completely unconvincing.  I'm probably being too generous, but I give Brokedown Palace 5 of 10.  And oh yeah, if you are under twenty, stay the hell out of third world Asia. "},{"Title":"A limp recreation of Return to Paradise","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This rough female version of return to paradise really puts u to sleep.. It is hard to feel for the two female characters...and for gods sake Hollywood's bashing of Malaysia and Thailand's justice systems is getting old...We should examine inequities in our own system more often..Dead Man Walking was  a start...but i mean showing spoiled american kids roughed up in foreign prisons is rather drab and boring in my opinion.I predict Claire Danes will do a breakthrough performance sooner or later; Breakdown Palace is not it! "},{"Title":"Superb finale doesn't quite make up for 85 shallow minutes","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  	Compared to most recent movies which fall apart in the last fifteen minutes, Brokedown Palace is good in that it all but deteriorates at the end, the ending is actually by far the film's best part.	For a good part of the first 85 minutes you sit there wondering what went wrong during production. Brokedown Palace is both technically well done and entertaining, but is very shallow. The story never seems to dive into what could've been explored, spending too much time concerned with being pretty, and not enough time, for lack of a better word, thinking (sort of like the two lead character's personalities).	Especially considering the somewhat weak script, the acting is astounding. Both Beckinsale and especially Danes deliver excellent performances, the latter one of the best of '99. Still, the story is too undeveloped and with too many loose ends to create much of an impact, making it an inferior female version of 'Return to Paradise', even going far enough as to have an almost identical box cover/poster. "},{"Title":"Tired tale received lackluster performances","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  You've probably seen this movie before, first when it was called Midnight Express and then when it was called Return to Paradise. Same basic plot - American(s) are in a Far East country and get busted for drug possession/smuggling, and the rest of the movie is spent trying to get them freed. In this case, the perpetrators are two young women (Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale), who tell their folks they're going to Hawaii but instead head to Thailand for a week and a half. Well, as you can imagine, the idyllic paradise isn't quite all that, and our protagonists spend some time in a nasty, icky women's prison (called Brokedown Palace). Interestingly, an early scene in Thailand has the girls jumping on a bed, screaming because of a cockroach. But as soon as they're arrested, that naive waif-like attitude is gone, and suddenly they're tough as raw beef. The key to this story is whether Danes and Beckinsale can draw you in, get some sympathy from you. Sadly, neither one does this. Both performances are rather one-note; there's hardly any character development in a movie that cries out for it. In fact, many of the lines are delivered so badly that you almost have to keep yourself from laughing out loud - although surely this is no comedy! Bill Pullman plays a cagey lawyer (conveniently married to a Thai) who pleads their case. As a crusty, veteran, world-weary, seen-it-all barrister, Pullman does fine work, although you have to question his judgement in some scenes.All in all, not as compelling as it should have been. Incidentally, the term Brokedown Palace comes from a Grateful Dead song of the same name; reportedly, the makers of the movie were Deadheads. "},{"Title":"Average Drama","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well acted by Pullman, Danes and Beckinsale the movie really really doesn't have a great deal of dramatic content.Very nice to look at and good locations help round out an average film. "}{"Title":"Missed Opportunity","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Getting busted for heroin smuggling in Thailand has seen many a traveler, some Australian, slammed away in nasty Thai jails for years and years.	So what sort of a film might you make about such a predicament? Well you could hire a couple of attractive young actresses (Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale) as the victims, lighten up on the prison bit as much as possible, and at every opportunity throw over the top a soundtrack from which a CD could be made.	At the same time turn the film into a teen angst movie about two friends. Have them argue meekly about who slept with who and who's been telling lies.  Surround these girls with prisoners and guards who are hardly noticed or noticeable, and throw into the mix a good dollop of cockroaches for a tasty third world effect.And by keeping the mood of the film frivolous, let the audience know from the start that everything is going to be alright even after the arrest and incarceration.   But Brokedown Palace could have been made another way.  In this version there would be no long, happy, holiday prologue about the events leading up to the arrest. Or if there was that would be only to accentuate the horror of what's happened to the girls.The mood of the movie would be coloured  without abundant sunlight, using dark, discordant  music.Then end the movie with suicide or murder. That would be much more in tow with the more normal, real life (Australian) experiences following imprisonment in Thai Brokedown Palaces.Guess which way the film was made?Not all films need to be gut wrenching dramas but presenting this sort of material in such a light weight, optimistic fashion seems to be a bit rich.Midnight Express and  Return To Paradise are films that treated similar subjects in their proper fashion.Brokedown Palace is pleasant enough but should it have been?  "},{"Title":"If I were Alice...","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I tried to put myself in the situation after I've seen this movie.I don't know if I can do this kind of sacrifices to my friend.This is a good movie but I still think that it could be better if there's something more realistic. "},{"Title":"Too lame to watch","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There are many ways to look at a good movie critically. The movie has to have action and comedy, to keep my intrest. Well watching Brokedown Palace I realized that this movie did not meet my criteria for a good movie. 	 	I believe that a good movie should be an action packed thrill ride to the end. When the 2 women were running from the prison trying to escape, it could of been a great scene but hey chose to make it totaly lame. Also when they were in the airport and the police came they just stood there when they could of ran away or at least said something to get a little action going. These 2 examples I gave were not even close to my criteria for a good movie.	Laughter, telling jokes, you think they could of had some of this in the movie but no, there was no comedy whatsoever. One night when they were all in the cell talking, they were only serious, they didn't even say a single funny thing which was really disapointing. The day after after graduation they all got together andhad a party but still no one said one comical thing the whole time. To me a movie without comedy is a dull movie that should have never been made in the first place.	This movie lacts everything and anything to me that makes a good movie. I would not recommend this to anyone unless they enjoy very slow movies.	SRVHS Student-Kris  "},{"Title":"Next time on a very special Blossom . . .","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Why did I pay $6.50 to see the NBC movie of the week.  With a ludicrous plot, ridiculous dialogue, and a corny its not so bad in this prison ending, I really thought I would see Tori Spelling playing Claire Danes role.  This material is better suited for an after school special on not having sex with foreigners.  With the rockin' soundtrack, I kept expecting James Van der Beek to appear and give some moral to the story.  The most hilarious part of the whole film was Kate Bekinsale's father's words to Claire Danes in prison.  That was classic and from that point on, everything had me laughing.  What is unfortunate is that real actors stole these role from some less fortunate thespians.  Bill, I'm sure Scott Baio or Kirk Cameron would have jumped at the chance to play Yankee Hank. "},{"Title":"What a waste of a potentially good premise!","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was quite disappointed with Brokedown Palace.  A potentially good plot was squandered mercilessly, thanks to mediocre acting on the part of the two lead actresses and several other key players in the film.  Bill Pullman sure picked a loser on this one. It is hard to pinpoint any other specific wrong-doings on the part of this film, but I'll give it a whirl. In addition to the 'acting,' at times I felt that I was watching the perennially juvenile MTV.  Angst, furrowed brows, hand wringing and running hands through hair abound. I just didn't feel too concerned about either of the girls.  When one is sitting in the movie theatre telling themselves, Well, it IS something to do for an hour and a half, but maybe I should just leave! it can't be a good thing. Don't waste your time on Brokedown Palace.  Instead, flip on Red Corner, which is at least slightly more compelling. "},{"Title":"Excruciatingly slow, predictable","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Two 18-year old girls vacation to Thailand since it you can spend the summer there for $500 (never mind the plane tickets, I guess).  They both are seduced by an Australian who plants drugs in their carry-on luggage. The drugs are discovered at the airport and the girls go to a Thai prison, which is beautifully photographed and is brutal to the extent that there are roaches in the latrine (gasp).  The rest (bulk) of the movie is predictable and pointless bickering over whose fault things are, how far each was romantically involved with the Australian boy, etc., oh, and like, this is so unjust.  we're innocent.  The grating valley girl dramatics get worse as things get weepy and we find out what good friends the two are.  zzzzzzzzzz. It would have been a far cry better if it had any sort of edge.  The pacing is so slow I would have fallen asleep had the theater not been so loud. Plot points that could have been summed up in a line of dialogue go on for long, long scenes.  The soundtrack is embarrassing-  every now and then the movie pauses to turn into a sort of VH-1 music video  wispy vocals, shots of the sunset, the girls laughing or brooding (as the occasion warrants). No doubt teenybopper types will like this but I would have been upset if I had paid to see it. "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"16 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie was so much better than I expected. Towards the end i was foolish enough to think that it'd have a happy ending and that they would get out and blah blah, but the real ending had to happen, the cruel reality and it was the only way out for Dar, since it was pretty clear that neither of them would get free. I also enjoyed and appreciated the acting.A journey into Alice and Dar's friendship, two teenage best friends that just wanted to have fun but things didn't come out as planned. I was crying like a baby at the end. It is a powerful, sad and unfair one but maybe, it was the right thing to do, like Alice said. I wish it was longer, or had some sort of sequel. A truly touching movie about true friendship and I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"emotional but not a great film","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Although not a great film, Brokedown Palace is a highly emotional film; in fact, it is almost like a nightmare becoming reality. (That's not saying it is a horrible film, although the low ratings seem to suggest that!) This was a memorable film because it showcases the worst that can happen while abroad. (I was just getting ready for my first trip abroad before seeing this film.) The story is about two teenage friends who wish to celebrate abroad in Thailand. Unfortunately, they are forced into prison for a crime, unable to plead their innocence. The remainder of the film evolves around them and the horrors of the prison in Thailand and an attempt to prove their innocence. The ending of the film really does show us what true friendship and sacrifice is all about, but you will have to watch the film yourself; I am not going to give away the ending.Although Brokedown Palace was a memorable film to me because it played on my emotions as one of the worst life-changing events that could happen, I did not feel that it provided anything more above and beyond to distinguish itself as a great film. It succeeded in its ability to tell a story, and it receives an average mark from me because it is an engaging (and emotional) film but offers little else. Alternatively, it is not the sort of film to watch if you are seeking a feel-good movie. If you are seeking a cultural or artistic movie, you will also be disappointed. The best way to approach this film is to have no expectations. "},{"Title":"Worth a spin on your DVD player","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I decided to start off my tenure with the Netflix by taking in a few Kate Beckinsale movies I'd never seen. The first of these was 1999's Brokedown Palace, co-starring Clare Danes and (wince) Bill Pullman.Kate and Clare play Darlene and Alice, respectively, two nice girls from Ohio who get caught up in a drug trafficking scam in Taiwan. We can see quite clearly that they were framed (or were they?), but of course the Taiwanese can't. The film spends its first half hour or so with the two young beauties lounging around pools and playing footsie with another rich tourist (Daniel Lapaine), and then, as soon as they are caught, slams them in a pretty rancid jail. We spend the next half an hour or so watching things get progressively worse for them, and then they finally contract the services of one Yankee Hank Green (Pullman) and his wife Yon (Jacqueline Kim), both of them lawyers who specialize in down-and-out cases.The film makes the most of its pretty intro, because once the girls are behind bars, it's an exercise in ugly, ugly, ugly &#150; as would a stay in a Taiwanese prison be, I suppose. There's a sort of drabness of color that underscores effectively the boredom of captivity, and everything seems to be a sort of ruddy earth-tone, including, eventually, even the girls.The acting and direction is a bit melodramatic, with a lot of crying and keening, but overall I felt Danes and Beckinsale both did pretty good jobs with their characters. Beckinsale proves yet again she can do a pretty good American accent (she only slips once or twice), and she and Danes make believable companions in misery. The big surprise, to me, was Pullman, who makes Yankee Hank so likable you end up wanting to see more with him and caring less about the girls. Pullman manages just the right mix of do-gooder mixed with used car salesman, and it works great. Jackie Kim is also strong in her admittedly limited role (and she pulls off a fake accent terrifically too).Brokedown Palace is a good film, if a bit of a downer. I actually respected it more for not having a rosy ending. It moves a bit slow in places, and occasionally you can't believe how stupid or naïve the girls are. But it's an effective drama, certainly worth a spin on your DVD player. "},{"Title":"Gripping, made me stay up very late.  Fantastic realistic story","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Last night (Friday 9th January 2004) at 1130 I was searching through the TV channels desperate for something to watch. I started watching this film because I noticed that it had managed to assemble an impressive cast.  I thought it would be a decent film.  It was more than that.From the moment they walk into the airport and have guns thrust in their faces before their arrest, to the moment where Danes' character is alone in the jail and Beckinsale walks free after an act of heroism from her friend, this film is gripping and realistic.  It shows how real-life can turn from paradise to hell in a flash, and shows the real threat of having drugs 'planted' on you is in a country with a massive drugs trade.  Being thrown into a cell underground and being told You sign! whilst being presented with a drafted confession in a language you can't read, being tricked by authorities and experiencing a deadly harsh legal system and corrupt authorities, then having to spend your life (potentially the next 33 years of it!) in terrible conditions where you have cockroaches crawling into your ears must be horrific, and this film really shows this.The acting is superb, especially the dynamic between Danes and Beckinsale, as well as the perfect performance of Pullman as their lawyer.  These three have to carry most of the film and they do it brilliantly.  I wasn't convinced of Beckinsale before this (I thought the acting in Pearl Harbour was good but not brilliant), but now I believe she is an excellent actress, and Danes and Pullman enhanced their reputations after the respective successes of Romeo and Juliet/Terminator 3 and Independence Day.I would recommend seeing this film to anybody, I'm mostly a comedy fan, but when such a quality drama comes along I really enjoy it. 10/10 "}{"Title":"beautiful, inspiring","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I do not recall ever seeing any commercials for this film, and that is disappointing. This movie, from what I understand it is marketed towards young women. I am a 23 year old male and I loved this film. It is inspiring and thought provoking. In the end what else can you really ask for in a movie. I don't know how else I can express in words what I felt during and after watching this movie. A pleasant change of pace from the normal drivel being spit at us from hollywood.Claire danes, as always, gives an amazing performance. Do yourself a favor and watch this. "},{"Title":"A movie of true friendship..","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I heard about Brokedown Palace from my best friend one day and of course she made me watch it just so I could see what a great movie it was. I was surprised at how good the acting was.The story has all the twists and turns, yet, me being a movie freak, couldn't see what the outcome of all the events would lead to and was surprised to watch what Alice (Danes) had done in the end.All the actors were amazing! It shows all the little details that the two friends went through in the Thai jail and the hardships that they went through.The movie had a great story line to it, which a lot of movies tend to lack.This is actually one of my favourite movies, I've seen it a billion times, bought the movie, i know a lot of the lines and even remember some of the Thai the girls learn to speak.. lol "},{"Title":"Um. Okay.","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  (possible spoilers)What did I just watch? I wanted to like this movie. I truly did. But come on, am I suppose to believe the King of Thailand would just pardon Darlene (Kate Beckinsale) like that? Actually, am I supposed to believe all of that happened at all?I've seen the same plot in Return to Paradise, which in my opinion is so much better than Brokedown Palace. I felt way more sympathy for Lewis (the prisoner, played by the talented Joaquin Phoenix) than I did for Alice (Claire Danes) and Darlene. Wait, I don't even know if I felt anything for them at all. There was just something missing in Brokedown Palace. The way it was presented, it was really difficult to get emotionally involved with the film. Yes there were a few emotional scenes, but even so, they don't make up for the whole movie, which I thought was...well, to put it bluntly, bad. However, Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale are both wonderful actresses. I reckon they didn't have much to work with. Lim Kay Tong was a pleasant surprise, though I'm not used to seeing him as a bad police chief. Overall the performances were good, but not good enough to save this movie.One last thing. It's Thailand, not China or Taiwan or Indonesia or Malaysia or Singapore. Pure ignorance like this makes me wonder why I never called America Australia or England or um, I don't know, Germany by mistake.   "},{"Title":"It's Called Learning The Hard Way","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  	Upon graduation from High School, two lifelong friends take it upon themselves to alter their post-graduation travel plans, changing the destination of their celebration trip from Hawaii to the more exotic (they think) Thailand.  And for Alice Marano (Claire Danes) and Darlene Davis (Kate Beckinsale), it's but the first of many mistakes they will come to regret in `Brokedown Palace,' directed by Jonathan Kaplan.  Of the two, Darlene is the more reserved, conservative one, and when Alice first suggests changing Hawaii for Thailand, Darlene demurs; she knows her father would never allow it.  Which leads them to mistake number two  They make the arrangements themselves, telling no one, not even their parents, that they've changed destinations.  Initially, they are elated by the freedom the leap from sheltered student to independent adult affords them; unfortunately, they lack the experience and frame of reference needed to successfully negotiate the nuances of a country that is so unlike anything they've ever known.	They land in Thailand and approach their `adventure' with the same casual indifference they would a school field trip, but as they quickly discover, there is no bus waiting to take them home at the end of the day.  Nor are they prepared for the irresistible attention bestowed upon them by the dashing young man they meet-- a traveler as well-- who charms them with some very romantic, and ultimately very dangerous, notions.  They soon learn that being naive in the ways of the real world, and still more innocent than they'd like to admit, can be a lethal combination for two young, unprotected girls in a foreign land.  And in a text book example of learning something the hard way, their epiphany comes too late, and their `harmless' decision to change their travel plans ends up changing their lives forever.	With this film, Kaplan delivers a good, solid and somewhat emotionally involving drama, but it's hardly anything new, and certainly not ground breaking in any way.  In fact, the same territory was covered, only better, in the &#145;98 film, `Return To Paradise,' and especially in 1978's `Midnight Express,' the most significant difference being that the protagonists here are young, vulnerable women.  The film is well made and acted, but there are no real surprises on hand, and barely enough tension to sustain interest.  The best thing about this movie is the performances by Danes and Beckinsale, both of whom manage to make their respective characters believable. 	There is one aspect of the film that challenges credibility somewhat (and it is only slightly), and that is the fact that these two girls are supposedly lifelong, best friends.  Though they relate well enough to one another, there's a decided lack of evidence that would indicate that kind of closeness between them, especially when compared to the similar kind of relationship depicted in the film `Heavenly Creatures,' in which the closeness of the young ladies in question is never in doubt.  The problem, however, is more of a reflection upon the screenplay and the director, than it is on the actors.	The supporting cast includes Bill Pullman (Yankee Hank), Jacqueline Kim (Yon), Lou Diamond Phillips (Roy), Daniel Lapaine (Nick), Tom Amandes (Doug Davis), Aimee Graham (Beth Ann) and John Doe (Bill Marano).  There's a message in `Brokedown Place' that Kaplan holds up like a warning sign for the young, inexperienced adventurer that reads, `Proceed With Caution!'  But words of wisdom are often impotent and are bound to fall on deaf ears when directed at those engaged in the transition between youth and adulthood, and like Alice and Darlene, there are many who will always insist on taking the hard road to enlightenment.  There's definitely an upside to the frivolity of youth, part of which is unencumbered freedom; but as this film so aptly illustrates, there is decidedly a downside to embracing it carelessly.  And it's a sobering thought that far exceeds this medium through which it is so prudently delivered.  I rate this one 5/10. "},{"Title":"What a stinker","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Slow, slow. slow. You'll feel like you got the 40 Years in Prison. Although the jail seemed more like a crummy girls camp than a third world lock up. The girls always had fairly clean clothes, and while their makeup was sparse, they did not convince me that they were in peril. "},{"Title":"Vivid","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well I just saw this movie last night at a friends house and I must say that it is definitely on my top 10 list of worst movies I have ever seen! I felt no emotion for these characters. I've seen commercial actors that show more realism than Kate Beckinsale's performance.  The film was extremely shallow. I read an article in a magazine when this movie came out about the subject of drug smuggling and it was more moving than this movie. If you want to see a good movie about an American stuck in a foreign jail rent MIDNIGHT EXPRESS!  That's all for now.  "},{"Title":"My SO-Called Life Sentence","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was the 5th worst film of 1999.  Just the 5th.  It was not good enough to be the worst.  To do that it would have had to be memorable in some way. It would have to have stood out somehow.  It does not.  This film drags out on the screen and slowly rots away before our eyes.  Oh the humanity!  The most disturbing part of this film is the people who made it.  These are honorable people.  They did The Accused for crisake'!  We expected more from you Mr. Kaplan.  You too Claire, was Jodie watching? Did she put you up to this?  Well, did she?  Why Ms. Danes?  Why?  Why? Why?  I sat in shocked horror at this and asked myself over and over again if it were really happening.  Did they spend money on this?  How much?  What could have been done with this money?  What other films were not made so we could have this...this waste of time, no not even that, this waste of time lite. As I sat outside the women's correctional facility in Bangkok, in March of this year, I was still asking why.  Why was I such a nut?  Why would any halfway rational person obtain a passport...go to Thailand....wait outside the prison walls to visit a stranger based on a film they did not think was worth 100 minutes of there time?  Oh God why?  If you have read this far you already know the plot.  You already know this film is rated PG-13.  Now there is a spoiler...PG-13 for a prison movie.  This must be a pretty tame prison.  It is.  It is the only prison in the world that, among other things, has a taxi service.  That's right, our heroine gets fed up and stomps her little feet were getting out of here she squeals to Darlene, Darlene is doing sand sculpture by the way.  She is into arts and crafts as well.  Thank God for arts and crafts in Thai prisons, who would have thought?  Yes, she walks up to a strange female guard I want to talk to the guard who left the gate open No problem.  Now one might think that after leaving the gate open once before, the guards might remember to lock it this time, it is a prison after all.  But no, after a $100.00 bribe (smuggled in a bra...A push up bra) the obliging guard leaves the gate open, I need to go to the bathroom Whines Darlene, off they go.  But alas there brilliant plan goes awry somehow.  It was such a good plan too.  Just tippy toe out the front door in orange prison jammies with no money or passports, get into the waiting car, as I said they provide taxis in this prison, then go to...oh I don't know, somewhere where no one will notice two barefoot American girls in Orange Prison outfits trying to leave an Asian country. One might have thought about some of the obstacles that might have gotten in there way...like say THE OCEAN!!!!! now there is a little problem, that pesky ocean.  Never mind that, they are caught, slapped in the face (the beasts) and made to sit in the corner and think about what they had done. That's right folks, attempted escape in Thailand gets ya a time out.  Oh the horror!  This still does not explain why I found it necessary to visit the prison there.  You really should go.  We all should.  Every one on this page, damn it!  Were going.  Anyway, about the film.  Yawn.  Who cares? Surely not the writers or the director or the stars or anyone remotely connected with this wheezer.  This film could have been good.  If it was supposed to be about two girls (the working title) then it should have been about two girls.  Not about building a fake Bangkok in Manila, or a soundtrack or disposable characters who wonder in and out of this film as though they were lost.  If they wanted to do a silly movie with pretty cinematography for Claire Danes to stand in front of, why bother with a prison at all?  Why not just have the girls squabble over a boy they both like and play up there economic differences, the class thing, why a prison, why a prison in Thailand? Why? Why?  Oh why?  Anyway, back to my going to Thailand.  I was foolish enough to believe that the man who wrote the screen play was honest about the inspiration for this film.  15 girls like Claire and Kate all doing life in Thailand.  That was enough for me.  I had to go visit and do something.  Well, I got there and found a different story. There were three American women serving time there.  Three.  Two were going home soon, one didn't feel like having a visitor.  The one I spoke with was a strong, capable and fiercely independent women who took offense when I asked her how old she was.  She will be out in two years, she will make it. I will only say that the people who made this mess were supposed to have interviewed prisoners there.  The prisoners never heard of them.  What is going on here?  Anyway.  If you want to join me on my Return to Paradise this summer E-mail me, were gonna have a blast.  And no side trips to Hong Kong.  I promise.   "},{"Title":"Drugs, dolls, dudes, and dupes","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Did she or didn't she? Most excellent film showing why nobody should ever go to a foreign country and take up with a stranger. Spellbinding  throughout with some wondrous performances by an enthusiastic cast some of the best that I've seen in a while. "},{"Title":"Excellent performances saved this one from total failure.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  (spoilers) Brokedown Palace is a very effective and highly emotional film. It succeeds on many levels, but it also fails on many levels. While the film is totally unoriginal (HEAVY emphasis on 'unoriginal'), it is very well acted and directed, even if nearly every aspect of the story itself has very recently been seen in almost exactly the same way. Brokedown Palace is literally a remake of the stunningly powerful film Return To Paradise, which starred Vince Vaughn and Joaquin Pheonix, and which presented almost exactly the same story, except that the main characters were male and there were three of them instead of two.Alice and Darlene (Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale, respectively) take a trip to Thailand together just after high school, to celebrate their lifelong friendship that is about to be separated by college. Once there, they almost immediately encounter a charming Australian guy who wines and dines both of them, sparking intense jealousy, and coerces them to accompany him to Hong Kong. While it's not hard to believe that, in their rush to get to the airport on time, Alice did not notice the extra weight of the narcotics that Nick (the charming Australian guy) planted in her pack, it was kind of a big risk that he took, assuming that they would be too rushed to notice that much extra weight in their luggage.One of the main problems with the film is that Alice and Darlene were so reckless when they first got to Thailand. Sure, this establishes the fact that they just didn't know better, hence increasing the emotion caused by their later misfortune, but some of it was just too much. Like when they were at the royal hotel and ordered all kinds of drinks on some random room's tab, and Alice says, `Oh, they don't care.' Naiveté is one thing, but that is absolute stupidity. Never mind the fact that they are in a foreign and significantly more dangerous country - pulling some moronic stunt like that will get you in big trouble ANYwhere. Another unnecessary element was the ordeal with Darlene's father later in the film. He shows up at the prison in Thailand and soothingly convinces Darlene that everything is going to be okay, that he'll make sure everything is fixed and she gets home safely and out of that damn prison. Then when Alice comes out, he basically tells her that he never trusted her and she can rot in that prison thousands of miles away from anything she knows, for all he cares. Why is it that this guy goes immediately from being a loving and caring father to an absolute worthless bastard? I don't care how many times she got paint on his couch or got his daughter in trouble or whatever, that is no reason to leave her in a strange prison on the other side of the planet. That guy was a total dick, and nothing ever really even came of that scene.The legal ordeal that the girls went through involving the seedy lawyer played by Bill Pullman was also very interesting, but also grossly unoriginal. Alice and Darlene suffer the exact same troubles that faced the characters in Return To Paradise, with exactly the same result. While this was an entertaining and admittedly an intensely emotional film, without the quality performances Brokedown Palace would be little more than an instructional video about what not to do when on vacation in Thailand. The ending leaves you wondering if she ever really does get out of that prison, but we'll never know, because who the hell would want to watch a sequel to a film like this? The film left so many loose ends that it almost cancelled out all of the things that it achieved. We know that Darlene goes home, and obviously she'll try to get Alice out, but they sure didn't have much luck up to that point. We only get a vague idea of what happens to Nick, and the film ends with Alice still in the prison, saying that she knows she did the right thing and that she remains hopeful that Darlene will fight for her until she gets released, too. Optimists are sure to get a good thrill out of this, but every single event in the entire film after they get thrown into prison suggests that Alice is never going to get out of there, at least not until she's an old woman. This weak ending (although still very emotional, due to the quality acting from Claire) takes a lot away from a film that was not that good to begin with. I suggest that you watch Return To Paradise instead - it's more original and  MUCH better.  "},{"Title":"Hackneyed script","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Brokedown Palace's premise is certainly not new. We've seen several films and TV-series with young Americans in Asia (or Australians or Europeans) getting convicted for something they didn't do, or judged too harshly for what they have indeed done. Bangkok Hilton and Return to Paradise are two such examples and they are both better than Brokedown Palace which lacks real interest in the situation. Danes and Beckinsale try their best, but the script is so hackneyed that they can't do much about it. I must say, though, that the movie is certainly not a total failure, and it is at times rather interesting, but we've been there, done that several times before. (5/10) "}{"Title":"2 Stars","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Average drama about two young girls wrongly imprisoned in Singapore after being setup on drug trafficking charges.  Pullman shines as lawyer attempting to get them freed; however, even this performance can't completely save an often times corny script.  Also, a similar story is told better in both Midnight Express and Return to Paradise. "},{"Title":"For Danes' fans only!","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you like Claire Danes, it is a must. Or, if you like to see chics behind bars, this is right up your alley. Otherwise, the flick is slow in story line and acting. If only the story had been followed by supporting actors and direction... oh well. Danes delivers a solid but reserved performance without much to back her up. Would have been nice to have seen Hong Kong.  "},{"Title":"I hate to say it--but this is a horrible movie!","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was so eager to see this. It looked so good from the commercials, and the plotline seemed like it could be milked for a lot of drama and tension. I missed it in theatres, and just rented it last night. And you know what--I'm glad I didn't pay 8.50 for this garbage.Alice (Danes) and Darlene (Beckinsale) are recent high school graduates and best friends, looking for one last fling before Darlene goes off to college. They decide to lie to their parents about a trip to Hawaii and head off to Thailand. After only a short time there, they meet Nick, a charming Aussie who steals both their hearts. After a night of flirting, he offers to take them to Hong Kong for a day or so. They agree, and plan to meet him there. But when they get to the airport, heroin is found in Alice's bag, and the two girls are imprisoned for it. Soon, they are taken to a women's prison, called Brokedown Palace, where they must work through their parents and Yankee Hank Green (Pullman) to prove their innocence and be freed.Great storyline, with a lot of potential. But sadly, it is executed horribly. I don't even know where to begin with the flaws. First of all, this is such lighthearted film, and downplays everything. Second of all, the acting. Danes is alright at some points, but then goes overboard with the teen attitude. Beckinsale is a priss who reacts as if she stole someone's boyfriend. Pullman is alright, but too been there, done that, and really doesn't seem to care. I also couldn't stand some of the people in the Brokedown Palace. The Jamaican girl was alright, but why was she allowed to have a Walkman, when Alice was beaten for having a piece of fruit? The blonde was believable, but what about the bully? That one girl who always made fun of Alice was so out of place and useless. Didn't add much tension to the situation. And then there was that one prison guard who was a b**** in some scenes, but sweet and smiling in others.The other thing that bothered me was the freedom of visitation. Alice and Darlene are allowed to meet with their friends and Darlene's father from across the bridge, but still...it was far too perplexing. And did anyone notice that the actor who played Danes's boyfriend (the blonde guy) looked almost identical to the one who played Nick? I have a feeling they were the same people.One other gripe was the ending. Unexpected, but still, it didn't fit. There is no explanation as to where the heroin came from and how it got into Alice's bag, and Alice was so optimistic in the final scene! Also, what ever happened to Nick? Go figure.The only good things were the attempted escape scene, even though it was too easy, and the music. It was quite fitting. Other than that, this was a bomb. I do not recommend it. Instead, for one of those stranger in a strange land movies, try the very intense, Not Without My Daughter, with great acting and non-stop intensity. This is the complete opposite, sorry to say.  "},{"Title":"Was Claire Danes trying to destroy her acting career on purpose?","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"     Of all the movies and TV Shows Claire Danes made, Brokedown Palace was the last straw!  In this one, Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale play these high school grads who vacation in Thailand and meet a guy who they trust and he seduces them, and once they get to the airport, they've been framed for drug smuggling by the guy.  (Sarcasm) Yeah, real smart there.    And once they get thrown in a Thai prison they're only hope is some hot-shot ambitious lawyer.  While they are in the prison, it doesn't even show them suffer, all they do is huddle close together and stand around like goons.  Claire Danes never could act, anyway.  All her movies and My So-Called Life were all flops from the start.  Claire Danes would've been better off living in some Mideast suburb cleaning sewers for minimum wage!  When Brokedown Palace came to my local theater, I've heard from one of my friends who works there that nobody even came to see that movie!   It's no wonder.   Also, the girls escape attempt was utterly pathetic!  I've seen Laurel and Hardy and The Three Stooges do better and thought out escape attempts then them!  Mild Spoiler  At the end, the lawyer says that the girls can get a pardon, but once they're about to go back to jail, Claire Danes tells the king that she framed her friend, and so Kate Beckinsale gets to go home, and Claire Danes stays behind, and the antogonist gets away with it!  I guess she's going to be in prison for the rest of her life.  Totally unrealistic if you ask me!   Avoid Brokedown Palace at all costs.  Stay away from this huge let down of a movie.  Get Return to Paradise instead.  I give Brokedown Palace no stars!  As a matter of fact, I've heard they're going to be a sequel, Brokedown Palace 2 The Search and Climax of Claire Danes's Acting Career!  Kind of makes you wonder where MST3K was when this movie came out. "},{"Title":"Why do people make a big deal about Claire Danes?","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I remember when another bad movie had premiered, The Mod Squad, I couldn't understand why people were making a big deal about it. Then someone told me because Claire Danes was in it. I still couldn't understand. She is not pretty and picks such stupid choices for movies. And this movie only justifies why the media should not hype her up. Why would anyone think China would be more fun than Hawiia. By the end of the movie you don't care if the girls are free or not. It is really sad Bill Pullman goes from doing Independence Day to this crap. "},{"Title":"Oh Give Me A Break!","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so UNREALISTIC that it becomes completely unenjoyable!  While it starts out alright, a couple of cute girls tromping around the world half dressed always are, at some point you suddenly wonder.. HOW did this happen?  I mean for one thing, why would two 18 yr old girls want to visit Taiwan for crying out loud???  It only gets worse once they go to prison for trying to smuggle drugs into Hong Kong.  The girls are trapped, unfairly mind you, in a foreign prison where they are being maltreated and forced to sign things they don't understand, yet their parents are at home comfy as can be watching tv and continuing their precious suburban lives as if nothing is wrong.  Even when the girls get a chance to call home the parents only seem mildly interested.  Ummmm hello... your daughter is trapped in a foreign country???!!  Parents don't give a darn, but apparently we're supposed to believe Bill Pullman does.  And I'm sorry, (ps, dont' read any further if you don't want to know the ending) but no matter how good a friend you are, NOBODY would voluntarily give up 96 years of their life  in a Tai prison so their friend could go free!!  Give me a break indeed.  And that last line??? Claire Danes throws out some babbling garbage about having hope to reduce her 96 year sentence like we're supposed to feel some Shawshank Redemption moving emotional moment here.  UGH.  The only emotion I felt was happiness that the film was finally OVER.  Please people, there are a lot better ways to waste your time. "},{"Title":"Broken Nails, Nasty Yellow People","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Ugly American, ca. 1999, isn't a fat, Hawaiian shirt-wearing 53-year old insurance salesman.  She's a thin pretty upper middle class college graduate who knows her way around a J. Crew catalogue.  And she has, like, had it so up to *here* with being mishandled by dirty foreigners and their legal system, which is so biased against sexy, affluent white women that, as one of these darlings puts it, it's all just a Third World joke.Think Midnight Express meets Buffy The Vampire Slayer, and you have the embarrassment that is Brokedown Palace.  Director Jonathan Kaplan occasionally wants the gritty vérité of the former but has almost no idea how to deliver it (cockroaches scritch and scuttle, producing repeated eeks from the heroines).  And Kaplan knows he has to deliver the waifish bods, narcissistic longeurs, and Perils-of-Pauline conventions of Buffy, Dawson's Creek, and all the other current teen trash.  So you end up with dialogue that sounds more like a failed shopping trip than about the hopelessness of rotting in a foreign jail for narcotics traffickingAlice They told me you signed their bull**** confession! Like we're retarded!  Like we're going to sign something we can't read!  ...y-you didn't sign anything, did you, Darlene?Darlene W-well, it -- it was...my statement!  Saying we were innocent!Alice Was it in English or Thai?  Was it in English or Thai?Darlene Look, if they changed what I said, then I'll tell them! Clearly I can't read Thai!  I'll just tell them it's not what I said!  Oh, well, God, I'm sorry Alice, I'm just not used to being tossed into some filthy, disgusting jail!After all, it's so different from Macy's.  Acting?  Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale have vocal ranges that veer between petulant and murderous; when called upon to emote, they always manage to sound like older sisters pounding on the door of a bathroom occupied by a younger brother.  But there is tragedy here it has to be mentioned that the redoubtable Bill Pullman, after excellent turns in Lost Highway, Zero Effect, and The End of Violence, is back to making the lousy career choices that landed him in such dogs as Independence Day.  Pull out of it, man.The real, and only, surprise in the film is its hideous xenophobia.  A very naked condescension toward Asian culture (that notorious den of software and movie piracy) is on display constantly, and this soon deepens into hatred.  The film is quite sure that Thais, caricatured in every guise from prison officials to citizens to prisoners and even hotel security guards, are officious at best, covetous and despicable the rest of the time.  It's equally sure that white American girls, provided they have the looks and the outfits, are pearls cast low before these yellow swine.  This is a shameful job all around -- c*** filmmaking, c*** humanity. "},{"Title":"Dull","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This was simply a bad movie. I can't write a long review of it like others have because it was quite awhile ago that I watched it. Suffice it to say, it's the story of two spoiled little white girls who get caught with drugs and are surprised by the injustice of being arrested for trafficking...when that was most likely what at least one of them was doing. So one's stupid enough to get caught and the other is stupid enough to sign a document she can't read which turns out to be a confession. This keeps them both locked in a prison that is horribly...prison-like. Imagine the injustice. My God, there were insects! Poor babies. It was just impossible for me to feel any sympathy. This is a movie that yuppies and sheltered, brainless teens would love. "},{"Title":"Innocent Until Proved Guilty Only Applies In The Anglo-American World","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brokedown Palace is the title of this film and euphemistic description of the prison that two young American women find themselves in after being caught in Thailand with a couple of kilos of heroin. Not the vacation getaway that they plan.As it turns out I was in Thailand that same year and in the Phillipines where this movie was actually filmed as part of an Asian whirlwind tour I had planned for myself. I certainly didn't see that seamy side of Bangkok or Manila for that matter. But you know you're in a different culture and mindset even in the places that cater to American tourists.Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale are a couple of teens from small town Ohio ready to go to college in the fall and lifetime friends about to be separated. While in Hawaii and away from their parents and the mores of middle America, the two decide to go off on a cheap jaunt to Thailand for an experience.While there they fall into the hands of a smooth talking Aussie hustler who sets them up beautifully to take a fall for drug smuggling. It's a story told time and again, the concept of innocent until proved guilty is one that only applies in the Anglo-American world. And prison in a third world country makes our penal system look like country clubs.Danes and Beckinsale do beautifully as these innocents caught up in a world they're not prepared for. Danes maybe more so because her family is less affluent than Beckinsale's.Bill Pullman plays their American attorney in practice in Bangkok with his Thai wife and Lou Diamond Phillips is a DEA agent more concerned with the 'big picture' as opposed to these two young women and their plight. But the best performance in the film for me is Tom Amandes as Beckinsale's father. It's established early on that Danes is the more adventurous of the two and Beckinsale probably just tagged along in their various endeavors. In any event the best scene for me in the film is when after Amandes visits Beckinsale and reassures her he's doing everything possible is when he asks to see Danes. He makes it very plain that she led his little sugarplum down the garden path and he hopes she rots there forever.The narrowness of the streets is the same in Manila as in Bangkok, they weren't designed for automobile traffic. But one thing that the Phillipines didn't have and probably 20th Century Fox couldn't bring in was the sight of elephants and cape buffalo wandering through the streets of Bangkok. That takes a bit of getting used to let me tell you. Still shooting in Thailand was out of the question given the way Thailand is portrayed. The film should serve as a warning to those contemplating being a tourist in a third world country. "},{"Title":"Academy Award","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Was anybody else disappointed that there were no sexual relations between Claire Danes, Kate Beckinsale, and the guy? Both girls are smoking and had they engaged in sexual activity, this film would surely be worth viewing again. I think if they would have at least made out, it would have introduced an exciting element to the story, making both female actors eligible for an Academy Award. Maybe future generations will see the vital error in this movie and work to include more lesbian activities in their films. What a let down!Irish rule, French suck, and Love Live Jenna Jamieson and Brianna Banks! "}{"Title":"See RETURN TO PARADISE","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  see Return to Paradise w/Vince Vaughn, Anne Heche, Joaquin Phoenix, and Jada Pinkett Smith. It makes this movie looks ten times worse than it is. Return to Paradise was a critically praised movie that many people didn't see. It's coming on Showtime in a week or so. Don't miss it. Something i can't say for this piece of crap. strictly for the younger mtv audience. cause i'm 17 and thought this was horrible.  "},{"Title":"why?","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Jonathan Kaplan, the one-great director of the film Over the Edge, continues to make utter crap.  This is worthless in every way.  It's fake, it's cheesy, it's silly, and I left after 20 minutes.   And Claire Danes better find some more So-Called Scripts before she falls off the planet.  Kate Beckinsale needs to stick with British Comedy.  Whatever. "},{"Title":"Why are we supposed to feel any sympathy?","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm pretty sure the goal of the filmmaker was to make us feel bad for the situation that these two girls end up being in. If it wasn't, than he is genius because he definitely made me feel nothing for these girls.Before they are captured by the police what do we see from these teens? Two girls whose only care is to go to a foreign country and not attempt to learn the language, cheat money form an already poor country, sleep all day, laugh at the actions of things and people foreign to them and follow around cute boys. THAT is supposed to promote sympathy in the viewer's eyes? Please. I was actually waiting for them to be captured.And the whole part where they plead to the police by saying they are American citizens is so insulting. It basically displays what people outside the U.S. think of us already; that we try to use or American citizenship to display our superiority in the world.I can't believe any one would think these girls didn't deserve what they got. At least paint a picture of two ignorant, yet curious travelers looking for a cultural experience. The movie as it is gives the viewer no reason to side with the protagonists, if you want to call them that. "},{"Title":"What a load of tripe","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I am dumbfounded that anybody could give this mess anything more than a 5, tops. There was nothing at all realistic about this pile of crap. The only thing that was accurate was that both girls were arrogant, naive airheads who behaved just like the stereotypical American thinks the stereotypical American should.I read many of the glowing reviews here before watching the film, and I had trouble believing I was looking at the same movie. The simulated Thailand was pathetic, but the shallow audience it was aimed at would have thought it was just so real.This has to be a huge embarrassment to all who were associated with it, especially Kate. I suppose she needed the money back then.If you haven't seen this yet, don't bother, unless you're one of the aforementioned naive airheads; then you'll love it. "},{"Title":"Gag fest","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know why, but my best friend talked me into seeing this movie. As you have probably read in my other comments, I will repeat, I hate Claire Danes. She annoys me to death. But, I was willing to give the movie a chance. And I still didn't like it. The chance is 1 in a million that I love feel good movies. Or chick flicks. And I'm a girl. I just didn't like the movie. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Hollywoodized WIP for wishy-washy Americans","Date":"15 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The movie is a predictable Hollywood version of a women-in-prison film. Since the sensitive little Americans have their sensibilities so easily shocked from the sterilized, fake society in which they are reared and bred, BROKEDOWN PALACE makes sure not to rattle their cages too hard. And so the girls do get in a rather tight situation but, naturally, nothing bad will REALLY happen to them no beatings, no violence, no rape (or sexual harassment, for you PC slaves), nothing truly challenging or out of the ordinary.What we have instead is a predictable little movie full of stupidly ethereal music (a breathy soprano over some kind of Enya-esquire track), a good amount of hugging, smiling, touching moments and, all in all, the established shallow emotional tone the American audience has been spoon-fed its entire, confined little life. Ah, and let us not forget a ridiculously, idiotically upbeat ending.The movie is women-in-prison for the US audience who will probably either clutch their children and vow never to set foot in Thailand, or for stupid little monolingual American teenagers who will clutch their own genitals and vow never to go to Thailand. Aside from that, let us of course not discount the reaction of the PC slaves who will be quick to start saying the movie is racist (or xenophobic or whatever useless non-word is in vogue nowadays) because it presents some non-white country as anything other than noble and angelic.If all you've ever seen in your life is mainstream films from Hollywood--and especially if you have no earthly clue other films do, in fact, exist--this will probably be a riiiiveting experience for you. "},{"Title":"No way will I ever go to Thailand","Date":"11 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brokedown Palace is not the kind of movie I would ever like to see. I also did not like the movie when some Aussie man smuggled drugs in Thailand and accused Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale of drug smuggling. I would not go to that country no matter what after I saw this movie. In fact this movie stinks. I prefer to visit Germany to meet beautiful single women. Germany is the country I tolerate. I also would rather stick to the United States instead. After I saw some of the movie in the theatre including the false accusation of drug smuggling, I left the theatre and had my money refunded because I cannot tolerate this movie. If you are going to to Thailand to meet someone there who could be a drug smuggler, forget this! "}]