[{"Title":"i'm weird......i guess","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After reading all the bad comments, i figured to make my own opinion. Now, i can understand if you didn't like the movie, it happens sometimes (personally, i loved it. it was very cute...which is why i'm weird....i guess)but to say David Spade isn't funny really ticks me off! I think he's super funny,and he's one of the few that makes me laugh (i'm a hard person to make laugh). And give me a darn break, gosh! at least he's trying. GOSH! anyway, the movie was great, like all the other movies he's done. so good job David Spade! you are a truly funny funny person. hmmm you know what?! i don't think i'm weird anymore! you people, are the weird ones the ones that don't think he's funny! "},{"Title":"Unoriginal predictable Hollywood plot, and yet I laughed","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Lost and Found boy meets girl, boy wants girl, boy kidnaps girl's dog to get close to her, but cheating ex-fiance who wants girl back is determined to foil boy.  Amazingly enough this is the actual plot (there is a sub-plot involving a struggling restaurant and a lost ring&#133;). This movie is pure Hollywood formula, with very little originality and several noticeable lulls.  What is even more amazing is that this movie is actually funny.In his first solo film outing David Spade does not ask us to make a big leap of faith -Dylan Ramses could have been any character from his SNL days, or Dennis from Just Shoot Me.  This translates into some snappy, sarcastic, and funny dialogue.  Sophia Marceau as Lila Dubois is gorgeous and vulnerable when she needs to be - exactly what is expected of her.  Jon Lovitz also adds a few laughs as a vet with special talents.If you are in for some light humor, without violence, coarse language and nudity (okay, one male behind) this movie may be for you.  But hold off until Tuesday night, or better yet,  wait the three weeks it will take to move to the second run theaters (of course there's always video). "},{"Title":"David Spade gets a beautiful French girl to fall in love with him. It seems that none of the filmmakers really stopped to think about that part.","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  David Spade is a very funny man, but his brand of comedy gets real old real quick. He admittedly relies largely on his weaknesses to be funny. You know, the sarcasm, the blow-dried hair, the all-around geekiness. Unfortunately, it seems that he never really tried to develop his acting skills. I have laughed myself to tears because of David Spade in his two best movies, Black Sheep and Tommy Boy (in both of which he played virtually that exact same character), but Lost & Found just wasn't amusing to me. Too much reliance on fourth grade humor and not enough of anything new for anything really good to be said of the film. And what was Sophie Marceau thinking?! She went from playing a significant (although relatively small) role in the spectacular 1995 epic Braveheart to this garbage? She must have been pretty desperate. Sure, she looked good in the movie, but the film itself is totally inconsequential and immediately forgettable. David Spade revealed in interviews just before the theatrical release of Lost & Found that he was worried about how the public would react to an actor with his iconography actually getting the girl, and frankly, I think he should have thought about that a long time ago. Watching David Spade kiss someone as stunningly beautiful as Sophie Marceau is like watching a junior high school kid make out with a 30 year old woman. Disturbing, to say the least. The entire film was a jumbled mess of goofy and pointless jokes and bonehead antics, mainly on the part of Spade, as he tries to keep his idiot dog-napping scheme a secret. The gay jokes, the making fun of the foreign guy (whether he deserved it or not), the fact that Spade spends any amount of on-screen time at all running around naked all come together to form a boring comedy that should be blissfully ignored by everyone. Just look at the cover of the movie. David Spade is naked and covering himself with a small dog. This is not something that you want to purposely subject yourself to.   "},{"Title":"short but sweet...","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love laughing when watching films, and this film undoubtedly didn't fail to make me laugh. David Spade is a sellout; he's perfect for the part (he's not very handsome, but his humor makes him adorable), he plays Dylan with ease, and he works with his co-stars with excellent rapport. I say this is one of the film comedies you don't want to miss! "},{"Title":"'Lost & Found'","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The idea of David Spade being cast in a romantic comedy opposite french beauty Sophie Marceau is a real head-scratcher.  But the movie sort of works.  Spade plays Dylan, a restaurant owner who's hot for his new neighbor Lila Dubois (Sophie Marceau). Just by looking at the poster of this movie, it's pretty clear that Lila is totally out of Dylan's league.  Dylan realizes this when Lila's rich ex-boyfriend, Rene (Patrick Bruel), shows up.  So, to impress Lila and make her forget about her ex, he kidnaps her dog and plans to become a hero by returning it to her later.Despite the lack of any real chemistry between Spade and Morceau and the rather silly plot,'Lost & Found' can be entertaining. You just have to suspend belief and not really think while watching.  But still I'd take 'Lost & Found' over any other flops by other former SNL clowns, did anyone say 'Corky Romano'.Rating (6/10) "},{"Title":"David Spade plays nice.","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Unlike most romantic comedies Lost and Found is truly funny. Other romance/comedies tend to focus mainly on the romance and kinda forget to put any comedy in. Lost and Found is very funny, plus it has genuine emotion and romance. David Spade is great as Dylan, and unlike most of his roles, he plays a really likeable guy. He plays the hero you root for,instead of his usual sarcastic jerk character. The jerk in this movie is Patrick Bruel as Renee, Lila's sleazy ex-boyfriend. Sophie Marceau is likeable as Lila,but lacks personality.Artie Lange is hilarious as Spade's unwanted sidekick, Wally. But the true star of this one is David Spade. I loved this movie and highly recommend it to anyone who loves a great comedy w/ a little romance. "},{"Title":"A Romantic Comedy, David Spade-Style!","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A rather pleasant surprise, this comedy is hardly original but has some inspired moments of hilarity if you're willing to suspend a certain measure of disbelief. The writers are a little too blatant in their attempts at a There's Something About Mary (which came out the previous year) style romp and it takes a while to get used to seeing Spade as the romantic leading man, but once you're over that hump, the movie is a lot of fun. The film is not a classic and those who don't have a taste for raunchy humor should definitely stay away, but there are many worse comedies out there these days. Actually, one of Spade's better solo efforts. "},{"Title":"I'm still laughing...","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm a comedy-lover... I truly believe there ain't anything better than getting breathless while spending 1 hour and a half in front of a TV...I do like strong and dramatic movies, but comedy is my real passion...The bad thing about comedies, though, is that the more you watch them, the harder it gets to laugh at the next ones.I've watched this movie twice, maybe, and now I'm watching it for the third time... I'm laughing at jokes I've already seen, and I'm not particularly dumb today, at least I think so...I'm not a Spade fan either, but sometimes he just makes it.Plus, I really hate some romantic comedies, with pauses on jokes for girlie scenes (sorry girls for the sexism...) Spade and Marceau have managed to turn even these scenes into funny tirades...I recommend. Not the best comedy ever, but I give it a 7.It made me recover from my disgust with romantic Hollywood comedies after that Aniston-Vaughn flick which I wanted so much to watch, just to get disappointed later. "},{"Title":"Kinda good actually.","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was pretty funny and one of David Spade's finer moments in his career. I'm not a huge fan of his(I'm more of a Sandler type guy). But he does some good stuff. Dylan has just fallen in love with his new neighbor, Lila. He can't seem to get her attention though. So he dognaps her dog and plans to give it back and be a hero. But the dog ate his best friend's wedding present so he has to get it back and hijinks ensue as he must deal with the dog, his restaurant and Lila's ex-boyfriend.This movie had several good things about it. Artie Lange had the funniest scenes. People may call him a Farley-wannabe, but I think he's just as funny as him, if not funnier. Jon Lovitz also has a funny cameo.Good stuff. 8/10  "},{"Title":"Mediocrity Revisited","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My low expectations of this film were met admirably.  I cannot tell if it is just me, but they do not seem to be making any comedies lately that are even remotely amusing.  Time was that you go catch a comedy and be entertained. Stripes, Caddy Shack, Animal House, Blues Brothers, Airplane, Groundhog Day where have you gone (the way of Joe DiMaggio I fear).  Clearly the makers of this latest piece of dribble are unfamiliar with the past and are, quite unfortunately, living in the present.  This latest masterwork is just plain bad.  A typical Saturday Night Live Alum offering.  Spade offers 90 minutes of his not-so clever quips and mixes in some unrealistic romance with a woman who would not give Spade the time of day.  Everything was telegraphed. There were no surprises.  What we get is boy meets girl, boy does something stupid to woo girl (stealing her dog), boy competes with some arrogant stud for girl, and boy gets girl in the end.  Add some stupid animal high-jinx and there you have it, a flat D minus.  "}{"Title":"Can you say, Doo doo?","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  David Spade.  Its not his fault, its the Saturday Night Live bozos that hired him and told him he was funny in the first place.  Same deal with Colin Quinn and these other clowns that just don't know when to quit it.  Poor Will Ferrel, he should go to Mad TV where they have some talent..Anyway, this movie.  My god, David Spade is blatantly playing himself, the twit in high school nobody liked because of his relentless cynicism that has no punch line or humor, except for himself.  He got a new fat guy for the movie.  What, David is thinking he carried Chris Farley through several movies and so he can carry another fat guy?  It makes me wonder if Spade has EVER generated a laugh on his own.  I can't think of one.Sophie Marceau. . I love her to death, they should have just filmed her throughout the whole movie.. perhaps David could have been lost, and then they find him at the end.  That was the only shot this thing had. "},{"Title":"Brings new meaning to the word gagfest","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this movie the first time I saw it- when they were calling it There's Something About Mary. This idiotic piece of dreck proves that the four scariest words in movies today continue to be Starring Saturday Night alumnus . . .. Sure wish these people would figure out that the difference between a two-minute sketch and a feature-length movie is about 90 minutes of our lives. Spade proves that he's just not funny without a 400-pound comic next to him; wonder what Roseanne's doing these days?  "},{"Title":"A Really Worthless Experience!","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I always knew that David Spade could not hold a film by himself. Lost & Found is a movie that proves it. At least when he was in movies such as Tommy Boy and Black Sheep, we were provided with a few laughs by Chris Farley. The duo together were occasionally funny as well. David Spade hasn't changed in Lost & Found; he just hasn't got someone at his side to make fun of his sarcasm and the result is a movie that is completely unfunny, boring, and pointless. It was difficult to not get up and walk out.The story (if you can call it that!) revolves around Spade's character as a restaurant owner who has been dumped by his stripper girl-friend, Ginger and is in desperate search for love. Ohhh, how sweet!!!! He becomes interested in a French cello player who lives in his building and big surprise; he ends up having to compete with her dog for attention, so he kidnaps it hoping that he will receive more attention from her as a result. What an original idea! Ha!Throughout the movie, I found myself thinking about Robert Altman's wonderful movie, The Player, which illustrates how many Hollywood films get produced. When someone approaches a producer with an idea, coherent stories are not communicated, but pitches of ideas, which are almost always based on previous films. I could just picture a group of executives sitting around a table pitching ideas for Lost & Found. Its going to be 'Something about Mary' meets 'Tommy Boy. We need a screwball main character, kind of a nerdy type who of course is just dumped by his girlfriend. We need a sexy replacement (a beautiful French Cello player being perfect. There has to be some kind of struggle, perhaps with an ex boyfriend who is also a musician. Oh yeah, and we can't forget the dog, audiences always love a dog. This is the kind of pitching that goes around the big Hollywood studios, reinforcing movie cliches that we see over and over again.Well, I'm afraid I don't know what else I could possibly comment on. Please, just do not see this movie, it is a complete waste of time, money and and hour and a half of enjoyment. I can not even see fans of David Spade enjoying Lost & Found. I saw it at a screening with a couple of friends who like David Spade's sarcastic sense of humor, and even they loathed this movie.1/2* out of **** "},{"Title":"douche Prince Charming","Date":"9 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Dylan Ramsey (David Spade) gets dumped by stripper girlfriend Ginger (Ever Carradine). He owns a restaurant in desperate need of a loan. Wally (Artie Lange) is his really loud waiter. He falls for cellist neighbor Lila Dubois (Sophie Marceau). He gets caught naked after losing strip poker to the old ladies. Lila's cheating ex Rene chases her from across the ocean. Dylan decides to kidnap her dog Jack and spend time with her looking for the dog. Then the dog swallows his best friend's diamond ring.David Spade is doing his sarcastic douche character. Without his partner Chris Farley, it doesn't really work especially as a romantic leading man. It's horrible to watch Sophie Marceau being distressed and knowing that Spade is the cause. I rather the lovely Sophie stay single. Even Artie Lange would be better. "},{"Title":"This Film Should be Lost and Never Found.","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Lost and Found (1999) Dir Jeff Pollack / Cast David Spade, Sophie Marceau, Artie Lange, Ever Carradine, Martin Sheen Dreary and boring comedy low on laughs and high on stupidity. Why David Spade does what he does here demands and explanation because he could have solved everything with a visit and the right words. Title regards a lost dog while symbolizing finding love. David Spade just ended a relationship and now struggles to obtain a loan for a restaurant he intends to open. He soon falls for a French cello player played by Sophie Marceau but he is unable to talk to her due to her meddling ex-boyfriend. He steals her dog so that he may join her in searching for it but when it swallows a friend's engagement ring he must keep it longer. Stupid and predictable dog show directed to uninspired effect by Jeff Pollack who also made Booty Call. Spade plays his usual idiot persona who follows the dog around before he and best friend Artie Lange search through crap for the ring. Marceau is totally out of place in this low grade trash. Lange comes off as irritating, and Ever Carradine is also featured. What is most distressing and that Martin Sheen is part of this garbage. For a guy who starred in one of the best war movies, this is sad. Perhaps Pollack should have searched for a decent screenwriter because whoever penned this dreck was certainly lost. Worthless and pointless comedy that should be buried with the ring. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"A pretty boring comedy with mediocre acting.","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a pretty boring movie about a guy named Dylan Ramsey (David Spadea) who tries to woe his French neighbor Lila Dubois (Sophie Marceau) by snatching her dog and then concoct a plan to find and return the dog to her so Dylan could become a hero. Add in a cheating ex-fiancé who wants the girl back and you got some pretty corny, slapstick comedy.While the movie does have a solid plot to follow, the pace of the direction is slow and I didn't find David Spade very funny in the lead role - his performance was mediocre at best. This film doesn't capture the quality of comedy in many of those made in the 80s to early 90s in the same genre. I also understand that this movie is almost if not identical to Something About Mary, which gives this film a lack of originality.Overall, I'll pass on this one - there are better movies out there that provide funny entertainment.Grade D "},{"Title":"Funny & Stupid... (at the same time!)","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" First of all I must say this romance comedy was a bit funnier than I expected, on one hand, but also a bit sillier on the other! It's entertaining, funny, and a very light movie to watch while you eat some popcorn, but at some moments it's stupid! The main character, played by David Spade is such a loser&#133; He's the embodiment of the fun and stupidity that dwell in this movie! But he's cool, I guess! However, not so cool as JACK, the dog he kidnaps from the girl whom he's in love (played by Sophie Marceau). That dog is pretty cool! I liked his performance, more than from some human actors! Other good performance was from Artie Lange, which plays WALLY, the most pathetic employee that I ever saw! Good acting! All in all it was just an average, but entertaining, romance comedy, made up in the American mainstream cinema standards. "},{"Title":"Sweet merciful heavens, NO!!!","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Why?!? Why?!? WHY!?!?!For the love of all that is sacred and holy, WHY would someone think to cast Sophie Marceau as a romantic love interest to David Spade?!?  If patching Ralph Fiennes with Jennifer Lopez in 'Maid in Manhattan' wasn't bad enough, this is truly worse.I'll leave it at this Sophie Marceau's agent needs to be shot.  For an actress as beautiful and as talented as Sophie Marceau is, her career in the United States should have rocketed after the success and popularity of Braveheart. (I don't think I have met a single person who didn't she wasn't gorgeous in that movie.)Instead, the supreme excellence of all that is Sophie Marceau has been reduced to a wide slate of garbage films, not the least of which is 'Lost and Found'.David Spade is one of the single most obnoxious actors in Hollywood, and his sarcasm is neither charming nor endearing.  (Without Chris Farley, I have yet to understand why he still has a career.) His 'romance' with Sophie is ridiculous at best, and the only reason you can even make it THROUGH the movie is because this is one of the only U.S. films that Sophie actually stars in.  I mean, you get to see her in almost every scene, and she looks gorgeous in every minute of the movie. (Why else would I have braved it the whole way through?)Thank GOODNESS there is only ONE kissing scene. *Bleh*Truth be told, I don't think I would have really had anything negative to say about the movie (heck, I doubt I would have even watched it at all) had they cast a leading lady who was a little more down to David Spade's class... (i.e. Denise Richards or some other Hollywood tripe.)If you're a fan of David Spade, you're bound to love it.  If you're a fan of Sophie Marceau's...*cringe*I advise  you to watch with caution.   "},{"Title":"Save your money...","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not very good.  Even though, David Spade has a few funny moments and Sophie Marceau is ridiculously good looking.  The chemistry between the two doesn't seem work on screen.  I would save your money and see something else. "},{"Title":"Sophie Marceau, is that you?","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So, here I was watching HBO, when I saw that a sweet comedy was going t pass on Sunday night. I got interested, I love romantic comedies and it's nice to watch something light, once and a while.The guy I knew from a tv show, but the woman didn't look strange, so I look closer and I saw it was someone I knew. I had to check it up at the magazine and I was very surprised, it was really her. I'm a big fan of Sophie Marceau, she is very beautiful and talented. I've seen her in movies like Braveheart, Anna Karenina and Firelight and she was always magnificent. They were all very difficult parts, very dense and emotional.But this movie is about a slim short guy who falls in love with his beautiful successful neighbour. He doesn't know what to do to get to know her . He tried to return her dog everytime it runs away, but everytime he only gets a thank you from her. So, he had this idea, hide the dog for a couple of hours and ask her to take a walk with him and try to find it. The plan goes well, he makes she think he's funny and charming, they have a good time. But, when he supposed to return the dog, he finds out that he can't. From this point on, it's just a lot of confusion and funny situations.David Space is great, the star of Just Shoot Me plays a part very similar with Finch, Sophie is not just beautiful and talented, but also very funny. And the script is okay. Although it's a little predictable, it's also charming and convincing. I mean, we believe that the hot neighbour can actually fall in love with the unactractive sweet guy.The movie doesn't want to be more than a good entertainment and it succeeds. Great chance to have good laughs and see a different Sophie Marceau.  "}{"Title":"Loveable cynic Spade shines as underdog!","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Who would have thought that SNL alumni David Spad could prove worthy of a romantic lead? Well, he pulls off the romantic underdog so well that I couldn't help fall in love with him. Spade plays a resteraunt owner who falls for his next door neighbor. Some of the best scenes in the film are between Spade and his single white female like friend played by Arte Lange. Also, keep an eye out for some tv veterans like Marla Gibs(The Jeffersons), Rose Marie(Dick Van Dyke Show) and Estelle Harris(Seinfeild). Martin Sheen also makes a cameo in what is perhaps the memorable scene in the film. The scene, in which Spade gives an enjoyable rendition of Neil Diamonds Brother Loves Show, will go down in my film history as Best use of a Neil Diamond song in the film, next to the men in Beautiful Girls when they sing Sweet Caroline, but I digress. I love this film. Lost & Found is great for anyone who has ever felt like the romantic underdog. Don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"Disappointing and Unfunny.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  *Warning Spoilers*I didn't expect Lost & Found to be a great film, but I did expect it to let a few chuckles give way. Well, this film is nothing short of disappointing, as it doesn't have any funny parts and it is rarely intriguing.Dylan (David Spade) is the unappealing loser who - as you do - decides that by far the best way of winning his sultry French neighbour Lila's(Sophie Marceau) heart is to dognap her pet pooch, just so he can heroically &#145;find' it, and thus win her affection. Of course, Lila finds out, and of course, it ends happily with the two lovie-dovie matches walking off together into the sunset and the bad guy getting what he 'deserves.' So, what was the point?Well, this brings me to my POINT. There is no point of this film. We've seen it all before. Sure, David Spade tries his best and Sophie Marceau seems to enjoy herself, but the result is a film that brings us into the plot too quickly, not allowing to develop any of the characters. So, I didn't really care if Dylan got dumped, which he didn't of course, because this film is so predictably lame and unoriginal. I mean, the whole dog thing has been done, what, like 100 million times, and there are lots of unnecessary characters (just but there for unnecessary and unfunny jokes), unnecessary actors (Martin Sheen), millions of unnecessary scenes (a scene in a laundry, a scene in a gala, the list goes on..), which equals up to be an entirely unnecessary movie. Lost & Found is harmless, but it isn't what it wants to be. And that is There's Something About Mary.I rate Lost & Found 3 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"A good plan turns out to be a huge mistake","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  His neighbor lady is beautiful. Thinking of a creative way to meet her, he notices her dog runs away a lot. He figures if he hides the dog, pretending it's lost and tells her he'll find it then he could bring the dog home and be her hero.It wasn't the best plan. I rented this movie, over and over. I love it. It always gets me laughing. So finally I bought it. Now when I need a good laugh, or even when I don't, I pull it off the shelf and put it in the VCR. I never knew David Spade could sing. After watching that movie, I like his style more! "},{"Title":"Wise cracking restaurant owner woos sexy cellist","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Here's a movie I never would've rented, but since it was on HBO, and I had nothing better to do...  I was pleasantly surprised.  Not only did I find myself laughing out loud, but as a screenwriter I found the script to be tight, smart, and structurally sound.  Okay, it could've been better, but I give this movie a 7, and think you should at least give it a shot.  Even if you find David Spade annoying (and I'm by no means his biggest fan), I think he may win you over in this role.  He co-wrote the script and I got the feeling he ad-libbed a lot of it, successfully.  Stick around during the credits.  They're good for a few more laughs. "},{"Title":"Surprising decent","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this movie I was thinking I was wasting my time with it because I don't like David Spade and He's not funny at all.  Even though I still hate David Spade this movie I really enjoyed.  I mean it was predictable but very good story.  Of course it ain't original(There's Something About Mary)  but its just a feel good comedy.  Spade actually does some good acting and he also does one hell of a singing act towards the end that was just flawless in any movie.  He actually did sound like Neil Diamond.  That Sophie girl is a very talented actress and does a very good job in this movie too.  But having that fat guy in the movie was nothing more then a Chris Farley wannabe.  They didn't need him.  But overall very good movie and very enjoyable.  Spade actually did something right. "},{"Title":"Good Rental","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sure it's no classic but there are some parts that are pretty damn funny. Makes a perfect rental, or watch-on-cable.  So if you like David Spade, There's Something About Mary, or Deee-Lite, give this movie some viewage.-Al "},{"Title":"not one of David Spade's best works, but a really good movie","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie just recently, and despite bad reviews and such, I thought it was pretty good. I will add, though, that I dont't think I'd go so far as to say it's worthy of an oscar nomination. So, if you're looking for a romantic comedy, that includes a dog, a very pretty lady, and a short, smart alecky comedian, Lost and Found is a good choice. "},{"Title":"Great movie, if you like David Spade; if not, proceed directly to exit.","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  WARNING The following may contain minor spoilers that readers will not be familiar with if they have not seen the commercials, previews or any of the ten million posters at Blockbuster.Still here? Good.  Anyway, if you're like me, and most of you probably are, you were sold on this movie at the scene where Dylan Ramsey (David Spade) is nude except for two extremely well-placed mailbags.  Also, the scene in which Dylan sings in the manner of Neil Diamond is really great (He really can sing.). However, one thing prevents the film from being perfect.  They really should have toned down the ambiguously gay scenes between Dylan and the character played by Artie Lange.  They're not crucial to the plot and I have enough nightmares without picturing that, thank you very much. All in all, it's a pretty good movie. "},{"Title":"It sucked","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i love david spade, so i was really looking forward to this movie.  But the whole movie was just a bunch of lame jokes.  Spade finaly played a lovable guy instead of a nerd, but he didn't give a very big turnout.  I think he should stick with the sidekick act.  I mean he's great in the tv show Just Shoot me and all his Chris Farley movies.  But, I give this movie two thumbs down.  "},{"Title":"Very Funny Movie","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hi Im 14 Years Old And Lost & Found Is A Very Good Funny Movie David Spade's Best Movie Scence The Movie's With Chris Farley! In Lost & Found Guy Kidnaps Dog To Get His Owner! They Are Some Very Good Scenes Like The David Spade Take On To Nell Diamond And The Butt Scence At The Begining Of The Movie And The Strip Poker Scences! I Recommed This Movie For Laughs And Romance! -Jeremy "}{"Title":"Laughed till i cried","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the FUNNIEST movies i have seen in a long time i laughed from start till finish. The attempt to sing like neil diamond was the best part. If you haven't seen it you need to. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Better Than I Thought It Would Be...","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not a bad movie, but not a great one. Sandler without the late Chris Farley feels somewhat like Abbot without Costello. Sophie Marceau is gorgeous, and Spade does manage to pull off a likeable cynical dork who's just out to impress the girl. You'll find yourself hating the French boyfriend, which is okay, but the trailers were somewhat misleading. I was under the impression that Spade would be trying to steal her away, in fact, it's much more an honest competition. Well, as honest as you can be after you've kidnapped a girl's dog... At any rate, the movie is funny and enjoyable, but I wouldn't hold it against you to wait for the video. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Romantic Comedy even the guys will love!","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  L&F is a fantastic romantic comedy. It has some of your standard David Spade humor, for those Dennis Finch/Just Shoot Me fans, but most of the movie is toned down on the sarcasm. I did not connect this movie with There's Something About Mary until I read the user comments. Even so, I liked it. In fact, I have plans to see it again this week. Sophie and David have a good chemistry, and in the beginning, you really get a feel for the real Dylan as he goes about his day. Unfortunately, Dylan comes across as a jerk, so the plan is to keep her run away dog for 2 hours, while he lets her get to know him while they search for the dog. Unfortunately, 2 hours turns into several days, as the dog swallows Dylan's best friend's ring. Dylan does everything in his power to not only get to know Lila, but also to help her when she needs it the most. Her Ex-fiance (whom she caught in bed with another woman) needs her to need him. Whereas Dylan believes in her. (That's the thing that really got me. That, and the Neil Diamond thing.) "},{"Title":"I walked out about 1/2 through","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was looking for a funny movie in which you would leave your brain at the door. Instead, I got a movie in which you would leave your brain at the door and wouldn't laugh. In fact, some of what I saw was downright horrible.First, David Spade tries to make a dog poop and then picks up dog poop and goes through a whole bag of that stuff to find a ring for...?Second, there was scene at the pet food store in which the young boy makes child molestation remarks at David Spade.THEN I WALKED OUT!Sophie Marceau is a gorgeous French actress and I wonder what compelled her to even consider this piece of trash.David Spade has a lot more talent than this but one more movie like this and he will be doing Infocommercials at the lowest wage scale.Stick to comedy central movies. At least you can flip the channel and watch CNN if you something better.Ciao  "},{"Title":"Better then expected","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I expected this to be your typical Spade/Farley movie. It had the same characteristics but the movie had some incredibly original funny parts to it. I really liked it and would highly recommend it.   "},{"Title":"David Spade In A Perfect Role","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Lost & Found turned out to be way better than I expected. All of the actors and actresses fit their roles perfectly, especially David Spade. It's the kind of movie everyone could enjoy, if they just tried to and would quit picking out the bad things about it (there really aren't any anyway). It's simple and sweet and a lot better than many movies lately that get overrated reviews. I give it an 8 on a 1-10 scale. See it with some friends. "},{"Title":"Move over Plan 9...","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...because there's one that's even worse now! This film is devoid of any wit and warmth. Very unfunny and unoriginal and yet there was so much potential on the part of the cast and the script. What a shame that they had to go for the cheap laughs. "},{"Title":"I was truly impressed!","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My group and friends went out to a movie this last Friday night, not knowing what to see we chose (to the dislike of two of us) the new David Spade Comedy Lost & Found. After the movie myself, and everyone else in the theatre felt the same thing Truly Impress. I was in shock as I find myself more than once crying my eyes out from laughter. IT WAS THAT GOOD!! Of course to love a Spade humor is a must, but man it was so funny. The previews do not do it justice. SO funny! "},{"Title":"David Spade is safe only in small amounts","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  'Lost and Found' is the movie David Spade hopes propels him into mega star status.  He hopes it will turn him into a legitimate romantic lead much as 'The Wedding Singer' did for Adam Sandler.The basic plot line is this boy meets girl, boy falls in love with girl, boy steals girl's dog so he can return dog to girl so boy will look like a hero in girl's eyes, boy almost gets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl. Simple.  Along the way are some heavily contrived plot twists, one of which leads to the movie's biggest laugh (I'll just say 'garbage bag full of dog poop').  They definitely should've stayed away from physical dog humor because it draws inevitable comparisons to 'There's Something About Mary.'Watching David Spade play gooey romantic made me squirm in my seat.  He needs to be the wisecracking side kick and that's that.  Sophie Marceau is gorgeous and makes it easy for us to believe all that Spade goes through for her.  Her 'cello playing' is the worst acting I've seen since Lacey Chabert (Party of Five) ever picked up a violin.The movie does well when Spade is being obnoxious but when he starts getting romantic, the whole movie falls on its face.  Spade isn't a good enough actor to pull a movie like this off.  He needs to stick to roles that suit his personality more. "},{"Title":"Sweethearted and funny...better than expected","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It looked lame...I walked into the theater expecting it to be lame...but, Lost And Found ends up better than expected, surprisingly enough.  David Spade pretty much plays the same guy as always...but successfully translates into leading man for this movie.  Yes, it's contrived romantic comedy stuff underneath...but, (and we see so many of them lately); when one comes along that's actually entertaining--I'm willing to forgive.  It contains a fair share of good laughs; and Spade, for the moment, becomes the new hero to all of us thin, wirey, smart-mouthed guys with bad hair who would do ANYTHING for the right woman.... "}{"Title":"Slightly Lost","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is David Spade's big jump to leading roles after his newfound success on the TV show `Just Shoot Me'.  That show alone has given Spade a new throng of fans. Fans that have come to adore a lovable, but defanged Spade.  For those of us who are addicted to `Saturday Night Live', you may come away from `Lost' a little lost yourself. While this film is tailored made for the predictable snarkiness and cynicism that is Spade's humor, I was shocked to be sitting through probably the most vanilla film in the last 10 years.There isn't much of a pulse to `Lost', in fact, without Spade, there isn't much going on at all in this comedy. David Spade, who co-wrote this, does a fine acting job. I would consider him one of the five comedians who can make me laugh when they say just about anything.  He mixes his usual one-liners with minor attempts at range and depth. Amazingly, he does make an effective romantic leading man. Sophie Marceau, who plays the love interest, uses her Sheena like mane of hair and a tiny bit of California sun to make the sexiest impression from an actress since Catherine Zeta-Jones blazed across the screen in `Mask Of Zorro'. She brings her bag of cutes with her as well. I found it really funny to watch this French actress try to get her lips around some of Spade's jokes. I'm betting Marceau doesn't have a clue what she's saying.  She does make a pleasant couple with Spade, it's just too bad the film adheres so much to the weak plot.  I could have watched a film of just both actors playing off each other. With a running time about 20 minutes too long, you would think they're would be more scenes of that. No luck. Director Jeff Pollack doesn't bring much to the table here.  With boring locations, uninteresting camerawork, and a poorly selected supporting cast (with Artie Lang blatantly in the Chris Farley role), he cannot bring much life to `Lost And Found'.  Add to that the aforementioned plot that stops the film dead when the movie remembers to stick to it. I love Spade to death, and this film is charming and very funny at times. But next opportunity, he should make a hard R rated comedy that takes no prisoners. The Spade in `Lost' just isn't the Spade that makes me pee my pants with delight.----------- 7 "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  That movie was hilarious.  I walked out of the theatre laughing so hard.  Definitely the best David Spade film.  I love David Spade, Patrick Bruel, and Sophie Marceau.  They are all so wonderful.   "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I struggled to stay awake through this, and felt like most of the cast appeared - bored, dis-interested and dying to be somewhere else. Spade is hopeless as a leading man, and is neither funny nor convincing as an actor - and bordering on criminal as a singer. Possibly one of the worse performances I've ever seen. Apart from Marceau looking pretty this film has nothing to commend it at all. Why on earth an actor of the calibre of Martin Sheen got involved in this is quite beyond me. Even the dog had that what am I doing here, I'm better than this expression on it's face.There is nothing in the world that could be worse than having to sit through this, so do yourself a favour and don't. "},{"Title":"Charming and surprisingly satisfying film","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  David Spade. Love him or hate him, he definitely has a sly wit.  The great thing about his sassy delivery is that it is never offensive, it just makes you go oh,,,,YEAH, that's right!  Spade hits the mark very well in comedy.I didn't see this film at first because I was going by what critics had said about it, that it was pathetic, not funny, blah blah.  One day I caught the end of the film on cable and saw the brilliant end credits sequence where the cast lip syncs to Deee-Lite's Groove Is In The Heart and numerous outtakes are shown.  That credit sequence had me realllly wanting to see the film then!  I took a chance and bought the DVD and was pleasantly surprised!This is a charming, witty, and satirical take on romance and farce.  Spade says his sassy lines as usual, but his character is very likeable and productive.  He owns a restaurant and is needing funds to expand it.  He takes in a very off-kilter employee as a roommate and a whole Single White Female spoof ensues.  He has poker playing neighbors played by Carole Cook, Estelle Harris, Marla Gibbs, and Rose Marie --these four women steal the show!  oops, crop dustin' again... that line will have you laughing for days!  They also try to get Spade naked and have him losing every game!A new woman moves in the the building, played by Sophie Marceau.  Her dog keeps escaping and Spade figures if he can just hold on to the dog and claims to have found it, she would fall in love with him.  BUT, an engagement ring Spade was holding for a friend is swallowed by the dog...........so, how to get the ring AND get the dog back? Even the scatalogical humor involved in one scene doesn't go too far.  All the elements here were given in the right doses and I think Lost & Found turned out to be a very satisfying film.Of course much of this is silly, but it's a welcome romantic comedy that would make, say, a Saturday afternoon cuddled on the couch with snacks a joyous experience.  It's a kinder, gentler film that we haven't seen in ages, like the overwhelmingly wonderful film Return To Me. As I said, I went in with little expectations and found myself smiling, laughing, and feeling really happy by the time the film was over.  And DO stick through the end credits for the fun outtakes and lip syncing.Whether you catch it on cable, see it as a video rental, or (like I did) take a chance and buy it, you'll find this film has a lot of heart and is worth recognition.  I really respect Spade more after seeing this endearing effort.  I mean,,,,how much trouble could a cute little terrier cause, eh? *singing* Groove is in the hearrrrrrrrt ....... "},{"Title":"This is a DISASTER","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw Something About Mary and comparing this trash to that movie is an insult.Nothing in this movie is funny except maybe the credits.The lead character is so dull and dead there is no life in that Comic who is he?The movie is slo and too long.I wacht that movie twice and I came to the same conclusion what a waste of talent.Sophie Marceau is a good actress she should be use better she got the talent,but this movie is not to be compare to There's Something ABout Mary it is not the same quality.Don't spend money on renting it it's not worth it. "},{"Title":"Worse than bad!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A movie so bad Sophie Marceau and Patrick Bruel should be ashamed to be in it. I don't know how they could do it.  "},{"Title":"Cliche ridden boy meets girl, boy does something dishonest to get girl, boy gets caught & loses girl, bla....bla...bla...","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  To paraphrase one of David Spade's lines, If the audience ain't laughin', it's 'cause they're watchin this movie.  This painfully predictable movie steals from just about any of the watered down romantic comedies Hollywood has thrust on us over the last couple of years.  It tries to have an edge, mostly by stealing from old Cheech & Chong, and Beavis & Butthead dog routines.  It just doesn't work, which is really sad since David Spade is a truly funny and gifted actor and can do way better than this garbage.  You may have to give it one star for some of Spade's one liners and a funny, but quick performance by John Lovitz. "},{"Title":"stupid, unoriginal, boring","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is an exact copy of There's Something About Mary. Every idiotic scene with the dog is trying to be like Mary. There are scenes where actor David Spade is brushing the dogs teeth and feeding it goldfish. Gee, the dog scenes were never used before. Oh wait, Mary did that. Worst movie of 1999. "},{"Title":"An insulting comedy that can lower your I.Q.","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An unlikable Spade falls for his next door neighbor Marceau, then kidnaps her dog in a desperate attempt to win her over. If you're willing to get past an extremely stupid, unoriginal premise, then you won't be rewarded cause this turkey goes on for an hour and a half and in typical Spade fashion is filled with corny and offensive jokes. 0/4 "},{"Title":"David Spade not only proves that he cant produce laughs, but also that he is not able to write a funny script. *1/2 out of ****.","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Director Jeff Pollack   Running time 99 minutes   Rated PG-13 (for sexual humor, brief nudity, and some language)By Blake FrenchOn his own, David Spade is not very funny. He, James B. Cook and Marc Meeks co-write the new comedy, Lost & Found, rewriting and recycling what was once hilarious material into dry, laugh resistant comedy. Why does the audience care so little about the characters in this film? Why are there so few funny moments? Why does David Spade think the film is worth ruining the reputation of the normally reliable Sophie Marceau and Martin Sheen? Why are there so many plot holes in the film? I have one statement that answers every question above because the script of Lost & Found really sucks. Here are ten reasons why1.  The entire film is filled with endless unfunny jokes about private parts, age, reputation, homosexuality, stupidity, sex, and we even get to see Jon Lovitz as a legendary Dog Whisperer. Not much of the witticism is even giggle-inspiring, not to mention the mere insanity of it all.2.  The film spews out lots of desperate humor, but it all seems more appropriately written for some canceled sitcom. This Reminds us that David Spade stars in the comedy sitcom Just Shoot Me. Like that television program, the material found in Lost & Found grows painfully tired after about twenty minutes into the picture.3.  There is not any character development here. We first meet the main character, Dylan Ramsey (David Spade), as he's practicing his break-up speech for his girlfriend with a bird. How do the filmmakers expect us to care about  anything that happens to the characters when we don't know them well. This is  why the characters lack interest.4.  The running joke in the picture has to do with Dylan's love interest's, Lila Dubois (Sophie Marceau), dog. Some of the dialogue exchanged between the dog and Dylan shows just how badly written the script is here. I'll throw, you catch, explains Dylan to the listening canine, It's the latest craze--all the cool dogs are doing it. That is the type of humor we receive with the dialogue. Ha-ha.5.  Obviously, much of the film's humorous material is recycled out of other better comedies. The animal jokes come from the inevitable There's Something About Mary, and Turner and Hooch.  The gags about age and stupidity come  from The Odd Couple movies.6.  For some strange reason, David Spade's character seems to come naturally for him here. Unlike 8 Heads in a Duffel Bag, where his character seemed strained and contrived, as Dylan Ramsey, Spade seems to be content and effortless comfortable. This is not really a good thing. I just felt like saying something about that fact.7.  Like I have already said, the production is co-written by Spade, and he is able to release his peripheral bad taste sexual context here, that all seems unnecessary and more vulgar than amusing.8.  There isn't much of a story in Lost & Found, the film is mainly composed of disastrous, although related, humorous events that don't inhabit enough plot to sink our teeth into. The love story is also deprived of chemistry and romantic emotions.9.  The conclusion to this movie is predictable and formalistic. We see a happy ending coming a half hour before it occurs. Although David Spade performs a nice, inspirational musical number during a sequence near the end, that still doesn't save the third act--if you can call it that.10.  With all this negativity I continually pound at Lost & Found I am sure you are about to wonder why the film received its one and one half star rating. Well, I enjoyed the performance by Sophie Marceau, who proves even when given indecent material to portray, she can still release her inspirational charm into a character. However, if that is the only decent element this comedy has to offer, one might as well call it dog food.Brought to you by Warner Bros.  "}{"Title":"If There's Something About Mary was the best of the sitcom comedies, Lost & Found is at the bottom of the barrel.","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There seems to be some confusion about what is funny nowadays. Let me give filmmakers a clue. Funny Men Who Will Always Be Funny Steve Martin, Bill Murray, John Candy, Bob Hope, Jack Lemmon, Walter Matthau, et al. People Who Are Not and Never Will Be Funny David Spade. Now that we have that out of the way, let's get on, shall we?Lost & Found is a marginally funny movie that only has a few funny gags. It is more of a sitcom stretched out to full length than a full-length motion picture. There are conveniently close-living love interests. Poor characters live in luxurious apartments. The main characters all exchange lines we would expect their writers give them to say, and nothing realistic. This is beginning to sound like Friends the Movie...And there is a certain problem with enlisting David Spade as a romantic lead. 1. He's a snotty little swine who, I think, many women would hate and not adore. 2. He's annoying, and his humor is contradictory, making everything he says a contradiction. Which means when he wants to express his love to a woman, I hate you is the best choice.But let's be honest, can you imagine David Spade as a woman charmer? Me, neither. Let's just say love, subtlety and truth are not his expertise. In my opinion, David Spade is not a funny guy.  New(er) comedians like Adam Sandler at least have the visible urge to be funny, a sense of liveliness and joy. David Spade has neither. He just stands there, cracks badly-written lines in bad monotone, and expects us to laugh; what's it all about, David?Lost & Found is about an Italian restaurant owner named Dylan (Spade), who is not Italian, but expects his patrons to ignore this. Dylan maintains a failing restaurant downtown, where he walks about and cracks jokes to the guests in his restaurant and scares little children. Dylan has a big future somewhere. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem to be on this planet.One day, after losing his clothes in a game of strip poker with a gang of old women, Dylan sees a beautiful woman (Sophie Marceau) living a few apartments down from him, playing an instrument and sitting by a window at night so naked men like Dylan can stand right outside, stare at her, and not be seen. We know there's going to be a joke about people walking outside their rooms and seeing Dylan, and - oh, here it is. Big surprise It's handled badly, it's not funny, and the people who spotted Dylan have no urge to call the police. Why? Easy They're written characters just there for a cheap gag. No characters seem to make up their own choices. There's a bad case of Scripteritis and Writtenmonia in this film.In hopes of getting closer to the beautiful woman, Dylan decides to kidnap her small dog. He then shows up at her house and helps her search for the vicious animal. This goes on for a while, giving Dylan a chance to grow closer to Marceau. I do not know why Marceau's character would ever feel anything for Dylan, who parades around like a little brat throwing insults at her old boyfriend like, I'm a local yokel (har-har).Lost & Found seems to want to be another There's Something About Mary, but it's lacking everything, right down to its obvious rip-off of the dog (which bears a startling resemblance to the canine in Mary). Mary might have been a conveniently written comedy, but we cared enough for the characters and laughed enough at the jokes that we didn't care. There are no strong laughs in Lost & Found, and we don't care for the characters. And as we await the occasional chuckle, the convenience of the script becomes more and more apparent, as do the major flaws the film has. If There's Something About Mary was the best of the sitcom comedies, Lost & Found is at the bottom of the barrel.And for further notice, here are other comedians who are not funny Chris Farley, Chris Rock,  Norm Macdonald, Colin Quinn, Rob Schneider, Jimmy Fallon.2/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"An insulting comedy that can lower your I.Q.","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An unlikable Spade falls for his next door neighbor Marceau, then kidnaps her dog in a desperate attempt to win her over. If you're willing to get past an extremely stupid, unoriginal premise, then you won't be rewarded cause this turkey goes on for an hour and a half and in typical Spade fashion is filled with corny and offensive jokes. 0/4 "},{"Title":"Carried by beautiful Sophie Marceau...","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Nice movie. Nothing special, but nice.Of course, the essential element of this film is not David Spade - there are too many better comedians around - but Sophie Marceau whose sheer beauty keeps on stunning me even after knowing her work for nearly twenty years meanwhile.She has everything a woman needs and she's a brilliant actress to top this - what more can you ask for? "},{"Title":"A real dog.","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Lost and Found is a tour de force by David Spade which translates into a seemingly lengthy tour with very little force unless you're a Spade lover. The film attempts to capitalize on Spade's sarcastic style of humor but wears it out quickly as it apparently has little else to offer. It's unable to make the Kodak moments work as the Spade/Marceau duo is too implausible even for an outrageous comedy with Spade unable to get serious and Marceau seeming uncomfortably out of place. For Spade fans only. "},{"Title":"The real dog isn't -in- the movie. It -is- the movie.","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Lost and Found is a tour de force by David Spade which translates into a short tour with very little force unless you're a Spade lover. The film attempts to capitalize on Spade's sarcastic style of humor but wears it out quickly and apparently has little else to offer. It's unable to make the Kodak moments work as the Spade/Marceau duo is too implausible even for an outrageous comedy. This one dimensional, paper thin, and very forgettable flick is for Spade fans only. "},{"Title":"Silly movie, showcasing David Spade's wit and Sophie Marceau's beauty.","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although Lost and Found is a totally silly movie, David Spade is funny and Sophie Marceau is beautiful.  It is easy to watch, funny at times, sweet at others. I would not pay to rent this video, but watching it on TV is worth the time for entertainment.I give it 6 of 10, but not a real strong 6. "},{"Title":"Funny, but mis-fired Spade project","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wanted to like this film, David Spade can be a hilarious person.  But it is usually on Saturday Night Live or on Chris Farley films.  This is a solo effort that means well, but doesn't shoot of at the right time.  Spade plays a restaurant owner who wants to get a girl of his dreams by stealing her dog.  Cute premise, and laughs along the way (I loved the Jon Lovitz cameo), but not as good as I expected.  B "},{"Title":"A cute little romantic comedy","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is mostly a vehicle for David Spade and as such it was a mixed bag.  The story was cute; nerdy guy falls in love with the girl next door (Sophie Marceau) who totally outclasses him, and he decides the best way to woo her is to steal her dog and charm her while he pretends to help her find it.I thought the romance angle was enchanting and the better part of the script than the goofy Spade skits with the dog.  Much of the film was Spade having sarcastic dialogue with the pooch and it was sadly unfunny.  His bits with Marceau were better.  By far the funniest scene in the movie was his Neil Diamond impression.  That was one of the few scenes worthy of his comedic talent.The lately ubiquitous Sophie Marceau is sweet as the girl next door.  She really didn't have much to do in this film except be French and adorable, which is not much of a stretch for her.  She handled it with aplomb.Probably the most consistently humorous character was Artie Lange as the psychotically sycophantic Wally.  He stole just about every scene he was in, and with his enormous size and girth was visually the perfect comic foil to the diminutive Spade.Martin Sheen had a bit part as the banker, Mr. Millstone and once again proved that no matter how small a part you give him, he will overact and ruin it.I gave it a 6 overall.  A lot of the bits were lame, but there's a chuckle or two for just about everyone in this film and you will probably feel a little better at the end than when you started.  Worth a look. "},{"Title":"David Spade is a very funny guy, in small or large doses.","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is being criticized because David Spade's schtick is funny supposedly in small doses but not at feature length.  Excuse me, but that sounds like one of those lines you have made up and ready before you see the movie. The truth is that almost any comedy schtick, including David Spade's, can sustain the yucks for 90 minutes. The problem with this movie is that Spade doesn't try to do that. Instead, he interjects all this material about owning an Italian restaurant and needing a loan to finish the new wing and his pretty Frenchgirl neighbor needs a shot of confidence so she can play her cello at Hollywood Bowl yada yada yada. Audience to David Stick to the schtick, please.  5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pretty Lame","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have been very disappointed by the current crop of comedies so I set my expectations pretty low for this one, and guess what? This fell below even them!The film is predictable and unfunny. Those are the major failings. Another problem is David Spade. He's a side kick in search of a side to kick. And Artie Lang I loved Dirty Work, but in this he's just a sub-standard Chris Farley. And Sophie Marceu- from Braveheart to THIS?!? Mel Gibson, David Spade... same difference.Another major failing in the film is the lengths they go through to make Spade likable. Adam Sandler, Chris Farley, Norm MacDonald, Bill Murray, Jim Carrey- all are willing to make their leading characters unlikable, almost unwatchable. Spade's character is a budding restauranteur! He only means to kidnap the dog for an hour or two, but it eats his friend's ring! Spade is just too nice! Or at least he tries to be, he just isn't the leading man type.And with the dog abuse and goofy cast-sing-along over the credits, the film seems to be trying to be There's Something About Mary, a film which I absolutely loathed.In short This movie was useless. Bleh. "}{"Title":"I liked it very much. Great romance film with a twist!","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"   This was a clever concept and beautifully filmed. I liked it even more the scecond time I saw it. And.....I want to see it again!! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest scenes in movie history","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When David Spade sings Neil Diamond's Brother Loves Travelling Salvation Show, I nearly fell off the couch in laughter.  The scene is, quite possibly, one of the ten funniest scenes in movie history.  Watch this movie for the scene alone. "},{"Title":"If you liked There's Something About Mary you'll love the sequel.","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  David Spade fans will undoubtedly love this well-made vehicle.  He finally gets to play himself, after several films wasted his talents by forcing him to play the unlikeable nerd.  Now he's playing the nerd, but it's the sympathetic dork that is the essence of Spade's humor.  He ridicules himself so effectively, you don't mind that he's ridiculing everybody else.There are some scenes that are downright hysterical, and I'm not the kind of person who usually laughs out loud at movies.  Some of the dog jokes wore a little thin (see below) but the laughs are consistent.  The musical number at the end is an absolute scream.Sophie Marceau does a good job as the unattainable beauty.  And if you think some of her punchline deliveries are flat, try telling a joke in your fourth language and see how much zip you put on it.It is a great movie and a lot of fun.  But I would be remiss if I didn't mention one criticism.  It's A LOT like There's Something About Mary. This is what happens when an inexpensive comedy makes over 100 million bucks.  From the dog gags, to the zany things two men will do to get the perfect woman, to the sexually-driven old lady humor, this was a film that was obviously trying to fill a niche.  And the shot-for-shot remake of Mary's closing credits will make you think they brought in Gus Van Sant.But since I, and a lot of people, loved Mary, the preceding paragraph is not so much a criticism as an observation.  Don't let it stop you from seeing a terrific film.  Next to the newly-minted multi-billionaire Adam Sandler, Spade is a comedy genius.  Of course, next to the newly-minted multi-billionaire Adam Sandler, Gallagher II is a comedy genius.  But that's beside the point.  Spade sells this movie, and I highly recommend it.  "}]