[{"Title":"It's hard to find talent.....","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" I saw the movie DANCE WITH ME because there was nothing else interesting on. If I had known it would be so entertaining I would have watched it years ago. Like STRICTLY BALLROOM, it is a beautiful mix of music, fun and dancing. This movies shows an intensity and passion between 2 people that is lacking in most modern movies. Most movies never develop a love story.....rather they jump into some steamy sexual situation. What happened to leaving things to our imagination....Happily Ever After!!! Don't get me wrong, the script was lacking at times, but the performers made up for it with energy, and realism. Who can't relate to being torn between something you love and something you want. Vanessa L. Williams is outstanding. If she had starred in MOULIN ROUGE, I may have been able to watch the whole thing. Vanessa is one of the few MULTI-TALENTED PERFORMERS(singer, actress and NOW dancer)overlooked by Hollywood. Few women can do it all. Not since the likes of Judy Garland, Audrey Hepburn, and Ginger Rodgers. DANCE WITH ME is worth watching. "},{"Title":"A Fun Film","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorites, yet I wouldn't call the film great in the usual sense. It doesn't have an intricate plot, and some will be frustrated at the limited interaction between the stars, Williams and Chayanne.  (I wasn't but that's me.)  The film's spirit - with its dancing and Latin music - makes it something special.  The acting was superb, and there was a nice mix of characters.  But the dancing really steals the show - it makes you want to get up and join them.I recommend this to anyone who enjoys a mix of light drama and dancing. "},{"Title":"Exquisite display of color, movement and emotion","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" This movie is very good eye candy. The music and the dancing pulls you into the movie. Sometimes I just forgot that they were telling a story because almost in every scene there was movement, feeling and attention in the dance choreography. It was a wonderful display of dancing and choice in music. Some may not like the movie because it lacks a strong storyline, but there are no new ideas. We all know what hidden behind door number 1, 2 and 3. Nonetheless, it is not that the movie doesn't stray into the unknown; it is that the movie has attraction, heat, and passion especially with the chemistry between Chayanne and Vanessa. I even like the music video that complements the movie. Chayanne has done a great job in his first English role and better yet he has the moves to back it up. Although Vanessa is heard in the movie speaking extremely poor Spanish, she did a wonderful job in the Spanish version of You are my home it was great! "},{"Title":"Superb film","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" as someone who enjoys dancing and anything Latin i have to say i loved this film. Maybe its because I'm female and can be a bit soppy at times but i loved Rafael and Ruby, and must say I found Rafael Infante very sexy. I thought the dancing was very interesting and had me watching with anticipation and I enjoyed every minute. I'm also a fan of ally McBeal so enjoyed watching Jane Krakowski as Patricia too. which was followed by a very amusing little dance by an older lady whose name i can't remember but who said I wanna do that too. I loved the outfits and wow Rubys dress in her final dance was amazing! Just hoping it is going to come out on DVD in the UK now! "},{"Title":"Fun, sexy, great dancing and music is amazing!","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  A must see! Chayanne (Rafael) is incredibly sexy and Vanessa Williams (Ruby)looks amazing. Chayanne from Puerto Rico, who has been a singer for years, has proven himself multi-talented. Not only can he sing, he can DEFINATLY dance, and act too! Vanessa is one of those women you love to hate - especially in this movie. Utterly Gorgeous, she dances like a dream and in the duet with Chayanne You are my home she even sings great too! The Chemistry between the two leads is electrifying, especially evident in the Dance championships and in the club scenes. Well casted. Ruby's young son is irresistable and Bea is the grandma everyone wants. The music is so incredibly catchy - I have the soundtrack, which also contains a couple of songs not in the movie which should be, but unfortunatly leaves out some that are in the movie that should  be on the CD as well! There is also Dance with Me 2 which contains songs not in the movie but in the syle of. Features Chayanne and Vanessa Williams, Gloria Estefan, Sergio Mendes, DLG (who have a role in the movie performing at the club Rafael and Ruby go to), Ruban Blades and more! I think I must have seen this movie over 25 times and I never get sick of it! I've almost memorised the script! Would have been nice to embelish the father-son relationship of Rafael and John (Kris Kristofferson), but this may well have detracted from the dance scenes. And I definatly would have liked more on the romance between the two leads...! I hope Chayanne does more movies as he has a talent for it and I'm hanging out for more perving!  Oh, and more dancing too! "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" I saw this film by chance on cable TV. I was captivated from the start and stayed with it to the end (a major feat for a remote trigger finger like me). I read the cable synopsis and thought, Uh oh! Cliché city! But, to my surprise, this film was not clichéd and the film was like a breath of fresh air. The performances, for the most part, were true and honest. Chayenne (as Rafael, a Cuban émigré) is charming and acts well in his English-language film debut. Vanessa Williams is stunning, as always. And the music! Picante! The dance sequences are excellent and Chayenne is an excellent dancer as is Vanessa. Chayenne has a soulful demeanor and with his eyes and subtle facial inflections, he made me feel his loneliness as a stranger in a new land. Many times, I thought the film would sink into gooey sentimentality, but again, to my surprise, it rose above such obviousness. The best scene in the film is when Chayenne is caught in a lawn sprinkler system that turns on unexpectedly. With great charm and wit, Chayenne does an excellent homage to Gene Kelly, but with his own style and grace. A wonderful and funny scene. I recommend this film if you want to hear some great Latin music, see some great dancing and be captivated by Chayenne and the beautiful Vanessa Williams. By the way, Kris Kristofferson is very good as the man who gives Rafael (Chayenne) a place to live upon arriving from Cuba and who plays a key role in Rafael's adjustment to a new life in America. "},{"Title":"It is such a relief to be able to see a movie that leaves you","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  I think this was a wonderful, refreshing movie.   The dancing was suburb!Chayanne, the new Latin sensation, was absolutely wonderful.   He fills the screen with such charm and charisma......he steals the movie!     Vanessa Williams was exciting and beautiful.    Both Chayanne and Vanessa made the most electrifying couple!     The rest of the cast added just the right touch to complete this ensemble.      The dancing and music was well worth just seeing the movie!  "},{"Title":"JAW DROPPER dance scenes!!!","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  This movie was one of the greatest Latin dance movies. I myself dance and i love the way it focused around the fact of REAL Latin DANCING (afro-cuban) and ballroom Latin dancing. The only thing that i could picture wrong with the film was not enough dancing, but i tell you, when the dance scenes hit the screen they REALLY hit it ). The great choreography, and great music, couldn't stop smiling.Some low points of the film was with father son chats, which just seem like they were there to fill in time.The cast was a great choice. Chayanne (Latin singer) who moves are unique and fun and that makes u smile. And Vanessa L. Williams, was trained to the extent of a real ballroom champion. With all of this it included comedy, many funny lines which make it memorable, and a lasting feeling that will make you want to take up salsa dancing )If you enjoy this movie, rent out dirty dancing havana nights, forbidden dance lambada, salsa motion picture (oldie but a goodie)  "},{"Title":"If you loved Dirty Dancing you'll love this one too!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  This movie instantly became a favorite of mine, it's full of warmth and charm, the characters are real and enchanting, and Chayanne (Rafael) is absolutely captivating! I could hardly take my eyes off of him during the entire movie.  Watch for the scene where he dances in the sprinklers, he's absolutely charming!  (I could go on for days about him but I'll spare you). Vanessa Williams (Ruby) is every bit his equal though, not only is she breathtakingly beautiful, but her dancing is some of the best I've ever seen in any movie. (I still can't figure out how she dances so well in those shoes!) As for the supporting cast, Joan Plowright (Bea) can even steal a scene from Chayanne!  She's adorable as one of the older, but very enthusiastic dance students.  Her second performance in the Las Vegas competition is another one of my favorite scenes.  Do not miss this movie! (Now, where do I sign up for Chayanne's fan club???) "},{"Title":"Excellent dance film a throwback","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  The old dance films of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers, and Gene Kelly, may have been a technical marvel, but they also understood that dancing was a form of communication, of things left unsaid.  This film fits right in with that tradition, though of course it's using more modern dances, but I think Astaire would look at the chemistry between Chayanne and Williams when they're dancing, and approve.  You can tell director Randa Haines is a fan of the dancing the way she lovingly photographs it, and gives all the dancers a chance to shine, especially during the long dance scene at the club.  She's also the first director who really gives Williams a chance to cut loose and show her talent.  I don't know much about Chayanne, but he's good too.So the plot isn't much.  Who watches musicals just for the plot?  And actually, I liked how they handled certain aspects, like the dance competition and how Chayanne and Williams resolve their feelings for one another without even dancing together.  The only real criticism I have is the movie is a little too long, but that's only a quibble. "}{"Title":"One of the best dance movies!","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" Dance With Me is excellent because both Chayanne and Venessa Williams are a triple threat, i.e. they can dance, act and sing too, which is rare these days. Dance movies are almost always weak in either acting or dancing, and the stories are often just filler to pass time and loosely connect the dance scenes. Not so with DWM, where the chemistry of the characters is so strong it makes the story believable even though it is predictable. The production values are also very high - footage of a real professional ballroom dancing competition is seamlessly integrated, and the film is infused with great Latin music from beginning to end. And Venessa and Chayanne DO sing one of the songs in the soundtrack, all of which sounds terrific in 5.1 surround on the DVD. If you like dance films you owe it to yourself to see DWM. "},{"Title":"Why is this film so underrated?","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" I recall seeing 'Saturday Night Fever' (talk about your clichéd movie plots!) and leaving the theater with nothing but the dancing of John Travolta on my mind. That movie was a huge hit, the music was terrific, and to my mind, it made John Travolta a star.This movie gives me the same feeling. Why was it not a similar hit?I've watched it scores of times. Chayanne and Vanessa Williams have credible chemistry on-screen and the plot, although kind of standard, is interesting enough to carry the action.In particular, I always come back to this movie to watch the dancing. It is simply spectacular. The scene where Chayanne and Vanessa Williams' characters reach a kind of truce because they love to dance and like each other - so they go on a second date - is simply amazing. They arrive at the nightclub where they had a failed first date and the crowd parts to let them in to a kind of Latin musical dance fest where the music doesn't seem to stop long enough for anyone to sit down and catch a breath. They are immediately caught up in the swirl and almost as soon, they part and go off in different directions, passing each other, picking up different partners and having a wonderful time to the fantastic music. The scene is not about them, it's about the crowd and the sheer joy of dancing to Latin music - which in this case is not sultry and sensuous one-to-one dancing but an all-out bacchanalia of multiple partners and a pounding beat. Wonderful, wonderful!Everything about this film feels so natural and relaxed. It's like a breath of fresh air. It's not fair to compare it to 'Strictly Ballroom' directed by Baz Luhrmann. I love his movies but I appreciate them for being grand operatic extravaganzas. 'Strictly Ballroom' was certainly that. 'Dance with Me' will always be one of my favorite movies and now I've got a crush on Chayanne that just won't quit. "},{"Title":"Not just a woman's movie, but good for romantic fellers too","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" I simply love this movie, I have the DVD and I am watching it again. I love it... Vannessa Williams is a very good actress in this film, I have not seen a lot of her work but she shines, and she is visually stunning, beautiful and I really appreciate the gradual warming of her relationship with Chayanne, he is so handsome and charming. Who is this guy Chayanne? So very personable and charismatic, I want to know where he came from... He is great and a surefire popular man for the ladies to swoon over... There is definite chemistry between them, Vanessa and Chayanne. Joan Plowright is one of the dance team, married in real life to Laurence Olivier and a remarkable actress, so the fact that she chose to be in this movie is a point to note. Kris Kristofferson also gives a fine performance as the long lost father we come to know about. The dancing in the movie is superb, there is a lot of dancing...dancing lessons in a dance studio, but the storyline progresses well even if you don't like dancing. After watching this, you will. Oh, it's just great, I am already feeling the glow from watching it, you will too ...have to get back to the screen to see more of this underrated little movie Malcolm in Toronto Jan 2013 "},{"Title":"chemistry makes a simple plot spring to life!","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  Refreshingly cute! Though I didn't particularly find Chayanne to be anything special when I caught a glimpse of this movie on tv the first time round (half the movie had finished by then) I changed my mind when I managed to sit down and actually watch the movie from start to finish. Simple plot, simple dialogue, yet executed to perfection. All I can say is I hope Vanessa L. Williams and Chayanne do another movie together because not only did they dance well together, the chemistry between the 2 was perfect. It brought to mind the fact that there are so few couples nowadays that work well together. Beyond your Meg Ryan/Tom Hanks; Julia Roberts/Richard Gere, can you name any that have had great chemistry???? The story is cute, centres around a young Cuban who comes to Texas to confront his dad (who owns a dance studio). He falls in love with one of the dance instructors who works there, yet she's more interested in winning the world championship with her ex boyfriend. Go rent it and watch it on a Friday night! "},{"Title":"Fun, Romantic, Great Dancing, a Pleasure to Discover Chayanne!","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" What a pleasure to discover an internationally acclaimed Latino performer, Chayanne, totally by accident! While DWM has flaws that have been pointed out in other reviews, (I voted 10 for the experience) for me it was primarily a time of joy and delight as I experienced an honest, exciting performance by a young man I might not have otherwise known. Chayanne's sincerity, passion for life, and ability to respond truthfully to his cast mates were evident throughout the film (not so hard on the eyes either!). Since viewing DWM, I've found his music (dozens of gold and platinum albums in the international community) and his fans (chayanne.net, casachayanne.com and others) and my life is richer for the discovery. Take a chance and have a ball! "},{"Title":"Comment on Movie","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" I feel sorry for those who are not of Latin Decent and comment about this film. If you are not a romantic, have no passion, no deep feelings, sentiment, soul, compassion, then without question, you can not recognize the greatness of this film. It set a standard for all similar movies, in Japan, Shall we dance, another in Korea, in the US, Shall we dance with Richard Gere and Jlow, and many other school competitive dance movies. Please do not think of or discuss, Ginger Rogers or Fred Astere, that was a totally different era.If you were from Cuba and you reached out with your heart, soul and mind, to recall those special places, you too would feel the loneliness for what you left behind. Have you ever heard, Oh my, it's good to be home! Venessa and Chayanne were electrifying! When they danced, the music, and their quiet passion, the heat in there looks and touch seemed unbelievably real! As for all the other dancers, they made a celebration of it and all had fun.The music makes you want to dance in your seat. The last dance scene should have deeply touched all. Although dancing with some one, in her being Vanessa was dancing with Chayanne. Freedom to be creative was an understatement, it shined through. What a pleasant surprise and joy to see Joan Plowright and Chayanne do their dance scene, terrific touch to the movie.I applaud the entire staff, crew, actors and Director for giving me the pleasure of this movie! I consider it a classic, a favorite, and trend setter! Back then you did not know the impact of your work today. To all of you, thank you! Sincerely, Juan Ramon Clar "},{"Title":"Celebrates the joy of dance","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" Dance With Me is that fun kind of film you can get the old tape out and revisit every once in a while, and it remains fresh even after multiple viewings. The characters are likable, the cast clicks well together, the music is a terrific assortment of different styles, and plenty of well-choreographed dance routines are featured. All of these blend well to make for a feel-good movie.Although the focus of the movie is simply to celebrate the joy of dance itself, three parallel plots are introduced that give the story cohesiveness, as well as somewhere to go. A young Cuban man (Chayanne) travels to Texas to meet the father he has never known (Kris Kristofferson), who runs a dance studio, and romances one of the teachers who works at the studio (Vanessa Williams), while everyone at the studio prepares for a dance competition in Vegas.These three elements are mixed well, thanks to a fine ensemble cast. Chayanne has a boyish, friendly charm that is immediately disarming. Williams and Kristofferson, two actors I've never been particularly fond of, turn in great performances and won me over as a new fan. They have splendid screen chemistry with Chayanne, and the multiple plots are developed well because of this. The supporting cast have their share of great moments too, and provide plenty of comic relief.The wide variety of music and dance styles throughout the movie are utilized well. Look for excellent choreography, particularly in the nightclub sequence where Williams gets spun, turned, and whirled by about a hundred other dancers. The dance competition finale is staged brilliantly, showing everything from ballet to sizzling salsa in an exhilarating fashion.Overall, an enjoyable movie, in the spirit of the old MGM musicals, where the only thing that's important is to have some pleasant, escapist fun. "},{"Title":"oh yeah with the chemistry","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" just wanted to say i totally agree about the chemistry. i saw it with my mom at the theater and was lost about the plot then but it didn't matter cuz there was so much going on between chayanne and vanessa williams i was totally caught up in them. i think they had just one kiss and that was so hot, it was a tease. they seemed to have a lot of fun together. the movie gets shown on cable a bit and i understand what it's about now a little too after having seen it a few times. i always think the writing will bore me and it does a little but the chemistry keeps me there. chayanne's character has a black cuban mom too, they show a quick photo of her, and the vanessa williams character cuz of her color and the fact that she's a single mom too. before they kiss, they talk about her child and how she was left pregnant and he grabs her then. still it all kind of doesn't matter cuz those two are real hot and cute together. i do hope they do something else somehow cuz i know this didn't get a lot of attention. "},{"Title":"wonderful dancing to wonderful music","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  Yes, Virginia, the plot is cliched but isn't that true of most musicals? What this movie has going for it is dancing, music and stars who are beautiful, charming and talented. The dance scene in the Latin bar is worth the price of admission. If you like the Latin beat and want to watch pros dancing it, this movie is for you. It made this sedentary old broad rock her lounger.  "},{"Title":"A Fun and Lively Time!","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  I thought that Dance With Me was fun and lively.  The story was nice and engaging.  I've read many reviews of this movie and I feel that they are unfair.  Dance With Me was meant to be entertaining and for those that were in the theater when I was it accomplished that purpose.  I enjoyed the cast, all of them, they fit the story.  It was evident that some hard work went into the movie.  I do feel that further development of the relationships could have been shown. A lot of what was shown after the end of the movie should have been kept in.   "}{"Title":"Vanessa's Oscar Worthy Ruby Sinclair","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" ********** Williams performance is the rock which sustains the believability and dramatic tension of DANCE WITH MEs unfolding events.  Her acting is drenched with Irene Papas catharsis; when she plumbs her soul at the climactic final championship dance she travels through more horizon lines on her emotional interior landscape than Keir Dullea at the end of 2001.  We don't need FX to see those plateaus.  Her face is a gradient seismograph of the turbulent earthquakes transforming her heart. This is an AMAZING performance. To accomplish this in the middle of an athletic dance of Olympic intensity is simply beyond the pale of any other actress on screen today.  No one else could have pulled this off and Williams does it with such absolute authority it's chilling.We have VASTLY underrated the talent of this woman and Hollywood should hang its head in shame for that.Hollywood adapted actress rankings quickly when required to do so in the past. Sally Field went from Gidget/Flying Nun to Daughter of Stanislavski in Sybil overnight. Vanessa's triumph is dropping critical jaws with similarly astounded gaspsAt last a vehicle for her PRODIGIOUS TALENT.  The teaming of Chayanne and Vanessa is like a double dose of Viagra! ------------- Time MagazineBehind the same buzz that catapulted Jessica Lange from kitsch Kong to Frances glitters Vanessa William's similarly elevated dust in DANCE WITH ME. She's broken through to become the Dorothy Dandridge of our generation.Williams says she's used to proving herself with each new project``That's the luxury of having people doubt you, everything surprises them. "},{"Title":"Chayenne is worth the price of admission!","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  I found the romance in this movie very moving.  Chayenne has major sex appeal, and is sure to be developed as a leading man in American films.  Vanessa Williams is proving she is more than just a beautiful face (which she definitely is).   Chayenne uses his expressive eyes to full advantage throughout the film, but in an understated way.  Hollywood, take note!  This guy has real potential!    "},{"Title":"A memorable love story a decade later","Date":"9 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" I cannot believe it has been ten years since the release of this film. I love it even more this day. Dance With Me is a love story interspersed with electrifying dance moves and sensuality that leaps off the screen. The chemistry between Vanessa Williams and Chayanne is palpable. They are a beautiful couple&#133;and I believe they enjoyed making the film together. The energetic sound track will have you ready to jump out of your seat and start dancing&#133;no matter where you are or if you can dance. If you have a chance to see the video on You Tube, Refugio De Amor, do! It captures the essence of the movie and Afro-Cuban/Latin beat that will pulse through your veins even when the video and movie end.Do not pay attention to the movie critics if you like romance, dance movies, great choreography, likable characters and memorable music. I own the DVD, movie soundtrack and am a member of the Chayanne fan club&#133;oh, and Vanessa's too&#133;;-) "},{"Title":"classic unknown Latin dance movie.","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" The mistake with this movie is that it doesn't have some hit tune to promote it.A hit tune has made hits out of very mediocre movies.Even though both leads can sing neither of them does in this movie and i believe thats why no one has ever heard of it. Other than that its a very nice movie,with a likable plot,solid acting and dazzling dancing.This could have easily been a huge hit if only it had some catchy tune.There's plenty of Latin music in it but not any original hit.The male lead is handsome,likable and gives a solid acting performance,his dancing is OK but less impressive.There's good support from star Kristofferson and some decent character actors. I was astounded by miss William's dancing in this movie.She is incredible.Just the kind of performance one would expect from movies like Chicago but there were none there,there is plenty here,but the other movie wins an Oscar and this one is unknown.Go figure.Don't be fooled by the low rating of this movie.I have no idea who are the people who vote,if you like Latin music and dancing this is a must. "},{"Title":"Its definitely not as bad as the ratings","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" I don't get it. Why does this movie have so low a rating. I mean i realize its not the greatest ever, but its certainly not a 4 pointer either. It deserves at least a 7 or a 7.5 Some might even give it 8. This definitely one of those cases where the IMDb rating is certainly not correct. In my opinion.The dancing and music are of course very good. To see Chayanne do his stuff is like magic. He shows you how the music leads him. But even the dialogs are so great, people somehow tend to miss that. A real pity. It could be better no doubt, but it certainly isn't a bad movie. So why the ridiculously low rating. "},{"Title":"Under right circumstances, an inviting title and tale","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" This movie is about passion and love, and not just for dancing. It's about life, having fun, family, and the extended family of dancers with that same love and passion for life. This is a very good movie, and I have seen it several times. Rafael Infante and Vanessa Williams provide good on screen chemistry that is more individually based than a focus on the couple, but it works. Their chemistry makes us take notice of each individual, critiquing their moves and motives, and after having been severely tested over the course of the movie, they both come through with flying colors (perhaps Infante flys a bit higher than Williams) Not the best of the dance movies, but a sure good bet. "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" This is actually a good movie. The actors did a good job with what they had to work with and the dancing was excellent. I know a few people have commented that Vanessa didn't dance like a professional, but I think only people that dance or know about dance would know the difference. I thought she did very well. There was nice chemistry between the two main characters even though the relationship wasn't really explored enough. Chayanne did a great job in his role. The looks between he and Vanessa were very well-done. I'd like to see these two together again. This is the kind of movie that you watch when you don't really want anything heavy. It's mostly eye candy, but is worth a look. "},{"Title":"Oh Please","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  This was such an easy film to rate. The dance sequences rate an 8 and the non-dance rates a 1. Consequently, I gave it a 4. I`ve never seen so much posing in one film. Granted, these are 2 very attractive people however, I really didn`t want to sit through a 90 minute photo shoot.The relationship  between the 2 leads was never fully developed. I could go on but why bother. Good dancing + lame story = VERY mediocre film. "},{"Title":"American movie debut of Chayanne - more than just a beautiful face!","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  Dance With Me was a thoroughly enjoyable experience simply on the dance level, and to see Vanessa Williams' acting range, but the true star of the film was Chayanne.A beautiful, triple-threat Latin talent (actor, dancer and singer), Chayanne grabs women in the audience with his first walk on the screen and continues his hold throughout the performance.  His dazzling wide smile competes for your attention with his dark, brooding looks. You simply can't take your eyes off this thoroughly romantic woman's man.I predict once the American public gets a good look at Chayanne that he is going to be the next long-lasting, major star.  He's unforgettable! "},{"Title":"Don't Dance With This.","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" Dance With Me (1998) Dir Randa Haines / Cast Vanessa Williams, Chayanne, Kris Kristofferson, Joan Plowright, Jane Krakowski Misfire film about engagement of personalities. It is an inner request by the film's heroine in her need for companionship. Chayanne is from Cuba and he travels to Texas to accept a job at a dance club and meet his father. Kris Kristofferson fills that role and helps him get settled in. He meets a fascinating dancer but the father of her daughter is a successful dancer too. Directed by Randa Haines who previously made Children of a Lesser God and again creates relationships through expression and talent. Vanessa Williams is an engaging actress despite the predictable storytelling. She is a festive dancer and pulls of all the stops with her dance partner. Chayanne delivers the best performance as someone seeking opportunity and discovers romance and a reuniting with his father. However, it isn't difficult to predict where this is all heading. Kristofferson as Chayanne's father is standard, and Joan Plowright is subdued with a useless cardboard role. Jane Krakowski plays one of the one dimensional dancers. The dancing is graceful and certainly presents a positive distraction from the flimsy writing. With that said, the film's theme seems to work as an expression through artistic talent. It is about the love of dancing not the nature of it. Score 5 / 10 "}{"Title":"Tap Dance to a Different Movie","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  The only good part of this movie was the ending.  You know the part of the movie where the lights come on and you leave to go home.  No no that may be a little harsh - the dancing in the film was sensational but unfortunately that is where the plot ended.  As long as the cast was dancing and not talking the movie went along well.  As for Chayanne's debut - not too bad but hopefully his next film will have a little more depth.  As for going to see the movie wait for the rental or TV.  Do not make the same mistake I did and pay 8.50 "},{"Title":"Fanboys will not go home empty-handed","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" There were high expectations for this film. The studio PR people made a big fuss about how Williams' co-star, the man of the one-syllable name (like Madonna), grew up watching US westerns and just knew, in his heart of hearts, that one day he would be a big star on the big screen. Well yes ... and no. Chayanne's career sort of fizzled after this film, and the film itself has sort of disappeared into 1000s of DVD libraries around the globe. If you are dance fan, it is for you. And if you are a Vanessa Williams' fan, it is for you too. Not to over-state the obvious, but there are those reviewers on the IMDb who have opined that Williams may be one of the most beautiful women of her century (a statement bound to make female readers bristle and reach for a mirror) and this could actually be true. She was striking when she won (sort of won) her pageant, and, like someone in a sci-fi flick with a magic mirror in the attic, her face seems to have improved with age. For fanboys, this otherwise forgettable film may be the last chance to see her at her best, and that by itself is enough reason to consider this for your collection. "},{"Title":"Dance along heart beat","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" It's a cookie cutter MMM goodies kind of movie. Warms your heart. Set in southern tip of Texas not too far off the water front. Mixed cast of local Texans and Cubans. Father (American who runs a dance studio),son (mixed blood, Cuban born), encounters for the first time since birth. Love in modern times along the happy rhythm of Cuban salsa music. Torrid energy of dance routines. Good and light mix of human conflicts and dance routines prep works for competition in Vegas which is used as prop for endearing climax where all problems seem to get resolved. Interesting situations that you can relate to with sprinkling hints of relationship stresses between participants here and there. Starts off slow but soon find in the fun side of dancing and music. RElax and Enjoy your life with good ballroom dance. "},{"Title":"You'll love the dancing!","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  The young leads are marvelously talented dancers who need more screen time showing their stuff.  But what dancing there is, is exciting - makes you want to dance along with them.  A fun film in spite of a drab storyline.  It's hard to get too much of Vanessa Williams. "},{"Title":"Boring.....","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" Quoting from a reviewer here that said this was  one of the greatest Latin dance movies, I honestly didn't think it was that good actually. Even though I know it's Cuban music, I still didn't feel the rhythm or the beat in some of the songs. It's probably because I never heard much of Cuban music before but honestly, it is basically the same as Cuban music but within a different country. It just didn't really understand me!The storyline wasn't that good, it was pretty much overrated. OK Vanessa Williams was involved in this, although it doesn't matter if there were too many famous stars in a movie, as long as it's good. Sadly at the end of the day, this movie didn't pretty much impress me! "},{"Title":"I'm sorry I saw it a second time. I should have preserved my memories","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  This is for those who like dance movies. Or Chayanne.  Or Vanessa Williams. All others beware.  The plot is formulaic.  The dialogue is pretentious. Hey, the dancing isn't even that hot.  And Chayanne's character Rafael has more chemistry, and screen time, with his father than with Vanessa. I liked it the first time I saw it, with my friends. But that's because I turned the viewing into an episode of Mystery Science Theater 3000. I thought I was just being silly. I should have had more insight into my subconscious motivations. A 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great ballroom dancing","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  Finally a dance movie where the actors can actually dance, and dance very well.  Although the Professional Dance Contest scenes take a few liberties, the over-all feel of the event are maintained.  The use of professional dancers as extras adds a lot to the quality of the film. "},{"Title":"Loved the dancing, loved Rafael","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  I have enjoyed this movie so much that I couldn't wait to buy it so I could watch it over and over.  The plot isn't academy award winnng but its a great feel good film and the dancing is superb.  Rafeal (Chayanne) is not only a wonderful dancer but he is so lovable and endearing that I always come away with a big smile and a happy heart every time I watch the movie.  "},{"Title":"Great movie, will tell friends to rent","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  I thought it was a excellent movie. I found myself smiling through out it. the plot was wasn't hard to follow, and the topic of pro-latin dancer not knowing how to dance like the main character was funny..Concidering, the main character is a latin and can dance, latin. Not for all, but for me was as good as dirty dancing, without long story. Will tell friends to rent it.. "},{"Title":"'Dance With Me' a pleasant surprise.","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  We all know Vanessa Williams isn't the greatest actress in the world. Personally, I thought she was just plain bad in 'Eraser'.  She wound up making Schwarzenegger look like De Niro.Well, I was sitting on my couch bored and 'Dance With Me' came on TV.  I would normally change the channel, but the great dancing was hypnotic.  I found myself incapable of pressing the button on my remote.  My subconscious was screaming at me, AAAAAAAH!  THIS IS CR**!  VANESSA WILLIAMS CAN'T ACT! TURN IT OFF, MAN!  SWEET MOTHER OF GOD STOP THE PAIN!  But, still ... I couldn't change the channel.Anyway, I wound up sitting through the entire film.  bows his head in shame  And it wasn't bad.  I ... I enjoyed it.  The cast was good and Vanessa Williams altered my perception of her. She's a decent actress and a great dancer.  It was a fun movie.Just don't tell anyone you heard it from me. "}{"Title":"Touching, romantic, great dance sequences","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  I liked this movies a lot because the characters as well as the actors seem to click making the romance believable. I've never heard of Chayanne before this movie but he is a natural. His eyes and smile say more in a scene than words. I love Vanessa and that is the reason I saw the movie but I came out a fan of Chayanne and even got his cd. I don't think you necessarily have to understand the words to understand the emotions in the songs. I hope to see him in other movies. The dance sequences were great. I love ballroom dancing(watching it anyway) and the competition was very real. Though I wouldn't have given the prize to Ruby and her husband because they weren't the best but that's Hollywood. All in all I came away with a really great feeling. One tiny criticism(being a child of old hollywood movies) I wish they had kissed in the end. It had a romantic ending and that would have been the icing for me. "},{"Title":"Poor soaper with decent dancing","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  Some fairly decent Latin-style ballroom dancing hung on a paper-thin plot. Several liberties have been taken with the atmosphere and rules of an International Ballroom Dance Competition. Vanessa Williams is a great dancer, and does justice to what the film director was trying to say with the dance segments, but she's obviously not the International Ballroom Champion her character is supposed to be. "},{"Title":"Predictable and Terrible","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" There is no question about the way the film ends, there was no suspense at all involved in this film, no imagination used in any aspect. The Story was poorly written, the acting was poorly directed, the actors were poorly chosen and the entire film made me feel like I should hate the person who forced me to sit through this overdone waste of time. It was just awful in every way. There was nothing good about this film. It was a formula film with all expected parts. I feel as though I have been violated and that exaggeration is the only form of recourse here, as an effort to ensure no one else suffers through this film. Endlessly scrubbing dirt off of a mud patch would be a better way to spend the afternoon. "},{"Title":"It just made me dance!","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" to sum it up, the movie actually made me get up and dance. generally, along with the masterpieces that make you think, wonder, guess, or everything at the same time, I love movies that just bring the positive vibes to me. Dance with me is certainly not a highly valuable masterpiece with the deepest meaning... but I gave it 10 starts for being the kind of the movie that can actually make you feel positive and peaceful; and for having that incredibly relaxed and at the same time playful mood ... I'm ready to watch it again whenever I need some positive energy or whenever I'm into dancing mood) Go ahead with it especially if you are or have ever been into dancing "},{"Title":"two snaps up!!","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" I couldn't believe how happy this film made me. First of all, its not just a dance film. It has several sub-plots that deal with issues of abandonment and rejection by a parent, abuse between two dance partners who used to be married, wanting to find a real family, and defining what family really means. It has Kris Kristofferson who can do no wrong in my book, and beautiful people who feel the joy of living through dancing. When I say beautiful people, I mean folks of all ages and sizes who love life and the dance.The central love story between Ruby and Rafael is very believable. Vanessa Williams (Ruby) is a goddess on the dance floor and off and Chayanne plays Rafael- a good dancer but not quite up to her caliber. The dance contest scenes are world-class. I won't spoil the ending for you, but the film really does draw out the suspense so you are not sure what will happen, but you hope that love will prevail in the end.When I came to see the reviews on this site, I expected to see a rating of at least 7. I think that if more people saw the film and reviewed it, the score would be much higher than 5.6. If you love professional dance, beautiful people of all ages, and a great love story, see this movie. "},{"Title":"Wait, what? Did I just sit through a dance movie? o.O","Date":"27 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" First I did dance myself but had to stop due to health reasons - and because I really sucked at dancing (two left feet and no coordination to boot), so I HATE dance movies (jealousy and all, y'know?) and tend to be a mean five letter word when it comes to critique. And although I watched Dirty Dancing eleventy million times when I was younger I never really liked it.I zapped in around the beginning of Dance with Me, where Rafael talks to Ruby about dancing and she tells him off. My first impulse was Hah! Serves you right. Dancing isn't the breeze you believe it to be. and to switch channels.I don't know what made me stay. Maybe it was Chayanne's boyish smile (which surprises me a lot as neither he himself nor the character he portrays is my type at all), maybe it was the overall lightness of the movie, I couldn't say. But stay I did.And I didn't regret it. The dancing is wonderful. It speaks. It tells me things about the characters that no dialogue could ever bring across without being - well, yes - cliché. And yes, the movie is predictable and - here we go again - cliché (I seem to like this word a lot tonight...) but somehow this does not diminish its charm one jot. In a sort of twisted logic it even adds to it. Don't ask me why, for me, it just did. The lack of dialogue had the potential for a decided minus for the film, but I found the dancing, the music, the scenes (the engagement party, for example) expressed more than words alone could say.The movie is kinda cheesy, uneventful on a bigger Michael Bay-ish scale and slow, granted, but hey, that's life. In consequence, the film itself lives and breathes and one becomes part of the dance studio family, whether one wants to or not.Consequently, I was no where near ready for the end after the dance contest. I wanted to see more of the gang. I wanted to share their lives just a little longer. I was really sad the movie was already over.It left me with a light hearted feeling of contentment, almost joy. I didn't know where it came from, for I passionately loath dance movies, especially dance movies containing dances I did or always wanted to do. Not so in this case. I liked it. Heck, I LOVED it! For the first time a dance movie left me with a Hey, you did it! Congrats!-feeling. Thank you, Dance with me. You did it! "},{"Title":"Salsa, and ballroom, and everything dance in between. A showstopper!","Date":"5 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" The whole story of Rafael Infante's dancing dream starts in the still conformist country of Cuba, in the town of Santiago. He is waiting for his visa to leave Cuba and enter the United States from a letter from John Burnett, who runs a ballroom dance studio in Texas. After the conformation of the visa, news of Rafael's acceptance spreads across his friends and with some magic, the salsa song Good-bye Santiago wails across a salsa party as the friends say good-bye to Rafael, wondering if Rafael will ever return to his homeland. As Rafael goes to the USA, he is met up by a professional ballroom dancer, Ruby Sinclair at an intercity bus station, and then, finally takes him to the ballroom studio to meet John Burnett. Later on, as Rafael is introduced to his new home, Ruby and one of his dance partners practice a cha-cha routine, and Rafael is astounded by their cha-cha dancing. Rafael then realizes Vanessa's cha-cha solo dance practice and that her cha-cha does not resemble the traditional cha-cha done in Cuba.Rafael, later on, releases his new talent as a mechanic, spotting John Burnett's old truck that never has been driven for a while, and his strong interest in fishing, which he explains to John. John returns his favor, saying that he loves fishing as a hobby. Later on, Rafael eventually does overhaul repairs on his truck and made it like new, shocking John.Ruby, at the same time, at the ballroom studio, is waiting on his old dance partner, Julian Marshall, as the Open Professional Dance Championships in Las Vegas is days away and some studio participants practice for this big dance competition. I can spot Rafael's crush on Ruby at a studio dance party where he grabs her into a rolling-in turn during a social swing dance and zips up a loose zipper on her dress in the middle of her dance. With that, this leads to their first date at a dance club at Titon's and I liked Johnny Palanco's La Receta as they tried to do their first dance. All went well before Rafael accepts an invitation from a Cuban female stranger to dance, and their date spirals down to an insulting end. Ruby almost does not accept Rafael's apology for the botched date, but as the story goes on, their second date at Titon's involving a mambo round is much better, enhancing Rafael's and Ruby's relationship. Rafael meets with Patricia, partnering up with John for the theatrical arts category, and spotting an opportunity, lifts Patricia in the air. John then complains that his back is giving away too much and Patricia finding out that Rafael took ballet. So with that, Rafael and Patricia will compete in Las Vegas while John watches. Ruby now realizes that Rafael has a partner, and Ruby realizes that because she is now with her son Peter, he and Julian have to win the dancesport event so they can have a great professional ballroom dance career. In the fishing scene, Rafael almost discounts Rafael's American ties as a Cuban citizen and almost rejects him completely, but not until the height of the Las Vegas championships does he forgive Rafael and says out loud to him that you are actually an American citizen, not a Cuban citizen that he thought he was....After making it to the final round after doing a great semi-final samba heat, the final Latin dances in Julian and Ruby's championship face-off with 5 other couples (samba, cha-cha, rumba, and paso doble) has several domestic disputes but they go well. Their last dance, the rumba, is interrupted by Ruby's daydreaming of Rafael, which almost ruin their chance of winning 1st place, but all of this resolves, and when the dancing was over, they still got 1st place. The win was like magic...thanks to Rafael!!The showcase salsa dance between Rafael and Ruby at a post-championship dance party was amazing. Amazing moves, and finally, looks like Ruby had incarnation with Rafael even though Julian and Ruby will have their success later on. So that's what the movie is basically about. "},{"Title":"get your remote ready to fast forward","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  Watch this film for the dancing only!  The predictable plot, with its poorly written and ponderous dialogue, is only a vehicle for the dance sequences. Do yourself a favor and fast forward through the tedious storyline and spend time watching the marvelous dancing instead.The dance sequences are great as is the cinematography showcasing them. The camera work is thankfully not the star, as it might have been if this were an MTV video.  For once, the actors DO dance well, as proven by Miss Williams, but there are actual professional competitive Latin dancers dancing who are given credit for their work and credited with their actual names as well.     "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise, not nearly as sappy as I'd anticipated.","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  The dance numbers were fun.  Dancing has become a lost art in today's movies. This film made me want to re-watch some Astaire, Kelly, Caron movies again.  The plot and acting are above average, but the cast is beautiful to watch.  I'm glad I saw it. Grade 7. "},{"Title":"good movie but......","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  I liked this movie not only for the actors but for the music and the dancing. However, I was kind of disappointed too because it seems in some part of the movie they forgot that it was a Chayanne and Vanessa movie not just a Vanessa movie.  They kind of forgot about Chayanne.  It would have been a better movie if they had not done this.  For example at the end I thought in the competition she was going to leave the other guy to go dance with Chayanne, or that something was going to happen and they were going to dance together, but no.  Then for a while we didn't see Chayanne at all; they concentrated on making Vanessa look good. It was a good movie but I felt and most of the friends that saw it with me thought the same thing, that they disgraced Chayanne.  But that is just our opinion of course.  "}{"Title":"Great choreography & bodies, but too much","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  I'm not a person who will go to a dance recital for the sheer enjoyment of the choreography and the dancing.  Watching dancing doesn't interest me. However, watching FINE Vanessa Williams move her body around the dance floor in tight outfits gets me interested in watching dancing.  Therefore, I was interested in this film for about the first 45 minutes.  Then, I got tired of watching dancing ALL the time.  How about more development of the plot lines?  Why were Vanessa and Chayanne in love with each other?  There wasn't enough development in their romance to keep non-dance fans like myself interested.  The film would have been better if there was more plot line instead of Soul train line.  "},{"Title":"If you like Latin dancing this is your movie","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  I watched this movie 4 times and I love it because it is like Dirty Dancing but in modern society. Although it is romantic but it is not that unrealistic ( I am dancer myself) and I just love perfomances of Vanessa Williams and Chayanne. If you like dancing and Latin rhythm watch it! "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  'Dance was Me' was wonderful! It's the kind of film that made me want to get up and dance. Vanessa Williams and Chayanne were perfectly cast in their roles. And to top it all off, they were superb dancers as well! The only thing about the film that was lacking was the script, but who cares when the rest of the film was so entertaining! Two thumbs up from me! Congrats to everyone who worked on the film! ) "},{"Title":"A young cuban man coming to the U.S. to meet and, hopefully, build a relationship with his American father, finds true love in the arms of a beautiful dancer.","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  I've seen it twice, so, needless to say, I loved it!  The dancing and music is fabulous!  Vanessa Williams and Chayanne have so much chemistry, the audience was just about panting during the scene in the bathroom.  The story is a little weak, but upon the second viewing, I felt that it was fine in depicting this family of people who love to dance, and the chemistry of the two leads makes the love story believable, not to mention steamy.  If you don't like latin music or dancing, then stay away.  Both leads are fabulous dancers and gorgeous people.  I'd see this again over the mess that was Titanic anyday!  At least THIS film doesn't pretend to be more than what it is, and what it is is extremely entertaining.  "},{"Title":"When oh When.....","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":" ...is Hollywood gonna get wise and make the movie version of Dreamgirls with Vanessa L. Williams as Deena Jones???  It seems such a natural.  Especially after viewing Dance With Me (for the 2nd time).  The woman has class and style on the screen, and she can even sing and dance AND act.  It's a shame that Hollywood doesn't produce films anymore for a triple talent like her.  There are those of us out there who would line up to see a good movie musical. "},{"Title":"entertaining movie","Date":"1 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  I liked this movie mainly because of the dance scenes.  The plot isn't interesting in itself, and Vanessa Williams isn't an actress.  But she is an excellent dancer.  The scene when she practises alone in the ball room is just amazing.  There is happiness in the whole movie, through dances and music.  And once in a while, this is fun. "},{"Title":"fun but disappointing","Date":"30 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  The movie is entertaining but the script needed work. For example there is supposed to be romantic feelings between the two lead characters (williams,chayanne) but it wasn't satisfactory the way they filmed it. They needed about 10 more minutes of relationship at least. Also the father/son relationship was poorly developed as well. But the dancing,  music was fun and the characters were interesting if only they had developed the relationships more.So I say not more than 5 out of 10. Disappointing when you see that with a little effort they could have made this a great film. Wait for video is my advice "},{"Title":"Actors who can dance!","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  The bright shining light of this film is that they actually commissioned actors who can dance!  None of the usual edit, cut, placement of legs, then cut to c/o of face--Vanessa L. Williams can dance (as well as everyone else in this film).  The only draw back (and this is not minor) is that though there is an attempt at a plot, it is generally full of holes and somewhat cliched.  However, if you enjoy watching GOOD ballroom dancing, this is a great film--it's well-balanced. "},{"Title":"Say my Name!!","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  Vanessa Williams and Chayanne glow in this simple musical, there's no sizzle here just rhythm and suave moves.Williams is a bit stiff but Chayanne is mesmerising and soon thaws her out with his breezy charm.  This while not designed to be a classic has plenty of good minutes and numbers, the dance scenes are well choreographed and stand out. Chayanne is a polished performer and carries Williams along with his talent, she in turn provides cover for his lack of acting talent;they are neither shallow nor unable to stand alone but they complement each other.Dance With Me really rings sassy!!!Good Number..... "},{"Title":"Lack of direction ruins Dance with Me","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  Halfway through Dance with Me, leading man Chayanne escorts Vanessa Williams to a Latino club, where they rip through one of the most exciting dance routines in recent movie history. Flying around the room, the two capture perfectly the fire and passion of dance.Unfortunately, this is the only bright spot in an otherwise ludicrous film. Dance with Me tries to be a serious drama *and* a light, frothy comedy, and fails at both attempts.The entire subplot involving Chayanne and Kris Kristofferson, for example, is a deadly bore. I could not summon up an ounce of interest in Kristofferson's character, the removal, or heaving trimming, of whom would have vastly improved this far-too-long movie. (Is there some new rule in Hollywood that a film must be two hours long, regardless of whether the story requires it?)And even if his storyline was interesting, the 63-year-old Kristofferson would still be remarkably miscast as a not-yet retired dancer. Most professionals hang up their competition shoes at the age of 40, tops, yet we're expected to believe that this man is still trying to lift students the age of nubile Jane Krakowski?Chayanne and Williams do manage to generate a bit of romantic heat, but they have so little on-screen time together, the audience is left wondering how they fell in love.Nor is the comedy anything worth repeating; the funniest bit is when Vanessa Williams' zipper nearly comes down at a dance party, and Chayanne's timely rescue prompts a despairing why?! from an elderly student who was hoping to sneak a peek. Talented British veteran Joan Plowright has such pedestrian dialogue as a hot-blooded grandmother that all her valiant efforts go to waste.Worst of all, this is a dance movie with only one memorable dance sequence. The afore-mentioned Krakowski engages in one of the *worst* dance routines in recent movie history, a pseudo-ballet sequence in which she does nothing besides look longingly into the distance and be lifted over and around Chayanne's head under soft pink lighting. The couple shown dancing before them is so obviously superior that Chayanne and Krakowski's ultimate victory makes you wonder if they bribed the judges.The final, professional competition in Las Vegas goes on far too long and none of the dances are particularly interesting. In fact, many of the scenes are so crowded, it's hard to find Williams and her various partners.Those seeking fine onscreen dancing should rent Strictly Ballroom, Dirty Dancing, or any of the Astaire/Rogers library. They're all fluff, to be sure, but they're well-directed, well-scripted and well-acted fluff. Dance with Me is fluff that doesn't know it's fluff; in short, it's a crashing bore.  "}{"Title":"Bright, dazzling film dances with a poor script in hand.","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  Vanessa Williams said Save the best for last.. I say Use the humiliation the first time you watch it.. I can never be so disappointed at many recent movies to this day. Suitable for the family crowd, DANCE WITH ME is viewer-friendly and makes fine use of light entertainment. It's your contemporary update of Fred Astaire & Ginger Rogers with sex and passion in smooth, easy-going way. Still, I couldn't help but be left disappointed with another movie that would have had far greater potential. The writing goes through a one-way zone the wrong way, and should have been more intent on keeping it stylish and up to the point. We must discover the so-little interaction between Vanessa Williams and Chayanne, and instead, Kris Kristofferson makes better use of this all-important element. Yes, the two are happy together on the screen, but the true magic within them seems lost. The Spanish noise is well done, and overused to the extent of why producers can't find a different beat to really make it more tempting. High hopes suddenly ran dry for this acceptable film. It's not easy being nice. "},{"Title":"Missing a Beat","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  It's in the title, it's in the stars - the subject is dancing. There are exactly three memorable dance scenes, and these are marred by pedestrian photography. The cameras' moves are left-footed, and Hollywood did a better job 50 years ago when they made those old, bulky cameras become somehow fluid and sweeping.The movie runs just over three hours. Most of it is devoted to a trite, predictable story - the kind television does much better. All but one of the dance sequences are packed into the last 25% of the movie.Latin dancing has much more of its origins in the streets than Anglo-Saxon ballroom dancing. The rhythm of the streets, what you'd see in South Beach, rarely occurs here. The scene set-ups are too studied to be able to impart a true Cuban feel.I like to dance, and I do it well. Give me Strictly Ballroom, and Australian comedy with LOTS of dancing, anytime. Or, hell, even Saturday Night Fever.    "},{"Title":"More dancing please","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  Chayanne is beautiful enough, Vanessa is beautiful enough, I liked the storyline.  But I went in with the expectation to see lots of energetic hot salsa dancing, I was disappointed.  There needed to be more dancing, especially salsa.  "},{"Title":"Who told Chayanne he could dance?","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Music","Review":"  And for that matter, who told Vanessa Williams she could act?  I am unable to believe the good reviews I have read for this movie-I have realized that they must be sarcastic comments aimed at humour (although it is bad humour).  Great dancing?  Where?  Chayanne made me laugh because he looked like he was trying to do something but I did not know what it was.  Was he trying to dance?  I don't think so.  He is considered the best salsa dancer nowadays?  He looked utterly ridiculous!  If anyone was watching the same movie I was they would know that.  Everyone that watched the movie that I know thought the same and we all have different tastes.  Besides the ridiculous dancing and Williams sad attempt at overacting, the movie was a complete bore!  Where was the fun?  Fun did not exist in this movie and the director did not have that in mind.  When the movie has a terrible plot full of holes, at least have good eye candy.  Williams and Chayanne's facial expression were hilarious.  They looked determined, as if they were making a special, effectual, *good* movie.  This movie was humourous torture.  One more thing about Chayanne (I cannot say enough about him) he could not act either.  The dancing was pathetic, the only good dancing in the movie was by all of the dancers except the two leads. I give this movie a 1/10.  Somebody said he tries to get all of his friends to watch this movie, please don't.  Unless you hate your friends or want them to laugh on with you, nobody deserves that kind of pain.   "}]