[{"Title":"What America needs is a few good volcanic eruptions?","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"75 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a Big Budget movie, I'm sure that Volcano took more than a few months to make.  Too bad someone associated with the movie didn't take that time to wander into the local library (the children's section, perhaps), and check out a book on Volcanoes.  I've seen Saturday-morning cartoons that have a better understanding of lava.Instead we get many scenes of outright stupidity that would challenge even the densest of viewers.  In one scene, Tommy Lee Jones and an assistant are standing near a volcanic vent, and their protective suits start to melt (of course skin is stronger than a protective suit, so they escape unharmed). But in numerous later scenes, people walk by lava like you might walk past a lake.  Maybe this is because no one seems to know it's lava.  I lost count of how many times a character said something like What is that stuff? or There's something really hot and glowing coming down the street, and things are melting into it.  Wonder what it could be?In what has to be one of the worst scenes ever filmed, two characters load an injured man onto the outstretched ladder of a hook & ladder truck. Then they hang onto a dangling fire hose as the ladder is lifted above the lava. The heat is so intense that the fire hose SPONTANEOUSLY COMBUSTS, but our characters are unhurt (their boots smoke a little).  I didn't know that fire hoses were so flammable...But Volcanois not just a dumb disaster flick with bad science.  No! It's also a Socially-Important Commentary on our Society Movie!  Throughout the film there are numerous social messages.  These are so corny and contrived that they could only have been written by people who have never actually experienced them.  A racist cop tries to arrest a guy for assault (in the middle of a disaster scene!), but then the two team up to help save the day. Aww.  Later, a little kid notes that everybody looks the same when covered by ash and soot.  Aww.  America's racial troubles could be ended, if only a giant volcano threatened us all.More?  Oh sure, there's more!  Tommy Lee Jones is the too-hard-working dad who comes to value his daughter.  Said daughter is a selfish brat who learns some responsibility, and respect for her dad.  There's a guy whose only role in the movie is to say obviously insulting things.  This makes him the bad guy.  One can see the writers of this movie hammering his role out  We need someone who's rich and yuppie-like and snooty.  Someone like us, only not as enlightened.  Someone who wouldn't make a Socially-Important Commentary on our Society Movie like we are!  Of course, bad things happen to him and all is right with the world.In the end, the mysterious, glowing, sometimes-hot substance we come to know as lava is channeled into the sea, and all of LA lives happily ever after in a just and fair world.  A world, of course, with a big smoking volcano plopped down into the middle of it.  Certainly that won't affect the real estate values?The lessons of this movie are quite clear.  1) lava is harmless if you don't touch it; 2) small children will inevitably wander into incredible harm (but emerge OK), and 3) only through the trauma of sudden volcanic activity will we come to appreciate the true Brotherhood of Man.Whoever thought up this movie should be thrown into a volcano... "},{"Title":"The script is the real natural disaster in Volcano","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"56 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watching Mick Jackson's disaster flick, in which the eponymous natural disaster wreaks havoc throughout Los Angeles, is like watching a 3 a.m. infomercial. It's such silly, mindless fluff, yet there's just something about it that keeps your eyes glued to the screen.Volcano is admittedly well-cast and acted, despite a dreadful script and a plot whose summary could fit on a matchbook. Tommy Lee Jones, who would give 110% making a McDonald's commercial, stars as Mike Roark, the hard-boiled head of the Office of Emergency Management, where he is assisted by his sidekick Emmit (Don Cheadle). After initially pooh-poohing the thought of a volcano in L.A. from geologist Amy Barnes (Anne Heche, who constantly ends her lines with a four-letter word like a period after a sentence), it's only a matter of time before he is proved wrong before his very eyes. Other solid performances come from Jacqueline Kim (Dr. Calder), John Carroll Lynch (Stan, the oft-maligned subway boss), and Keith David, a great actor who is otherwise wasted here in a role as a police lieutenant who has no impact on any events in the film, which is halfway over before he even appears on screen for the first time.However, there's the small problem of having something resembling a good story to go with the awesome visuals, which are indeed spectacular. But forget the volcano; Jerome Armstrong's script poses the greatest threat to the characters. To put it mildly, it's the biggest piece of cliché-ridden muck to come along in awhile, laden with plot holes, smarmy sentimentality (the offender here being a dog rescue scene near the beginning) and heroics, forced we-are-all-brothers morals, and implausibilities. Yes, this film is rooted far from reality, but it should make a little sense along the way.Working at the OEM must be the cushiest job in the world, for all the employees do throughout the picture is holler at each other and stare blankly at computer monitors. (And why do they continuously show news broadcasts on their big screen? Is that where their disaster briefings come from?) Mike's sullen daughter (Gaby Hoffmann, in a thankless role in the tradition of True Lies and Face/Off), due to her own incompetence, is suddenly thrust into peril and is thus separated from her father, a subplot that helps build up what turns out to be one great big joke of an ending. Describing it here can't do it justice. (After being taken to the hospital in Dr. Calder's Land Rover to receive treatment for a second-degree burn on her right leg, she is seen some time later with a bloody scab on her left cheek as she talks to Mike on the phone. And you thought your HMO was rough.) Plus, I seriously doubt that someone who jumps right into a pool of hot lava would slowly melt like a snowman in Miami while he screams and tosses the body of a man nearly twice his size to safety from a burning subway train. Then there's the wonderful family-oriented scene of two firemen burned alive in their overturned truck.And, lest we forget that Volcano takes place in L.A., there's the obligatory racist-cop episode in which a black man asking the fire chief to help his neighborhood is suddenly handcuffed out of nowhere by an officer for harassing him, a tacky scene complete with (groan) references to Rodney King and Mark Fuhrman. (The whole time he's cuffed, the black man makes carefree wisecracks to the officers all while his 'hood is burning to cinders.) But, of course, everything's eventually resolved. You're a good man, the other cop praises his partner after the latter grudgingly dispatches fire trucks to the black man's neighborhood, as if he has performed some immense display of generosity.In another lovely homage to L.A., there's also a looting scene, where extras run incredibly slow while carrying empty boxes.And what in the world was with the constant barrage of news reporters? Did we really need someone reporting The house behind me has just exploded into flames...all hell is breaking loose! while people were running for their lives all around her? As the volcano explodes out of the La Brea Tar Pits and lava is running onto the street, it's from a reporter describing this sight from where we hear one of the worst lines in the film It's as if the tar had caught fire, melted and somehow expanded. Hey, McFly, if tar is already a liquid to begin with, then how in the world can it melt?When an army of helicopters drops gallons of water on the lava blocked off on Wilshire, the reporters and camera crews, who are camped right up against the concrete barriers, manage to stay conveniently dry the entire time.Despite a high body count, scores of injured civilians and billions of dollars in damages, everybody's smiling as soon as a rainfall ensues, like those 7up commercials circa 1986. (Feels so good comin' down! Remember that?) Lots of questions are left unanswered How will they clean up and repair everything? Will a future eruption occur soon? Will the Cubs win the World Series?Yet for all its pretentiousness and gaping flaws, I have to admit that Volcano was entertaining. It's a load of escapist camp that doesn't have a care in the world. And I do have to give credit where it's due; somehow the filmmakers managed to keep slow-moving lava exciting for 104 minutes.Plus, you can't help but get a kick out of a disaster film that includes the line This city's finally paying for its arrogance, and finds the time to include a Bible quotation. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A pretty simplistic disaster movie with all the usual clichés but just enough stuff happening to make it passable entertainment","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"41 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite a history of major geological events in the area, nobody really suspects anything when a handful of pipe engineers die from intense burns while underground. Investigating the accident, OEM chief Mike Roark almost gets killed himself when an underground fissure throws up intense heat and flame. Expert Dr Amy Barnes believes that magma may be coming up to the surface of the earth and causing the events but, would you believe it, nobody buys it. Nobody that is, until the tar pits overflow and start to pour lava onto the streets, destroying everything in its path. With Roark convinced and Barnes wishing she had been wrong, the race is on to protect the city. Better known as 'that other volcano movie of 1997', this film gets out the disaster movie handbook and follows it step by step. So we have a manly and practical hero, an expert, children and pets in peril, human conflict, sacrifice, special effects, 'bad' politicians etc etc. So far so formula, and so it all continues. The basic set up does the usual things by setting up the most basic of characters for us to use as a focus before then just letting the lava go and relying on special effects to do the rest. The need to turn the drama into a specific story around Roark means that it occasionally forces him and his into unlikely dangerous positions that require them to be inches away from the action; this is not convincing and at times just feels like overkill, sucking any real tension out of the film.Without much real excitement the film just piles on the special effects and, unfortunately, these look dated with some poor back projection failing to really cut the mustard.The film soldiers on, unsure of how it can keep raising the stakes while remaining plausible (it doesn't!) and it will satisfy those just looking for a noisy disaster movie but no more than the clichés that those produce. The script has a few digs at LA (the news reporting, the pet obsession etc) but these don't amount to much but it works much better than the rather sickening attempts at racial commenting in the final few scenes ('everyone looks the same' &#150; ugh!). The cast try hard to convince us that they are real people in real danger but even the talent involved cannot do much more than put on grim faces and soldier on. Jones is a good lead because he has a solid presence, but even he cannot make it exciting when he is placed within inches of anything falling/burning/exploding. Heche simply fits into the 'I hate it when I'm right' expert without really bringing more than competence to the role, while Hoffmann simply tries to find trouble to get into anytime the film dips. Cheadle is good support but minor subplots featuring the likes of David, Corbett and Rispoli only serve to highlight that the film cannot even manage to do the disaster movie stable of having each character have a background to make us care.Overall this is an average disaster movie at best and, as such, will only really play well to those that like that sort of thing. The script is weak and cannot wait until the lava flows but even then struggles to make it exciting, throwing specific near misses at us again and again to keep us interesting. The cast have nothing to work with and make little impression but viewers may find this has just enough going for it to make it watchable if totally forgettable. "},{"Title":"Cheesy disaster mayhem should have been called Lava","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*The most important thing to know about Volcano is that there is no Volcano. Lava bubbles up from the La Brea Tar Pits and sludges through L.A. So a more apt title would have been Lava. Or perhaps Lava Flow. Or how about It's like Lava!. Where oh where did my Volcano go? Oh where, oh where can it be? It must be stuck in a different movie.Anyway, Volcano, (Lying title!), is a disaster flick. It's a very mainstream, cheese-o-rama, disaster flick. It's the kind of flick where people do noble things and your eyes are supposed to water up with emotion. Oh, they'll be watering up all right. You'll be laughing your head off so much that the tears will fall. One scene stands out A guy tries to save the passengers on a subway train from the slowest moving lava in the world. So he jumps on board and starts taking people out. In his final act of selfless courage, he carries the last person out as he slowly melts into the lava! I don't know about you, but if lava was burning my legs to the bone, I think I'd be howling in agony. I sure wouldn't be able to keep a straight face like this guy, nor could I carry anything, let alone a person, to safety.The whole movie is like that. It's about people caring about other people. A preposterous disaster will unite us at last! Sniff, sniff.  A little girl at the end of the movie notices everybody covered in black soot and remarks that they all look the same. Can't you see the message? We're all the same! Humans must help other humans! Especially when Hollywood concocts an asinine disaster flick! Save me!  "},{"Title":"A good 'just sit down and watch' film","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not going to pretend that this movie is realistic. It isn't. But if you want to just sit down and watch a film with action, drama and entertaining characters, then this is the film for you.Most disaster films are unrealistic, have no science behind them and if you think about them too much just get worse and worse. This movie is no exception. However, it is still a brilliant film if you want to sit down and not think too hard, or if you want to put a movie on without having to give it your full concentration. Personally, I think this film is great. There are better films out there, including better disaster films, but there are so many films that are ten times worse yet get better reviews. That's probably because they have better actors or are more realistic - but the job of a movie is to entertain, and this film does that brilliantly. "},{"Title":"Get me that lady geologist!!!  (spoilers)","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Volcano' is a B-movie at best, and at worst is more of a disaster that what it's supposed to be depicting.  To be fair, you have to be prepared in any movie to suspend disbelief for one major concept.  'Volcano' asks you to suspend disbelief in science, human interaction, and common sense.Tommy Lee Jones gets to be the studly-yet-1990s-sensitive head honcho of the Office of Emergency Management, and he's fine when he's not stuck with the stupid dialogue the script provides.  However, Anne Heche gives a howlingly bad performance as a smart-ass geologist who becomes Roark's love interest (while the city is burning down, natch).  Gaby Hoffman goes from Field of Dreams and American President to a turn as a whimpering, needy, and victim-for-life daughter of Jones.  Don Cheadle gets to sit in a really coooool office and take Jones's phone calls, doing the job that in reality Roark would and should be doing.Anyway, the movie really starts going downhill when Heche's geology partner gets sucked into a lava vent while they're breaking into the subway lines. It picks up speed when Jones starts suggesting that they use buses to dam the flow of the lava flowing down the street, Heche's geologist (who loves to lecture everyone about The Science Of Geology) being apparently oblivious to the fact that lava is hot and it melts metal, and rock, and a dead bus is unlikely to have much effect.  It really starts to suck when the film introduces Rodney King-like racial tension between two bad actors dressed as cops and an angry black man who can't understand why the fire department is busy with this large river of flowing lava.  But hey, in the end, the three of them will be working together to build a K-rail dam to stop the lava from eating up his neighborhood, even though the dam is built in the wrong direction and the material used wouldn't stop lava anyway.  Besides, K-rails are hardly watertight, but I guess lava wouldn't think to poke its head through the gaps, not when Tommy Lee Jones is glaring at it.  Don't even get me started on the stranded-subway-car subplot, where a tunnelful of hot lava is coming down but oddly enough, it's not too hot to attempt a rescue, it's not too smoky to see, and there aren't any poisonous gases so everyone can breathe.  This must be LA Lava, or Lava Lite.  You know, it eats cars but is eco-friendly.There are moments of sheer camp here that almost make you wonder if this was meant to be a comedy.  For instance, the two security guards packing up Hieronymus Bosch paintings have a completely meaningless and farcical conversation about weight, and at the end, no sooner does the little boy Roark/Jones rescued note that everyone looks the same while covered in ash, than a rainstorm breaks out and cleans everyone up -- and then the sun comes out and Heche says something along the lines of, aw, shucks, Roark.'Volcano' almost achieves Battlefield Earth status, but except for Heche no one approaches Travolta-like badness and the technical aspects are handled pretty well.  If you are from the LA area as I am, it's kind of funny to think of a lava flow wiping out Wilshire Boulevard.  I gave it a three for the effects and the little amount of tension you get from this. "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'Volcano'","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"33 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" BAD NEWS - Unlikeable female lead in Anne Hesch, who had too foul a mouth for me. Other irritating characters with stupid dialog. A predictable ending with the needlessly drawn out save-the-daughter scene trying for maximum suspense.GOOD NEWS - Some awesome disaster scenes. Hollywood's special-effects just keep getting more awesome as the years go on. A fast-moving story that was just about the right length. A likable lead character played by Tommy Lee Jones.Overall, a movie that keeps your attention but doesn't get your respect with the dumb dialog. "},{"Title":"Have mercy...","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although this movie (and I use the term loosely) was made in 1997, we just watched it tonight for the first time. My husband commented that a Tommy Lee Jones movie that we'd never heard of made him a little apprehensive. I blithely watched anyway, certain that if Jones was in the movie, it must at least be worth two hours of my time. After all, he has been one of our go-to actors for years. Although Heche isn't one of my favorite actresses, I was additionally reassured by seeing another well-known face. The list of accomplished actors/actresses continued to grow, so I endured more and more of this film, certain that if I pushed through enough clichés and trite social statements, I would arrive victorious on the other side of the plot. Alas, there was no plot. It appeared to be burned by the ever-oozing lava of doom.The characters were paper-thin. The plot was so chock full of holes that it literally distracted me from most of the special effects and acting in the movie. Was the fee for a brief consultation with an elementary science teacher too much for this film's budget? No acid rain...no toxic gasses (like sulfur or hydrochloride)...no deadly ash...no skin-searing heat just a few feet from the lava. Wow...it's the world's friendliest lava ever! The events were no better than the characters. Each incident was so contrived and far-fetched...it's like the writers said Okay, we need to get rid of the little girl NOW...and poof, she's splashed by a lava bomb which burns her enough that she has to be carried to safety (not from the lava, but from her own helpless stupor)...but just moments later in the car she is in no apparent pain and soon after is running effortlessly through the (groan!) building that (oh no!) is about to be blown up. After enduring all of this, your reward is the line from the little boy at the end (about all the people looking the same)...which has got to be one of the worst movie lines I have ever heard. Even if it wasn't so painfully scripted, it was ridiculous timing for all the characters involved. Kid and cop aside, as if the mother would still be in the area and just needs to be pointed out because she just isn't speaking up...what...she's hoping to slink off into the shadows and get away from the little brat once and for all? I don't think so. Obviously the child's mother would be missing or dead - or yelling her head off to find her toddler.The token black gangsta tough hoodlum with a secret soft spot versus the chip on his shoulder narrow minded cracker cop with a secret soft spot scene made my eyes bleed. Even if such pat characters existed, they wouldn't behave as the movie portrays them given the circumstances. Something about imminent fiery death and massive destruction tends to catch people off-guard, ya know? There are too many canned movie moments like these to mention...really, it's just an embarrassing movie to watch. Those poor writers...where are they now? "},{"Title":"Fun Albeit By The Numbers Disaster B-Movie","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Head of Los Angeles Emergency Operations Mike Roark (Tommy Lee Jones) and plucky seismologist Dr. Amy Barnes (Anne Heche) find themselves dealing with a crisis of monumental proportions when Los Angeles is suddenly threatened by an erupting volcano! While I have serious doubts with regards to the legitimacy of a lot of what's presented on screen, that's also true of most disaster films and make no mistake, that is what this is... a 1990s attempt at updating the classic 1970s style disaster B-movie. It has the usual disaster movie focus of looking at the crisis from the point of view of several key, barely fleshed out aside from our leads, characters. It is a little slow getting started but once the lava flows, I have to admit I just sat back, grabbed some popcorn and had fun watching this one. Where this movie best succeeds is in its portrayal of human courage in the face of impending doom and disaster, my favorite scenes being the hurried rescue aboard the stranded subway train, Roark running in front of a falling building in an effort to save his only daughter and Dr. Calder trying valiantly to save lives in the middle of a busy street. Where it falters is in its attempt to say something about race relations, those scenes proving absolutely groan inducing. Plus it offers very little truly new and surprising, very little we haven't seen in movies of this type before, but at the end of the night, I have to admit it held my interest as a fun, popcorn movie. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous But Solid Entertainment nonetheless  **** out of *****","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have noticed from a lot of the other comments on here regarding this Movie is that a lot of reviewers here are bitching about the lack of scientific accuracy..... This is a Big-Budget Hollywood Movie for Christ sake, Get a life! you're NOT supposed to take this kind of stuff as fact... It's a 100 Minutes of Mindless escapism....Nothing More... Jeez!!!.....While I would agree most/Nearly all of the situations which happen in 'Volcano' are highly unlikely such as trying to stop a flow of lava with a Bus, standing inches away from molten Lava and not feeling the heat... Unlikely of course but this is Hollywood.Slight spoilers!As for the Plot here goes..... Tommy Lee Jones Plays Mike Roark The Director of the Office of Emergency Manangement (Nice Title!) Anne Heche (What Happened to her?) Plays a Geologist (stretching credibility a bit too much there) called Amy Barnes who team up to stop a Volcano (Well Obviously!) From destroying Los Angeles....and that's pretty much it.,,,, and it's full to the brim of all the usual Disaster Movie clichés such as the guy who runs the Metro doesn't believe listen to Roark & Barnes' concerns....blah....blah.... ends up being a hero while melting to death in a pool of Lava.......Lost Blonde blue eyed boy.....Scared injured daughter...... The sexy Doctor's heartless Boyfriend.....all present and correct......End of slight Spoilers!Now 1997 was a big year for Volcanoes as Dante's Peak came out the same year as this and audiences seemingly wanted neither as both Films Flopped 'Volcano' took just HALF it's $90m Budget Stateside and barely broke even Worldwide while 'Dante's Peak' took $67m stateside against a $100 plus Budget, Personally though I prefer 'Volcano' as I can't stand Pierce Brosnan, although neither movie really deserved to bomb.Take 'Volcano' for what it is a Big Budget Hollywood Special FX Extravaganza and don't try to think too much and moan about the inaccuracies and you WILL enjoy.... I did, as Hollywood Blockbusters go, this is one of the Best.****/***** "}{"Title":"Fire, Fire, Fire everywhere!","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is pretty intense!  I had mixed feelings about this film back then. It's pretty good.  I do love the effects in here.  Things get heated when the lava starts to flow down the streets.The movie has it's share of perils and drama also.A Puppy is trapped in a house and escapes.A Fire Man is blasted out of the fire truck and suffers a fractured skull.Stan risks his life to save the engineer and burns away in a tragic part. Pretty tear jerky also.Two women venture into the tunnel and a fissure swallows the other woman up.This movie had me freaked out when I was 13.  I'm 21 now and it still sends me chills and thrills.  If you are a fan of disater films and fire... this may be for you. "},{"Title":"Just where is the Volcano exactly?","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well this is just a very average film stuffed full of the usual mainstream disaster genre clichés. Even myself as a staunch defender of the genre can not bring myself to rate it above average, because sadly it is something of a wasted opportunity. The film's cast is full of very reliable and solid performers, the budget was there to bring out some daring sequences, and of course the basic community in peril plot is always one of interest. So to get anything from this film you really do have to check the brain at the door and suspend all belief because the writers have rewritten the laws of gravity and the intensity of molten lava in full flow.The film would compete with Dante's Peak in the same year for the title of best Volcano disaster film, it lost, but so did the fans of the genre. For even today we are still waiting for a Volcano based film to grip and excite us, because even with the advance of technology both 1997 Volcano movies teeter on the brink of boredom, even if they just about fail to actually tip into the abyss. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Mick Jackson's Antithesis to THREADS","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I find it's impossible to write a review of a Mick Jackson movie without pointing out that in 1984 he shocked the nation of Britain with his nuclear holocaust docu-drama THREADS . Anyone who saw that on its BBC broadcast will never forget the grim , bleak , depressing and powerful depiction of the end of humanity . Seeing as THREADS was set in the Yorkshire town of Sheffield and filmed on a budget of what appeared to be three dollars fifty cents you'd think he'd use some of his unquestionable talent and VOLCANO's $90 million budget to make a convincing scenario of a city devastated by events beyond its control But Jackson has been there , done that , bought the T-Shirt and written his name in broadcasting history with THREADS and the last thing he wants is to make another grim shocker where millions of city dwellers die . Picking the dumbest script imaginable Jackson has decided he's going to enjoy himself this time and filmed the complete opposite to his nuclear holocaust horror show . Remember in THREADS a myriad of scientific advisers were used ? It goes without saying that no scientific bodies were consulted in the making of VOLCANO . Mind you this may actually work in the context of the story since the characters are so dumb , there is a logic to having a bunch of underground workers being burned to death and no one saying  Hey these men were killed by lava . If we don't evacuate the city millions of people are going to be burned alive by a volcanic eruption  Remember in THREADS after the bomb drops its everyman for himself ? That was probably the most terrifying thing about the docu-drama , of having your throat cut for your meager supplies of food . But not here where the guardians of law and order are not only noble enforcers of justice throughout the movie but also make sure no one is discriminated on the grounds of race and culture . You've also got the feeling that if looters existed in this movie they wouldn't be shot but given a place on a counseling program There's also a similar aspect to the above . In THREADS people are left in the rubble to die since it's not practical to save them . Here the laws of physics have been changed so that if anyone is trapped under a burning truck a passer by can magically lift up the truck with one hand thereby rescuing the injured party . There's even a scene of self sacrifice that has to be seen to be believed , not that the scene was in any way believable to start with The English speaking world are obsessed with their pets and Jackson used this to harrowing effect in THREADS . We saw family pets suffocating in firestorms . If you didn't feel sorry for the human beings killed you'd feel sorry for the poor animals . In VOLCANO we're treated to several scenes of pets in peril being rescued . I'm not sure how many people die on screen but I'm certain not one single type of mammal dies on screen apart from homo sapiens I don't believe for one moment that Mick Jackson's contrast between this and THREADS is coincidental - It's done entirely on purpose with the only connection being a scene of irony . In THREADS this takes the form of characters standing in front of a billboard advertising life insurance while in VOLCANO a character reads a book on writing screenplays . You won't need life insurance when the bomb drops while VOLCANO shows being able to read a book on screenplays doesn't mean you're capable of writing oneUnfortunately VOLCANO flopped at the box office and only made half its production costs in American cinemas which effectively ended Mick Jackson's successful Hollywood career which is shameful . I don't know about you but anyone who can direct two pieces of totally contrasting work is a literal genius in my opinion  "},{"Title":"Good, but the Underdog Wins!","Date":"22 March 2007","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have to say this is a big blockbustery KABOOM popcorny effects extravaganza, with a solid story, and good performances. This (released in April of 1997) was 20th Century/Fox's answer to Universal's Dante's Peak (released in February of 1997), a superior movie in all ways except one...It doesn't have Tommy Lee Jones.I have to say that Jones makes Volcano. Without him, this work would be nothing than an overblown, over-written piece of popcorn trash. As it is, this is a delightful Mother Nature Gone Awry flick, with totally kick butt effects.I found it riveting, but liked Dante's Peak more.It rates a 7.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Feel the heat...more or less","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite the cheap visual effects, OK? This movie hits are the paced rhythm and the following report of the events. If you add a clock showing what time is when those events take place, then you have something that is almost close to a realistic disaster event. This is pre-day after tomorrow, so after Twitser this movie came out. And well, I never thought I would say this, but the tornadoes of Twister look more realistic than the lava of this movie. At some times it looks like vanilla ice cream melted in orange juice. Thank god, well, not god exactly but the casting director, we have Tommy Lee Jones and Anne Heche, doing a great duo performance like those we saw in The Poseidon's Adventure of The towering inferno, so they are opposite, but they complement each other, giving u the best picks of this cheap blockbuster made by Hollywood. There are many, too many characters in this movie, too much for me. The annoying Metro director, the friend of the geologist, the always needful girl and little boy (what is a disaster movie without a darn kid in it?), the doctors, the friends of the protagonist (who must die at one point, but not all of them, of course) and the same guy who always says we are not going to make it. If we look at it with ironic eyes, this movie is autoparodic. But that wasn't their purpose. "},{"Title":"Another superfluous disaster movie","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's been a movie made about almost every other type of natural disaster, so why not volcano's? Actually, why not make two movies? This big budget trash went up against that other big budget trash, Dante's Peak, back in 1997; and even though this one obviously had more to work with; it still managed to come off even shorter than Pierce Brosnan's dreary vehicle. Featuring all manner of great special effects and autopilot performances from all concerned; Volcano subscribes to the classic 'disaster movie' profile, and shows this further by ensuring that the plot makes about as much sense as blowing up your house to keep it from being robbed. Tommy Lee Jones struts his stuff as some bloke who works for the government, and Anne Heche gets down and dirty as someone who knows about volcanoes. When a volcano erupts in Los Angeles (where'd that come from?), it's up to these two (and a load of firemen etc) to stop the lava in its tracks before Tommy Lee Jones' daughter is killed! Oh...and the rest of LA. The story is set up in the usual way; someone notices something, blah blah, he's ignored, blah blah, disaster happens, blah blah, the day is saved. Blah. Blah.This film is completely pointless, and is obviously only there for entertainment value. Still, even as entertainment, this falls flat on it's face. Obviously, in a film like this; you've got to expect some over the top sequences and silly goings on (such as a sequence that sees a train worker save one of his friends...), but the film continually throws stupid ideas into the plot, and before long it just gets so silly that it's impossible to care about it. Quite how Tommy Lee Jones has managed to maintain a semi-respectable reputation after all these years is astounding. To me, his name has become synonymous with 'stupid load of rubbish'. He might have the ability to portray a rugged action character, but he's unbelievably corny and doesn't make a good lead. Anne Heche stars opposite him and just does what you'd expect the 'female with brains' to do. Don Cheadle, who met with high acclaim after his performance in the massively overrated Hotel Rwanda, gives a very mundane performance, but I'd still rather watch him than either of the two leads. On the whole, if you're going into this expecting some brainless fun; you'll be pleased to know that it is brainless, but unfortunately it's about as much fun as an actual volcanic eruption. Definitely NOT recommended. "},{"Title":"Spews out the usual disaster movie clichés.","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the mid-90s, the disaster movie experienced a revival thanks to the advancement of CGI technology, which made creating scenes of destruction on a massive scale far easier and more convincing than ever before; 1997 was the year of the volcano, seeing both the release of Universal's Dante's Peak, and this rather unimaginatively titled effort from 20th Century Fox, which starred Tommy Lee Jones as Office of Emergency Management director Mike Roark, who must try and prevent downtown LA from being entirely engulfed by lava that erupts from the La Brea tar pits.A slick, major studio, big-budget summer blockbuster, Volcano naturally benefits from a solid cast and state of the art special effects, but proves less thrilling than the premise suggests thanks to a lack of genuinely exciting or particularly innovative set-pieces too much of the action centres around Jones's attempts to stem the flow of lava, which travels at walking pace thereby presenting little danger to anyone but the elderly and the infirm; meanwhile, director Mick Jackson ticks off the expected clichés from his disaster movie checklist&#x97;personal dramas, heroic sacrifices, a sexy scientist, even a cute dog in peril&#x97;before wrapping matters up rather too neatly with a finale that delivers far too low a death toll to be truly satisfying. "},{"Title":"Volcano made ash of itself, here.","Date":"18 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was pretty lame. I didn't lava it. In 1997's, the United States was welcome that year with two big budget volcano films. One was Dante's Peak, the other is this mess of a movie. Directed by Mick Jackson, the movie had a lot of things going against it. One thing is the horrible acting. Tommy Lee Jones seem to forget what movie, he is in; because he's channeling his inner Samuel Gerard from 1993's Fugitive with this role. Tommy Lee Jones plays Mike Roark, head of the Los Angeles Emergency Management Center whom with Dr. Amy Barnes, a volcanologist (Anne Heche) discover an actual volcano ready to emerges from the La Brea Tar Pits and destroy Los Angeles. It's up to Mike and his management team, including his second-in-command Emit Reese (Don Cheadle), to save as much people as possible. Too bad for Los Angeles, they put a guy in change for Emergency needs that has no clue, how Volcanos and earthquakes work. That's really smart. Serious, how does this guy, not know what lava and manga is!? The ignorance of geography is just annoying. Are we supposed to believe no one in LA has a clue what a volcanic eruption or lava looks like? Sure, the first time people might do double-take. However it soon gets to the point where the film seems to be set in an alternate reality where the very existence of volcanoes is an obscure geological fact completely unfamiliar to the general public. It's an insult. For a city as large as Los Angeles, the fictional and totally ridiculous volcano erupting un-noticing erupting is just out of the world, unrealistic. How does this volcano get unnoticing for years from every scientist in the world, over the years? Yes, California is a geologically complex place with many centers of volcanic activity, but most of them aren't anywhere near the Los Angeles Basin. So maybe, scientist weren't looking for it, but still Los Angeles area has no volcanoes active or even recently extinct. The LA basin is also full of oil wells and tar pits. Petroleum deposits cannot form geologically in the presence of volcanic activity anywhere in the vicinity; you can't have oil, tar, and volcanoes in the same place, period. It's nearly impossible to have volcanos such as a Parícutin type there. It's like me, saying that the volcano on the moons are all activate, when there clearly dead. Another thing that bugs me about the movie is Anne Heche. I really don't buy her as a scientist. She has to be one of the worst actress that came out from the 1990s. The movie even has the nerves, to set up a love plot between the 28 year old, Anne Heche and the 51 year, Tommy Lee Jones. Really? Do you think, that's needed for this ridiculous movie!? They have little to no chemistry. If that doesn't get you turn off, the movie adds more sub-plots like a doctor, Jaye Calder (Jacqueline Kim) choosing her job over her jerk husband who wants to flee the city. Why on earth, did the man marry her, if he's against her helping people? I would thought, the word 'Doctor', who give him, some clues, what she does for a living. The movie even wants to deal with racism. If there wasn't enough sub-plots in the movie, alright. There is a few scenes where a black guy and racist cop are fighting while the eruption and lava flow are going on. Only to connect with each other, when the disaster threaten their neighborhoods. In a better movie and director, this would be great social commentary, but in this film, it's deliver in such a cheesy and offending way. Even the boy last line in the end of the movie, sounds tacky. Another bad character is, Roark's daughter, Kelly (Gaby Hoffmann) who tend to freeze up constantly, forcing people to save her. Her clueless way to save herself, cost the chance of her hero trying to save someone else's life. Does she felt any empathy about that? No! The worst instance being losing a kid she was put in charge of and when she finds him on an exploding street, decides to stay there and wait to be saved. Her behavior is justified mention by an easily missed conversation between her mother and father early in the movie, but gees... she so tiresomely getting saved all the time to the point, that I wanted her to die in the film. There is also a lot patting scenes with characters that have little to do with the main plot. While, I do like the character of Stan Olber (John Carroll Lynch) and his last scene was pretty damn epic. There is little reason, why the movie needed him, around. The visual effects were alright in the most part. Still, there couldn't get the science between the lava, right. I like how the heroes place concrete barriers in a cul-de-sac so when the lava reaches them it'll dam itself, but they face it in the wrong direction for the dam to work. In real life dams and bridges need to have the arc against the point with the most pressure. There are too many instances to count where individuals are standing directly on the other side of concrete barriers redirecting and holding back lava. Most of them, with the ash they breathed in would have turned the insides of their lungs into pavement and killed them well before the final act. The movie was composed by Alan Silvestri. Too bad, it's not that good. Overall The ads say The Coast Is Toast, but to be truth, the movie is toast. It's painful to watch. "},{"Title":"L.A. Eruption","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tommy Lee Jones plays Mike Roark, head of the Office Of Emergency Management(OEM) who is contacted by Dr. Amy Barnes(Anne Heche) who is concerned that Earth tremors will lead to an underground eruption of a volcano, as temperatures within are increasing. He scoffs, but she is proved right when fireballs emerge from the volcanic eruption, and Los Angeles is threatened by a moving wall of lava. How can the team stop it, and save the city? Slickly made but implausible film might have been better served moving the location to Hawaii, where it might be believable. Anne Heche shines, but other characters are dumb or superfluous, though this still remains a semi-watchable popcorn film, but little more. "},{"Title":"Fits the formula","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Take a macho protagonist - in this case a boss of emergency services. Give him a personal problem - care of a teen daughter who doesn't want to be there. Let's have a natural disaster - how about a volcano sprouting in the middle of Los Angeles. Factor in a spunky female lead and a doom-mongering scientist who gives early warning but gets ignored (and cut the budget by having them be the same person). Then have an effects-laden final hour in which things get worse and worse until our hero saves the day.You've seen the formula before - well, here it is again. Tommy Lee Jones does gnarled man with a plan quite well, Anne Heche does spunky scientist quite well, the lava effects aren't bad, and the final effects of blowing up the building are not so good.Even so, it passes a couple of hours moderately well. "}{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com","Date":"25 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The story is ridiculous, a volcano in the middle of L.A.? It's hard to believe and kind of hard to follow. The story starts out very strong, but descends into chaos as everything happens at once. A lot is going on and it's a jumble of impossible acts, which include stopping lava with a bus, a blown up building, and finally the sewers. At points it's more than just impossible, it's ridiculous! The only reason I liked this movie is Tommy Lee Jones, I love Jones and he once again shows that he can carry a film on his back. He's done it before, he'll do it again, and he did it here. Without Jones, this movie stinks, it's his distinctive, energetic, and authoritative personality which makes this film interesting. The movie is utterly ridiculous, yet Jones keeps you interested. Volcano may not be a movie you run out and buy, but if it's on cable, Jones will definitely keep your attention and get you to watch it. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, not realistic","Date":"8 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I liked the movie mainly due to Tommy Lee Jones. An array of any other actors would have made the rating smaller. It was an exciting movie, but at times it dragged. The plot lines were kind of thrown together with two emerging as the main focus points saving the city and finding his daughter. There wasn't a lot of solid science to it...you're not going to stop a lava flow like that with firetrucks and helicopters. We won't go into the geology of it, but I was disappointed. I think the disaster movie boom as of lately was been interesting but pretty mediocre. It's just not realistic enough to scare anyone the way they should be in this type of film. "},{"Title":"Thrilling, scary  disaster movie","Date":"14 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't understand the low ratings shown for this movie. I found it exciting, very watchable, and the script and music correctly provided a sense of impending doom and disastrous damage that is coming.The story is about an earthquake near Los Angeles that causes a volcano to erupt. The special effects look as real as they possibly can and the music adds to the drama. The Los Angelas Office of Emergency Management is a real-life organization and the locations are real as well right down to the street intersections and the La Brea Tar Pits. I visited them and enjoyed taking pictures of the locations where the movie was filmed.The director at OEM, as played by Tommie Lee Jones did an admirable job of fighting off the worst effects of this disaster and knew to consult a geologist. Between the two of them, they were able to deflect the worst of the damage and saved lives.The drama builds at the beginning as, naturally, those in control didn't or couldn't conceive of what was coming. Thankfully, Tommie Lee Jones seemed capable of managing the disaster and the movie makes it clear that LA was lucky to have him in charge. He was right there when the worst of the unfolding disaster takes place and barks orders every bit as convincing as Patton.You will enjoy this movie if you can just overlook a few impossible occurrences and some ridiculous statements by those in charge who should know better. For that reason only, I gave this movie a rating of 9 instead of 10. Jones might have been nominated for an academy award if the script had been just a little bit better. It's a fun movie to watch and re-watch. "},{"Title":"Had potential, but...","Date":"4 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie starts out strong with a lot of potential but slowly gets worse and worse culminating in one of the cheesiest disaster-film scenes I've ever watched (the demolition scene). At first, the establishment of the main characters is clear and direct (if a bit one-dimensional) and the earthquakes at the beginning build quick suspense. But everything gets so muddled and there are some very major plot oversights... Namely WHAT volcano? That's probably what you'll be asking yourself the whole movie. Sure there's lava, ash, giant red hot rocks spewing up out of the earth, but it isn't exactly coming from a volcano. Early in the movie the geologists mention that volcanoes can spontaneously erupt out of fault lines or something, but it's such a passing statement that you have no idea if that's what's actually happening. Only at the end is it clarified with a zoomed-out photo of a brand new volcano in the middle of LA so I could only conclude that the volcano causing all this disaster is really the FORMATION of a volcano.This film does have its moments, and I was entertained throughout the movie and never bored. I thought the flow of lava was probably the best part of the movie - a red-hot stream that flows slow enough to run away from on foot, but devours everything in its path and can't be stopped. It definitely gave a sense of dread. In fact, most of the actual disaster parts of the film were pretty good. This movie falls apart with the characters. More and more minor characters are introduced as the film goes on, just to be killed off in dramatic fashion, culminating in a scene where two guys are trapped in a building about to be blown up, which I think was supposed to be touching, but all I could think was wait, who are these two people, and why do I care about them??. Then, there's the side plot with The Misjudged Black Guy and The Cop That Has It In For Him, which is nothing but distracting. And finally, we have the whole side plot with Tommy Lee Jones' character's daughter, which isn't really bad in itself, except that the character is so utterly helpless, stupid, whiny and useless for a 13-year-old. Though I guess those are the only traits that could possibly lead her character to end up in the path of an impending demolition because she had to chase after the small child she was supposed to be watching who ran off. The worst scene in the entire movie is when she emerges from the building right as the bomb is about to explode, and her dad is yelling at her to run away, but she just stands there like a deer in the headlights. My only thought at that moment? She doesn't deserve to live, it's called Natural Selection.So yeah, this movie is fun, if you like disaster movies, but it's also fun to make fun of. If you want to watch it, watch it with your friends and laugh at the characters' expense, and then be thrilled by scenes of lava shooting out of the ground and killing people. "},{"Title":"Boring.","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a reasonable man. When the title Volcano shows up on my TV screen, I know the score this is a disaster movie.The formula dictates it contain archetypal characters, corny dialogue, a hefty dose of Hollywood science, unbelievable behaviour, loose plots and half-arsed social commentary and if the director wasn't the kind to blindly follow formulae, he wouldn't be making a disaster movie in the first place.So, it should come as no surprise that Volcano includes all that in copious amounts. That's not what damns the movie.When you enter a disaster movie, you do so under the premise that all those groan-inducing ingredients will be drowned under an, if not entertaining, at least distracting buffet of jaw-dropping devastation. You willingly surrender plot, characters and realism on the altar of eye-candy; such is your tacit contract with the director.Mick Jackson doesn't uphold his end of the bargain at first, we're served a silly but promising premise the lava is sentient, throwing smouldering homing boulders at people and stores it just cannot tolerate. But after a burning (sorry) humiliation suffered at the hands of the scientist (she warns others of the homing properties of the boulders), the lava just gives up, it just flows at a snail's pace through the streets of LA, half-heartedly trying to catch the heroes before being relatively easily contained. Let this serve as a warning to anyone looking to make a volcano movie when your lava loses the will to live, your audience loses interest. "},{"Title":"Steady, chaps! It's only a movie...","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am amazed at the brickbats which have been hurled at this film it has a clunky script; the story doesn't make sense; the characters are cardboard; the science is all wrong.Tell me, seriously, does anyone go to see a movie about a volcano erupting in downtown Los Angeles and expect art, meaning, and insight into the human condition? Well, I don't. I expect clichés, stock situations, everything but the bloodhounds snapping at her rear end.The film showers largess on us in the shape of spectacular effects full of destruction; the only two people who know what is happening and how to handle it (and one is a woman, just shows how we've moved on since 'The Towering Inferno'); pig-headed officials who don't listen to dire warnings; adversaries who learn to respect each other and work together for the Greater Good. And we have not one, but *two* cute family pets who escape death by their whiskers (although at one point I was very concerned for the Jack Russell terrier).The icing on the cake was the sight of Tommy Lee Jones digging himself, his daughter and a toddling child - unharmed - from the rubble of a dynamited apartment block. By this time I was waving a white flag, the film-makers had finally beaten me into submission.Take my advice if you watch 'Volcano' just relax and let it roll - don't think! "},{"Title":"Put me off going to L.A., I can tell you.........................................","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Oh God,the noise,the crush,the people...............Everybody shouts sooo loudly and talks in hippy - liberal clichés.No,give me the cold remoteness of the taciturn Londoner with not an ounce of good neighbourliness in their shrivelled xenophobic souls,at least I know where I am with them. It seemed to me on watching Volcano that the makers actually wanted Los Angeles - a city they clearly considered a cess - pit of racism,greed and immorality - to perish rather like Sodom and Gomorah and be rebuilt by them as a city of purity,philanthropy and brotherly love - a bit like Phildelphia.Unable to effect such a change personally,they instead sent Angelenos an Awful Warning of what might happen if they didn't change their ways.The Parable of the Volcano. Unfortunately,the thing with parables is they have to connect somewhere,however peripherally,with real life and their movie doesn't. I found the dog who rescued his bone from the lava flow more convincing than Mr T.L.Jones and the bone itself more lifelike than Miss A.Heche. Volcano is not a satire on Disaster Movies,would that it was.No,I'm afraid it was supposed to have been taken seriously.The fact that very few people taken it seriously must have seriously p*ssed off its makers. Unless we pull our socks up it will be the rain next time. "},{"Title":"Great movie spoiled in parts","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has the momentum to keep it going, but WHY OH WHY have the downright seedy any cheesy 'racial harmony' clips? not that I don't agree with racial harmony, as I come from one of the most tolerant countries in the world... but WHY include them... they just spoil a good film. And why does everything go suddenly quiet when these are shown? its as if even the lava stops flowing until the scene is over LOL! The guy that takes over in the control room does a great job - in fact one scene where the lava pushes up out the street, he is seen to be staring in disbelief, muttering but cannot say anything for shock - exactly as you would probably act in a similar situation. As for the brat at the end muttering that everyone looks the same.... Don't even get me started on that one.... 'tackiest line ever or what!' If you like lava or volcanoes like I do then you should be satisfied by the main story... but the cringe-worthy inserts are just NOT needed. "},{"Title":"A disaster film in just about every sense of the word.","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Volcano is set in Los Angeles where a minor earthquake has just hit, vacationing boss of the O.E.M. (the Offcie of Emergency Management) Mike Roark (Tommy Lee Jones) decides to cut his holiday short & go in, once there he sees that everything is alright but then drives off to the epicentre of the quake where seven underground workers have been killed by a fire or intense heat of some kind. Mike isn't sure what to think so he brings geologist Dr. Amy Barnes (Anne Heche) in to try & explain things, unfortunately a huge underground river of molten lava has been released after the quake & erupts at the La Brea Tar Pits sending the lava pouring out into the city streets engulfing anything & everything it touches in flames. Mike, his men & the emergency services have their work cut out trying to stop the river of lava & save as many lives as possible...Directed by Mick Jackson this was the second big budget disaster flick revolving around the idea of an erupting Volcano during 1997 with Dante's Peak (1997) being released a mere two months or so before Volcano was & while Dante's peak is hardly any sort of masterpiece at least it's slightly better & more plausible than Volcano is. The script here is total nonsense & is not based in reality at all, underground rivers of lava that seem to appear & then disappear just as quick, various character's standing inches from a river of lava yet not being affected by the heat (when that guy is on the train the metal seats around him start melting but he remains perfectly fine, as far as I am aware human skin is not as heat resistant as metal, is it?) & it constantly happens, helicopters flying is clouds of ash (in reality it would be impossible), one simple blockade at the end of a street will stop the flowing lava (what about down the other streets & other directions?), being able to blow a perfect trench in a street & then blowing a huge building up to make a massive dam & when Kelly sees the lava heading towards her car she gets out just like anyone would but then for some reason just stands there & watches two firemen get burned to death & waits for her dad to save her even though by this stage her leg has caught fire, despite all those concrete blocks being placed together to make a barrier in less than twenty minutes the guy's do such a great job not one bit of molten lava manages to seep through & loads more besides like that massive building falling on Tommy Lee & his daughter yet then both being fine afterwards. The character's are awful too although they were not as clichéd as usual with no romance blossoming between Tommy Lee & Anne Heche & minimal city official's who try to shut Tommy Lee & Anne Heche up before the event labelling them scaremongers. There's a few badly written & at times embarrassing moral moments as Los Angeles pulls together, the black guy & that semi racist cop who warm to each other & by the end are wishing each other well & that little kid at the end when he says 'everyone looks the same' is cringe worthy & is surely a ham-fisted attempt & trying to say whatever colour we are we are still human beings & we can all get along in time of a crisis as it brings people together. Having said that I think Volcano is one of those so bad it's good films, it entertains & it moves along at a decent pace but just don't expect anything grounded in reality or any human drama either.I suppose a film like Volcano could be seen as an updating of a 70's disaster film such as The Poseidon Adventure (1972) or Earthquake (1974) but on a huge budget with modern effects work. Speaking of the effects they are alright but none stand out that much & the set-pieces are also surprisingly forgettable, sure there are a few impressive explosions & a few OK river of lava flowing through Los Angeles effects but little else. Generally Volcano just isn't very exciting & while occasionally unintentionally funny & completely ridiculous it doesn't really work in the way the makers intended.With a supposed budget of about $90,000,000 it opened to a little under $15,000,000 at the box-office, it looks alright & there's lots of fire but nothing stands out & Volcano is a pretty forgettable film overall. Filmed in Los Angeles I think most of the places featured here were shot at their real life locations. The cast go through the motions with some terrible dialogue & ridiculous set-pieces to contend with, Tommy Lee Jones deserves better than this.Volcano is a bit of a disaster in both senses, it is a disaster themed film that ended up a bit of disaster itself. Worth it for a few unintentional laughs & the ridiculousness of it all but it's nothing great & I doubt I would ever want to see it again. "},{"Title":"heart pounding suspense","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've lived through a couple of serious earthquakes and seen lava flow (lava doesn't flow that fast)  and the mudslides that can follow, but they didn't get my heart beating as hard or as fast as this movie did. Watch it with someone you want to cling to. "}{"Title":"Not a Total Disaster","Date":"23 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hollywood really knows who to exploit every nook and cranny of something don't they? After the success of Twister, Hollywood saw the profitability of this idea of natural disasters and exploited everything about until it was gone. While Volcano is a disaster film, it seems to keep itself from being a total disaster. The one upside to this is Tommy Lee Jones, the man can make any badly written character and make him durable. But where there is a good, there is a bad as well. What the heck was up with his daughter? Talk about an annoyingly badly written character. She was as pointless and good-for-nothing as you can get. She was whiny, needy, selfish, bratty, she held a teddy bear even though she's apparently 13 years old. Kid! Grow up! Or get a better writer! Because she alone made this barely unwatchable especially when she's in the film. I'm sure Gaby Hoffmann is a good actress but after seeing this there is no way she would be in any else. Next, the special effects are just what you would expect from a disaster film, not total garbage, but eh. Mick Jackson the director wasn't the right choice for this, if they got Jan de Bont maybe we'd have something. But then again, the premise is hard to pull off. It's easier to believe tornadoes tearing through houses and fields. In the end, this film is not worth your time and money. The big positive is Tommy Lee Jones, while the big negative is Gaby Hoffmann's character, and the CGI. Now to grade. Story C- Characters D Special Effects C+ Music B- Acting C Directing C Overall C- "},{"Title":"A Disaster of a Disaster Movie","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Disaster movies have been popular ever since Clark Gable survived the 1906 earthquake in San Francisco. Decades later, producer Irwin Allen raised the disaster-movie stakes with all-star casts that battled capsized ocean liners and burning high-rises. Unfortunately, Irwin Allen had no hand in Volcano, and the stars featured are limited to Tommy Lee Jones and Don Cheadle, unless viewers consider Anne Heche a star. Jerome Armstrong and Billy Ray's nonsensical screenplay focuses on the destruction wrought in Los Angeles by the eruption of a newly formed volcano that rises from the La Brea Tar Pits.Director Mick Jackson keeps the action swirling to distract viewers from the implausible events taking place on screen. Volcano is one of those films in which characters have arguments or emotional interchanges while molten lava fast approaches, but apparently does not emit any heat, because the mindless chat continues. Of course, kids and dogs are spared, shattered glass falling from skyscrapers lands harmlessly on the lead actors, hair-breadth escapes abound, fire fighters have time to stand and cheer while buildings burn around them, and the initially antagonistic Jones and Heche form a mutual admiration society at fadeout. Jones and Cheadle must have appeared for the money, and both emerge relatively unscathed. Heche and Gaby Hoffman as Jones's daughter are best left unmentioned; the rest of the cast is best left in the embers.The essential key to a successful disaster movie is the quality of the special effects, and those in Volcano fail to get a passing grade. Fire, lava, explosions, falling glass may sound exciting, but, by the final credits, the film has become a reddish blur, and viewers have long lost interest in who survived and who did not; we never got to know any of them anyway. Volcano makes the earlier Los Angeles disaster flick, Earthquake, seem like Citizen Kane; at least that 1974 entry had Charlton Heston, Ava Gardner, and George Kennedy leading the cast. Volcano's best moment is a fleeting glimpse of Fox News anchor Shepard Smith. "},{"Title":"The coast is toast as they say on the poster","Date":"6 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 1990s were full of movies that left their mark in one form or another on the film industry.1997 was a good year for movies, however Volcano isn't one of those films I would consider one of those films.Volcano is often consider either the poor man's Dante's Peek or whatever the case may be because Volcano was release a few months after Dante's PeekThe film also stars Tommy Lee Jones,Anne Heche,Gaby Hoffmann Don Cheadle,Jacqueline Kim,Keith David,John Corbett,Michael Rispoli John Carroll LynchWhen I watch Volcano recently because I haven't seen it for many years since I saw it on VHS from the video store but nevertheless it's one of those films that hasn't aged very well. Now I love movies from the 1990s but this film just doesn't hold that strong of a candle as others from the decade.What hurts the film is the writing just feels out of wax, while the plot is interesting enough it just the writing inside the film itself just don't hold up very well and most of the characters are just there to make you lose your mind. The acting in the film just has that B movie feel. The only really notable performances were Tommy's, Anne's and Don's. Their performances made up for the film's lack of talent. The music score works for the film and some of it is pretty good but the rest not so much. It's hard to give a good opinion on the effects of the film because Volcano has wins and loses on the department.The production setting gives you the feeling that they at least try to make it look real.Overall Volcano is a mix movie while it did offer some things to make it watchable and I'm not saying it's a really bad movie but it is not one of those movies you should just go out and get. It's just one of those films that you either love or hate or in between. It is just Volcano hasn't aged very wellI give Volcano an 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"It's a","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Volcano (1997) It's a good film, got some nice effects, action and drama but there's not a lot of science or thinking behind it. If you're looking for this sort of thing it's great but there is definitely better disaster movies out there.In addition, you're probably going to have to wait a while for it to get started but then after that it's literally lots and lots of lava/ fire even though it's still pretty average. It also has the potential of being so much better as the plots good and same goes for the characters.I personally thought it was an interesting film, and I wouldn't mind watching it again. I do recommend watching it. "},{"Title":"It entertains on some levels,....just not unique","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Disaster movies go way back in cinema. Just like how gore hound fans love to see their deadly horror films, there's also a large crowd of viewers who live to watch disaster features. For unexplained reasons, studios and screenwriters alike have a fond interest of showing to their audiences how mother nature could flip the birdie at us. Unfortunately like a lot of other movies, there isn't much of anything clever about these types of films. The problem is because the movie focuses more on the natural disaster itself more than the characters; especially during the late 1990s when special effects started being abused instead of being utilized. This film has that but does have a few points that make it worth the time to see (once).When worker Mike Roark (Tommy Lee Jones) of the Office of Emergency Management is notified of a couple burn victims in man-made underground pipes, he decides to find out what caused such a freak accident. Believing it could have been a pipe burst, Roark discovers something much more dangerous than he thought. Consulting to Dr. Amy Barnes (Anne Heche), they hypothesize that the cause is actually an active volcano. As a story, this is about as far as it gets when it comes to anything that moves its characters. Initially the story starts out with what seems to be a political/social take on (possibly) what has happening in California at the time,...but it never really gets addressed. As for characters, the only actors who save themselves (performance wise) are Tommy Lee Jones, Don Cheadle and Keith David. Everyone else quite honestly wasn't necessary with all the numerous story threads. Their roles are there for cliché development and that's it.There's a subplot about a nurse played by Jacqueline Kim that doesn't go much of anywhere and Roark's daughter played by Gaby Hoffmann wasn't that important either. Even as significant as Anne Heche's role was, she still has a cliché character. Also what's with her and liking much older men? She has a crush on Jones in this movie and falls for Harrison Ford in Six Days Seven Nights (1998). It's interesting to see who wrote the script for this movie. Credit is given to Jerome Armstrong and Billy Ray. Armstrong only has this movie to his credit. However, Ray has apparently improved because he now has critically acclaimed films like The Hunger Games (2012) and Captain Phillips (2013) on his resume. But for this work, it can be seen that he hadn't perfected his skill just yet. The only pluses that can be given in the writing are the several tense scenes which involve the flowing lava peril or when the people of the city are working together. Both scenarios are polar opposites in tone but they also work effectively in bringing out the right emotion while watching the film run its course. It's funny how that works.Mick Jackson directs the film and although it gets the job done in areas mentioned prior, the direction is just standard. This was also his last feature film to direct for the big screen. Since then, he has moved on to directing TV show episodes and TV movies. The cinematography provided by Theo van de Sande looks decent. Considering Sande had more than 20 years of experience before this, rightfully so his work should look good. Sande does not have wide scoping shots but they at least conceal the illusion that this movie was not filmed in a large city. The special effects to the lava also looked decent although a couple times some shots were recycled. Finally the musical score composed by Alan Silvestri work well. Again, when it came to the emotional scenes it did work in its favor. Considering that this is not a franchise, listeners should be able to understand why there was no memorable main theme. That's acceptable for this kind of movie. It's a very basic thriller when it comes to characters and their development. Plus the fact that it's a disaster movie doesn't exactly have anything to highlight other than the disaster. Thankfully, some of its main leads, peril scenes and effective music manages to make it entertaining enough to use some of the viewers time. "},{"Title":"Like Dante's Peak, only stupider!","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" As someone who's watched both the simultaneous Volcano disaster movies of 1997, I can say without a doubt that this movie fails to hold a candle to Dante's Peak, simply because whilst the situation in that movie was realistic, though predictable, and the action you could be gripped by with some enjoyable characters to back it up, this film has pretty much the opposite, but still laboured with the predictability aspect.So what's the red lettuce? Tommy Lee Jones plays Mike Roark the head of the Los Angeles Office of Emergency Management, and after an earthquake rocks the city, he's sent to investigate an apparent gas explosion at the MacArthur Park which has killed several workers. This is followed by strange activity at the La Brea Tar Pits, where some of the sculptures in the pits start to melt. Early the next morning, another violent earthquake rocks the city again and very soon a large lava spewing volcano emerges from the Tar Pits, spreading out into the city. With the assistance of a geologist played by Anne Heche, Roark must try to bring down the destructive force of nature before it wipes out the entire city on its way to the Pacific!Now, aside from the many glaring plot points and the fact that as a Geography student I could write a paper on how inaccurate this movie is, what specifically is wrong with this movie? (Although I will say, if you drop 1,000 gallons of water on top of a Volcano like they do towards the end, that won't stop it erupting!)Well, whilst it maintains the predictable 'the volcano's gonna erupt at some point' streak that Dante's Peak did, it's just generally a bore. The build up to the eruption isn't half as subtle or suspenseful as that in Dante's Peak, and even when the eruption happens it's not particularly exciting. The fact that the lava is moving slowly down the street really takes you out of the excitement, sort of like Oh my goodness, it'll hit us eventually! Better stick the kettle on then... Dante's Peak had the advantage of faster moving lava, an acid lake, a wall of debris laden water and a Pyroclastic Flow to keep both us and our heroes on the move.Next are the characters, who are all unbelievably stupid. Whilst Tommy Lee Jones and Anne Heche I'll excuse for the fact that they actually get stuff done to try and stop this thing, the other character's roles extend to just standing there with their mouths wide open in shock as this big red mass of heat approaches them. The daughter is especially stupid, spending the first half of the movie being a rebellious, angst teen, and the second half just standing gawking at the obvious danger rather than running away or ducking for cover like any other human being would. This is just one of many scenes that you find yourself scratching your head in confusion at, because you really can't let them slide, they're just too stupid for words.So, to sum up, this movie is exactly the same as Dante's Peak, only much less enjoyable. The most jarring problem is the characters, who are all very stupid and act less like human beings and more like lost sheep! The story's recycled, the CGI is recycled, the pace is slower and less exciting, there's enough plot holes to sink the Isle of Wight, it's just a big boring mess!Word of advice, avoid, like these characters should have been doing with the lava! "},{"Title":"This is a good movie to watch","Date":"18 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" So volcano was in 1997 and well I think it did good but not really that well because sometimes it copied Dante's peak (1997) but overall tommy lee Jones was successful for this movie but Anne Heche as the lady (forget the names always) was not that well but overall this movie is just a popcorn fun style movie with lots of deaths(which could happen) and it's just a nice sort of movie for the family but 1 thing is wrong. THIS TEEN IS A TOOL FOR THIS MIKE DAD TO SAVE SHES USELESS SHE JUST STANDS THERE WITH HER TEDDY OR TOMMY THE KID AND MIKES DAUGHTER JUST IS A complete tool and when I mean a tool I MEAN A TOOL SERIOUSLY A TOOL so this is what I think of this movie "},{"Title":"Volcano","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Title VolcanoDirected by Mick JacksonStoryline A maintenance team which is talking to that one sassy black lady cop. This is until the sewer erupts with sulfur gas, this can be seen as the bright yellow gas. This scene also shows us a rejected origin for Batman's villain Two Face. Which I suspect was the humorous inside joke as Tommy Lee Jones played Two Face 2 years before in Batman Forever. Mike Roark played by Tommy Lee Jones goes to find out what happened to the workers as part of his job, he wants to close down part of the subway which connects to the sewer to look into it further, but the other don't think that it is that big of a deal. This is a people don't believe the hero cliché. When Mike is with Dr Barnes, you will see him become more stupid, the first example being when she was talking about about geological events, and he didn't know what they were. Dr Barnes is told by Mike that it is too dangerous to go down there, so she goes down there with her friend anyway when it is dawn. The two scientists go down into the sewer to look for themselves, they find sulphur coving the walls along with other elements. The expendable one finds the crack and kneels right over it while collecting the sample from it. You now see why she is the expendable one. In a town 66 miles away from LA an earthquake occurs, this causes a blackout. The crack opens up and eats the expendable scientist. The Smarter scientist then looks down into this crack which just killed her friend... Just as Mike is taking his daughter to a safe place the pressure reaches it's underground limit and blows off all the man hole covers and the tar pits shoot out fire balls. You will also see that there are several helicopters in the air during this movie, this is a fact that Dante's Peak got correct, you don't fly anything near ash as it clogs up the air intake and causes the helicopter to crash. Lava comes up from the tar pits as Mike tries to help the fire fighters. Mike's daughter sees the lava and gets out of the car like a normal person would do, finally a child actor who isn't completely stupid and requires the parent to save them from a situation which they could save themselves from. Oh wait.. Nevermind. So Mike has leave the trapped fire fighter to save his daughter who could have easily saved herself and another fire fighter goes to help the firefighter only to cause both of them to die... But the other firefighter should have broken the front window instead of trying to crawl on top of it and pulling the guy out. Mike has to jump off his car as the magma is surrounding it, that magma is around 700ºC to 1300ºC, he should be dead from hyperthermia. And before you even think of saying its not cold, hyper is heat, hypo is cold. Even with fire proximity suits getting within single digits of feet is risky. Mike finally does the smart thing and sends her off to the hospital with the doctor, with her begging to stay. Dr Barnes arrives at scene and says You would have loved this Rachael I can understand the meaning behind it but.. People are dying and everything is on fire, do you think she would have loved this? They then have the idea to put a bus in front of it, this idea doesn't make any logically sense. They call in concrete blocks to try and stop the lava, it does stop the lava some how. In the real world this would not be the case, the lava would eat through the concrete within seconds, the paint on the fire trucks behind the the concrete would melt off as well being that close to extreme heat. They then find out the lava is traveling through the tunnels and is heading to the area where the hospital is, so then they have to organize a demolition of a building to make sure the lava goes into the ocean instead of the hospital. End of movie.Acting I feel like Tommy Lee Jones was only brought into the movie because he was a big name, he did a good performance. But you could put many other actors in his place and it would still be the same Anne Heche as the same to an extent, she provides good performance throughout the movie, but still feel slightly bland due to the script Emit Reese is Tommy Lee Jones's black friend, that is the only way to describe him Everyone else was decent to say the most in their roles, they didn't stand out to me but they weren't bad actors to its good. Noticeable Camera work Nothing special, there are a few shot which are nice such as looking into the sewer tunnel, where the dolly rolls forward and pans down. The framing of shots was good, but that was it there were barely any impressive camera angles throughout the movie and the ones that were good were so brief you'd miss them if you weren't paying attention. Graphics The CGI lava was decent and that was the only piece of computer graphics there is Overall Feel This movie has so many factual and continuity errors it is unbelievable, the musical score is subtle in most scenes, but in the scenes where it is noticed it is good. The whole movie sadly feels too long, we got the lava 30 minutes in and after a couple of minutes it got boring, Dante's Peak did a better job at keeping the volcano and lava interesting as it only showed it at the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"Workable traditional disaster movie","Date":"5 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is a hidden volcano growing underneath the city of LA. The city is building a new subway line led by Stan Olber (John Carroll Lynch). Mike Roark (Tommy Lee Jones) is living with daughter Kelly (Gaby Hoffmann). He leads the office of Emergency Management where Emit Reese (Don Cheadle) works. When some city workers are killed by something hot underground, Mike goes down to investigate. He barely escapes and gets geologist Dr. Amy Barnes (Anne Heche) to help. He tries to be cautious and has the powers to take over, but nobody in the city wants anything to close down. Then a giant earthquake hits.It's a traditional disaster movie with lots of stock characters reminiscent of the 70s. It is well made if a little bit corny. A lot of things blow up. Everybody is taking it seriously which was probably difficult. Director Mick Jackson is expert enough to head this schlock fest. The start has a nice quiet anticipation and then it's wall to wall action. There is a lot of real fire action as well as some reasonable CGI. Lava is not the best but there are lots of explosions. Tommy Lee Jones maintains a modicum of realism through his will of personality. It is as good as the genre allows. "},{"Title":"Lava Lava laughs","Date":"27 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1997 two Volcano disaster films were released. Both performed below expectations but this version starring Tommy Lee Jones is regarded poorly.I guess lava running around downtown LA where there are no burning or erupting mountains seem far fetched. Here we have lava bursting from the La Brea Tar Pits and the disaster causes havoc with Tommy Lee Jones desperately trying to coordinate everyone to safety while worrying about his daughter and he gets some help from a volcano expert, Anne Heche. Somewhere along the line the film makes political observations about race as the white police officers seem to ignore the plight of the black community and even seem to go out of their way to harass several black characters.I was interested in Volcano because I had visited some of the locations featured in this film a few months earlier before the film was released. However the story is atrocious, the set pieces are poor, you can clearly see when they had to get back to the studio for the special effects work as the lava encroaches.The actress Gaby Hoffman who plays Tommy Lee Jones daughter is really bad. In fact its a cheesefest but it lacks the 'its so bad, its good element' and the science behind it is laughable. "}{"Title":"Pretty much follows the formula of your standard disaster movie","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a disaster movie, and as a theme I would say that it is everybody blissfully doing everything right up until the end. The movie begins at the start of a typical Los Angeles day when there is an earthquake. This is typical because people are placing bets on where the epicentre was and how strong it was. The difference with this Earthquake is that it opened a fissure through the crust.Things start happening when a burst of sulphur in an underground tunnel kills seven men. People believe that it was a pocket of steam that was struck due to the excavation of a new subway. What they know is that something is going on down there and suggest the trains be shut down. But the operator does not want to do that as it will inconvenience too many people. Unfortunately a volcano in the centre of Los Angeles is also an incredible inconvenience.This movie plays out like a typical disaster movie. The hero has a daughter that he believes is safe and then discovers that a flow of lava is going to explode right where she is. So his daughter is in danger and so are many other sick and injured people so they have to come up with some cunning plan to save all these people.This is a good movie if you want to see parts of Los Angeles trashed and huge towers in Beverly Hills trashed. As for originality and in depth themes, there are none. The effects are good and there has to be a romance, but when it comes down to it, this movie is nothing more than a formula flick. "},{"Title":"enjoyable disaster itself!","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" An officer of the rescue organization (Jones) and geologist Dr. Amy Barnes (Heche) teams up trying to combat a roaring volcano in Los Angeles......The ingredients were there (Volcano, Jones and Heche) for a great movie, The first 30-40 minutes are pretty okay but after 40 minutes the movie turn so bad it could make you laugh or cry....The characters were paper-thin. The plot was chock full of holes. Poorly written and embarrassing moral moments pulls together. Underground rivers of lava that seem to appear & then disappear just as quick. Various people standing inches from a river of lava yet not being affected by the heat. One simple blockade at the end of a street will stop the flowing lava. And it goes on and on.... The cast go through the motions with some terrible dialogue & ridiculous set-pieces to contend with. Jones and Heche did very well with what they have been giving, unfortunately they we're giving crap. Jones and Heche deserves better than this.The script here is total nonsense and is not based in reality at all. But the movie does entertain.Volcano is a bit of a disaster in both senses, it is a disaster themed film that ended up in an entertaining disaster of itself. Stop you're brain working and you will enjoy this.... "},{"Title":"La-Va Land","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a sucker for Disaster Flicks, like the previous volcano movie in 1997, Dante's Peak or 1996's Twister. But, when the idea doesn't come from the Syfy Channel and yet, it sure as heck feels like it did, it's kinda hard to swallow.Volcano, still, is enjoyable. Thanks to the never-stopping charisma of Tommy Lee Jones and adorable (at the time) Anne Heche. It's not great and it's not terrible. It's not plausible and certainly improbable at times. It's really in the middle and for 104 minutes, it's action packed enough to enjoy for a Disaster Flick kind of mood.Basically, devoted father and director of the city's emergency management, Mike (Jones) is trying to comprehend what he sees, but doesn't believe a volcano under the L.A. city erupts into the city. With help from geologist Amy (Heche,) they attempt to divert lava from homes, buildings and oddly-thrown-in racial conflicts. I'm guessing they were trying hard to be the next Lethal Weapon that had a never-ending supply of positive messages and subliminal causes.Their plan? To get the lava to the ocean and save property and art. Oh, lives, too, but mainly real estate and possessions. Will it would? Would it work? No and no. But, then, again you're dealing with a prime Syfy movie-of-the-week&#x85;with a budget.That said, it's fun, it's fluff, it can't possibly be taken seriously &#x96; so don't try and if you like Jones, even the slightest, you'll love him here. "},{"Title":"Volcano's Not a Disaster","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Volcano eruptions! Molten rocks! Lava! Magma blasts! Poison gas! Scolding hot steam! Intense heat! Extreme temperatures! Seismic activity! Earthquakes! Tommy Lee Jones! Widespread panic! Fire! Burning vehicles! Fireballs! Terror! Explosions! Building collapses! More explosions! Total city destruction! Complete chaos! Anne Heche! Smoke and ashes! What's not to love!I didn't know movies about volcanoes could be so awesome, and 1997 gave us two, Volcano as well as Dante's Peak. Volcano is so good and well-liked, by me at the least. Volcano is an instant hit in my book! A blockbuster about volcanoes is such a great type for a movie.Tommy Lee Jones and Anne Heche do great jobs as Mike Roark and Dr. Amy Barnes. Heche and Jones make a great team, and you couldn't ask for two better people to play the parts. Roark is heroic, and a family man, Jones fits the build well. Heche is always pleasing, and she really knows how to lay herself out on the line for the part.Volcano is overblown to an extent, but in a watchable way. It's good theater with good effects. It's a very recommended suspenseful adventure. In a very broad sense, Volcano is one of my favorite movies. I'm using the terms 'very broad' here. Loved it! "},{"Title":"good disaster flick","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of my favorite disaster movies of all time,, maybe that's because the movie doesn't give you 200 characters to follow and care about like most disaster flicks,, god I hate that. in this one it's our main character,, his teen princess, his job,, and maybe 5 other characters.. that 's it.. lot's of stuff in this movie,, fireballs from the La Brea Tar Pits.. Anne Heche did really well in the film also, I liked the constant bickering from both of those characters.. Don Cheadle stealed the show for me , he was really funny, and knew what he was doing.. watching the lava flow down the streets.. the lava bombs.. the city workers getting toasted in the tunnel.. everything in this picture was really vivid,, think about it,, it's on a fault line.. so probably yet highly unlikely,, Volcano could actually happen in real life given the right set of circumstances,, which oddly enough are presented for us in the movie.. so excellent movie to watch,, recommend to anyone that just wants to be blow away by action. "},{"Title":"A movie for beers and pizza","Date":"24 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Usually when I want to see a movie, I don't read too much about in beforehand, just the main plot. I want the story to unfold me - hopefully with positive response, or if necessary; with total disappointment or mediocrity. Overall I try to ignore the professional critics - some may praise the same movie as someone else is beating it down the gutter. Those critiques have no meaning for me, it's me as a viewer that counts.Back to this movie, Volcano has some exiting scenes, but unfortunately the clichés are lined up, and concerning small and big heroes, it is quite unbelievable how many clichés they can make room for in one tiny story. for good and bad, it's not much of a story either; even skilled actors couldn't impress, but I give one little point for Anne Heche in this case. The special effects were mostly well done, but some of them were directly pathetic to watch. In any case, after the end credits, I felt this movie was okay, but far from great. "},{"Title":"A Disastrous Movie","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" At the beginning of the film, a subway driver who looks like the video game character Mario is reading a book on screenplay writing. If he would have been the one to write the script, perhaps it would have been watchable.At one point someone says this city (LA) is finally paying for its ignorance. Those words would have rang true if a giant lava flow engulfed LA after this movie was made.The writers and director must live in a closet, with their food pushed through a whole to them. There is absolutely no relationship between the physical world and this movie. The science, social interaction, and character interaction comes from another dimension.One of the first abominations of this movie is the tar pit. All of a sudden, a giant cloud rises out of a tiny lake, lightening flashing out of it. Ok.. You say, but then giant meteors shoot out of it. These fire balls deliberately attack certain stores and signposts. Its almost as if the director is a fire bug. Because he constantly focuses on randomly objects burning up. Like hey, set the mask on fire! Set the giant cutout of that woman on fire! At one point, the lava balls become even more deliberate, attacking a fire truck to stop fire fighters from reaching a burning mansion. One of the dumbest scenes is where a fire fighter is trapped inside the truck, while lava flows towards him. Another fire fighter tries to get him out, but they both burn alive. Instead of showing us die, we sit through 10 seconds of a shot of a burning clown-fireman figurine that is attached to the truck.I really enjoyed the part where a giant ball of lava lands next to Tommy Lee Jones' daughter, it looks at her, she looks at it, and it spits lava at her. Eventually they outsmart the lava balls, when Anne Hache informs fire fighters to wait until a fireball has almost hit them before moving, so it doesn't follow them. Of course! And such comments as What is that stuff? abound. Its LAVA! Its existed since time immemorial. How can you not know what it is? I love how Hollywood acts like they're educating the world so these 'tree' objects.. You say they're lifeforms made of a substance know as 'wood'? How about it seems apparent that the reinforced concrete of the Los Angeles river might hold the weight of the lava *facepalm!* No joke, this was a conversation from the movie Sir, our fire trucks are all out of water! That's OK, pump the water out of all the swimming pools in Los Angeles; that should give us more than enough The character interactions aren't even worth describing. They're just not realistic. Tommy Lee Jones is reliving his days of yelling out orders, straight from The Fugitive. It reminds me of that show where they build unfortunate people new houses; they gather around, completely calm that they're going to die in 20 seconds, and have an enthusiastic group meeting with EVERYONE (400+ people), and then they all shuffle off to their places.Anne Hache and Tommy Lee Jones' daughter are just there to add pretty faces. They're not used for much else.This movie was insulting. It overstates how Hollywood lives in its own little world. It was a massive waste of resources. Instead of holding stupid charity dinners - and who knows where that money really goes - the Hollywood types should just cancel movies like this. I am disgusted. "},{"Title":"Some Like It Hotter.","Date":"7 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" By now most will have seen this overblown B-movie, so my comment is little more than back-fill.As a disaster-flick by modern standards it's pretty small scale. A part of one US city is threatened. Nothing like the 'Deep Impact' 'War Of The Worlds' or 'Day After Tomorrow' global scenario epic it isn't.Build-up is rather inept. We get the usual 'tell-tale' signs to which most of the players seem blind. A bunch of workers get fried. Even then, nobody wants to make a fuss - rather like the first attacks in 'Jaws'. A lifesize model of a mammoth gets swallowed-up in the park tar-pit and nobody notices.Then things happen suddenly. And for a while, the nascent volcano effects are quite believable and intense. Unfortunately, as commentator 'Bob The Moo' has mentioned, clichés begin erupting faster than the lava bombs. We really do get the lot. Stressed-out single parent dad, authority figures who look the other way, authority figures who pull rank and try to shout each other down, experts who get ignored, predictably crass acts of heroism, 'buddy' issues, trapped pet issues; trust me, you've seen 'em all, just never all in one movie. The action ebbs and flows like the magma, and is propped-up at flagging moments by silly little insertions of drama. Like, when Tommy Lee Jones's character and his argumentative-vulcanologist-soon-to-be-love-interest (yes, that cliché) are trapped between a truck and a hot place. A fallen and burning palm has cut off their escape. Instead of simply turning a hose-pipe on the trunk and wetting a few feet so they can just hop over, the fire-truck ladder has to be swung round and lowered so they can grab onto it and dangle over the advancing lava - like you do. Unfortunately, the ladder is made out of chocolate or something else so ductile that it melts in the heat and buckles, yet our heroes who are dangling from it suffer no more than scorched shoes. At another time, Tommy Lee Jones stops his vehicle to help a doctor. Instead of pulling up nearby, he stops about 50 yards short and runs the rest of the way. This leaves his truck (and daughter) in the path of the creeping hot stuff and invents some more implausible tension. There's a fireman trapped in a fire-truck cab yet nobody (not even other firemen) thinks to just kick the windscreen out to release him. And so on. There are similar scenes of contrived heroic/tragic nonsense on the subway.Like the story, the volcano never really develops, remaining as little more than a tiny fissure oozing red stuff. Even then, it is clear that the movie makers have never seen the inside of an iron foundry. If they had they would know that nobody could stand next to a great pond of white hot magma for more than a few seconds, let alone treat it as little more than a barbie.This is really one of those inferior disaster movies that passed muster in the 1970's but with slightly updated special-effects. In terms of script, acting, directing, and general believability it is about on a par with 'Earthquake'. 'The Towering Inferno', on the other hand, knocks it into a cocked hat.Worth a first watch, but certainly not a second. I found myself muting all of the tiresome, predictable dialogue. In the end there is no conclusion. The principal lava flow is channelled towards the sea, but the volcano is still apparently going strong. "},{"Title":"MacArthur's cauldron is boiling in LA","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A catastrophe film has a simple formula. A perfectly beautiful situation. Los Angeles. With a hint of a problem. Earthquakes. Then some small elements that could lead to something else and a few geologists to prove it with theories that prove nothing but create anxiety. The geologists are women and that adds a touch of male-chauvinism when all the men (and they are only men, firemen, policemen, all kind of city workers and underground operators and security people, men, men and men again, and if you can find women they are geologists, doctors, nurses, news journalists, but not security personnel, though there might be one or two on the fringes but not in the middle of the action) of the security services don't believe her. Add to that a few simple but strongly emotional personal situations like a single father and his 13 year old daughter caught in the mess, and a couple more elements like that, even a couple of dogs, and you have what you need to create an emotional and fascinating catastrophe film. The rest is just special effects and there no one is better than catastrophe film makers to get these special effects right. So the catastrophe that has one chance in a million years to happen can be imagined in Los Angeles, but not too hard though like the volcanic eruptions that created Japan or those that submerged northern India with an immense basaltic plateau a couple of miles thick. Just a small little thing but right in the middle of LA with the underground as one of the main in-going avenues, along with Wilshire boulevard or whatever, for the lava to seize the city from underground. Spectacular. The heroes are set in extremely dangerous situations and miraculously saved by fate. The film you need in order to imagine the end of the world on a largo pianissimo level of intensity. We keep the vivace prestissimo for when it will really happen.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"Hot in L.A.","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A volcano beneath a city erupts threatening to wipe out the said metropolis. Unbelievable? It could only happen in one place&#133;&#133;..L.A.This rather far fetched idea is fantastic in the wrong sense. Mick Jackson has a hard sell on his hands, yet he does reasonably well for most of the way. Piecing the film together in bulletin like sequence is effective.The pic loses the plot and almost all credibility in the last fifteen minutes. The special effects are again hot stuff, the lava being a real treat ala Dante's Peak. Tommy Lee Jones, Anne Heche and co are okay, though they have little to do but look panicked and sweat a lot.The music is from Alan Silvestri.Sunday, January 25, 1998 - Video "}{"Title":"Entertaining but so wrong..","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is for people who are looking for some entertaining but it's not plausible. 1)Volcanic ash parts are so tiny that when you breathe it in it turns cement in your lungs. In this movie they treat it like snow. 2)Everything happens when some important people go near dangerous places. 3)Lava- where to begin?? In this movie sometimes it melts your clothes from great distance and other times it does nothing next to your feet. When first expelled from a volcanic vent, it is a liquid at temperatures from 700 °C to 1,200 °C (1,300 °F to 2,200 °F). I don't really believe that you cool it with some water. 4)When I was just wondering where Anne Heche disappeared, she suddenly reappeared and when you're to knees in the lava you don't scream to the end you're dead or passed out because of the pain.It's good movie for not so smart audience. "},{"Title":"What a movie!","Date":"1 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I absolutely love this movie because it's got everything you could expect in a movie, the action, the adventure, the special effects (esspecially for 97), and the cast. The cast was great Tommy Lee Jones was great for a cop. Anne Heche looks like a scientist, and Don Cheadle doing his natural self. The effects were awesome! The lava was awesome lookin and the way it snaked down the road and in between the walls as it streams to the Pacific. The action sequences were very tense especially the scene where they were trying to channel it and waiting for the choppers to come. Also the way Mick Jackson created the feel of you actually believing Stan was melting in the lava, that was freaky. Overall an awesome movie don't listen to those other people, you see it, you decide. "},{"Title":"Funniest disaster-movie ever","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, if this movie was supposed to be funny, it wouldn't be as funny, but because its supposed to be dramatic it pulls out as the funniest movie I've seen for some time.OK when you look at the dialog, its probably the funniest ever. The line where Tommy Lee Jones says We need to stop that, whatever that is! And the female character says Its lava!!! And Tommy answers LAVA?!?!?!Also the racist cop and the black guy who is trying to save his hood. And how the racist cop throws his racism aside in the end and the music is dramatic. And finally, the guy who sacrifices his life in the subway tunnel. And he melts in the lava. I laughed so hard, and also when Tommy Lee Jones was doing some Superman impressions by standing next to the lava.I live in Iceland, and thats one reason to love this film, we have volcanoes allover Iceland, so it was kind-a cool to see them mention Iceland in the film, even if the volcano eruption they were talking about didn't happen in Iceland, it happened in West-man Islands. Funny movie, great entertainment. Everybody needs to see this movie, to learn about Volcanoes that will erupt middle in L.A. and how to change the current of lava with buses and other stuff that can melt. "},{"Title":"I read a Review by Andrew Greenbay ....","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" My god was he right, this film is so bad i laughed more then went oh my that's amazing, Tommy Lee Jones i really am so sorry you are quite a good actor but in this film you are as bad as well i can't say its just awful. I had to endure this film two times once on my own were i just couldn't believe it the utter load of rubbish it is and then tonight with my own parents they love it i thought i was having a heart attack. Sure some people like this but if you want my suggestion i would run for 50 miles then go watch another film.I give this film 2/10 because my heart cant give it a 0 as it makes me laugh so hard it must be worth something I know some people including my own parents disagree with me but that's my view on the film. "},{"Title":"Is that lava or melted cheese?","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Explosive, unrealistic, cheesy, under-thought. Volcano is a disaster movie in every sense of the term.Volcano sounds like a desperate effort to scratch the bottom of the disaster genre barrel and to mix what's found with what's in the major cities barrel.The result is a volcanic eruption in downtown Los Angeles. Any questions? Well, if you have any questions, the narrators will answer you. In this case, the narrators are the media people. I've never seen so many TV & radio reporters in a single movie. Add the crew that works with them and you would find out that media is the sector that employs the most in L.A. It's not a message about mass media because it would have been a separated movie. So in a movie like this, it's just annoying.But there are more characters in that film than media people. The entire cast is filled with mostly unknown actors. The only exceptions are the main star Tommy Lee Jones who plays O.E.M. director Mike Roark and his right-hand man Emit Reese, played by Don Cheadle. So it's not a coincidence if they're the most interesting characters of the lot.Jones plays his director role with professionalism and so does Cheadle. Unfortunately, the remaining actors are less than shining. And especially Anne Heche, who plays a geologist working with Jones.We all know that a volcanic eruption can't happen anytime in L.A. but because it's the core of the movie, we're supposed to accept it only for the spectacle that it gives. It's not worth any price you could pay, should you be in a theater, in your home or anywhere else. Do not spend 10 bucks to watch it in the theater and do not spend 3 bucks to rent it. Hell, do not watch it even for free. I know I did but I sacrificed myself. Anyway, somebody had to sacrifice himself in order to tell you to avoid watching that movie.And it's even more true if you have a bit of a scientific or serious mind. Because you could heavily laugh in your seat while watching. Volcano is what I call a turn-your-brain-switch-off movie.Here are examples to prove what I say. The bus plan is only an excuse for creating suspense by putting Jones and Heche in a hazardous situation for a moment because you can see that the plan is dead-born. And even more, the lava seems to vanish just to be sure that they don't get killed.Would firefighter hoses and Canadair-like helicopters extinguish a lava corridor? Actually, no. But this is a Hollywood movie. So the answer is yes.And would that character played by John Carroll Lynch be able to pitch a full-grown man on a ten-foot distance while sinking in lava? Is that enough stupid for you? Don't go away, there is more. The lines are very cheap and it puts the characters' IQ to the same level than the rest of the movie.Dante's Peak, from the same year is not Oscar stuff, but besides that grotesque picture, as Richard Roeper would say, it looks like a documentary.Greetings to Richard and Roger Ebert, by the way. "},{"Title":"Kinda dumb, I thought","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Volcano was just another dumb disaster flick, I thought.They wouldn't be bad if they were a little more realistic.Case in point The scene where the eruption just begins. Somebody gets trapped between a fallen burning tree and the lava flow. The firefighters use their truck ladder to rescue them, and they're hanging over the lava flow. Now I've read that molten rock reaches temperatures of 6000 degrees F. I also read in one textbook when I was in school that it can get as high as 21,000. But whether it's 6,000 or 21,000, I don't think you could hang over it like that without getting burnt to a crisp. And the ladder melting and the people not getting even singed? Sure. And also the scene where the lava flow goes into the house and the dog goes up to it and sniffs it? Come on! I saw on a documentary once about the Kilauea volcano in Hawaii and there was a ranger station or something made out of logs. A lava flow went under the building and within 60 seconds that whole building was engulfed in flames, like kindling. There is no freak' way that that lava flow could even touch that house with the dog without that happening. You can't even get close to a lava flow without wearing special fireproof gear. A dog would not even get close to it. Too hot, I think. Agree or disagree?Corny movie, utterly ridiculous, like most of the movies of this type coming out of Hollywood today.Hollywood, make your disaster movies more compelling and realistic, and you may get better reviews. Just my take "},{"Title":"BURN Hollywood!","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Volcano is your typical Hollywood disaster film big-budget special effects but bad dialog and writing. However, the movies has it's ups and downs (more downs than ups though).First the down The one thing I didn't like the most was the news reports spread throughout the film. This was more annoying than useful and served no purpose as it adds nothing to the over-all story. Tommy Lee Jones is far from being a bad actor, but they way he portrays his character reminds me of the Marshall he played in The Fugitive...I was literally waiting for him to say We are going to look for lava in every house, farmhouse, firehouse, doghouse, outhouse we can find, he just seemed out of place in this movie. Anne Hache is also misplaced as I never bought the fact she's a scientist, it just didn't work for me. Everyone in the movie has predictable and bad lines with corky humor and trying-too-hard-in-being-serious writing, especially when the movie tries to add the message of racial tolerance, which seemed misplaced and came from nowhere. The overall story (which is very unrealistic, but not many movies are) is lacking good characters and very few that you actually care for, along with trying too hard to make minor characters heroic that never really works nor does anyone care. Add the fact that the actress playing Jones' daughter definitely needs to find a new job doesn't help matters.Now for the ups The special effects are very good....not the best but the lava effects are realistic enough. The destruction of Los Angeles has never been more enjoyable with plenty of fires and explosions, though rather have seen a few more landmarks get trashed. Despite the story, writing, and acting flaws, the movie is watchable.In the end, volcano is a rental or a viewing on the Sci-Fi channel. There are too many flaws to worth a purchase but not enough not avoid a viewing. "},{"Title":"The Coast is Toast!","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS      It was a day just like any other in Los Angeles, California. People hustling and bustling on the freeways and subways trying to get to work. But below the surface, something powerful and destructive was forming. That day also marked the opening of the Beverly Heights building in Beverly Hills; Mike Roark worked for the Office of Emergency Management and that day, which was supposed to be during his vacation, he went into work and left his 13-year-old daughter Kelly with a babysitter. Also that afternoon, the city was rocked by a violent earthquake. All the major news stations immediately reported on it. Some crews, headed by Stan Olber, were working on the new Red Line subway and in a freak occurrance, seven workers were killed. One survived but was badly burned. Yes, these men were covered in burn wounds. This occurred below MacArthur Park. Could steam have caused this? Dr. Jaye Calder didn't think so. Mike and his assistant Emmit Reese decided to check out the MacArthur Park incident so Mike went down alone and when he got to the area where the men were killed, he found it extremely hot. But for what reason? He soon meets Dr. Amy Barnes, a geologist. She wanted to check this out too so she and her friend Rachel go beneath the surface around 400 AM the next day.        At 500 AM, another violent earthquake shook Los Angeles. It happened near the La Brea tarpits! Soon steam shot up from the sewers and fireballs shot out of the tarpits and destroyed cars, buildings, trees, whatever was in it's path. It also began raining ash. Mike and Kelly were driving through town then and luckily got out of the car before it was hit by a fireball. Below in the subway tunnel, the #10 car was stopped due to falling rocks caused by this disturbance. On the surface, firemen arrived to put out the fires but fell under attack from the fireballs. Pretty soon, the tarpits erupted as if volcanic and lava begins to flow down Wilshire Boulevard! Dr. Calder arrives then and takes a group of injured people, along with Kelly Roark who got scalded by flames. She didn't want to leave Mike but he demanded that she did. Amy surfaced at that point. Mike then got everybody together to try and stop the lava. They first tried to dam it by tipping over a bus. The lava proceeded around the bus so Mike wanted to create a barrier so he ordered all the k-rails the city could get their hands on! Back at the office, Emmit did what he could to help the frantic people while Stan Olber and his team at Metro venture into the subway tunnel to rescue the stranded people on the train. They all get out luckily just as the lava burns up the car. Unfortunately, Stan jumped too late and fell right into the molten lava!        The k-rails soon arrived and everybody worked hard to stack them up. They also used cars and trucks. It worked! The barrier stopped the lava dead. Then Emmit got the idea to drain all the swimming pools in the area and dump the water onto the lava via helicopters. So the helicopters dumped the water while the firemen turned their hoses on full blast. L.A. seemed safe! But Amy discovered super high temperatures below the surface and was confident the real danger hadn't even begun. But it soon did. Lava flowed down the subway line at an alarming rate and was headed right for the hospital, where Kelly was! Mike suggested perhaps rerouting the lava to Balona Creek then into the ocean. Amy studied a map and said that proved impossible, but Mike hit upon the idea to knock over a building to reroute the lava. They rigged the Beverly Heights building with explosives and KABOOM! The building fell and blocked the lava, causing it to go back down the subway tunnel and into Balona Creek and into the ocean! In the end, Mike and Kelly take a vacation and Los Angeles was safe at last!       Pretty good action flick! Tommy Lee Jones was good, so was Gaby Hoffmann! Anne Heche was good too. If you like movies about disasters and lot's of chaos and horror and explosions, Volcano is for you!! Volcano proves that there's more wrong with Los Angeles than just crime and pollution! It's got hidden volcanoes. So anyway, if you like these kinds of movies, then I recommend Volcano!- "},{"Title":"my number 137 movie ( contains story + spoilers )","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  &#132;Volcano is my number 137 movie. ( outta 750 about ) I do like it, because it has good action sequences and because it sometimes is thrilling. And the actors are not that bad, too. Maybe it is full off clichés , but who cares ? I don´t.The story  in the heart of Los Angeles there is a volcanic eruption and the lava  moves through Los Angeles. The catastrophic team ( including Anne Heche and Tommy Lee Jones ) try to stop the lava and make it go cold. They do this by building a wall and ´extinguish´  the lava flow.I have to admit that I usually like these movies, so do not use my comment as a guide of an impartial viewer. If you do not like these big action movies, you will not like´Volcano´. All in all, I rated Volcano 8/10 and I recommend it to action fans.If you have any questions, feel free to ask them.  "},{"Title":"A disaster movie that really is a disaster!","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Granted, the idea of a volcano in the middle of LA is kinda silly, but still, the idea is kinda cool and makes it possible to portray some almighty action scenes but Mick Jackson's attempt at a disaster movie really is...a disaster! There's something sinister running through this movie, you can just feel it and it unsettles you throughout the entire film. Unlike other disaster movies like 'Twister' or 'Deep Impact', the sense of humanity and 'when we unite we can doing anything' feel just isn't there and you do miss it! I believe if you're gonna make a disaster movie, no matter how ridiculous the concept, it's nice to have a 'well, if that really did happen, how could we deal with it' vibe to it. Volcano does not have this vibe. It makes the ridiculous even more ridiculous. Such an example is when a rescue jumps off a subway train after rescuing a victim and falls into magma. We watch the helpless worker melt before his colleagues. That's not realistic or action, that's just disgusting and disturbing. It's a shame to see Tommy Lee Jones in such a poor attempt at box-office glory. Volcano, unlike the far-superior Dante's Peak, truly is a disaster! "}{"Title":"A little too far-fetched!","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Volcano is definitely not one of the best volcano movies you'll see. Its incredibly fake and ultimately far-fetched scenes destroy it for everyone. Yes, I mean EVERYONE. I have not met one person who has had anything good to say about it. They all say the same thing. I don't think its realistic. You don't think anything bad about it until you see two female scientists go into a hole in the ground where a fireman was fried, to investigate the scene. I mean COME ON! I know that its just a movie but that scene was just WAY off! Now who has ever made a bad remark about Tommy Lee Jones' work? Not many people. I didn't have anything bad to say about him either. His work as Two Face in Batman Forever was great. I had really liked his work until I watched Volcano. I never thought an actor could be so boring or so dull in a role. He sounded like a teacher reading a Science textbook to his class. What good things can I say about this Movie? Well there is this part- Whoops! I mean, there are no good or even slightly interesting parts! "},{"Title":"Totally stupid, totally daft, but fun nonetheless.","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Calling all people with half a braincell to their name!This film is NOT the Towering Inferno or any other such disaster classic. This film IS a laugh. If like me, you adore (from time to time) switching off your brain and watching total rubbish incorporating pretty decent special effects, Americans being burnt/exploded/crushed etc. and poking fun at the half-baked, plastic nationalistic dialogue you will LOVE watching this film.The funniest thing about it is it is 100% predictable and the people who made it were obviously serious! If only a REAL volcano popped up in LA, then maybe Hollywood would be burnt to the ground! Ha ha ha! Mind you, if that happened they wouldn't be able to churn out this hilarious schlock year on year!  "},{"Title":"A very good action/disaster movie.","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is seen mostly from the view point of the Office of Emergency Management (O.E.M) Director, played by Tommy Lee Jones, which, in times of an emergency, has control of all city resources.More than just a disaster movie, and what i really liked about the movie, was the plot set around seeing the O.E.M Director use his authority to manage the city under the critical circumstances it was in. In this sense, it was much better than other disaster movies, in that we not only get to see special effects, but also a good, solid plot set around how the people - civilians, police men, fire men, doctors, and just about the whole city - led by the O.E.M Director, actually set off to deal with the problem.Great action and good performance overall.8/10 "},{"Title":"A First Rate Disaster Movie With Good Effects And Performances","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am surprised to see so many negative comments on this movie, granted it is not a great movie but it is very entertaining. I think that out of all the disaster films released in the 1990's this one is without a doubt the best. The effects in the film are very well done and they actually compliment the story. The performances from Tommy Lee Jones and Anne Heche are solid, convincing performances. The film's pace doesn't give you time to think about the implausibilities in the script. This is first rate entertainment. "},{"Title":"A First Rate Disaster Movie With Good Effects And Performances","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am surprised to see so many negative comments about this film,granted it is not a great film but the performances and effects make this movie very entertaining. I personally liked this better than Dante's Peak and to be honest I think it is the best disaster movie released in the 1990's. Tommy Lee Jones and Anne Heche also turn in solid, convincing performances. The film's pace doesn't leave you enough time to think about the implausibilities in the story. But the story really isn't that ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Hello, USGS?  Why are the tar pits boiling??","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I started laughing long before the volcano made itself known by erupting in the tar pits.  I wondered if the people who wrote this silly disaster flick had ever seen a documentary movie where geologists were monitoring quakes along the San Andreas Fault.  Surely, there would be at least a squadron of geologists from the USGS (United States Geology Service) poking around those pits with various devices if they ever really did start to boil, but in this film, there was only *one* and she didn'tknow what was up until it was almost too late.  How did she pass geology school?  But never mind, this was just a good summertime movie; one to check your brains at the door when you go inside the theater.  I had the most fun jeering at this thing when they started putting up the cement barriers to stop the lava.  NOT! Rent this if you want something really clueless to watch! "},{"Title":"Only one reason to watch this","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must admit, I watched this because of Gabby Hoffmann.  She is Tommy Lee Jones' daughter.  VERY CUTE!!  Now, she does look like a slob through out most of this, but still, you can tell how cute she is.  See her in Woody Alen's Everyone Says I love You.  That's about it for this one.  Lame plot, OK acting, nice scenery... "},{"Title":"Too Outrageous...","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie seemed very interesting when the previews for it appeared in theatres back in 1997.  However, after viewing it, I thought it was just too outrageous.  First off, the situations were just not believable.  While it is somewhat possible that a volcano could appear in LA, I just cannot believe the US Geological Survey would not know about it.  The characters have no depth to them.  Anne Heche and Don Cheadle were more like news anchors reading from a teleprompter.  Tommy Lee Jones really had his talents wasted here.  Only John Carrol Lynch was the best actor here.  His reactions to the closure of the subway line was quite typical of real life transit authority personnel.Special effects were pretty good in the movie.  However, I found it VERY unrealistic that a human would melt if one would fall into lava.  Any volcanologist will disagree with that scene.  People HAVE fallen into lava and survived.  They do get BADLY burned, but they survive.All in all, the movie was OK.  I would say 6 out of 10.  The real sense of climax appears not at the end, rather with the lava dam scene.  This movie is OK for a rental, but it is nothing really worth owning.  The other volcano movie, Dante's Peak, while a bit exaggerated in areas, is MUCH more believable. "},{"Title":"Volcano?  It was supposed to be a comedy.......right?","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I could not stop laughing through this whole movie!  The storyline becomes so predictable, once you figure out that the writer/director thinks that the audience is filled with idiots.There are so many scenes that defy belief.  The ultimate is the scene where the subway conductor  goes back for a dead man (may as well be for all he knew) while the train is melting from the lava flow?!?!?!? Then he carries him through the train while his shoes melt?!?!?!?!?!?!  Then he jumps off the train into lava (deliberately) and throws the guy to safety???!???!Give me a break! "},{"Title":"oh please","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this kind of tosh wasn't made anymore, however I was proven wrong. Characters so wooden they are in danger of bursting into flames before the lava approaches anywhere near them,and a plot containing just about every cliche possible. The special effects which might have been it's saving grace,are sadly too infrequent to provide compensation for it's numerous shortfalls elsewhere.  "}{"Title":"Thin lava to work with","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The characters in this movie are all cliche and once we are told a bit about them they never sway from who we are told they are, basically no development. But the acting was fairly good, Tommy Lee Jones played his usual tough guy character and Anne Heche, a lot better than Jones, played a determined woman trying to stop the lava from destroying downtown L.A. Gaby Hoffman lends her miniscule talent in this movie playing a stupid girl who does everything you shouldn't do in the volcano scenario. Overall an entertaining film which lacks substance. However, there is one thing going for it, it is way better than Dante's Peak which totally sucked. God what a crap movie that was! "},{"Title":"totally unoriginal.","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, the reason that this movie IS so bad is because it's so mediocre. The plot was written on the back of a napkin and the script is corny as hell. Its not even one of those movies thats 'so bad its good'. this is predictable from start to finish but will probably appeal to those with limited imagination and who are easily impressed by special f/x and no plot.  "},{"Title":"Boredom threshold","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wouldn't it be great if just for once the pretty girl was sucked into the bowels of the earth and the plain girl become the heroine.  It's always ridiculous the way disaster movies always have to have a happy ending, man and girl go off into the sunset sort of thing.  In real life this doesn't happen all the time, let's have some reality from time to time! "},{"Title":"Not a bad disaster flick","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can so vaguely remember on April 25, 1997, I was so hyped up about Volcano.  My friend and I were going to see it.  It wasn't bad, Tommy Lee Jones and Anne Heche were so-so actors in the film, but the people I walked out of the theater next to were like That movie sucked or I just wasted $7!.  It's not excellent, not as good as Dante's Peak, but a good disaster flick overall.  "},{"Title":"Corny,but good","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To say the least,this movie has several faux pas but it is entertaining. The action is great! However,the acting is somewhat contrived and never to be taken seriously.In fact,this movie is almost like a cartoon. The science also falls short.Yes,a volcano did rise up in Mexico-but that is the only recorded one in history! This just doesn't happen every day! As a fantasy,which it really is however,the fine humor and inside gags make it a picture to see-I give it an 8 PS-I have the video and watch it often. "},{"Title":"Not Even a Spark.","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Volcano (1997) Dir Mick Jackson / Cast Tommy Lee Jones, Anne Heche, Gaby Hoffmann, Don Cheadle, Keith David Containing all of the suspense and excitement of a beer commercial, and about as much ambition as a bowel movement in the bathtub. It follows the formula closely with problem discovered by hero who goes unbelieved until disaster strikes etc, etc. Outcome is predictable and dumb as expected and directed with the same arrogance by Mick Jackson who also made The Bodyguard and L.A. Story. This would easily be the worst disaster film since Twister. Tommy Lee Jones and Anne Heche basically recite what every hero must go through when becoming involved in bid budget disaster crap. Heche in particularly has a lame scene where she runs about a crowded panic stricken street screaming someone's name, as if she actually believes that she will be heard. Gaby Hoffmann plays Jones's daughter who serves as little purpose as possible. Then there is Don Cheadle as that trouble maker with a last minute change of heart. David Keith also gives a wasted performance in a role that is about as broad as lava of the ass. There is also a total lack of plausibility such as making a horse shoe barricade that would hardly work since the lava can flow through the cracks. It is about as entertaining as plugging the toilet. That could be fun if the object used to plug it is this film. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Utterly boring","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The worst catastrophe movie I've seen in my life. And none of them have been what I would call good. But at least they have been exciting and/or visually pleasing. Volcano fails to be either of those. It seems to be a catastrophe movie without the budget or idea to make it exciting. Because the thing about lava is... it's slow. It's really slow. Like start walking and you're going to be okay slow. You starting to see the problem here? So yeah, the movie of course tries to make its subject matter into this huge, intense battle against the forces of nature, but it just doesn't work. You don't buy it, because every single life that's threatened seems to be so because of sheer stupidity and/or carelessness. Which prevents the viewer from sympathizing.Add in the fact that the script is lazily written, the dialogues are terrible and the acting is more wooden than the jungles of Amazon. Even Tommy Lee Jones is boring, because he's not even trying to act. He's simply Tommy Lee Jones trying to change the flow of lava. Riveting.Not worth a watch, guys. If you want to see a good catastrophe movie... well, the term good is subjective within this particular genre, but at least most are better than this one. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Volcano The reason there are no volcanoes in LA is because there're instantly laced, cauterized and concealed with silicon.On occasion, however, like in this disaster movie, one festers under the surface.Emergency Management head Mike Roark (Tommy Lee Jones) and his colleague Emit (Don Cheadle) shrug off a L.A. area earthquake when no major damage appears to be present.Overtime, however, hot gasses begin emitting from fissures in the ground, killing city workers.A geologist (Anne Heche) declares a volcano to be forming underneath the city streets, but Roark refuses to believe her. That mistake costs him Wilshire Boulevard. And if he keeps it up, it'll cost him his daughter (Gaby Hoffmann).The more unrealistic of the two volcano movies released in 1997, this special effects heavy one basks in the insanity of its ludicrous plot and blatant disregard for human lives.Fortunately, lava flows only go after bad people.Red Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Only the good pace saves this disaster.","Date":"6 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has a lot of problems. Bad acting, boring characters, impossible situations and it's hard to take the movie seriously when the characters do so many stupid things.A guy who melts from his feet up to his head without toppling over in the lava. Tommy Lee Jones and the woman's shoes are smoking from the heat of the lava beneath them, yet the shoes themselves seems to not remain hot after they are dropped on solid ground. Seismologists who thinks it's a brilliant idea to go alone at 4 AM to investigate a place where several workers have boiled to death from heat. One of said seismologists who thinks it's smart to sit right above a crack in the ground where the steam has come from. Blowing up a huge building in 20 minutes. Apparently blocks of concrete in shape of a horseshoe will stop the lava from flowing around the edges of it? It's as if the movie expects me to be stupid enough to believe all of that works and it's quite creepy. In a sense, I have to become more dumb to enjoy the movie.Kelly (Tommy Lee Jones characters daughter in the movie) is the reason why I lowered the stars from 3 to 2. Gaby Hoffmann is 15, but her character talks and behaves like she is 10. The character also appears extremely awkward, needing a babysitter and apparently doesn't have a single friend in this movie. She is clingy, spoiled and can't do anything without the input of others. Not even rescuing herself when lava is threatening to kill her. Nope, she stands there shouting for her father to run to the car, pick her up and he actually has to carry her all the way to a doctor because... well... would you expect her to be able to do it herself? Sure she had a small second degree burn on her thigh, but at the hospital, she walks perfectly fine and you even see her running less than an hour later.I also found the movie stupid as it claimed several hundreds had died in this incident, yet it seemed you had to be a complete and utter moron to be able to die at all. Were those people really more stupid than Kelly? The only logical death in the movie was the firefighter trapped in the firetruck and one of the few characters I actually felt sorry for.In conclusion, the movie is very stupid, but because it has a good pace and lots of things going at all times, there isn't a moment when you can take a nap since you'd miss out. It's too bad that all you get to see for more than half of the movie is stupidity. "},{"Title":"Get me a  scriptwriter!!...or a scientist...","Date":"1 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the city of Los Angeles, it is nice quiet and routine.Until an earthquake occurs. The director of the city's emergency management, Michael Roark believes that something is big is about to happen, so he finds a geologist named Amy Barnes to help him investigate.What they will realise that the earthquake is a sign of a volcano forming in the city.The volcano formed at the La Brea Tarpits. Now Roark has to use every resource in the city to stop the volcano from consuming Los Angeles...Okay, so the plausibility factor in this is stretched to it's very limits, and the script is downright hilarious.Bt one cannot deny the fun you have whilst watching this.Made in a time when anything Lee Jones was in was worth watching, Volcano is like one of those good old fashioned seventies disaster movies, minus the character input.You know from the start who will live and who will die, thanks to the persons stress levels.For example, the guy who is trying to quit smoking has the short end of the stick in death scenes.But all the cast are good, given the material they are using, and Lee Jones gives it that bit of class the film desperately needs.When the day is saved, there is a little message that goes along the lines of 'in the hour of need, we are all the same, despite creed, culture, or colour', thanks to a child pointing out the fact that everyone is covered in ash.It's better than Dante's Peak by a mile, and the dog survives, which makes a nice change.The tag-line should have been 'the coast is cheese on toast'. "}{"Title":"Now That's A Disaster Movie","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Personally, I loved it. With pretty decent performances from leads Tommy Lee Jones and Ann Heche, this movie nevertheless doesn't revolve around the performances or the cast. It's the scenes of disaster and what seems to be the absolute hopelessness of the situation that really gets under your skin with this. A normal day in Los Angeles begins with a normal - for Los Angeles - earthquake. It doesn't cause much panic; it's just part of living in California. But if only they knew. This particular earthquake was the precursor to something much bigger - a huge volcanic eruption right in the middle of the city. Once that happens you do wonder how in the world this can possibly be dealt with, as you watch the flowing lava melt roads, cars, trucks, subway trains - as well as the unfortunate people who get caught in the midst of the mess. The disaster scenes and special effects are spectacular.Jones and Heche moved the story along well enough - Jones playing the head of the Los Angeles Emergency Management Department who has to find some way to deal with the situation, and Heche as a local geologist who gives what advice she can in an insane and unprecedented situation. But it is the disaster itself that makes this movie work. I'm not really a huge fan of Ann Heche, and Jones - although he's a decent enough actor - isn't at the top of my A-list. But all they need to do in this movie is be the appropriate backdrop to the situation itself. That they do well enough.If you're a fan of disaster movies, I don't really see how the genre can get much better than this. It generally avoids the soap opera feel that so many of them fall into and lets the disaster speak for itself. Well done. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Hot fun","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like Mission to Mars, and Red Planet, I would imagine Volcano and Dante's Peak would've had quite a rivalry as they fought for a higher spot in the box office (which neither of them got). Like the two martian flicks, these two lava-laden flicks have equal strengths and weaknesses. Dante's Peak, is the (attempt to be) emotional one, and Volcano is the adrenaline pumped one.In good old L.A. some mysterious gas readings coming from under the city become the tell tale signs of a much bigger problem to come. A volcano hidden under the Labrea Tar Pits, bursts to life in an explosion of lava that threatens to melt the city overnight. It is up to a heroic fire fighter and his scientist friend to save the day.There is not a lot to say about Volcano that cannot be said about any other disaster movie. All the same adjectives apply. It's cheesy, it's silly, but it's sufficiently exiting and fun. "},{"Title":"Volcano.  About a volcano.","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The modern wave of movies about collective disasters began, I think, in 1954 with The High and the Mighty. I've been trying to figure out how and why they managed to evolve (or devolve) into gargantuan productions involving masses of humanity and such monuments to civilization as the world's tallest skyscraper (The Towering Inferno) and the city of Los Angeles (Earthquake).I think it has to do with the natural development of simple things into more complex things. Something that succeeds begets things that are bigger than the original. I think Herbert Spencer made this observation with regard not just to organic systems like plants and animals but to human artifacts like governments and tax codes. Mies van der Rohe, the architect, described the reaction to this trend simply as less is more. But you can't fight city hall. In the end, MORE IS MORE.Take the original airplane in jeopardy movie, The High and the Mighty. The problem with an airplane that has partially failed is that the passengers and crew become the sinews that hold the story together -- their little dramas, their foibles. And either nobody dies or everybody dies. Well, unless you want to follow it up with a mid-air collision (The Crowded Sky). In that case it's easier to stick to the strict moral formula and kill off the bad people instead of having to guide them through some epiphany in which they realize how wrong they've been.You can do so much more with BIGGER disasters, as depicted in Volcano. Not only do you get the same little human dramas, but you get multiple sub-disasters. In the kind of earthquake that generates a volcano in downtown Los Angeles, or what there IS of a downtown in Los Angeles, not only do buildings fall or almost collapse, but cars swerve and crash on the undulating roadway, fire mains burst, fires break out, dams fail and flood the villages in the valley, and (if you want to push it) airplanes can be forced by lack of fuel to land on runways that are being cracked apart by tectonic forces. The whole earth -- that thing under our feet that we always take for granted -- shrugs and heaves and makes us think about God.Yes. If we think about it, I suspect we can all agree that an earthquake is the best of disasters, especially ones that generate a flood of lava in a huge city. Great opportunities for computer-generated special effects. Loved ones can go missing -- and they may have been killed or saved, unlike that tiny airplane way up there in the sky in which it's all or nothing at all.Most of these sub-disasters happen in Volcano -- PLUS those plaster animals in the La Brea Tar Pits get swallowed up in their entirety. Tommy Lee Jones is separated from his daughter. Anne Heche is pretty and blond as the requisite scientist.The movie is frantic and doesn't give the audience much chance to breathe. No acting is called for and none is on display. This is about money, not art. And when it comes to money, MORE IS MORE.Watch it if you want. I did once and managed to see it all the way through, but I never cared much for L.A. in the first place. "},{"Title":"Terrible waste of time","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The story of a Volcano erupting downtown L.A. sounds like a nice plot for a disaster movie. This one though, is missed bigtime. The movie looks chaotic, has a storyline which is hard to follow or believe and the acting was very bad.Im in agreement with a lot of comments that Lee Jones is only good at bossing people around as a chief in some particular field. In this one, he is heading the emergency office. Being chief of such an office it naturally is a good idea to bring along your daughter to dangerous scenes. Clever thinking. Ann Heche touching walls and walking in tunnels that suppose to be 678 degrees fahrenheit. Yea right. Aside from the bad acting those factual errors make the film look almost as silly as Armageddon. The only good point of this movie is that there is no Ben Affleck to make matters even worse. Avoid this movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"It's my house man! I was born there!","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" **SPOILERS**Better then average disaster flick with Tommy Lee Jones as top kick at the L.A OEM-Office of Emergency Management-Mike Roark doing what he can to save Los Angeles from being engulfed by a sea of molten rock, lava. The lava is belching out of an underground volcano some 60 miles south of the city.Taking a week off to spend some time with his teenage daughter Kelly, played by Gaby Hoffmann, Mike is unexpectedly called back to work as a number of slight but deadly tremors hit the city. When the tremors subside and it looks like the danger is over it's later determined by geologist Dr. Amy Barnes, Anne Heche, that this is just the beginning of something really big. A possible volcanic eruption that if not addressed by the city's emergency agencies could well destroy the downtown section of L.A and kill tens of thousands of the city's residents.Dr. Barnes prediction shockingly comes true the next day as a major earthquake, started by an underground volcano, erupts with it's epicenter some 60 miles south of the city in the desert town of Palmdale. As dawn approaches boiling streams of lava from the volcano moves north towards L.A bursting through the still active, after some 10,000 years, La Brea Tar Pits in the very heart of the city. It's now a race against time with Mike Roark and Dr. Amy Barnes risking their lives, together with thousands of L.A firemen police and California national guardsmen, to keep the onrushing and deadly lava from overwhelming the city. The lava makes its way west moving practically unchecked on its scorched earth drive towards the Pacific Ocean. In the path of the deadly lava is West L.A and it's some million inhabitants.Top rate special effects has you at the edge of your seat as we see L.A scorched and pulverized by not only the lava flow but tons of deadly rocks, ignited by the volcanic eruption, spewing out of the city's underground subway system. With the what seems like unstoppable lava flow moving dangerously close to L.A's Ceadars-Sinai Medical Center, where thousands of the injured are being treated, it's decided by Dr. Barnes that the only way to stop it is to blast a number of streets out in front of it's path. This last ditch attempt will have it, the lava, diverted to the Redline subway system that would, if everything goes right, have it flow into the Pacific without touching any residential areas along the way.Mike after, together with Dr. Barnes, cheating death over and over throughout the film is soon forced to risk his life yet again when he spots his daughter Kelly, with a four year old boy in her care, in front of a 28 story building that's about to be demolished. The buildings foundations have been ringed with dozen of dynamite charges in order to have it be brought down in order to stop the onrushing lava from breaking through and overwhelming the medical center and west side of the city.Sizzling final with the lava, that's been diverted by the explosions set off by Mike & Co, moving along the Redline Subway tracks and spilling into the Pacific setting off, with the evaporated ocean water, a major downpour. It's that monsoon like cloud burst that sweeps the million dollar plus houses along the Malibu coast into the sea. As bad as that was it was nothing compared to what would have happened if the deadly lava raced unchecked through the city. Not only homes would have been destroyed but the entire population of West L.A, some one million people, would have been destroyed along with them. "},{"Title":"This movie is pure fun - it's camp at it's best","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Volcano doesn't take itself seriously and neither should you - just have fun! Don Cheadle and Tommy Lee Jones have great chemistry together. The movie takes an interesting premise and has fun with it. Good special effects, good humor, and mostly good acting add up to an enjoyable way to spend a few hours. The only part that rings false is the perhaps romantic interest between Anne Heche and Tommy Lee Jones - ignore that part and you're all good.I think this one came out at the same time as Dante's Peak and Volcano beats it hands down. How can you go wrong with a movie with the tag line the Coast is Toast? "},{"Title":"Another Good Disaster Film","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A volcano erupts in L.A. and a father and his family tries to come out alive from the catastrophe.This is a good disaster film with good special effects and characters that you want to come out alive but you know some will die. There is another similar film, Dante's Peak, which was equally exciting but with more gore and violence.The acting by Tommy Lee Jones and Don Cheadle is good. This film is even have some of its memorable scenes.There are some tense scenes and it's mindless so if you want to see a good disaster film, great, here's another film. "},{"Title":"Made me laugh a lot even though not a comedy","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hahahahah Probably one of the funniest movies i've even seen. Obviously this isn't intentional though. It takes about half the movie for the main characters to realize what the big hilly thing is in the middle of the city is spewing hot red stuff, and the other half spent diverting the lave flow through the city using fire trucks (yer right). It certainly made me laugh. The acting makes Arnie look like a RSC thespian. It is amazing that films like this get commissioned. A more interesting version would be someone going near an active volcano and filming it, and would probably cost about £20 to make. ($40) I can see some guy pitching the film to a film company well there's this big VOLCANO and it erupts in a CITY....pretty radical hey If you can find it in the dollar bins, maybe worth buying as after watching this most other films would look good. "},{"Title":"Pretty entertaining disaster flick, that's not as bad as everyone says it is, with cool effects and really good performances!","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a pretty entertaining disaster flick, that's not as bad as everyone says it is, with cool effects and really good performances!. All the characters are cool, and the story while typical is pretty good, plus Tommy Lee Jones is simply amazing in this!. Sure it's nowhere near to being the best Disaster flick, however I really enjoyed it for it was, plus it helps that all the characters are extremely likable. It does start off kinda dull, however it soon becomes fairly exciting and very entertaining, and I thought the Lava effects were really cool! plus Tommy Lee and Anne Heche had very good chemistry together. Don Cheadle was kind of wasted and seemed rather bored, however I did really enjoy the relationship between Jones and his daughter (Gaby Hoffmann)! plus it actually has some surprising moments as well. It's well made and written, and while it's never as exciting as it should be, it's still pretty entertaining in my book and does enough to keep you watching, plus one of my favorite moments in the film is when they go to rescue the people on the train that was pretty tense. This is a pretty entertaining disaster flick, that's not as bad as everyone says it is, with cool effects and really good performances I highly recommend it for a watch. The Direction is very good. Mick Jackson does a very good job here with good camera work, solid angles and keeping the film at a fast pace for the most part. The Acting is really good. Tommy Lee Jones is amazing as always and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, heroic, had very good chemistry with Anne Heche and Gaby Hoffmann, was intense just utterly convincing, and was perfect for the role! (Tommy Lee Rules!!!!). Anne Heche is hot, and did very well with what she had to do, and was surprisingly convincing as a scientist I liked her a lot. Gaby Hoffmann is good as the daughter she was likable, and didn't annoy me at all I liked her. Don Cheadle is OK here, but was kind of wasted and looked sort of bored a times, he still brought in some decent comic relief though I just wish they gave him more to do. Jacqueline Kim is good as the doc and played her part well. Keith David has barely anything to do as the Lt. but his presence was still appreciated. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall I highly recommend it for a watch. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Completely unbelievable, but campy fun","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1997 was apparently the year of the volcano with this film and the regrettable Dante's Peak being released within weeks of each other. Neither is particularly good, but Volcano is at least entertaining, if not believable.The plot line - and it's pretty thin - is that a series of earthquakes opens up a fissure under the LaBrea Tar Pits, and before you can say volcanoes don't happen in California you have lava spewing everywhere. Of course, before the lava actually starts flowing, you have several suspicious deaths in the service tunnels of the LA subway system, and are introduced to overzealous OEM manager, Mike Roarke (Tommy Lee Jones), stubborn transportation director, Stan Olber (John Carroll Lynch), and geologist, Amy Barnes (Anne Heche), who thinks vulcanism may be afoot. Once the volcano erupts, Roarke's daughter Kelly (Gabby Hoffman) is burned by a lava bomb, and he entrusts her to dedicated doctor, Jaye Calder (Jacqueline Kim), whose husband, Norman (John Corbett), thinks she should stay out of harm's way and let the wounded fend for themselves. Roarke teams up with Amy Barnes to try to save LA before the lava burns it to the ground. And the race is on...Like Dante's Peak, there is quite a bit of bad science here. To start with there is no source of magma underneath LA, so there's little chance of this actually occurring. There's little likelihood of being able to withstand the temperatures in a subway car sitting on top of lava - the metal would conduct the heat, and the temperatures would quickly cause loss of consciousness and death. And perhaps the most egregious, if you land in lava, you won't melt. You'll char, but you won't met, so Stan Olber would have been badly burned, but he would have survived. They patterned damming the lava after Iceland, but there they had an almost inexhaustible supply of water from the sea. LA has nothing near that kind of water supply. Also, just because they blocked the flow on Wilshire, doesn't mean that it stopped on Stanley Avenue - something the writers seem to have forgotten about.Also, there's quite a bit that isn't scientific which is outside the realm of possibility. Does anyone believe that you can plan and execute a precision demolition of a building in 20 minutes? And while Gator's (Michael Rispoli) refusal to leave a downed colleague is noble, one assumes self preservation would eventually win out, especially when the injured man tells him to save himself.Still, in spite of the implausibility, you can't help enjoying the film. It's well paced, moving along at an exciting clip, and injecting humor at the odd spot that catches you off guard. You realize it's far fetched but you enjoy it anyway.The acting is surprisingly good. Jones and Heche work very well with what they're given, as does Don Cheadle as Roarke's assistant, Emmitt. John Carroll Lynch gives an excellent performance as an arrogant know-it-all, who pays mightily for his attitude, but still shows nobility in the end. Gabby Hoffman does well as a spoiled girl who grows up fast under pressure. But perhaps the best characterization is the lava itself, which almost seems alive with menace.No, it's not an accurate - or even a good - film. But it is a heck of a lot of fun, and that almost makes up for it. "}{"Title":"wow!","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" we just studied volcanoes in science and i looked up a few movies about volcanoes. i thought this one looked especially cool. so when it was on TV i was like snap! i should watch it. and man, was it awesome! the lava looked real. the acting was good (tommy lee jones especially) and made the disaster believable. (MINOR SPOILERS) i liked how it turned out good in the end.the people in movie who died sacrificed their lives for the safety of others. people worked together dispite their differences. i liked that a lot. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"a disaster movie with brains","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jones is a dedicated OEM worker in downtown Los Angeles trying to both attend to his daughter and fulfill the commitments of his job after a series of earthquakes. After consulting with a geologist (Heche), he's given the unfortunate task of trying to prepare the city for an unprecedented volcanic eruption, despite the obvious absurdity of such a notion. Suspenseful, well-made disaster flick makes its unlikely premise plausible with smart, realistic situations, believable characters, impressive special effects, and more than enough fatal escapes. A rare disaster movie that actually cares as much about developing its story and characters as its special effects. *** "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Back in the late 90's there was a surge for the disaster genre of film. The idea of cities and people facing catastrophic circumstances showed its face again at the movies, mostly thanks to advancements in computer and special effects technology. We saw two volcano films, Dante's Peak and this film, Volcano. To be nice, Dante's Peak is Oscar material compared to this rubbish.Volcano does not even actually have a volcano, but rather the notion that the La Brea Tar Pits in California will erupt with lava. Oh, it happens. Sewer lids are blown sky high, and lava flows down the streets like traffic.Perhaps Volcano aimed from day one to be a B-movie. I am not quite sure, but either way it is a horrid film. Good old Tommy Lee Jones tries his best with a God-awful script, and still manages to feel professional. Anne Heche's role seems to be to simply state the obvious when it needs to be said.And the special effects, they are awful! The movie never for one instant feels real because of the horrible effects and weak acting. The lava looks like orange bubble gum. It is laughable. The movie even milks its very existence by trying to elicit emotion from the audience.A horribly dreadful film that I never plan on watching again.Grade D- "},{"Title":"Screen Sizzler","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Volcano impressed me. It's one of the few movies that I have that I can watch over and over again and not get tired of.Anne Heche and Tommy Lee Jones were spectacular. This is another film who's cast I have little argument with. Sometimes the acting got a bit cheesy, but I found myself getting attached to the film's many protagonists in their battle against one of the most destructive forces of nature.I will spare any readers of a senseless plot summary. That's why it's up on this server. The music was quite good, although had James Newton Howard composed it, that would have added several notches in its favor. What really got to me was the intensity and the grittiness of the action, the dazzling special effects, and once more, that loveable Hollywood trademark touch that we all love. Hey, it wasnt' entirely geologically correct, but that's not what people look for in movies...or at least I hope not. Because if that's what America's looking for, I suggest everyone turn on the ol' tube and watch some political debating. My score 4.4 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hollywood finds another way to destroy Los Angeles, this time with a volcano on Wilshire Boulevard.  Very good graphics and pretty good cast but in the end just another disaster film.  The script did show some imagination but alas just two many films like this have come out in the past few years.  Tommy Lee Jones always makes a movie worth seeing.  I rated this a 6. "},{"Title":"A little bit better than 'Dante's'","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When i first saw 'Volcano', I tell my father 'This is better than Dante's Peak.. a little bit.' And guess what he said 'You are right, son'. 9/10 for Mr. Jones, 8/10 for my lady Mrs. Heche, And Mr. Jackson, for you is 8,5/10. Ohh... by the way Mr.Jacson, can you just remake the Pompei tragedy. Let them know....  "},{"Title":"Good disaster film, but no masterpiece","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Volcano was the second film to open in 1997 after Dante's Peak to depicit a volcano eruption. It's good, but it quite can't top Dante's Peak. While Dante's Peak was more realistic with it's mountain setting, Volcano plays more like a fantasy. The volcano in this movie erupts in the middle of Los Angeles at the La Brea Tar Pits, which is no mountain. Tommy Lee Jones and Anne Heche are on hand as the head of OEM (Office of Emergency Management) and a scientist, respectably, dealing with a major disaster crisis that nobody thought was possible. Volcano is silly to be sure, but it's entertaining nevertheless. The special effects aren't as good as the effects in Dante's Peak, but they're far better than the fake effects displayed in the worst volcano movie of them all, When Time Ran Out.*** (out of four) "},{"Title":"Oh, please.","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hollywood, give it up already.  You can't expect people to be dumb enough to waste their time on plotless, pointless special effects bonanzas.  But, hollywood keeps on coming with more and more stupid special effects flicks. I saw the ad, and that was enough for me.  I was unlucky enough to catch this on HBO, though my sister told me it was a real laugh.  Good thing I didn't waste my money on this thing.  There is nothing to analyze or to commentate on this thing.  There is if you are a complete moron!  Also, this film takes implausibility to the extreme, including a scene in which a man jumps in lava, throws a man in his arms to safety, and screams as he slowly melts alive.  Ridiculous!  And cliches are many when the stereotypical characters include a firefighter, who is the lead hero, and Anne Heche, who is a brilliant scientist, who's hair still looks great even in a downpour of ashes.  Had enough?  Then I suggest you forget about this movie and find something more intelligible to do with your time, like staring at a wall. "},{"Title":"Must've seemed like a good idea at the time","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Must've sounded like a cool concept to someone.  A volcano erupts in L.A.!But think about it for a minute.  It can't turn into a thousand-foot-high monster, because then there would be no L.A. and no story.  So it has to just ooze lava all over one neighborhood, and the main characters have to divert the lava into a storm drain. A few humans are burned to death, but a dog escapes, of course.I understand the movie is filled with L.A. insider jokes, none of which I got. "},{"Title":"A timely warning","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watching this in the aftermath of Karina makes this film a very timely warning. I have been in a volcano eruption, and the scenes are very realistic, specially the ash falling on the cars. You have to wash your car all the time. It also shows you how quickly FEMA can react, if they want to. They were able to react in 20 minutes to build a major dam for the lava flow.Many people would think this could not happen, but then again these people same people did not imagine the effects of Katrina. Los Angeles is built on a very dangerous geological area. However, the authorities in California seem more equipped. Note how they were moving pictures out of the museum, and saving animals. They seemed incapable of this, when freeing Bagdhad. The animals were also given low priority in Katrina.Tommy Lee Jones is very convincing as a disaster manager, as are his team. When there is a disaster in California, the pieces all move quickly into place, like a symphony orchestra. The expertise for this film would have come from the State of California rescue services, the magnificent LAPD and LAFD, and possibly even from FEMA itself. If I were living in Los Angeles, I would be very confident of the authorities there, in the event of a disaster. "}{"Title":"I had low expectations...","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to say that i had low expectations, since these flicks seldom are good. But, what the heck, my brother started the film... and it was then i started to puke. No, but seriously how could anybody in this world like this film. It was disastrously worthless. Mortal kombat rocks in comparison. Everything was so DUMB. Like when this enormous hero of a fire-fighter was to help this guy in the sub-way, choosing to throw him to the others and taking his own life. I MEAN WHAT!! That was like the most pathetic scene ever made. And at the end Tommy is to save his daughter and a little boy by running something like 500 metres just to push her away... WHY THE HELL DIDN'T SHE JUST WALK THIS VERY METRE. The whole flick was purely based on making extreme-hero-scenes which were all incredibly silly. The sentimentality really flew in this film. How the heck could Tommy Lee-Jones ever star in this crap(i'm ashamed of him). Every actor was bad, even Tommy, but the worst acting of all goes to Anne Heeche. BOY, did she act over or what!!! The only reason i managed to see to the end was because i knew i could walk out of that room being able to say I HAVE SEEN THE WORST FILM EVER. And the tragic thing is that there are people who actually liked it(I share nothing with you, be so sure) "},{"Title":"Oh, Come on now...","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yeah I live and work in LA.This is not just a action/disaster ...filmLike When Billie Met Bobbie (ralph), this is an exercise in (feminist) Platforming... a person's tale of black and white working together through another hollywood mayhem genre... Give me a freaking break. All the melodrama of people ... oh, save me!...against a backdrop of an over-due los angeles natural disaster we see nothing but afro-americans ( you call them that in england?) and whites working together to save the wretched city from special effects magma.I need a geologist! says our ladwp hero. --dept. water and power--And here she comes!  Yes, you guessed it...a single, young, slim, white, attractive girl who, after wearing a fireproof suit immediately buttons down to show her cleavage and later spotlight her nipples.To say this abortion of a movie is watchable due to general special effects is understandable  Not the Pederson Museum!, but to refer to it in any sense of any reality is pure fantasy due to wishful thnking and pure hollywood recycled crap.My fav. movie?    El Nortemy 2 centsI need a geologist proclaims the ladwp hero.  "},{"Title":"complete and utter nonsense","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film really is one of the most awful pieces of rubbish I have ever had the misfortune to sit through. The storyline itself is weak, the all-American back-slapping nonsense throughout left me feeling drained. Why? I laughed out loud at some of the ridiculous almost farcial plot situations...a volcano in LA?...hmmm. Every great actor has the right to make a turkey...Tommy boy, that was yours! "},{"Title":"OK film with OK effects","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was first in the door opening day for this film. And, I got bothered sitting in front of the theater waiting to get in. Just my luck.Goes to show you, the theater this film opened in is NOW CLOSED.I went to see the film because I am a fan of Tommy's.Heche WE COULD DO WITHOUT!! The big problem here with this film is the script.Subpar, bad side stories.The effects were OK in 1997. Could have been better, but not the worst I have ever seen.Course, 9 years later as I write this, computer could have much improved them if the film was done now.I did not like, nor did we need, the side story with Tommy's character, the ex-wife & then the daughter.I am NOT a fan of Gaby Hoffmann. Then, her character, tough & know it all here but screaming when things got tough & she DID NOT support her dad when he had to do his job.A fair film. "},{"Title":"This sure is fantastic","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  But only in one way and that is like total fiction. OK I know as much about stopping Lava as the next guy, but the things they do here are just a bit too much. But there is one thing that this movie tells you if a volcano breaks out you'd better live near the sea or you'll be fu..ed. This film is overdone not exciting and well what else can I say. There are about two cool scenes in it. The first one is when the crack in the tunnel opens wide when Anne Heche is in it and the second one is in the subway tunnel, when the people are rescued (you'll know what scenes I mean). The only things worth looking at here are actually the effects and Heche (I think she's kind of cute).5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A no-brainer but with no pretense!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Adequate little piece of idiocy as downtown LA plays host to a volcano! Thats right folks, Mount Versuvius does Grauman's Chinese!  Ostensibly the simplest of FX needed - simply a modicum of re-colored mud and hey, we got lava!...pretty much a standard color-option within Microsoft Word! They do it well enough though, I gotta admit it LOOKS hot!Once you put aside the stupidity of it all, its quite a fun movie, one of the better time fillers. Certainly an improvement on the wannabe cerebral companion piece DANTE'S PEAK! Tommy Lee cuts a suitably hands-on emergency resource controller and Kelly Roarke does her career resume no harm as his daughter under siege from lava-bombs at a critical stage of proceedings. Undoubtedly the best scene is that in the wrecked subway as the red hot lava flows beneath the train...you can feel the heat!Anne Heche is well, the insufferable Anne Heche. How anyone can derive pleasure from watching this actress is beyond me. She is colder than Antarctica and emotes on a par with Daniel Radcliffe (Harry Potter). I mean to say, anyone with Van Sant's PSYCHO to her credit has to be a re-think!As an action-fest VOLCANO is as good as anything, like the lava, just let it flow! "},{"Title":"An updated B-movie with little else that's innovative.","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Can you say Box Office Disaster? As in what you've just seen in VOLCANO? I knew you would! A movie that gives us the works in special effects and a huge cast of firemen and police officers, it feeds on our appetites for a nonstop panic of disaster. All that's missing here is the plot, turning this grade-A visual feast into another ordinary B-movie. We pay the price for expensive graphics, and very little to keep us on the edge of our seats. Unlike TITANIC, this one is on maximum horsepower without showing any important aspects to the story. We see tons of people roaming around, gigantic explosions, a large pack of flying helicopters, tall buildings collapsing, close calls from death by an inch, and all the more. How about ripping off THE BLOB or other vintage sci-fi schlockers, for crying out loud? I don't see how a slow stream of crawling lava can make a movie exciting, and not even the helping hands can help prevent this masterpiece of eye candy from being another average effort. Nice try, but it just doesn't work. "},{"Title":"Actually pretty good !!!","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, I wanted to see this movie just because of Anne Heche but I wasn't expecting too much from it as there were some pretty bad reviews/comments. But now after I saw it I must say that it is really not that bad. I mean, after all this is an action movie! It wasn't the best movie I've ever seen and it's obvious that it didn't get many awards but for an action movie I think it's very good. The effects were great and everything looked so real. The story has a lot of fantasy in it but that is also an usual thing for action movies. The movie is very entertaining and I had a great time watching it. Anne Heche was as great as usual even tough the script doesn't give the actors much space to show their talents. If you wanna see her in a great part, watch Return To Paradise. Overall a good action movie, I rate it 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Erupting excitement.","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In LA, emergency manager Michael Roark (Tommy Lee Jones) and geologist Amy Barnes (Anne Heche) investigate an earthquake and then realized that it is a volcano forming in the city. Therefore, it is a race against time for Roark to stop the volcano from consuming all of LA.As with many disaster films, you have to suspend reality and use your imagination to enjoy some good sci-fi fun in this movie. There are some cheesy acting, courtesy of Heche, but Jones makes up for it. It is fun watching the protagonists attempt to carry out their mission to save the city and, while the plot and story are simple, the fast-paced momentum will give you some edge-of-your-seat excitement. There's also a good dose of drama and action that keeps the film interesting.So, it's not a realistic film or one to make you think seriously, but a good popcorn sci-fi flick for you just to sit back and enjoy.Grade B- "},{"Title":"You Maniacs! You blew it up!","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" VOLCANO is nothing but fun fun fun, seeing the city of my residence - Los Angeles, California - the city that has given me nothing but attitude attitude attitude being blown all to hell.Tommy Lee Jones is the head of the Department for Fixin' Stuff and Anne Heche is a geologist. In the face of a volcano eruption in the La Brea Tar Pits spewing lava and fireballs over the City of Smug Angels, both Jones and Heche can only run around a lot and bark orders at people on how to divert lava and avoid fireballs, while Don Cheadle sits in the Fixin' Stuff office somewhere, like he's in another movie, talking into a headset at Jones and doing his best Concerned Face. Yup, that's about it.As seamless special effects destruction rains down on the people who created seamless special effects destruction, a whole bunch of B-plots intertwine, with Keith David, John Corbett, Jacqueline Kim, John Carroll Lynch and others.Sexy profiling action as white cops handcuff a black protester, then release him when they have to move a concrete block to save lives - but the black protester stays, and his strength is the one extra man needed to move the concrete block! Oh, Screen writing Classes, thou cheeky mistress! VOLCANO would be the most fun for the people who live here - who recognize all the landmarks and cheer when the efx teams immolate them - from the La Brea Tar Pits to the Beverly Center, from Capitol Records to an Angelyne billboard.There is the flesh-crawling final scene after the tragedy has been averted and gray soot has settled over everyone and a small boy remarks, They all look the same! Racial Hypocrisy Message received, hypocrites.Is this really a disaster movie? I think people around the globe would agree, if a volcano blew up Los Angeles, the world would be a better place...--Review by Poffy The Cucumber (for Poffy's Movie Mania). "}{"Title":"B-movie feeling.","Date":"13 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" It completely feels like a B-movie but with a bigger budget. Sure, it doesn't have the spectacular f/x of Dante's Peak but on the positive side, it has a more believable plot.When I say believable, it's not because it's interesting, well crafted, or anything else; but because it is based on real natural causes.The dramatic sub-plot is what makes this really dull and does not have anything interesting even to put on the plot.The f/x are not that bad but are clearly done with less effort than in other popular disaster movies of the time.Just watch this if it airs on late, late cable or t.v. programming. Otherwise, stay away from it because it will bore the crap out of you.I had the chance to watch it on the theater and I regret about it. "},{"Title":"Oh sh*t! I'm outta here.","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was watching a comedian this morning and she was complaining about the long lines at Disneyland. She said that you should look for shorter lines; like at an Anne Heche movie. I am not sure that that is really fair, as Anne Heche was the best part of this movie.Yes, I am a Tommy Lee Jones fan, so I will waste time on his films. no matter how bad they are. This was probably the worst. And, just how many disaster films can you make before you start doing and saying the same things over and over.Besides Heche and Jones, there was Don Cheadle, who always does a great job.If you have nothing else to do... "},{"Title":"The Coast is TOAST!!","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" (r#25)Volcano starts out rather well with some passable lines by the great Tommy Lee Jones but quickly plunges into depths of dumb awfulness as soon as Anne Heche and the lava starts slipping across the screen. The script suddenly goes from watchable to idiotic, topped of with a pathetic P.C. ending where Standard Hollywood Kid Actor exclaims, looking doped, that they all look the same. He's unfortunately not referring to Hollywood botox stars but to the citizens of L.A. How beautiful and un-racist! The volcanic ash has made everyone black! Now there are no differences anymore! Hooray for the volcano! No, wait - wasn't the volcano supposed to be the bad guy? Whatever.Interestingly this B-movie starring A-actors (well, one A-actor) was directed by Mick Jackson, the same man who directed the cult comedy L.A. Story, which mysteriously aired on telly the very same night as Volcano. There is a slight difference between the two movies one sucks, one doesn't. Anyway, if you're ready for some forced character development, characters with the personality of soda cans and pseudo-science a lá Armageddon, give this one a chance. Definitely not quality film-making but it's watchable, especially in the beginning, and when it isn't spouting blunt-as-James anti-racist messages. "},{"Title":"More hot air than lava - 49%","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am slowly developing an intense dislike of disaster movies. By that, I don't mean movies that suck but movies depicting natural disasters on an epic and previously unseen scale. Garbage like The Day After Tomorrow, Titanic (three hours and you know how it ends... great...) and this, the second of two eerily released movies around the same time dealing with the same subject. Having already seen Dante's Peak and been thoroughly unimpressed with it, I was hoping that Tommy Lee Jones could succeed where Pierce Brosnan failed. Alas, no. Both actors are defeated by a combination of things - namely a torrent of special effects, a horribly predictable storyline and scenes that make no sense at all. Logic is the first casualty during this eruption.Jones plays LA's disaster manager Mike Roark who is desperate for some holiday time with his daughter Kelly (Gaby Hoffmann). Unfortunately, Mike picks the one day that a previously undetected volcano beneath the city decides to erupt. Easily suspending his disbelief (as we try to do the same), Mike gets Kelly to the hospital after she is burnt whilst co-ordinating the rescue of the city with the help of his deputy (Don Cheadle) back at the office and geologist Dr. Amy Barnes (Anne Heche) on the ground.Not really much to say, plot wise, apart for the glaring glossing over of truth and fact in pursuit of entertainment. For starters, nobody seems to smell any sulphur in the air despite the fact that liquid hot MAG-MA (sorry, had to be done for Dr Evil's sake!) is mere inches away. Plus, not only do you melt away like the Wicked Witch in Snow White if you were unlucky enough to fall into it but it also flows at entirely different speeds depending on its mood. Clearly, the producers had studied geology at the same high school as the producers of Dante's Peak. Therefore, cue lots of heroic leaps over lava, dogs in peril, brave people grimly sacrificing themselves for no reason at all and cynical nay-sayers who refuse to believe what's going to happen until it's too late. But then again, you probably knew that already without even seeing the film. All it needed was a car chase along Hollywood Boulevard between Jones' 4x4 and the lava and we'd have every volcano cliché wrapped up! The truth is, neither this nor Dante's Peak are worthy of your attention unless you wished to study how Hollywood often ignores basic laws of nature and history for its own ends. Whenever Jones does anything heroic, you end up with your head in your hands in disbelief at the nonsense parading on screen instead of cheering him on. When you throw in some ropey CGI and camera-work, dodgy acting and even dodgier logic then Volcano is never likely to light your fire. The whole thing leaves a nasty, bitter after-taste like sucking a wedge of lime dusted with salt. Volcano insults your intelligence far better than Anne Robinson ever could and quite frankly, you'd learn more about volcanoes watching Austin Powers than you could watching this. If I had to pick one volcano film to watch then Dante's Peak just about shades it. But please, never take that as a recommendation. "},{"Title":"Very suspenseful, nail-biting, and action-packed thrill ride","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In my opinion, VOLCANO is a very suspenseful, nail-biting, and action-packed thrill ride. I thought that Mike (Tommy Lee Jones) and Amy (Anne Heche) made a really good team, especially when they were working to save Los Angeles. A couple of things I liked about this film were the scenery and the work from everyone involved, especially Tommy Lee Jones and Anne Heche. Those things really made me feel good and smile. In conclusion, I highly recommend this very suspenseful, nail-biting, and action-packed thrill ride to all you Tommy Lee Jones or Anne Heche who have not seen it. When you see it, buckle up and hold on tight for a ride of pure thrills and laughs. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Volcano, directed by Mick Jackson, takes place in Los Angeles and involves a volcano forming at the La Brea Tar Pits. The movie begins with several earthquakes occurring and the deaths of some L.A. city workers in the city's sewage system from burns. Scientists warn local city officials about warning signs that they have observed, such as the warming of a lake by six degrees in a day, and that the occurrence of a volcanic event is inevitable, but the city officials are unwilling the believe the scientists. Lava bombs and lava begins to erupt from the La Brea Tar Pits and manhole covers fly off high into the air. The lava melts a fire truck that is in its path, and then threatens a section of Wilshire Boulevard, burning down stores and businesses. The lava is then dammed up using concrete barriers in an attempt to stop its movement. Fire trucks and helicopters spray and drop water on the lava to cool it and help cease further movement. The lava then finds a way through the sewer systems of L.A. and threatens other parts of town. A collapsed subway tunnel traps a subway car, and a rescue crew goes down to save the passengers caught in the subway car. A man saving the subway driver dies as the lava reaches the train but manages to save the driver. The scientists track the flow of the lava, and a demolitions team blows up a street making a ditch for the lava to flow into the Pacific Ocean. A new business building is also blow up by the team to force the flow of the lava into the ditch. The movie ends with the sun out and a light rain falling as the lava flows into the Pacific Ocean.Volcano has both good and bad qualities. The overall quality of the movie and the actors in it is good, but the storyline and a few of the lines in the movie are lacking. Overall, I would recommend anyone interested in action thriller movies to watch it. The movie is not racist in my opinion, although Mike Roark's secretary like character is a black man. The movie is definitely not homophobic though because of the presence of Anne Heche, a known lesbian, as an actor. The movie stereotypes the white cop showing harshness towards the black man. I personally enjoy watching Volcano because of the thrilling nature of the movie. Even though I know how the movie will end, I enjoy watching the actors fight the lava and its flow throughout Los Angeles. Overall, I believe that this movie is a decent movie and would recommend anyone to watch it. "},{"Title":"Attack of the Killer Liberals (spoilers ahead)","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This must be the most retarded disaster movie I have ever seen. But it's not even because of the basic idea, which might be geologically feasible but certainly isn't something many people worry about and, let's face it, a fair proportion of the American population would regard lava flowing down the streets of Los Angeles as a sure sign that God is listening to their prayers.However, the biggest problem is that from the moment the movie opens, the clichés and liberal heart-bleeding start coming thick and fast. We have the divorced Dad who needs to learn to spend time with his daughter rather than his job. We have the black sidekick who the Dad doesn't trust to handle emergencies. We have the interfering boss who the Dad refuses to talk to because he always knows best. We have the heroic Asian female doctor who won't leave her patients, even when her white boyfriend/husband/whatever tells her to. The female geologist who's going to save the city. The black guy who's arrested by the EVIL white cops because he won't stop demanding that they put out the fires on black peoples' houses, and eventually saves the day. The railway line manager who sacrifices himself to save a driver (who's black, of course). The soldier who won't leave his injured buddy, even though that means that both of them will die. The dog who magically escapes from the lava right at the last moment. The Dad who has to run through the middle of an explosion to save his daughter at the last moment because she's too stupid to run away herself.Most of all though, the young kid who comes out at the end and says something like 'with the ash on people's faces everyone looks alike'. Groan. How much more preachy can you get? Oh, and let's not forget the geologist woman who goes down into the drains after being told not to (being a 90s career woman and all, therefore unable to take any kind of advice from a man, no matter how well-intentioned), gets her female colleague killed (though I guess one could argue that standing over a hole in the ground full of lava is evolution in action), cries about it for ten seconds and then completely forgets about it for the rest of the movie.Still, look on the bright side some of the actual 'disaster' sequences are quite well done, and if you watch this movie, you'll never have to watch another disaster movie again since every cliché of the genre is stuffed into this one. It's a shame they couldn't have concentrated on the disaster and not on the groan-inducing liberal dogma. "},{"Title":"In most respects just another disaster movie.","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" After we have seen enough disaster movies we come to know the formula very well. Something really strange starts to happen, all those in authority immediately think it is a false alarm, one person in middle management however sees the light, a nerdy scientist type provides the data and analysis, by the time everyone realizes the disaster really is upon them it is too late to do much about it, a few people die, some innocent women and children are put in jeopardy, some man has to make a heroic move to save them, and in the end a small band, two to four, of the good guys smile when some of the disaster is averted and put under control. That's it, all disaster movies follow that formula.In 'Volcano' an Earthquake shifts plates enough that hot magma is headed for Los Angeles. It gets into the streets and into the underground tunnels, it finally is diverted via a series of properly placed explosions into the Pacific Ocean. There are some exciting scenes, like the one where lava is flowing and filling the street, a semicircle of concrete barriers, held in place by fire trucks, hold the lava and pumping water on it cools it down. Never mind that they made the semicircle in the wrong curvature for strength.Tommy Lee Jones is good as always, an actor I like to watch. As well as Don Cheadle, still one of our sorely under rated actors. But Anne Heche I just don't like, and I don't like her here. Overall a B disaster movie, with nothing much new. I watched it because that's what my neighbors were watching while I visited them. "},{"Title":"Not Bad, but Not Great (Possible Spoilers)","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watching this film I probably learned more about the geology of volcanoes than anything else, and re-enforced my own theory that living right near one would not be a good idea.  While their acting was good, I don't think the roles were that challenging for Tommy Lee Jones or Anne Heche.  The film based upon the trailers, would make you think this was going to be a movie of much more high drama and specific human interest that we tend to associate with fictional disaster movies, like The Poseidon Adventure, Towering Inferno, or The Day After (TV Mini-Series), but it never really evolved into that - either because the stories we're strong enough or because of the way the movie was produced.  This film is more like a well-timed chase film, except instead of bad guys we're chasing a lava flow through Los Angeles.  While interesting, I think they needed to either focus more on the human interest and scientific aspects of this catastrophe or on the problem-solving aspects.  It just seem like there was so much material in this movie that things ended up getting spread to thin.  Maybe it was done in an attempt to enhance people's understanding of what was going on in the movie, but I felt that things could have been more integrated so that information about people and science happened together somehow.The one thing I really found annoying about this movie was Mike Roark's (Jones) daughter, Kelly (Gaby Hoffman).  This character is the human embodiment of a deer in high beam headlights.  Not once, but twice does she almost get her father (Jones) killed during the movie, because she can't seem to move her feet in the face of imminent danger and death.  While I will agree that it is incomprehensible to the normal human mind to see lava running down a street in Los Angeles, I definitely don't think (and really hope) that most people would run away from the lava and not just stand there as its 10 feet away from them.Overall, I found the movie to be solid.  I haven't researched the scientific facts to see if they all agree with reality, but just using common sense and a little of the scientific knowledge I posses, I was able to find nothing unbelievable or illogical about what they were saying was happening, which to me is what made this movie slightly better than average.  If you see this movie you'll most likely enjoy it, but if you miss it you won't be hearing about it from everyone else except the diehards.  Its your call - to see or not to see. "},{"Title":"continuity","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So much heat,  so much exertion,  so much panic -why is no one sweating?! "}{"Title":"Not horrible movie if you loose the kids","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen this movie about a half dozen times now just stumbling on it on television.  I  would actually say this one is better than Dante's Peak, although both require you to  suspend any knowledge you have about volcanos.The problem with this one though is in any plot point involving kids.  Not that they're  bad actors, it's just that they've either got really bad lines that they have to say or are  involved in particularly unbelievable scenes.  The daughter's response of my dad to the  question of what beats lava? in a game of Rock Paper Scissors was particularly  annoying.  Every time I hear that line, I can't help groaning.  And Tommy Lee running  across half of Los Angeles to grab her and a little boy while a building is falling on them  also gets a roll of the eyes.  It's almost like the writers contracted out the writing of any  scene with a kid so they could focus on the action.Other than that, it isn't that bad of a disaster movie.  Especially if you compare it to  other films of that genre.  Tommy Lee again does his guy in charge barking orders and  getting dirty roll, and the supporting cast does a decent job.  It's enough to kill a night  when you've got nothing better to do, but don't expect anything more.  "},{"Title":"The other volcano movie of 1997.","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This volcano movie was released shortly after another volcano movie, Dante's Peak.  While that volcano movie is more believable and has the better story, this one is more action packed.  You don't have to wait till the end of the movie for the action to start this one is almost all action.  Though the volcano in this one is a lot less believable than the other one and the story isn't as good either.  Tommy Lee Jones is rather good in this one, but this movie does not delve to deeply into the characters as a wall of lava threatens to wipe out a good deal of Los Angeles.  Tommy Lee Jones as some sort of emergency director has to figure out a way to stop the lava and minimize the damage being caused.  Best to turn your brain off for this one and just enjoy the great action. "},{"Title":"Good and Bad","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, This movie seemed a lot scarier on the preview that I saw on Independence Day, but it wasn't as scary as I thought, which kind of let me down. I ordered it on PPV and recorded it because it didn't seem so bad to me. You can tell when people are acting good and this movie had good acting. As for everything else, most things made sense to me. Though I believe something like this could happen because of the opening fissure thing, you'd need a volcano first, and I don't think there are any volcanos under the tar pits which should hold the lava in well enough to keep it from erupting, but what do I know? Anyhoo, the lava effects were good, but didn't make sense. Most of the stuff it touched would have melted a lot faster anyway, like the k-rails for instance, the guy in the train would have already burned up, and Amy should have already been dead when she and Rachel were in the tunnel and the steam swallowed her up, because if the stuff killed the workers before, why wouldn't it kill her now. When I start to make my movies I'm gonna make stuff that makes sense. As far as good things go, the heart was good in this movie, but it should be considered more of a suspense than action. I give it a B, because it really isn't as bad as it looks. I wish people would stop critisizing too much, because these are movies, they don't need to be perfect, they're supposed to be exaggerated a little. It could have been done better. "},{"Title":"Could California's Big Bang come from a...volcano?","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Thought provoking fantasy. An Office of Emergency Management chief(Tommy Lee Jones)and an unstoppable geologist(Anne Heche)scramble to halt destruction of Los Angeles from a volcanic eruption. Kudos to the special and visual effects teams. Predictable, but still interesting. More than ample support fromDon Cheadle, Keith David, John Corbett and Gaby Hoffman. "},{"Title":"Volcano erupts in Los Angeles.","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has convincing ideas that really persuade viewers that natural disasters like this could really happen. It was a little funny when Stan jumped into the lava trying to rescue that sub-way guy. A good action movie, but Tommy Lee Jones daughter in the movie will get you annoyed. "},{"Title":" He's my responsibility","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tommy Lee Jones is incredible as Michael in this breathtaking suspense flick. The supporting cast is fascinating. The costumes are ravishing. One of the good farces in the genre, Volcano will light the viewer with flames. 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"this Comment is the best one that i ever typed in my life )","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this is the best movie ever made and Tommy Lee Jones is cool and he acted very well especially the scene where the Volcano first Erupted from the tarpit and the fire bombs shooting in the air and the Endless flow of the white-hot lava flowing down Wilshire boulevard is cool and i love the movie. "},{"Title":"Another Disastrous Disaster Flick.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Boring and really uninteresting disaster flick which stars Tommy Lee Jones and Anne Heche. The city of Los Angeles prepares for a volcano to strike and of course all the preparation in the world is not enough in this yawner. Think Earthquake except you have a Volcano striking. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Volcano...at times it's a beautiful movie!","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's a good movie (at times it's a beautiful film!), but Volcano have this problem 1. For as it's direct, it could be exchanged for a film destined to the television audience. 2. The special effect at times is very stupid (look 1). 3. The female actress (Anne Heche) interprets it's role bad, and she is the worse actor than all the cast. 4. The rest of the actors seem to recite for a television film (look 1), included Tommy Lee Jones.FINAL VOTE 6 (Good...for the television audience). "},{"Title":"Fun movie","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A waisted Tommy Lee Jones in the leadrole, he's too good for this kind of movies, the guy can act... A very bad female lead who's nowadays doing her time as a guest star in episodes of Ally Mcbeal and very decent FX. It's a big budget movie that's fun to watch, what  more do you want...? Ofcourse the sidesteps of racist cops and dumb ass daughters are something they could have left out of this movie but what the hell, flawed but fun!  "}{"Title":"Enjoy.......","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had a small role in Volcano as Engineer #1.     I am at a loss to explain the many derogatory comments on this film. The director, Mick Jackson, is a wonderfully sensitive person with one goal in mind....entertainment. My advice for those inclined to waste their time on vicious mean spirited critique?..........life is too short. Sit back, relax and enjoy. You ain't seen nothin' yet. HOWARD DUVALL  "},{"Title":"All right if it wasn't for the disgusting heroics","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is all right, fairly silly and to be taken lightly. But what I can't stand are the numerous heroes and that boy's ILLEGALY SENTIMENTAL comment near the end look, they all look the same. Isn't that by far passing the good taste standards? I thought it was revolting, as were the heroic, unselfish acts by some of the people in this film. I'm not saying it won't happen like that, but zooming in on all the bravery like that makes my stomach churn. "},{"Title":"Terrific!!","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What an under-appreciated movie, a lot of people said that the movie was unrealistic and stupid.Well,they're wrong.This film has suspense,action,laughs, and thrills.Who could ask for anything more?Much better than Dante's Peak by far.Terrific!!  10/10            "},{"Title":"Not seeing this in cinemas was a good move","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Volcano has better special effects and a stronger leading man than Dante's Peak, but that had a (comparatively) better script and a real volcano. And no Anne Heche either. The end credits are the most entertaining bit, featuring some of Alan Silvestri's striking score and Randy Newman's terrific I Love L.A. I Love This Song, but not the movie. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable, yet entertaining","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is actually really enjoyable when you suspend all disbelief and just go with the premise that 'it could happen'.  There are so many technical faults about this film, I would say mainly due to lack of research on  volcanos.  But if that is pushed aside, this film really works- in the same way that films like Independence Day, Godzilla, Armageddon and Twister work when you dont scrutinize the plot at all.  The special effects are top notch, and its enjoyable to see heaps of landmarks being blown up and destroyed by the lava.  Its a disaster movie so sit back, relax, put your brain on hold and enjoy.   "},{"Title":"Not bad for its type","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As I've said in my comments before, I am not a big fan of disaster movies, but if you have to see one, you could do a whole lot worse than this movie. It does have some of the trappings, like the gratuitous dog saving, and the message at the end where someone says everyone's faces look the same because of the soot almost made me puke.  But this is still entertaining. OK, volcanic ash erupting in LA is ridiculous, but there was enough science to make me suspend disbelief, and at the same time the movie wasn't too serious for its own good.I read somewhere the writer (Jerome Armstrong) came up with the idea when he heard someone say about LA, The OJ trials, riots, mudslides, earthquakes, fires, floods; what's next?  There is some of that, along with gallows humor (like the workers taking bets on the size of the earthquake), though I would have liked to see more of that and less cliche.  And there's no evil force to combat (besides the volcano), we just see the everyday bureaucracy people have to combat to get things done, even in emergencies.  Finally, it helps when you have a cast like Tommy Lee Jones, Anne Heche, and Don Cheadle around to make it work (and Keith David is solid in support).  Only Gaby Hoffman, who I normally like, isn't that good, but she's stuck in a thankless part.  All in all, not bad for its type. "},{"Title":"Suspension of disbelief go boom","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The scriptwriters, directors, and actors have lost sight of the cornerstone of a good story - the concept of suspension of disbelief. In Volcano, the concept goes up in smoke almost as quickly as the city. Contrary to earlier commentators, I much preferred Dantes Peak amongst the 97 vintage of volcano movies. "},{"Title":"Volcano Go Boom","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  And so does most of the plot in this movie that's basically a more expensive, up-to-date F/X version of Earthquake.  The focus is more on Tommy Lee Jones, but all the cliches are there.  The main character is a know-it-all maverick who is inevitably never wrong, the sorta-evil/indifferent boss gets killed, the dog lives, one of the leads has a cute kid that manages to get herself into danger, and people die in horrible, grisly ways.  There's a romantic pairing, but not much time for romance as inevitably the screen shakes and lava shoots forth.  Better than Dante's Peak, but not by a whole lot. "},{"Title":"better than Dante's Peak (which isn't saying much)","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Because the god-awful Dante's Peak did everything to me except make me vomit up every molecule in my stomach, Volcano was better. Only better. Otherwise, it was a disaster movie. Mick Jackson depicted the City of Angels to fine effect in LA Story, and this is a complete waste. Any vulcanologist knows that lava can burn you from five feet away; somehow it doesn't happen here. Tommy Lee Jones quickly redeemed himself by starring in Men in Black, while the other cast members eventually redeemed themselves. Mick Jackson, unfortunately, seems to have permanently ruined his reputation.But like I said, better than Dante's Peak. "},{"Title":"Once again I must buck the tide.","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I visited L.A. in 1982 and saw the La Brea tar pits. This film brought back that trip in a very special way. What people, in California in particular, don't want to admit is that this could really happen there. Seismically, the area of most of western California is at best unstable, and there have been many volcanoes along that whole coast line over the centuries. I found the film to be terrifyingly possible, and the story a good one. And, of course I have never seen Tommy Lee Jones in anything I didn't like. I wish I could say the same of Gabby Hoffman but frankly she puts me off. Anne Heche was excellent and Don Cheadle is also always fun to watch. Again, I say. Don't let these other bozos put you off this film. See it for yourself and decide. "}{"Title":"not sure what movies some people saw","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movies like other well thought out and based on what really could happen disaster movies is one of the best. Un like deep impact, meteor, deep core and other purely sci-fi, mainly on the fi part movies. this one is one is a what if movie, Some people say a volcano in CA impossible, well NY has earthquakes and (a for now) dormant volcano range. CA has a very very active seismic range, and the same range that causes earthquakes also is responsible for volcano's, One good point made in the movie is there is no history of anything until it happens. The day after tomorrow was knocked down because it showed a climate shift in weeks/days not years/centuries. well guess what there is geological evidence and biological evidence that supports both volcanoes in CA, and sudden ice-ages. so it is a truly a what if movie, and when will it happen movie. Not a movies to say yeah right it could never happen, but when will it, and will we really be ready for it even with our modern advances, mother nature still is the queen and she will do what she needs with or with out our consent. "},{"Title":"Could be Better","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Out of the two volcano movies of 1997,Dante's Peak was obviously better.Volcano has unrealistic scenes,too much cussing and swearing,and not all the best actors,but I've seen worse.cheesy-Movies are always on TV...The K-rail dam in the movie was VERY unrealistic.The K-rails would blow up if this was true.The guy melting to death wouldn't be screaming,he'd be dead.But,Volcano is still a pretty good movie. I give it a 9!Dante's Peak is still better... Bye NOW~ICEHUSKy "},{"Title":"What a disaster!!!","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I saw this movie, all I could think was What a disaster! No I'm not talking about the volcano, but about the movie itself. I have seen a lot of movies, but this is certainly one of the worst ever. I don't care about the fact if a volcano erupting underneath downtown L.A. is possible or not. Perhaps it isn't, but even than this could have been a good movie... but it sure isn't and I'll explain you why.I don't know how much lava flows out of an average volcano, but what I do know is that the volcano in this movie makes the Vesuvius, Etna and Mount Pinatubo together look like a little barbecue. I don't think there has ever been so much lava flowing out of a volcano as what we see in this film. I'm sure the director had a lot of money to spend on his movie, but I really wonder why he all spent it on the special effects and not on the script and the actors. I'm not saying that he should have hired a top cast, but this really is the opposite of what I would call good acting. Their performances are so unbelievably poor that it makes the entire movie even worse.And what's wrong about the script you probably ask yourself. Well, can you tell me who comes up with the idea of people standing a few yards or even a few feet from the lava without getting burned or having to hide for the heath? Or people sinking in the earth when the flow of lava isn't even two foot high? I'm sure I wouldn't be proud if I wrote such a script, but apparently there are script writers in Hollywood who don't mind about believability as long as it pays good money! VERY good money!!!When you see the movie, you'll probably agree with me that this is one of Hollywood's worst disaster movies, not worth more than a 3/10.  "},{"Title":"Explosive Drama","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Without question, movies can be educational and informative; a powerful medium, the cinema inherently encourages global communications and creates a common thread that binds the nations of the world together.  But lest we forget, the primary function of the motion picture is entertainment-- and one of the tried and true approaches to effecting that end successfully is taking a hypothetical situation and presenting it in story form by employing all of the talent and technology available that will make it as real as possible.  And when it's done right, it provides the audience with a memorable experience while affording a respite from the daily grind, which is exactly what `Volcano,' directed by Mick Jackson does.  it's a film that asks, `What if?' and then answers it's own question in a way that's exciting and purely entertaining.  It does call upon the audience to suspend disbelief, however, and there are those who will draw a haughty breath and laugh at the idea of a volcano erupting in Los Angeles and will refuse to give this story a chance; bear in mind, however, that it's these very same pseudo-intellectuals who, prior to May 18th, 1980, scoffed and disdainfully dismissed out-of-hand even the possibility that Mount St. Helens could erupt during our lifetime.  So, put it into that kind of perspective, if you can, then sit back and relax and let this movie do what it was meant to do  Entertain you.  And on a grand scale.Waiting for the `big one' to hit may be a way of life for those living in California, especially in cities like San Francisco and Los Angeles, but suddenly there's some pronounced seismic activity in the L.A. area, and when a crew of city workers are scalded to death while performing a task underground, it falls to Mike Roark (Tommy Lee Jones), who works for the city and whose job it is to know these things, to figure out what's going on.  Roark quickly secures the assistance of Dr. Amy Barnes (Anne Heche), a geologist, who uncovers evidence that a `geological event' is in progress, which means some decisions are going to have to be made by Roark, and fast.  Inexplicably, there are indications of volcanic activity in the downtown area, in the vicinity of the La Brea Tar Pits.  And Roark doesn't have time to plan ahead; in fact, he's already out of time-- the earth has decided it's time to make a move, and it's not asking permission.Working from a screenplay by Jerome Armstrong and Billy Ray that's about as good as it gets for a story like this, director Jackson tempers the action and the incredible F/X with the human element, and that gives this film some teeth.  Wisely, Jackson realizes that the audience has to relate to and care about the people involved, or his film will be nothing more than a huge Fourth of July fireworks display; and while it may be a good one, it's not enough to give his project legs.  So he takes care to maintain the kind of balance that insures his film will reach and appeal to a wide audience-- and he succeeds.  Depicting a cataclysmic event on screen is a challenge, and for it to work, Jackson has to keep it at least within the realm of possibility.  There are those who will embrace it more readily than others-- those who have experienced an earthquake, tornado, hurricane or some such devastating event; those who have not may find it harder to become involved with what's unfolding on the screen.  But rest assured, Jackson and his team have done everything humanly possible to make this viable entertainment for everyone.  In the end, the filmmakers have done a terrific job of it, and should be commended for maintaining a standard of quality, rather than using this as an opportunity to exploit an unsuspecting public by offering a product unworthy of support.  Jackson's conscientious approach is aided greatly by a cast of consummate professionals, all of whom do their part in maintaining the quality of the picture, beginning with Tommy Lee Jones, who has demonstrated in film after film that he is an actor who gives 110% every time.  Even in a bad film you will be hard put to find a performance by Jones that is not convincing.  In his case, it's obviously a combination of talent and work ethic; if his name is on the label, it's like a Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval-- you know you're getting a quality product, and his portrayal here of Roark is no exception.  Jones creates a character who is believable, playing Roark as the ordinary person in an extraordinary situation and making it entirely credible.  He immerses himself so totally in the role that he makes it look easy.  And when it looks that easy, it's not-- and you can take that to the bank.  It's a good job by Jones, and a big part of why this movie works so well.Anne Heche, too, gives a solid performance as Dr. Barnes, and like Jones makes the ordinary person in an extraordinary situation scenario believable.  And it's gratifying to see actors of this caliber going that extra mile to create this kind of realism, when it would be so easy for them just to walk or `camp' their way through a film like this, which, of course, would reduce it to a big-budget F/X extravaganza.  This is good work for which Heche (as well as Jones and the others involved here) will never get the kind of acclaim she deserves, however, inasmuch as this is a `genre' film and unworthy of any `artistic' consideration (or so the officious declare).The supporting cast includes Gaby Hoffman (Kelly), Don Cheadle (Emmit), Jacqueline Kim (Dr. Calder), John Carroll Lynch (Stan) and Keith David (Lieutenant Fox), all of whom contribute to the success of `Volcano,' a film that will make you think twice about possibilities, and the forces of nature.  7/10.                  "},{"Title":"Some Facts","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In response to the comment that said this movie was too fake, I have written a new comment.If only it were impossible.  If anyone were to read up on volcanoes, you would know that they can form anywhere that is ground zero for an earthquake.  Los Angeles has enough earthquakes to make this possible. And you can beat nature.  As they did in the movie, they did in Iceland some time ago.  They blocked the flow and cooled it down enough to form a crust so it would dam itself.This movie is quite possible, even though it is science fiction. The main reason I would never live anywhere that is less than 50 kilometers away from the border of a tectonic plate. PCommentsVolcano was a well made film, and although some people believe it to be an impossible scenario, it is quite possible, and in the event it does happen, I would not be the least bit surprised. "},{"Title":"A waste","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a real waste of time and effort. The film lacks plot and depth. The visuals are decent but nothing to write home about. There are far better films out there.  "},{"Title":"Los Angeles is already doomed...never mind the theatrics","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Uneven plateaus under the earth in Los Angeles have separated far enough for molten lava at the Earth's core to come erupting to the surface...of the La Brea Tar Pits? Volcano IS the pits, what with an Emergency Management director rushing around after his daughter and a female seismologist tossing off sarcastic witticisms as if she were one of Charlie's Angels (Anne Heche, being 'plucky', who gets to all the appropriate stops too quickly--and knows too much too fast--for us to take her seriously). It's nearly impossible to keep a straight-face watching a picture like this, basic as it is in its carnal desire to be a rousing death-fest. We see one nice guy with a nicotine problem go down in the fiery ooze (the look on his face asks, how horrified should I be?); we get heroics and wise-ass observations galore, but it all rings very hollow--as if everyone involved were in on a private joke. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Definitely a waste","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Had this movie been made with a low budget camp attitude, it wouldn't be so bad, but it made a great pretense and put a lot of time, money, and effort into this badly written movie which is title Volcano. I don't think this is a spoiler, so I'll say it. There is no volcano. There is lava. And it just sweeps along the city and eats everything in its path. The characters are all formula. In Hollywood tradition, any character who asks help from God gets killed. The movie is very heavy handed in a Rosicrucian ideal with which they bang you over the head with. Tommy Lee Jones, the so called actor who got outperformed by everyone in Lonesome Dove, and was even shown up by later actors who took the same role, does his usual stony face bit here. It's good that a real actor wasn't wasted in this role. You will predict everything, and as I said, it would work for a B movie, but you get the impression they put too much emphasis on making this more. Just a waste. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but completely lacking scientific fact","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a geology student this movie depicts the ignorance of Hollywood. In the scene where the dog grabs the bone from inside of the burning house, it is less then a foot from lava which has an average temperature of 1,750 degrees Fahrenheit. This stupidity is witnessed again when Stan goes to save subway 4. His shoes are melting to the floor of the subway while the rest of the team is standing just feet away from the flowing lava. And to finish off this monstrosity of a film, they come up with the most illogical solution, stopping a lava flow with cement K rails. Earlier in the film a reporters voice can be heard saying that nothing can stop the flow fire fighters have tried cars and CEMENT. Common sense dictates this film is a preposterous and gross understatement of human knowledge. "},{"Title":"I am not ashamed to love this movie.","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First and foremost I love disaster movies - not for the disaster but for the admittedly sappy message that man helping man is the ultimate goal. Volcano, for me, shows the dedication of the police, fire and EM departments of any city, state, country.  Since I'm writing this AFTER September 11, 2001 (which no one believed could happen either), the movie (which I am watching as I type) means even more.  Every time I see those firefighters with their hoses trained on the lava - and the ensuing helicopters, the goosebumps just rise to the occasion.  This is approximately the 10th time I've seen this movie (I also own it).  I don't care that so many don't like it.  I'm not at all embarrassed by the emotions this film wrings out of me.  Living so close to New York City I know people who lost people on 9/11/01.  There's nothing sappy about acknowledging the heroism we saw on 9/11 - and this film, ironically made before 9/11, is not ashamed to show it either.  Good for them.  Good for Tommy Lee. Good for Anne Heche.  And how sorry I am for those who watch this movie yet do not see. "}{"Title":"Somewhere, the spirit of Irwin Allen is smiling...","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Remember the disaster movies from the '70s? The makers of Volcano do! And they've made Irwin Allen proud.This film is a loving tribute and I can see by the other comments that some people didn't get the memo. Of course it's cheesy and unrealistic! Of course it's got all the clichés!! That's the whole point! And that's why I saw this in the theater and had lots of fun watching it on the big screen!Of course it's got a ton of TV coverage and live on the scene reporting! That's what L.A. is like! Now more than ever! Look at what's on TV these days! Reality shows, gossip shows, voyeurism galore!Take the film for what it is, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Volcano 1, viewers 0 ;  A real bomb!","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If there is ever another 50 Worst Movies book Volcano would certainly be in the running.  First of all, any elementary volcano fan would see all of the warning sign up to and including a near by pond boiling.  Gee whiz, that's a dead give away that something nasty is happening.  But never fear, the dummies at the site - conveniently located by the La Brea Tar Pits in Los Angeles - don't have a clue.  There is, of course, the obligatory subway that somehow runs in the part of the volcano.  Do you really think that those two female scientists have a clue when they go down to investigate?  No!  But of course one falls into a chasm and gets boiled alive.  Then there is the subway train - RTA management refuses to believe that there is a problem.  And, of course, there are people trapped on the car, which by the way, looks like a very cheap Lionel model.Finally we have Tommy Lee Jones who was far more convincing in The Fugitive who somehow has the ability to direct the lava flowing down the street by blocking the flow with a bunch of old buses.  I always knew that there would be a need for old buses!  He finally comes up with a plan to divert the flow of the lava by building a trench and blowing up a building where - by the way - his daughter is somehow stuck in it with the owner who is a villian.  Gosh, even Irwin Allen wouldn't stoop that low in his horror flicks.  Of course she gets saved and the lava flows on to the sea thru the sewers thanks to Tommy Lee Jones. Gosh, what a hero! In the end we have a panorama of beautiful downtown Los Angeles with the volcano - now called Mt. Wilshire - smoldering away on a large cinder cone.  It just shows that in L.A. you can do anything so long as it is on film.In this case it is a shame that the lava did not somehow flow in and destroy the studio where this bomb was made and hopefully destroy the film before it was foisted upon the public.If there was a star system this would be bomb.  "},{"Title":"This movie was such a disaster, you couldn't look away.","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"26 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is a disaster within a disaster film. It is full of great action scenes, which are only meaningful if you throw away all sense of reality. Let's see, word to the wise, lava burns you; steam burns you. You can't stand next to lava. Diverting a minor lava flow is difficult, let alone a significant one. Scares me to think that some might actually believe what they saw in this movie.Even worse is the significant amount of talent that went into making this film. I mean the acting is actually very good. The effects are above average. Hard to believe somebody read the scripts for this and allowed all this talent to be wasted. I guess my suggestion would be that if this movie is about to start on TV ... look away! It is like a train wreck it is so awful that once you know what is coming, you just have to watch. Look away and spend your time on more meaningful content. "},{"Title":"A film about dumb people and fires.","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When making a film called Volcano you might want to include a volcano in it -  not just a lot  (and I mean a lot!) of lava flowing around town. Then again, this isn't this film's biggest  problem. It wants to show the heroic act of some very brave people in a society where  everyone works together to make the world a better place. Instead, we get a bunch of really  dumb people doing their best to set themselves on fire.Favourite moment It takes volcano expert Anne Heche to explain to some shocked rescue  workers that it's actually (gasp!) lava flowing down the streets...The action of the film consists of lava setting fire to buildings, causing explosions, causing  more fires, and people having to get rescued from fires. Oh, and there's Tommy Lee Jones  shouting at people, trying to bring chaos into order. Not an easy task since nobody seems to  move away from the scolding lava until it's an inch away from them.Volcano fun fact Contrary to what you might think, running around fires and lava doesn't  necessarily make you sweaty (doesn't look good on film, I guess).The morale of the film is that people should help, and be nice to each other. It may be a  worthy cause but the script is so bad that you might think it was meant to be a comedy. The  effects are okay, but that cannot save the film.Least favourite character Jones whiny daughter - she looks like she's 17, but acts like she's  four. She even carries around a teddy bear...Another favourite moment Tommy Lee insists that his daughter is rushed to hospital with  some seriously injured fire fighters after she gets a burn mark the size of a coin on her leg.  With a grave voice he informs a co-worker about his daughter's condition She got burned...  Jeez...In short, stay away from this one unless you're looking for some unintentional laughs. 1/10 "},{"Title":"This movie could've been better. but it's uninteresting to the extreme.","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" VOLCANO apparently has it all Tommy Lee Jones, Anne Heche, sound effects, CGI, a history with great opportunities of action sequences, JUST IMAGINE L.A. COVERED WITH LAVA. It could've had great possibilities of being great, but it isn't. Why?1. - The movie tries to be better than Dante's Peak, but fails.2. - The story has nothing interest Tommy divorced lives with his daughter, and suddenly a Volcano burst from La Brea Tar Pits, and the city suffer from 500 am to 900 or so.3. - Most of the sequences are very unrealistic, and the lava looks really computerized and unreal.4. - The action sequences are nothing but explosions and fires, with no thrills at all. You just see houses on fire, lava on the streets, and some `lava bombs' which look really false. Ohh. and that stupid line `You don't do anything until you know where it's going to land'.5. - The way the movie tries to make you feel that all is actually happening, with all the news scenes. That's the worst thing of all a very unrealistic movie trying to be realistic, that does it.I think that if the producers would've think a little bit more, they could've have found a better script, and ask ILM to help them in the Visual Effects, and, PLEASE, give to Mr. Tommy Lee Jones a better character to work with, because Mike Roark and Dr. Amy Barnes characters have absolutely nothing interest, neither funny through all the movie.The only 2 things that I enjoyed from this movie were the music from Alan Silvestri, and the sound effects (by Skywalker Sound) that are pretty good.A 6/10 and I'm being considerate.  "},{"Title":"Disaster Strikes -- For the Audience!","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"   For any audience having to sit through this film, I feel pity. How the likes of Tommy Lee Jones ever came to this film is beyond me. I understand Anne Heche, but not Jones. The script is horrible, the special effects look like they came out of a video game, and the film is so predictable it makes one want to vomit. Much like Dante's Peak, Volcano isn't even campy fun. It's just plain NOT fun. This film could be one of Tommy's worst career decisions. Weak dialogue, bad effects, and a predictable story are not the only hinders in this disaster of a film.2/5 stars --John Ulmer "},{"Title":"How did they make it so boring?","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Considering the subject matter, I thought that this film would at least be enjoyable, if stopping somewhat short of a masterpiece.  I was wrong.  I was still waiting for something to happen and it finished - I thought that the finale was the bit that happened before it got exciting.  The only reason I gave it 2 instead of 1 is because the effects guys deserve some recognition. "},{"Title":"Hum... not the best","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw the trailer for this film before watching Titanic, and I must admit that it whetted my appetite. Volcano seemed to be quite spectacular and full of promise. But what a damp squib. Corny is not the word for the script, and the characterizations are often ludicrous. The stupid daughter is just beyond belief - she is supposed to be 13 not 4. But then the scientists,firemen and peripheral characters don't offer any more. This movie ranks just in front of Cruise II and Twister, but only because those 2 films are completely appalling. This does have some reasonable effects, but overall its a 1 out of 10. Don't waste your time  "},{"Title":"Even the Lava Should be Embarrassed","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Riotously cheesy lunacy about lava spewing from the La Brea tar pits in Los Angeles. Even if you attempt to suspend disbelief by ignoring this ludicrous premise, you'll still be howling with laughter at the inane dialog, nonsensical plot contrivances, and wildly reckless scientific plot holes that parade across the screen.I have a theory every successful actor is doomed to appear in at least one bad movie at some point in his/her career. This was Tommy Lee Jones's turn. Although he makes a decent effort, the script is just so pathetic even he goes down in flames (oops, sorry about that). Most of the supporting cast is also choked by the hackneyed writing; a few of the actors simply phone in their roles. Anne Heche deserves special Hall of Shame recognition for her awkward portrayal of a scientist. She is about as convincing in this role as Pee Wee Herman, and even he would have at least done a better acting job.Since the scientific plot holes are too numerous to list here, I would instead suggest that you screen the film with friends, and have a game of Find the scientific absurdities. The loser could be forced to listen to tapes of corny lines from the movie like Everybody looks the same over and over. Here's a sample of the kind of nonsense you can expect a scheme to blow up a building is devised, engineered, and the dynamite set and detonated all within a space of about 20 minutes. Let us not forget the obligatory disaster movie clichés divorced dads, scientists who get ignored by everybody, obnoxious cops, tough street kids, bratty teenagers, greedy investors etc.; all are present and in abundance. The film also bashes you over the head with a relentless barrage of political correctness.For fans of cheese and silliness only. All other viewers beware. "},{"Title":"Disturbingly realistic....","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" *MAY INCLUDE SPOILERS* Along with Deep Impact, Volcano was the greatest action movie of the 1990's. Tommy Lee Jones' and Anne Heche's acting is superb. It is realistic in that your life could be turned upside down in an instant. Most cities don't have to worry about a volcano liquidating them, but it could happen. There were heartwarming scenes throughout the film, particularly at the end when Mike, Kelly, and the little boy emerge from the rubble of the collapsed building. (I know in actuality they couldn't have survived, but use your imagination.) Then afterwards the little boys looks around at everyone caked in dirt and says,Look at their faces, they all look the same. This movie truly was an A+. "}{"Title":"Pathetic!","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know the kind of film where it derives its entertainment value from being picked apart for lack of realism, cheesy effects and awful dialog?  Well this is the best of its genre!  My family and I spent a wonderful 90 minutes disparaging its every move.  Unbelievable from start to finish, with really no positive aspects. "},{"Title":"I hate this movie","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't watch this movie.  In fact, don't even consider watching this movie to make fun of it because it is unspeakably bad and cliched.  I'll even take it a step further and say stop reading the comments of this movie.  Stop what you are doing, and switch to American Beauty or The Godfather's webpage. Why are you still here reading this, just go!!! "},{"Title":"Shockingly Cliché","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A horrible mish mash of predictable story lines and toe-bendingly poor delivered PC clichés ad nauseam (races working together, the heroine being smart as well pretty, a guy sacrificing himself to save another life, a father/daughter relationship etc etc etc). The movie looks like something created for network television and should have probably stayed there. Even the gifted Tommy Lee Jones does not manage to salvage this BOMB. I urge you not to waste money or time on this cinematic ruin from the time when disaster-movies roamed Hollywood.The two stars are given solely to the CGI-people and the PR-peoples' ability to get even one movie-goer to sit through it. "},{"Title":"Typical Hollywood.  Not realistic at all.","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a college student, and I had to watch this movie for a Volcanology class that I am taking. The purpose was to see how accurate the movie was. The volcanic activity that happened in the movie would never actually happen in real life, especially for the reason that they explained in the movie. Los Angeles is on a transform plate boundary, which means that no volcanic activity will happen. Volcanic activity can only result from convergent boundaries, divergent boundaries, or from a hot spot. From a movie standpoint, I thought that the movie was somewhat cheesy and predictable. At one point, one of my classmates predicted what the daughter was going to say before she even said it. "},{"Title":"There are no volcanoes in Los Angeles","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie and I thought this is a stupid movie. What is even more stupid is that who had thought an idea that there should be a volcano in Los Angeles? The fact is that there are no volcanoes in Los Angeles. This movie should not be filmed in Los Angeles, it should be filmed in Honolulu Hawaii. Hawaii has volcanoes which is a real fact that this movie should be made in Hawaii's state capital. This movie should be filmed in Hawaii because this is the real idea and not in Los Angeles. There are earthquakes in Los Angeles, but there are no volcanoes. To be honest with you, this is unbelievable nonsense and very foolish. In conclusion, I will not bother with this movie because a volcano in Los Angeles is nothing but nonsense. "},{"Title":"I just had to say......","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" the movie was wack.....Tommy Lee Jones must have been paid A lot of money to do this film! But what really pisses me off is the daughter Kelly! She is the typical movie dimwit! She constantly stand right in the path of destruction waiting for someone to save her. If Tommy Lee wasn't her father she would have died early in this film instead we have to repeatedly suffer through her inaneness. Filmmakers....don't DO THIS TO US! IT's insulting! The one thing I did enjoy about this film was the fact that people actually died and that not all were saved.....now had his daughter Kelly kicked the bucket that would have made the movie that much more enjoyable! "},{"Title":"A volcano? In L.A.? O.K.","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hmm, I'm not really sure what to say about Volcano. On some parts, it's a good movie. But on others, it's a little strange and annoying. I think in some way it was trying to be the next Twister. The effects are good. They did do a great job on making the volcano destruction as realistic as possible. I also enjoyed the way they explained how the volcano was there.The acting? Pretty average. Tommy Lee Jones is a great actor, but I think he wasted a little bit on the movie. The plot over all was OK. Not something I'd call the movie of the year. So, that all adds up to5/10 "},{"Title":"At least I suffered through this alone on a cable viewing","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The script writing was sophmoric and the things the characters did and the way they acted made no sense.  Tommy Lee must have been desperate for cash, although this was before some of his better known work. Anne Heche is ok. Tommy Lee's daughter who is supposed to need a baby sitter at age 13 (ridiculous) looks like she is 16 and then goes on to be a baby sitter later in the film.  "},{"Title":"Too much fantasy","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is really too much for the SF movies. A volcano in the middle of LA, impossible! I think that directors should try to stop making movies like that. Nobody can beat nature, it doesn't make any sense. I really didn't like this movie. I'm very sorry that such good actor like Tommy Lee Jones had to act in it. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good but can I please get some wine with the Cheese","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK I can buy Volcano in LA, why not California is on an active fault with plenty of geo thermal activity, I was born there I know, plenty of volcanic activity. LA doomed by a Volcano seems almost a fitting end. The last time I watched it I got out a bell to ring every time the cheese hit the fan. trouble was the neighbours thought a fire alarm had been going off for 90 minutes. Character assaults who do we blame the writer or director. First lets start with the spoilt idiot daughter, lava about 4000 degrees lands on a mini skirt and she gets lightly singed. The worst line TV or movie history ever rock, paper, scissors, Lava - What beats Lava?  My Dad The Doctor loves all humanity but her greedy land developer husband hates everyone. Why is this back story even in the movie. The city disaster worker chewing nicotine gum while wearing 6 nicotine patches but still craving just one sweet lung full of smoke. Dude if you love it that much why quit.The train driver who is unaffected by heat so high it breaks glass and melts fibre glass. The the cheapest shot of all is the tug at our heart stings for the racial inequality for an inner city kid from a member of the LAPD. Why is this sub plot ever needed? It is so incredibly bad it is fun to watch if you make a game of spot the cheese. Break out the crackers open several bottles of wine invite some friends round and have a laugh. This movie would be great if they only got rid of the actors, Director and the writer. Tommy? what were you thinking man? From about a Nanon second into this insult to even the lowest intellect right through the ever predictable save the world end. Here is the sad thing I would sit through it again just to find new ways to be insulted. Worst movie ever made? Maybe I haven't seen Gili! "}{"Title":"An Eruption of Junk (contains major spoilers)","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have recently seen this film on TV, and I would have to put it under my Worst Movies Ever category.This volcano erupts in LA--right down town--and really no one knows it's a volcano until it acutally erupts. It's suddenly snowing ash particles (but where's the source? No one knows), and then--out of the blue--lava comes spuing from the pit that is suddenly the opening of the volcano. Nobody knows what to do, so firemen come in and spray the lava with water (in reality, the water would have instantly vaporized when it touches the hot lava). More lava comes out. They still haven't evacuated the town yet (in real life, they would have evacuated way before it even began to snow ash). One thing leads to another, more people die, cars float in the molten lava without really exploding at any time (hello! There's a gas tank in there somewhere!), a guy dramatically dies from falling in the lava in the subway (he should have dies instantly from shock), and in the end, they decide to blow up a building to direct the lava flow into the sea. In the process of the building collapsing, the rubble falls on the lead character, played by Tommy Lee Jones. Is he alright? Of course he is! And he wasn't harmed at all!In Volcano, there are special effects up the wazoo. If you like that sort of thing, I suggest you watch this film. If you prefer a plot that makes sense, then rent something else. "},{"Title":"Why Why Why?","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this again the other night and had forgotten how BAD films can be,This movie would have to have the worst direction EVER!!the ending makes me want to (*&%^%$#)scream!! What the hell was the director smoking that would make him think that we would believe anyone would wait for a building to fall on them?Lucky for us Tommy Lee can out run a building and manage to save the day.WOW what luck. Mick Jackson should give up as he has no idea. 2/10 Ps- LA story was great, so what has happened. "},{"Title":"1/5 stars","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Year 1997Run time 1 hr 45 minRating PG-13Director Mick JacksonTommy Lee Jones; Anne Heche; Gaby Hoffmann; Don Cheadle; Jacqueline Kim; Keith DavidWhen a newly formed volcano erupts in downtown Los Angeles, it's up to Tommy Lee Jones and Anne Heche to do what they can and save the day....And that's about it. Volcano is very much a by-the-numbers disaster flick, with cardboard characters, a very unconvincing story and, especially, lame special effects. If you want to see a good volcano movie, then watch Dante's Peak, which I believe came out at around the same time. Only watch this movie if you like tedious disaster flicks. "},{"Title":"volcano","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why anybody would be stupid enough to live close to a volcano is beyond me. I personally like Dante's Peak better. It's a beautiful setting and they didn't wine as much. Don't get me wrong, I liked this movie.  It's to bad they had to have that dyke Ann H. She really gets on my nerves. At least the special effects in this movie is good. everything looked so real to me. "},{"Title":"waste of time","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Boring is what this one was. All that happened was a bunch of lava rolled down the street, and the good guys re-routed it into the ocean. As this was happening Tommy Lee Jones ran around screaming orders and whining about his silly little daughter. I knew what was going to happen at every turn. What a predictable, dull mess.  "},{"Title":"Felt sorry for Anne Heche","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" She was really trying to be convincing--the only part in this film that tried to convey something akin to pleasant. Tommy Lee needed to be put on life support, the daughter muzzled and the Tommy Lee's colleague back at the office was just rang stereotypical. There was an unpleasant racist aspect to this film that I'm surprised the NAACP didn't give complain on, I speak particularly of the cop interacting with the people in the neighborhood. Through realistic to have that occurring during such a time of stress BUT the man he was targeting in particular TAKING THE GUFF--PLEASE! Finally, I'm not one to notice background details but I had to after Anne screeches of the destructive power of the lava--This thing will destroy everything it touches (paraphrase)--but yet, it touches the palm trees and nothing--Are the Palm trees rocks? My sister wanted to walk out at one point, I convinced her to stay so we can laugh at it. And I did, this film is among the suckiest I've ever seen. Ever. If it existed on this system, I'd give it a -10 "},{"Title":"I would rather sit through Gigli than this tripe","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like, oh my god! this is sooo awful!Ugh.  What a terrible vehicle tailor-made for the post-fugitive Jones. Shots of him in charge of whole troops of officers, barking orders. Shots of him seeing a kid at the last second wander towards the lava, shots of him outrunning the demolitions/explosions going off to get to the kid, shots of people searching for them fearing that they are dead, shots of people all covered in ashe, not even mulling around, but just standing there (these are emergency-type folks), shots of the friends pulling up in a car to their exact spot all clean and with the family dog.  The immediate cutting to a news anchor proclaiming that the volcano has immediately and miracously gone dead (according to satellite shots), just after they managed to redirect the lava flow to the sewers (well, LA River). The so so so lame music that tries to be so moving that it exacerbates it's own ridiculouness by being placed in a B disaster movie (as in, it belongs in something in Glory, not in this).Soo, soooo, soooo bad.  The director is simply terrible.  Yes the script is bad, shoot, the concept is weak, but almost no disaster script is ever good. The fact is that the director had no originality, had no idea what he was doing, and did it for the cash.  Don't beleive me?  Let me give you a little lesson. Hate it or not, Hollywood executives know what they are doing. They may be a little conservative and sometimes not give people a chance, but when they do, they learn from their mistakes.  This guy has not been given anything since then.  some TV movies (which is what he did before...)  LA Story is tepid directing (only Steve Martin, and the SCRIPT are any good), and the Bodyguard, well, actually his directing there is much much better...but the movie only did well because of whitney and the soundtrack, and everyone in the biz knew that).The script, urgh.  Anne Heche's career died, not just because of her stupid high profile publicity seeking hijinks (i hope all other clients of Heche's managers and publicist fired them for their ineptitude) but because she is not really a good actress, and not really a liable woman.  Jones, well Jones is simply a character actor, who over acts.  Nothing more.  It's fine when he has small parts - Fugitive, The Client, Space Cowboys.  As a lead, god, he greats on you and everyone - comeone, US Marshalls everyone?  As two face in Batman Forever?  Rules of Engagement, Natural Born Killers? Over actors Anonymous need to step in here.Ugh, I actually bothered to rent Gigli to see how bad it was.  it wasn't it was simply boring to a point that i couldn't care about the story and started emailing.  But it wasn't bad (and that gobble gobble line, you have to watch how she says it, not a memorable line, but i wouldn't have have it was an insipid line if it wasn't so talked about in the media (it's about cunnilingus))later. "},{"Title":"Volcano","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's a history of same themed films competing against each other the same year, these include computer animated bug movies A Bug's Life and Antz, and meteor movies Deep Impact and Armageddon, this is when the volcano movies went against each other in 1997, here against Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton in Dante's Peak, from director Mick Jackson (The Bodyguard). Basically life in the city Los Angeles is going on as normal with nice sunshine and business as usual, but then strange things start happening, starting with a minor earthquake, lake water heating dramatically and city workers burned severely underground. Head of the city's Office of Emergency Management, Mike Roark (Tommy Lee Jones) is called in to investigate the strange events, but geologist Dr. Amy Barnes (Anne Heche) is the expert who explain possibilities of what is going on, as America is on tectonic plates and when these open lava erupts out, it might be a volcano. Soon enough this theory come true when a larger earthquake happens, the La Brea Tar Pits explode and ash starts falling from the sky, then large lava bombs shoot all over the place, and then of course the flow of lava spill onto the street. All over the city the volcano eruption causes chaos, Mike's daughter Kelly (Gaby Hoffmann) gets burned meaning her and hundreds of others need hospital treatment, a subway train crashes, and many buildings and houses go up in flames. On the phone Mike arranges with his right hand man Emit Reese (Don Cheadle) and the Emergency team to send helicopters containing gallons of water, as the plan is to barricade the lava and soak it to dry it out. But there is one more bigger eruption, and Mike, Amy and everyone make another plan to divert the lava with a large heavy weight building does work in the end, ending the volcano threat at last. Also starring Jacqueline Kim as Dr. Jaye Calder, Keith David as Police Lieutenant Ed Fox, John Corbett as Norman Calder, Michael Rispoli as Gator Harris, John Carroll Lynch as Stan Olber, Marcello Thedford as Kevin, Laurie Lathem as Rachel and Bert Kramer as L.A. Fire Chief. Jones and Heche obviously give the necessary performances needed to keep things flowing, but the real star is the volcano of the title, or more accurately the lava, as it travels through the street melting building cars, fire engines, buses and a man, and we get some near miss moments jumping and hovering over it, all with big explosions, Dante's Peak is much more realistic, but this is a likable disaster thriller. Good! "}]