[{"Title":"A revolution in the world of animation","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"104 out of 131 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I remember a year ago when I went to see this movie. I think of that day as a turning point in my life in how I view animation.I am surprised I have not written a review for this movie. After reading through every single bad review by every paid critic on the planet and watching this movie fail because of it (taking Fox Animation with it), I have decided it was about time I added my insight into the pile. Kind of late, but bear with me. I know more now than I did then.First off, the storyline isn't what the critics have brainwashed you into thinking. If you are a sci-fi fan, I guess it is easier to grasp. In the wide world of science fiction, this movie seems to have struggled to find originality and found enough of it. Set 1000 years into the future, Humans have discovered an extremely advanced technology which drives a race of almost indestructible aliens to destroy Earth in it's entirety. A teenage boy is left with the power to find the key to bring humanity back before it is killed off forever. When I saw this movie, I had a breath of relief. Finally humanity isn't the all-powerful! The movie puts humanity in the act of a downtrodden, confused, holding-on race manipulated and shunned by other races. The emotion I felt from the story in this film and the characters in it is extraordinary.The animation by far is a turning point in the world of animated features. From the start, you can tell the animation is exceptional. Extra time was taken to make the characters lifelike, as well as the environments they are in, the coordinating of colors, and even the shadows from a tree on the character's faces. It's unbelievable. And the 2D animation mixes so well with the 3D animation - it just adds to the thrill of the movie. The scenes in the movie are exceptional - from the ice rings scene with the reflections to the wake angels scene in space.The characters are just portrayed so well, like I said. The actors doing the voice-overs put so much emotion into what the characters actually felt, and the characters portrayed it well. There is a nice variety of characters as well, all the way down to the comic relief of Gune and the angry kangaroo-like alien, Stith.Overall, this movie just blew me away. I couldn't think for days. The animation, the story, the characters - all of it. And I have gotten others to see this movie, and they agree on it. So next time you are in the video store, not sure what to rent, think about this movie. I guarantee it is in stock and it will change the way you see animation forever. "},{"Title":"One of the best sci-fi animation ever made. Totally underrated by all!","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"90 out of 112 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This film (To be blunt) is one of the greatest animated sci-fi films ever made. The story is a blast, as are the characters and the visuals are stunning. Unfortunately the movie was highly underrated by critics (But what do they know). Any science fiction fan with half a brain can see this is an intriguing story, and one that the cast is totally committed to. Indeed the actors put on such a excellent performance that you can believe in their plight and really feel for them. Overall this movie is easily able to hold it's own against masterpieces such as Starchaser The legend of Orin, Fire & ice and other films in the animated sci-fi/fantasy genre. "},{"Title":"Story doesn't matter - What a journey!","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"82 out of 101 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After reading a number of negative reviews of this film, I went ahead and bought the DVD.  I had read that, although the movie was mediocre, it was the kind of film that's great for showing off your DVD player.I am thrilled to own this movie.True enough, the story is cliched.  Yet I didn't think about it for a second while I watched the film unfold.  I was completely caught up in everything I saw on the screen.  If it was a slow scene, I just gazed at the beautiful eye candy.  And during the incredibly inventive action scenes, I was surprised to find myself at the edge of my seat.There are some who say that the mix of 3d and traditional 2d animation didn't work.  I couldn't disagree more.  There are times when the two styles were a glaring contrast.  Yet, as the movie progressed, the two became as one to my eyes.  I have no problem calling this a revolutionary step forward in animation.I loved A Bug's Life and Toy Story.  But this trip, in my eyes blew those films away.Finally, though I wouldn't consider this film 'adult' by any means, the slighter darker tone made it much more accessible as an adult viewer.  Every year I sigh when I see a preview for another assembly line Disney film. (Hey, let's dumb down the gothic horror 'The Hunchback of Notre Dame' and give him cute sidekicks!) The look of Disney films hasn't changed in years. (If anything, they look more simple)  This film, as cliched as the story was, was visually inspired.The original Fantasia needed no story.  It was an appreciation of music and animation.  Let this be the new Fantasia.  If you want to experience breathtaking and beautiful animation, I couldn't recommend this any more. "},{"Title":"Don't dis this movie!","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"46 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The first time I saw this I was 13 or 14. I saw it in a theatre with some friends. Most of em didn't really seem impressed but I really thought it rocked. I really like Cale's character. He seemed to click as a normal guy you wouldn't mind being identified with. And that Goon character was just fantastic. I really liked the scene with the giant ice crystals, and the sound effects during that scene were awesome. And I noticed this movie had a lot of Starwars references, but who cares. Didn't bother me in the least---in fact I like that kind of thing.I was sort of disappointed at how this one just sort of dried up and blew away (I don't even think it played a whole week at the theatre). Luckily a friend, knowing I liked this movie, gave me a DVD he'd bought and no longer wanted. So, again, I watched and enjoyed this unappreciated great creation. Somehow it seemed even better now.As usual, I'll leave all the technical discussions to other reviewers (of which there are a multitude). I try to review on an entertainment level only...yeah, I suppose I'm the shallow guy who only sees what's right up front.Anyhow, if you care a whit about sci-fi, don't miss this one even if it is animated. It doesn't really have that anime feel to it. So if you're turned off by anime, check this one out anyway.BTW, this movie is great for family viewing. "},{"Title":"A truly breathtaking space epic!","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"47 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This can be a true revolutionary of all the animated films with its real eye-stunning graphics, a very imaginative sci-fi setting, more realistic-looking characters, and plenty of real action and yes, even some blood-spilling violence.After years of churning out shots of sparkly-starry fantasy like Rock-A-Doodle-Doo, We're Back A Dinosaur's Story, and Troll In The Central Park, Don Bluth's crew finally comes up with a very gritty, mature science fiction story all about humans being hunted down by the evil aliens who are out to destroy the planet Earth altogether. So a very brave young engineer grimly launched an enormous project that his little son was to carry on when he finally grew up. But it just wouldn't be a very easy path for the young hero to accomplish this great feat that would give a long ray of hope to all the innocent humans hiding out in the outer space. But with the help of a very spunky young female co-pilot, a group of bickering aliens, and a hardened space veteran, he just might...even with all those dread monsters hot on his very tail!Beautifully made, this sweeping space odyssey really takes GIGANTIC steps to break from all the traditional aspects of an animated film to introduce mouth-droppingly MAGNIFICENT visions of the distant future as well as a more adult approach to storytelling and animation, so it may take awhile for the casual viewer to get used to it...and one day truly appreciate the great changes that is taking place in the whole animation industry.  "},{"Title":"Great movie, Great story, Great visuals. This movie is underrated","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"48 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Titan A.E is a story set in a post-earth era (hence the A.E after earth, which i thought was a nice touch). Its about the son of a scientist who is thrust upon him the quest of finding the Titan, the greatest ship ever built, and is humanity's last chance.The movie begins with an awesome scene of the evacuation of earth, and caught me nicely off guard with some great 3D rendering of the Titan (when launched), and the escape ships. The imagination that went into some scenes in the movie, especially the cruising alongside the wake angels, and the ice rinks were fantastic. And the plot, though a bit unrealistic in terms of modern science, was thoroughly refreshing in concept. And its got just the right balance of action to move it quickly from a kids film to a good sci-fi show for slightly older audiences.Titan A.E is a great film. It has a story that's original and neatly executed. It brought about some great 3D rendering in a time where animation was primarily 2D. Its got good character development with a nice twist in the middle. And its also got a fine soundtrack, which I love to listen to.Go watch this movie. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"36 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Filled with spectacular visions of other worlds, Titan A.E. brings us into the 31st century and  into a whole new level of science fiction.  The story is pretty simple, a race called the Drej feel  the human race is a threat so they decide to destroy us.  The only hope for the survival of the  human species is a ship called the Titan.  Only trouble is, no one knows where it is.  The answer  lays with Cale, the son of the inventor of Titan.  Once Cale realizes what he's in for, we're off  on an intergalactic roller coaster ride.  We get chases in swamps filled with hydrogen trees and  an imaginative hide and seek game in a field of ice crystals.  Traditional hand drawn characters  are blended in with amazing CGI renderings of planets, ships, and the vast emptiness of space  with very good results.  Sure there may be some clunker lines here and there but Titan A.E.  gives fans of sci-fi what they want.  Well worth the price of admission "},{"Title":"Visually Stimulating; entertains children and adults alike. *** (out of four)","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"31 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  TITAN A. E. / (2000) *** (out of four)Titan A.E. is like a giant looming over movie animation landscape; it is one of the most visually bracing family fantasy adventures to come down the pike in years. The film's animation is wonderfully spectacular, visually enticing and entirely convincing. Directors Don Bluth and Gary Goldman enthrall the audience with a sweeping sense of atmosphere and action. This is the kind of cartoon that is mature to the level in which the characters and set designs could have been replaced with live action filmmaking without changing the movie's perspective. The production takes place twenty-eight years after the third millennium. Planet Earth has been demolished by a cruel species called the Drej, who fear the potential intelligence of the human race. Cale (voiced by Matt Damon) is a young man working as a space dump attendant who believes his father abandoned him when he was a child. Cale doesn't know it yet, but he holds the key to the survival of the human race with a genetically coded map on his hand showing the course to the hidden position of a special spacecraft called the Titan.Cale meets a young woman named Akima (voiced by Drew Barrymore), who cherishes conventional memorabilia of her late planet. She and her captain, Korso (voiced by Bill Pullman), and the navigator, Gune (John Leguizamo), set out to locate the vital Titan before the evil Drej can exterminate it along with mankind's future hope of existence. Instead of our traditional, well-developed bad guy that posses serious threats to the protagonist's mission, in Titan A.E. we receive something of a different sort an underwritten alien race whose motives and backgrounds are unclear and undeveloped. The movie seems to know of this, however, therefore the film wisely switches villains in the second act. The story provides an interesting twist that supplies us with solid and comprehendible antagonism. 	This movie's plot feels somewhat pieced together from previous science fiction fantasies like Star Trek, Star Wars, and Lost in Space. John Whedon, Ben Edlund, and John August vividly detail a story that moves along steadily, but occasionally stalls to build momentum for the character's purpose for achieving goals. There is a scene on a spaceship holding Cale in captivity that feels trite and dual, but the film quickly rejuvenates itself with an exhilarating chase sequence. The film's plot would have been more involving if we knew more about the characters. They seem pretty interesting but we never really get to know them because the filmmakers were more concerned with special effects, a common misconception both animated and live action films.	This production is engaging and well animated; Titan After Earth is smart to jolt a appropriate about of energy into its action scenes and contains sufficient amounts of style and wit to satisfy younger audiences as well to hold the attention of the older, more sophisticated viewers. It is not every day a cartoon is able to do that.  "},{"Title":"Boilerplate story but good characters and incredible visuals","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"30 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The storyline of TITAN A.E. follows standard mythical canon unlikely youthful hero from the boondocks is forced to follow his destiny and struggle against overwhelming odds to save his people. No surprises there, to be sure, but God is in the details, and the details is where this film excels. I can't say enough good about the animation and visual artistry--it's the best ever. Hopefully this will raise the bar for animated feature films. After forty-odd years, I have had enough of the formulaic Disney approach.I would also give TITAN A.E. high marks for acting and for the musical selections in the soundtrack. This film should make a great addition to any enthusiast's DVD library.I agree that the plot is rather holey, but I was so busy enjoying the film that I didn't notice at the time. "},{"Title":"Interesting effort.","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"21 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Saw this on DVD, missing it completely at the cinema. Which was probably what happened to the audience for the film, as it was difficult to market for any target group. Having seen it, it's apparent that lot of very hard work went into producing it.I can compare it to a few other sci-fi animated films of recent years...As ground-breaking as The Last Starfighter was in its day. Though not pure animation, Starfighter showed off what even early CG could do in terms of gimbal-free animation of spaceships and vehicles.Much, much better than Final Fantasy, as the action is genuinely epic. The story goes places and uses the chosen technology very nicely. Titan is not a boring film.Very similar to Disney's later production of the Treasure Island book. Disney appeared to have cribbed one or two scenes from Titan A.E. Not nice.Graphically, it's up there with Iron Giant, using finely animated CG figures mixed with traditional cell animation. The scene where we first see the older Cale Tucker (in space, cutting up junk) is very impressive.But something bugs me. There was something missing. Iron Giant gave me a sense of wonder, which was achieved by some great character acting, clever pacing and a wonderful story line. At no point was I taken by what I saw on-screen while watching Titan A.E.I think Titan tripped over itself in the drama department more than a few times. Along with the latest Star Wars films, it tumbles along without stopping up and letting the audience know what the characters are feeling. The actors have to have the skills to enable the audience to feel, to immerse. Without that, the action has a risk of becoming incomprehensible.Pretty, fast-paced, intriguing. But I wish someone would use these toys to produce something great, something big.Something wonderful. "}{"Title":"Nice Animation, Not-So-Nice Story","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I gave this movie two opportunities. The animation is so brilliantly colorful and imaginative, I hated to give up on it. Scene after scene was a pleasure to watch. It's like a well-drawn sci-fi comic book come to life. It's extremely colorful.But - and it's a big 'but' - the story is so blah and unlikeable to me that both times I viewed this, I went away feeling unsatisfied. The characters are such that I never could get involved about caring what happened. Most of them simply weren't appealing. There are a few good twists at the end but it's too little-too late to make me watch this again. "},{"Title":"It was the last best hope...","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" ... for American animated blockbusters, and now I am convinced that animation will remain a niche genre in this country.  The Japanese get Miyazaki, we get Don Bluth, hardly seems fair does it?  Yeah, this is a formula movie all right.  The plot is threadbare, characters are vanilla, and the villians (named Drej, how clever) have it in for us Earthlings, apparently just because we're a spacefaring race (uh, what about all the other races?).  Two semi-interesting locales are squandered in boring chase scenes, and the Titan itself looks more like a medium-sized space station (hence the Babylon 5 reference) than a potential planet.  Sorry, but the whole experience left me as cold as one of those ice rings (and I *am* the Snow Dog, after all).  "},{"Title":"Don Bluth's Last Stand","Date":"15 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Ah, Titan A.E.,this is can be one of Don Bluth's best movies. First for all the dark imagery and sci-fi wonder that was interwoven into it. Second for being a movie that even Disney wanted to rip off of. Not ruin neither Treasure Planet or Atlantis for anyone, but yes they are both kind of rip offs of this movie. But, they are both essentially unique and different plots and ideas. The next thing, I enjoyed of this movie, of which I enjoy of any movie, is the music. I loved the all the songs because they used my favorite band, Lit. I also want to say I liked the female character. I kind of like the fact that she isn't some flighty little thing like all the other girl in his movies. Overall, not a bad film. "},{"Title":"Criminally Underrated.","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This has to be one of the slickest Sci-Fi films I have ever seen. The plot could have been used in any other Sci-fi film without a hitch, it is that seamless. The characters are well developed and there is quite a twist at the end, although I will not drop any spoilers in here.The animation is second-to-none. I have yet to find another film that knits CGI and drawn animation so well. The Soundtrack is fitting and it the entire package fits together rather nicely.I saw this in the cinema, expecting to get another poor attempt at a Sci-fi animation and what I got was an adrenaline and a taste in my mouth that said Shame really, this isn't going to get the recognition it deserves.And I was right. A must see for Sci-fi fans. "},{"Title":"People expect too much from Titan a.E.","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This film is a fantastic under-appreciated gem , and it doesn't surprise me most people didn't like it. Thats because mainstream audiences are getting dumber by the year, as films fall over themselves to try and get as many commercial endorsements (I,robot, blade III etc) and plot twists that add nothing to the story (silent hill). The previous review criticised the animation of the characters but i feel it did the job quite nicely. What exactly do you want, anime style flying through the air with huge open mouths? And at the opposite end of the spectrum this IS an animated film, if they wanted the characters to look ultra realistic they would of used CGI (yawn) or real people.The characters where likable enough and you could understand their motivation. I found the effects to be excellent and the hand drawn backgrounds did in some parts look a little washed out, but this added to the gritty, worn out feel most of the locations had.The story was well put together, with an explosive opening (Earth getting blown up is a tough act to follow!). Yes, it wasn't anything completely new, with the hero being arrogant, cocky and wanting to go it alone at the start, but finding himself as he realises he can make a difference. Its not a new idea, but its done in a way which tries to make it feel new. The other characters support Kale well, and unlike Star Trek and most sci fi, the aliens don't look like humans with a extra crinkle on their nose. The idea of humans being nomads was a refreshing change, and before anyone tries to compare it to Battlestar may i remind you this film is now 6 years old.The Dredj where an OK enemy, being ruthless and i guess their regenerative strength and lack of emotion borrowed something from the Borg.The character changing sides near the end tried to give the film a third element for the final battle though I'm not sure it was needed. Even so the 11th hour redemption was a nice touch.Overall the film is enjoyable, with subtle humour throughout, and a diverse mix of likable characters, a really awesome mix of music and impressive effects. Its serious enough for most adults but still has something for mature children. You wont find the characters wearing Converse trainers, wearing an ipod of flying a Ford spaceship. The ending rounds the film off nicely without any sort of crappy attempt at scamming audiences into a sequel for the almighty dollar.Enjoyable i would say providing your not looking for a film that is too serious and will make you smile. "},{"Title":"very well made movie","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Titan A.E. is a movie which has been created with a lot of love and attentiveness in the beautiful details, the characters thoroughly developed. This movie is one of the greatest sci - fiction adventures ever made and has for me entered the throne together with another great very underrated sci - fi movie, FINAL FANTASY. Both are great and different in their own. The great creating of a planet as the big final of TITAN A.E. is one of the strongest, most impressive , visually and acoustically (WHAT A SOUND !! ) blowing and also emotional satisfying sequences i have ever seen in movies. Its also a very seldom sequence, since here the ship in a space movie for which everything and the story are around have been lined up for, is acting the end practically alone and leaving Akima and the others as viewing passengers unlike e.g. the ENTERPRISE, VOYAGER or other ships which cannot show what are they capable for alone, without commanding officer.Nobody else than GEORGE LUCAS had acknowledged the high class of this movie and bought the rights of TITAN A.E. and the original movie itself after Fox closed the animation studio, to prevent that this Masterpiece of Filming could disappear. "},{"Title":"Strange but enjoyable...I think you will like it, I did, very underrated","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" As a fan of animation of all kinds, for more than 40 years, this is really an odd one.. ...I do not think anything compares in the way of visuals and special effects, in animation. They are so brilliantly done, that it worth watching for the view alone.Sadly, poor box office ruined the career of a great director Don Bluth..I think it lost over l00 million dollars.More importantly, if you watch it, will will see a brilliantly animated film, with a decent storyline, not outstanding, but scripted well enough to keep your attention. It is paced well, and intermixed with some excellent music, that was specifically made for this film, most of the music, is a kinda rock, but it varies.Color, form, and backgrounds are matched and composed so in such a beautiful way, that any viewing is sure to amaze. Make sure your TV gets a sharp picture, that is all that is necessary to enjoy this film..The story, action, and interaction between characters is enjoyable, and for the most part unusual, but I would view this just to see what I doubt will ever be seen in animation again..Simply because, no one is likely to spend this kind of money for special effects in animation. Since this film was made, animation has changed, and so has this industry..Enjoy Titan AE. Know it is the last of its kind. I might add, the end of the film gives you a great feeling. "},{"Title":"A fantastic film but highly underrated","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Titan A.E. takes place in the far future and tells the story about Planet Earth being destroyed by a depraved alien species called The Drej who live in fear of the human race.15 years later, a young man named Cale is called upon by a faithful friend of his father named Korso. Cale's father was a scientist who invented an amazing Earth spaceship called 'The Titan' which has the power to create another planet. Korso warns Cale that the human race is nearing extinction and they must find the Titan before The Drej do for it's humanity's last hope for survival.Titan A.E. is a great film. I was very impressed by how different it was from other animated films. The storyline is very good and the action sequences are mind-blowing. Examples The Ice Crystal Scenes and The Destruction of Planet Earth.The characters such as Cale, Korso, Akima and Preed where really good and interesting. They were so mature and you find yourselves very attached to them, even though there is a lot of betrayal.I feel sorry that this film didn't do well at the box office. It had so much potential but Fox didn't give it that much support.Another reason why I like this film is because it is directed by Don Bluth. He has a done an excellent job with this film and how he tried to make a different type of animated film.This film still remains to be a great science fiction adventure and should have been recognised more.9/10 "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I saw this film yesterday, after getting it in a pile of old videos.The cartoon characters are exactly as you would expect from a Disney 'zero to hero' type of film, but it is the 'scenery' and astrophysical concepts that blow you away. Think of Mars getting an atmosphere in Total Recall, or the collapse of Jupiter in 2010, and you have an idea of the scope of this.The best are at the beginning and end - the Earth destroyed, and the debris smashing into the moon for a second destruction, as well as what can only be a speeded up version of how the Earth was originally created.This appears to be filmed in two ways - standard issue animation for the characters, and some trippy computer sequencing for the scenes in space - some of these really do leave Star Wars standing - and check out the bad guys...these make Alien look like a wimp...Worst line - the new planet is called 'Bob,' and the girl gets the title 'Queen of Bob...'And to think, this was made before Shrek and The Incredibles...it's just so hard to believe that this film went relatively unnoticed - cue a re-release? "},{"Title":"This Was The Movie Y'all","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was something else . There needs to be a second one man , there's got to be something after that Earth 2 thing. Like the new one is unstable , and is set to implode , or maybe another or of whatever they might be want E2 . But the second would need a lot of stuff to top the first , because the first had great voices , great acting , great action , and it was funny as hell too . So the second would need all of that , but like a whole new bar of everything 100% up. Make it PG13 , and everything , go directly to the borders of how far a PG13 movie can go . oh , and the second one needs six very important things Janet Jackson , Chris Rock & Ron Perlman . And as for the music you need to call the man Danny Elfman . I mean make Matrix look like a real bitch. Nothing bad on my word.  "}{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm not really a fan of cartoon movies (tho, I have nothing against them! Some are really good) but I am, on the other hand, a die-hard fan of Science Fiction movies! And since this film just happen to be a science fiction film, I rented it one day. And I am glad I did so!The movie starts with the earth being attacked, and destroyed, by some hostile (duh) alien race and just then I could tell I was really going to like this movie... Basicly cause the Earth got doestroyed, but also because of the nice special effects, the good graphics, the great soundtrack and the nice feeling many other science fiction movies give me. It was believable, it had some interesting alien races and nice design on the ships. And throughout the rest of the movie I noticed even more and more stuff that I liked about. Some things I couldn't find in other movies. It was a really great movie, and quite funny at times.In a distant future, the Earth is destroyed by a hostile alien race called... uh... well, anyway, some humans survived the attack and carried on with their lives. This movie focuses on one (or two, later on) of those humans, namely Cale. He is the son of a very intelligent scientist (who is dead by the time we get to learn Cale) who discovered something spectacular (tho we don't get to know what it is until the end). Cale soon stumbles upon another two other humans, and a small crew of aliens. One of these humans knew Cale's father, and knew what he was working for. And he also knows that it was the reason why Earth was destroyed.There are some flaws with this cartoon movie tho. Like the bad aliens SFX look really bad. They look like something out of a video game, and an old one at that. And sometimes the computer graphics look really corny together with the cartoon graphics. And the secret discovery is somewhat unbelievable... But nontheless, its a great science fiction movie and should be viewed by anyone who wants so see a well made adventure movie.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Better than Heavy Metal II FAKK","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Saw it in the theater, loved it. Bought it. Got the OST. Loved that too. The story was great, almost JapAnime like, but the art and voice over was a trip back to the first time I saw the original Heavy Metal. Much cleaner, yes, and family oriented if you think about it, but still a little more raw than I had expected. Not so much digital graphics, it isn't Babylon 5. For the old skool people who watched anime in the 80's, got into sci-fi a little too much (LOL), and have kids they want to share their enthusiasms with... this movie is great. Gonna watch it again right now with my ten year old, she likes it too, especially Goon and Akima. "},{"Title":"The Last Greatest Work of Don Bluth","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" When I first saw this movie, I was astounded by the amount of work and dedication that was put into the movie. I was younger at the time, but I saw how well the work was done. Great animation, great CGI effects and a good story makes it one of Don Bluths greatest works. The post apocalyptic setting gives it a dark look, but comedic elements and a family look at the movie makes it great for the whole family. The movie has its fair share of adult themes, violence, some sensuality, and language makes it great for the older crowd. There is also the sense of hope that people have in order to create a new world that people can live in. I could go into detail about characters, the setting, but I am sure that other reviewers had already mentioned this. Nevertheless, if you want a great animated film, filled with action, danger, and for the family, then look no further. Titan A.E is greatly under appreciated and everybody should watch it, even if they are not fans of animated films.Bottom Line 10/10 "},{"Title":"a million spent on the eye and not one penny on the ear","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  oh dear oh dear. it all looks so lovely and even though matt damon sounds as though he really was in a studio, the sound and music are great. but my god, the script and worse (even) the story...!a great mixture of computer animation and cartoon action really dazzle the eye and can begin to lull you into a false sense of security...right up to the point in which people begin to actually talk to each other. 'character is action' (so said f.scott fitzgerald) and this is true whether you're talking about the film which managed to close down fox's animation department (i can only hope that they threw away the scriptwriters too) or the film is a 30 second short. and what characters we are given here...this follows the same well trodden disney path in managing to make any non-human character a grotesque stereotype in the most cliched and lazy way possible. a good case (even apart from the floppy fringed, square jawed all-american hero lead character) is the intelligent buggy character. how likely is it that in a thousand years if youre intelligent not only will you still be a nerd...but that you'll wear glasses?! not really is it. ooops, almost forgot to mention the feisty leading girl, managing to hit all her marks as action girl...with attitude (stop me if you've heard of all of these characters before). the human characters are just as bad. they are all cliches, the bad guy with the change of heart, the evil, wicked fairy queen...ooops, i mean pure energy queen. i can't even begin to imagine what the bad guys motivation was for chasing these layabouts, boredom perhaps.and then there was the story, or more correctly the non-story. it managed to go all the way from a to b...stopping everywhere in between. part star wars (cliched 'good' vs. nasty old 'evil') and part star trek (cliched characters and cultural propaganda) and is as bad as both of them. no surprises, no twists, no character development (certainly not the leads volte-face in deciding to save the human race...gee thanks mate). just soooo predictable, unengaging and that word again...lazy. heres an idea to anyone who wants to make a good film (notice, good, not just a film but a good film) write a good script. thats it. if you do that then you have a chance. but if you dont have that then you are doomed regardless of whatever else you do.im sure that many people reading this will think 'give it a break, its just...' and as soon as that word is used then you have no leg to stand on. because if this is a cartoon which wishes to be a film then it must be judged on its merits, i.e. as a film. and it is lacking, badly lacking. it is a film with a story that 6 year olds could follow. forget what it looks like. close your eyes and listen to the dialogue (but not for long, you may go deaf...if you're very lucky) and then tell me if its a good film. maybe fox were really pitching at the family territory with this film but the problem is that the market for this type of film (animated/manga) is just a little too old and sophisticated to really care about a boy who just wants to *sniffle* see his dad again. Akira is being re-relased on DVD in july, THAT is what an animated film should be. that is not to say they should all be disturbing (perfect blue) or violent (ghost in the machine) but to be taken seriously they have to be good. this is not, this is rubbish and should be treated as such. judge with your mind, NOT your eyes. 1/10 "},{"Title":"The worst film ever?","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The trailer for Titan A.E. was very promising. When I saw it I really thought this would be one of the best films ever, I have though never been more wrong. A dreadful script and a ridiculous sub plot make Titan A.E. a disaster in the making. How established stars such as Bill Pullman, Drew Barrymore and Matt Damon agreed to voice characters in this film is beyond me. It is not surprising it bombed at the box office. When I say do not see this film I am doing you a favour.  "},{"Title":"Excellent animation film","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Keeping in mind this film is made in 2000, the animation of characters is very smooth and natural, the relation between lights and shadows (the shadows are outstanding!), plus a very creative mind behind the races creation (liking them or not, one must agree that they're very original). The plot itself might not be the greatest, perhaps because people take as granted that animations should have songs to sing with, but this is not a Disney film.The borders between computer graphics, old-school-alike-drawing animations (the main character reminds me of Dennis Quaid, have you noticed that?) and even some breath taking concept art for the universe (like in some nebulae) is almost 100% blurred - considered it's a 2000's film, I could say it's flawless.Perhaps, what the critics cannot judge as they're not prepared to is all those technical elements that can make any one interested in animation (2 and 3d, for instance) gawp all the time.I watched it during its release and that time my skills could only focus on the story, which unfortunately could make it look flat. But now being able to appreciate the whole pack of signs involving it, I could even cry and be totally gripped by such a great product.Kudos to the staff and the whole production team. You should and must be very proud of what you've done. ) "},{"Title":"An animated movie that is truly spectacular","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Titan A.E. reminds me a little bit of the movie Rango (which came out not too long ago) where Rango proved that CGI does not mean a kids movie, Titan A.E. did the same. I remember watching Titan A.E. when I was was younger and it entirely changed my imagination. The movie had great visuals, and while the CGI was probably a little overused because now the CGI is dated, I remember it looking spectacular back then.The animation on characters in this movie is great. I mean the characters are detailed, and the the aliens are all unique and different. The main character Cale who was a little over 4 when Earth was destroyed by a race called the Drej. His dad was working on something called the Titan project which is the reason why the Drej attacked Earth. The drej are also unique because they can't be destroyed. If one gets it arm shot off, it just regrows it because they are made of energy. The concept of an alien race made of energy was really neat. Either way Akima who remembers Earth even less then Cale seems to cherish everything from Earth.The movie has really nice backgrounds which really adds to it. The environments and the atmosphere is excellent, and if you have read more than one review than you would know that the Ice scene is amazing. Even today which is 11 years after it was made, the scene is still good looking.The interesting thing about this movie is that the Drej are never really explained. In most movies there is a clear villain, and you know who the bad guy is. Not in this movie. The Drej are just sort of there. They only want humans dead because they fear humanity could become powerful. Which is another interesting concept Humans are weak. Once Earth is destroyed humans aren't powerful, they are just drifters and are minorities. They are shunned by other species, and are looked down upon. A different concept.The side characters are Gune which is sort of a comic relief turtle, toad thing that is smart and kind of your weird scientist character. Stith is a giant kangaroo like alien that is similar in facial appearance to Preed who is the first mate of the ship. Preed is an interesting character because he seems to be sarcastic, and very sly. Overall likable and he does this sort of thing with harms that reminds me of someone reciting poetry.To me the plot was unique for a space opera. Very few space operas are original and this wasn't extremely original, but it was just very well put together, had good action sequences, and you could tell a lot of work was put into it to make it good. How come this movie didn't do better at the box office or how coming it didn't get higher ratings confuses me. If this movie were the same, but made by Disney the reviews would've been praising it. But sadly this movie was not review well. "},{"Title":"One of Bluth's better works, and a must for fans of sci-fi and animation","Date":"12 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I am very fond of the movies of Don Bluth, especially Secret of NIMH, Anastasia, An American Tail and Land Before Time, and I mustn't forget the classic short Banjo the Woodpile Cat. After All Dogs Go to Heaven, which is also good despite its flaws however, Bluth's films took a nosedive in quality. I personally didn't hate them, though I do not care really for either A Troll in Central Park or Rock a Doodle(Pebble and the Penguin for me was the least bad of the movies that are considered so). For me, Anastasia and his swansong Titan AE redeemed his reputation, Bartok the Magnificent was decent if not great.About this movie, for any fans of sci-fi and animation, Titan AE is very ideal as it is a spectacular film and fuses these two genres effortlessly together. I do have a problem with the way the movie was advertised though, and perhaps that contributed to the lack of box office success. I will start with the film's best assets. The obvious plus is the animation, which while different stylistically abandoning the hand drawn style and having a more computer-animated approach, is just superb. The colours look absolutely stunning, the characters are very well modelled, the effects are amazing and the backgrounds are incredibly imaginative.The soundtrack also impresses. The score does wonderfully in enhancing the mood, this score is not as dark or poignant as Secret of NIMH for example, but it is memorable and compliments the action and the like very well. There are some song choices too, all of which are great to listen to and don't interrupt the flow too much. The characters are engaging and have a genuine chemistry between them. They all benefit from some fine voice casting, with Matt Damon and Drew Barrymore doing outstanding jobs with their titular characters and Bill Pullman, Nathan Lane and John Leguizamo are also rock solid.The script and story aren't quite as good, but they do engage and don't harm the film too much. The script is smooth and manages to be quite clever. The story benefits from a great if simple concept and is very well-paced(not too fast, not too slow), and while there is the odd hole and cliché hence what I said about it not being the film's strongest component, it does draw you in. The action does very well to enhance, some of it is really quite intense. In conclusion, Titan AE is a spectacular and very underrated animated feature. It may have had a mixed reception, had bad marketing and bombed at the box office, but in my opinion it is actually one of Don Bluth's best. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A cool animated film from Don Bluth","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Sci-Fi is one of the greatest film genres ever made. There is tons of Sci-Fi films like, Star Wars, Blade Runner, and The Matrix. But animator veteran, Don Bluth, made a sci-fi animated film back in 2000. The animated film was called, Titan A.E..This is one of my favorite movie's. I'll tell you why The visuals. The animation in this movie blew me away because it combines 3D animation with 2D animation. The 3D animation look's like a live-action film similar to the 3D animation in the anime film, Metropolis.The action scene's were pretty cool.The Voice acting was also good. Matt Damon does a nice job as Cale. Drew Barrymore does a nice job as the good-looking Akima. Bill Pullman does a good job as the tough leader, Joseph Korso.The only problem that hold's the film from getting a 10, is that I found the story more of a hunting for treasure story.But overall, Titan A.E., is a great animated film and also worth watching. "},{"Title":"At last we will reveal ourselves to the Jedi...","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Usually I will go in depth in my reviews. Arguing why I like or dislike it. But in this case I will fall back on the worn out but classic remark This movie f***** kicked ass!  It is everything Episode I and Episode II tried to achieve and failed.Nuff said... "}{"Title":"Never mind the plot, feel the art!","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As has been remarked on and off about this movie the fact is the story ain't anything fantastic. The trick to enjoying this film is just to go with it and be awed by the amazing animation. The skill involved is mind-blowing at times - the technology is a whole level above. Just be amazed by the pictures and you'll get a kick out of the film. My vote 7/10 "},{"Title":"I challenge you...","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Read Roger Ebert's review of this movie.  See what analysis of this movie by someone who actually understands what the word plot means. Then read all the people's sniviling and whining because they don't understand the art of cell shading, or beleive originality is what makes a film good.  Seems people want something new, but won't accept the new form of animation.Too bad, I'd never heard of this movie until I borrowed a friend's DVD.  WOW.  Certainly worth the time to watch several times.  Being a cartoon I wasn't sure whether to expect goofy children's stuff or serious adult stuff.  Well, there's a good mix, which is fine for the young at heart.  Reminds me of the animated version of The Rats of NIMH, The Secret of NIMH, in it's mix of goofy comic relief with serious and scary scenes that advance the plot.Back to the challenge... If, after reading those reviews and watching this movie, you can't appreciate it for being spectacular, then I will give (as my gift to you) the knowledge that you're getting old, very old.I give it a solid 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"a hidden masterpiece..?","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was kinda surprised when i saw this movie! The graphical work in this movie is amazing! In some parts it even hits starwars.On the other hand, there is these strange disney like characters. So in the beginning my mind was like messed up. But following the quite original red line during the movie, i was amazed they combined two totally different styles into a perfect TITAN !!! "},{"Title":"A most underrated film","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  For those uncivilized folk who think that animation is only for little kids on Saturday morning, I've got news for you...Titan A.E. is the film to change your mind. I have been sick to death of all that syrupy sap spewed out by Disney over the last 15 years. This is a true breath of fresh air in a very stale genre dominated by Mouse Inc. (or is that Mouse stink?. Let me know what you think.). The movie is set in the early years of the 31st century, just after the destruction of the planet Earth by an enigmatic alien race known as the Druj. We meet our hero some 17 years later. Humanity is viewed as the trash of the universe, a vagabond race with no place to call home. The comes Korso who introduces Cale to his heritage, the Titan. Only after Cale has been betrayed by Korso, who has sold out the whole human race, does he realize that the symbol is really a star map that leads to the Titan, the only thing in the universe that the Druj fear after several very well crafted chase scenes, we find our hero on the Titan. As he explores it, he realizes that the Titan is the means to rebuild a home world for humanity. He also learns that that is the reason the Druj destroyed Earth. He learns that the Druj are beings of pure energy that feared the power of the Titan. In the final climactic act Cale activates the Titan and the Druj are absorbed into the Titan to fuel the conversion of their energy to the matter matrix needed to create an entire planet out of nothing!I have watched hundreds of animated films (most of them Japanese) and ranks, in my mind at least, as one the better films I have seen. My only real complaint was that the film wasn't long enough. To the paid critics your comments would be better reserved for the bathroom, since they equal the contents of an unflushed toilet. It would help if these so-called critics would watch a thousand or so hours of Anime and actually develop a small taste for the genre. The real problem with the critics is their prejudice in the field of animation. That is the only explanation that makes any sense to me. See it for yourselves, make up your own mind. "},{"Title":"Quite a nice tale","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Until the day I watched this movie, I had heard a lot about it and the name was kind of present in my head. I then finally took the chance and watched it - surprise it's a cartoon!I was surprised with this finding but anyway, this film makes up a solid, enjoyable family film with something for kids and something for adults. The characters are ok, the story is quite predictable at times and some parts of the scenery are awesome. All in all, Titan A.E. has made it to one of my favourite animated films.8/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent and Innovative Movie","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I found this movie to be very entertaining from start to finish.  Not only were the aesthetics beautiful and innovative but I found the entire film to be interesting.  Like most other reviews I've read, I found the voice acting to be very engaging and believable.  Each character had a very distinct personality that was conveyed naturally through the voice acting. Many have commented that the 2 forms of animation used did not blend well but I would challenge the open-mindedness of these reviews! As someone who does a lot of work in computer graphics I found the mix of CG and animation to be an eye-catching new look.  When viewed without bias against the new and unusual these visuals could only be described as breath-taking! Another prevalent complaint in reviews accuses the movie of a weak plot. While the plot was not riveted with twists, side plots, and subtle meaning I found it to be complex enough to hold my interest through the film (it was not as though I could predict everything that was happening). On a final note, I found the soundtrack to be very fitting for the movie. It was not overstated and was wonderfully woven into the storyline! An excellent movie, very enjoyable, high marks for rewatchability (and a very good DVD) 9/10 "},{"Title":"Wow! Be not fooled by the beginning brownish tone of the earth depiction, brighter colors and subtle use of hues yet to follow&#133;","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Besides the winning Chicken Run, along the lines of animated features for summer 2000, Titan A.E. is also a superbly produced feature length animation -- probably more understandable by young audience, and for adults who appreciate digital animation and space journeys. Titan A.E. is a visual feast. Director team Don Bluth and Gary Goldman created an imaginative piece of work, in spite of inevitable linking to Star Wars, Star Trek, and Starship Troopers, Titan A.E. held its own with voice talents that included Matt Damon, Drew Barrymore, Bill Pullman, and the unmistakable Nathan Lane. With its fantastic painterly animation and space adventure plotline, it's actually a better movie experience than the recent Pitch Black, the previous Event Horizon, and the current blockbuster The Perfect Storm. For a space saga, almost fairytale-like, Titan A.E. successfully delivered in digital sight, sound and story. It's another rare family movie for both kids and adults.Well done and keep it up, Twentieth Century Fox animation unit!  "},{"Title":"Graphics, simple characterization and good ending would more could you want?","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Earth gets blown to smithereens by the Drej. The Drej are pure energy aliens who do not like the Titan the unbelievable creation of Cale's father who vanishes fifteen years later where the actual story begins as well. It's now Cale's job to find the Titan before those evil aliens get there first. Excellent movie, with awesome graphics and cartoon animation has cult following written all over it. TITAN A.E. succeeds in keeping itself simple too something recent animations (minus DINOSAUR) have had a hard time doing. Although the simplicity does not last too long (*sigh* the temporary replacement of conspiracy over action was really dumb), TITAN A.E. still manages to move us, as people will root for humanity. An overall satisfying ending, TITAN A.E. is one to be seen on the big screen and if you rent it, chances are you will probably question yourself what the effects looked like in the theater, and you will kick yourself because that's really the only way to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"The memories are all we have.","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Outstanding on all fronts!... Well on most fronts.This is the kind of movie you want to see on a BIG screen in HD, though it was made before HD was a common term let alone filmed or created for.15 years after earth is destroyed by an alien race, humanities only hope comes in the form of a reckless young man and a small group of adventuring travelers. They must find a hidden man made ship, capable of creating a new earth, before hostile aliens can destroy it. The animation is fluid, the CG is solid, the visuals overall are just as impressive today as they were 8 years ago. The story itself isn't anything too amazing or original, but it's entertaining, and isn't that really what's important? Matt Damon is Cale Tucker, standard issue hero. While the character isn't anything new, the voice work is great. Drew Barrymore is Akima, tough as nails heroine, once again a standard character carried by an above standard performance. Bill Pullman is Captain Joseph Korso, leader of this rag tag team. Once again, nothing new but a convincing performance none-the-less. Solid voice work all around, with notable performances from Janeane Garofalo and Nathan Lane.One to Five Scale 4 Aside from the cheesy and dated soundtrack, the film is entertaining from start to finish. "},{"Title":"A film worth watching","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Titan A.E. is well thought out and well developed. It is good adult animation in the same vein as Heavy Metal, while still being a movie for the family. Don Bluth scores one more triumph with his horde of animators and with the vocal talents of Matt Daimon, Drew Barrymore, Bill Pullman and Nathan Lane. The rest of the cast is also excellent. It does not have to be epic in nature to be fun to watch. I read some of the whinny comments from other reviewers and wonder how they can ever enjoy any movie when all they are doing is nitpicking. This film makes no pretense of being great art. It is simply an enjoyable story with good acting, excellent animation and a really fine sound score. And if an old man like myself can enjoy the music, younger people should also.I you have not seen it, by all means do. And don't miss the making of feature after the end credits on the VHS and I am sure the DVD versions. "}{"Title":"Titan A.E. is a good flick","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Much underrated and grossly ignored by a lot of people. Story line is good movie, and the characters are played well characters. Definitely a good addition to any DVD collection. Don Bluth is a very good story writer as he has shown with previous movies, Secret of NIHM and Land Before Time to just name a few. Partnering up with Goldman was a brilliant idea. Kales' character as the angsty abandoned teenager with a poor outlook on his future is believable. But he is a survivor. As for Gune, you got to love any nutsy character that Leguizama plays, as he gives it his all. I really enjoyed the CGI usage for the ice fields, and the FX used for that particular scene. "},{"Title":"Memo To News Corp  Finish This Movie!","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Titan A.E. is a great movie... it even had the potential of being Generation Y's Star Wars. Unfortunately, News Corp. made a big mistake.Titan A.E. remains an unfinished product because News Corp. (the owners of both Fox and Fox Animation Studios) went ahead and shut down the Fox Animation Studios Branch in Phoenix before the animators had a chance to finish Titan A.E. And they didn't even have the decency (or the smarts) to hire the animators who worked on Titan A.E. for almost three years to finish it they gave it to animators who had no idea what they were doing.The result? A half-baked, hastily-finished-and-put-together movie.Titan A.E. has the potential of being a much better movie than it is right now. I hope that someone someday will buy the rights to this movie from News Corp/Fox and goes ahead and finishes this product in some kind of Definitive Edition. "},{"Title":"Finally some quality Sci Fi","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Titan AE is still one of my favorite movies of all time. A wild special effects joyride that will leave you breathless, with decently surprising plot twists and great characters (mostly).The basic story here is that the Drej, alien beings made up completely of energy, fear what humans may become if they continue to advance. So, in one great attack, they destroy the Earth at the beginning of the thirty-first century. The surviving humans are forced to fight for survival on drifter colonies, but it seems humanity is growing extinct. Then the main character, Cale Tucker, is approached by Captain Korso, who claims that he may hold the key to finding the Titan, a project that has the power to reunite the failing human race.Bill Pullman does an excellent job here voicing the tough, gritty ship captain that definitely becomes more complex then is first thought. Matt Damon too is believable in his role as main character. Drew Barrymore was sometimes a little lacking in her performances, but it was forgivable. Some of the other characters, however, were a bit over Disney-fied. The cutesy professor Guhn got a bit tiresome sometimes. On the other hand, the film was also quite violent at times. I was glad to see that they weren't afraid to kill off a few characters.However the best thing by far was the animation. Traditional drawn animation flows together seamlessly with 3D computer animation and creates some truly spectacular action scenes and a very well done cat-and-mouse sequence among a cloud of ice-crystals. The destruction of Earth was truly awe-inspiring and leaves you completely hooked from the first five minutes of the film to the action packed conclusion.Now, this is by no means an incredibly thought provoking or complex as, say, Blade Runner or 2001 Space Oddessy, but if you're looking for a great thrill ride with truly unique and memorable battles and gorgeous animation, then this film is for you.***1/2 out of **** Other recommendations Final Fantasy The Spirits Within, Heavy Metal FAKK 2 "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I first saw this I felt like crap. I got a hepititus shot. But when this movie was done I was amazed this movie rocks. The storylines simple aleins make Earth go BOOM! Young boy is thrusted into a position he doesnt want to be in and falls in love at the same time. It starts off with the prologue and introduces the characters and gives some info on them. Then they go to a moon and learn the position of the Titan then the lovebirds get backstabbed and are on their on with some help from survivors and 2 aleins friends. Very good movie have nothing to do rent this and you'll watch it over and over again. Recommended for kids 13 and under like myself. "},{"Title":"Loved it, just sit back and enjoy the ride.","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Spoiler Well I think most of my feelings are summed up in the one line summary above. It's a great movie. I loved it and just sat back and enjoyed the ride.Sure there are a few plot holes but they were overcome by the fast pace of the film. Lots of stuff happened on screen. There was one major plot hole I found in this film where but even this did not deter me.I would have loved to have seen it when it debuted at the cinema but I think I missed out by about a week. I didn't even know about this till I bought it on VHS, and then a later copy on DVD.OK. That plot hole. When Cale arrives back on the Valkyrie he's in a stolen Drej ship. Now the ship is a solid object but it's also made of Drej energy. Could we argue that this ship could be resurrected as a Drej? They destroy the Drej  race at the end of the film but there is no mention of what  they did with the captured ship in  the Valkyrie's cargo bay.Despite all this I liked this film definite 7/10 from me. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece, in its own way!","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I remember a trailer for Titan AE being shown at my local cinema a couple of years ago, before the movie hit the theaters here in Stockholm. I forgot about it, and never got to see it on the big screen. Bummer!Plot, short version Reluctant hero embarks on a quest to save humanity from a bunch of bad-ass aliens.I recently watched this movie, and my verdict is quite clear A true masterpiece, in its own way. To be a bit more specific, I've never seen animations like those in Titan AE before. In my opinion, this is what makes this movie one of a kind. Flavor this a bit with some comic humor, fairly good voice-acting and loveable clichés, and you got the spirit of this movie.I believe that most critics really hated this movie, and in a way I understand them. It's because Titan AE is an animated movie, and to many of us this indicates that the target group are teenagers, not adults. Although it is quite clear that the target group for Titan AE actually IS adults and not teens. Meaning that those who would probably love it didn't watch it.The storyline is OK, the usual stuff about a hero emerging to save humanity, ie what we're used to in american movies. Not much to say about it, it works for Titan AE. Some critics claim that Titan AE is a piece of junk because of the storyline, and that it feels too unrealistic. Unrealistic? Well, duh, we're talking science fiction, right? Think about the logic in that kind of reasoning - Realistic science fiction, isn't that a bit like de-hydrated water? There aren't many realistic sci-fi flicks out there, for a reason. If they were to be realistic we wouldn't get much action. As far as I'm concerned, those who condemn science fiction-movies because of the lack of realism probably have something wrong with them, or have missed the whole idea with this genre.My opinion is clear - This is a great movie, in its own way. If you want science fiction, nice SFX and a great soundtrack, this movie is for you. If a deep and complicated plot is your greatest concern, you should totally forget about science fiction. Complaining about lack of realism and plot in Titan AE is like complaining about the lack of lasersword-fighting Legends of the Fall. "},{"Title":"The Glory of Titan AE","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I received Titan AE in DVD years ago when I was just a kid.I think it was a gift from my uncle and my aunt for Christmas.And I'll tell you this,ever since I've watched it,it has been my favourite movie since.And I consider myself the biggest fan of this wondrous SCI FI animated film.I have watched it 37 times and I'm still counting.Sometimes I wonder if I will reach 100(and I probably will. The storyline is grasping,enjoyable to watch,and the animation is excellent.I know every scene by heart. I decided to meet one of the directors of Titan AE to thank him personally.My favourite songs are in the film itself,too!Cosmic Castaway from Electrasy and Its my turn to fly from The Urge. I am making at the moment a custom Titan AE trailer video along with my free MMORPG that I've been working on for 2 years now.To check out my Titan AE video and to comment it,here is a link Forums(with Titan AE vid) http//mythmu.xooit.com Homepage(free MMORPG) http//faronnia.no-ip.org Titan AE is the greatest movie I have ever watched and it will always be. "},{"Title":"Not enough appreciation of this fine work.","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This animated feature deserves far more then a nominal 6 on IMDb, typically I think usual rankings are close to what is deserved, but not this. Its a animation, so it has a strike against it in many peoples eyes, since certain audiences will never take it serious enough. It delves into fairly complex themes , including betrayal, redemption, failure , its much darker then a typical flick of this nature. But in the same mention, its not so adult that you cannot enjoy this with the family. I wont give it a 9 or 10, those rankings are rarely deserving to give out, but this work needs to have more light brought to it. "},{"Title":"Titan A.E. - Soaring Like Fire Across The Universe!","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Impressively combining the most dazzling effects of both 2-D and 3-D animation, TITAN A.E. is a Post-Apocalyptic, Sci-fi, Adventure Flick that is really quite entertaining to watch in all of its visual splendour.15 years after the Drej, a viciously destructive alien race, had completely destroyed the Earth (back in the year 3028), young Cale Tucker learns that he, in fact, possesses a genetically encoded map to the Titan, a fantastic spaceship that holds the amazing secret to the very salvation of what still remains of the human race.With the dreaded Drej in hot pursuit, Cale blasts off with the new crew of the space-cruiser, Valkyrie, in a frantic attempt to locate the whereabouts of the Titan before the Drej can ever get a chance to completely destroy it.This is mankind's last hope and final opportunity to find a place that they can truly call their very own.Featuring an all-star voice cast that includes the likes of Matt Damon and Drew Barrymore, and a super-edgy, out-of-this-world soundtrack, TITAN A.E. is an intergalactic thrill ride that can easily be enjoyed by all generations. "},{"Title":"Half finished","Date":"26 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie feels half finished. My first impression from it was that there were several parts missing, as if they had forgotten to include some scenes. Some cuts just left me feeling lost, they sometimes made too big a leap in the story. They quite simply left out a lot of details and later on there were some unnecessary plot twists. The details may not have been very important to the overall story but they would have made it easier for me to connect the different scenes causally.The film looks great though, especially some of the larger (3D animated) set pieces. In the end I have come to the conclusion that these set pieces were probably used to pitch the film and the rest they just made up later. This would make sense because there are seeds of an interesting story here (though a bit clishé), but in the end it just feels poorly written. I think they should have expanded the story (details, please!) and planned it a little better (the strange plot twists mentioned earlier). It's not very long, they could easily have added 10-20 minutes. Maybe they had budget constraints, who knows?Anyway, I would not recommend it. "}{"Title":"Go Back and Review!!!","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I think most people who are not fans of syfy will not relate much to the film which I was disappointed in the low box-office numbers as compared to the film budget, it didn't come close, a seemingly big loss. I think the problem is the script for those type of viewers that need convincing. If when viewing from a DVD, go in the menu section and click on the subtitles and view the movie in example as (English for the hearing impaired). The storyline seem to make more sense especially with material matter dealing with complex technical terms that some of these movies almost require when dealing with science fiction. Sometimes the lines in the script are inaudible with the accents and disguised voice overs from the background actors/actresses that you can miss the connection of characters and the storyline. If you read the subtitles, you will identify better with those type of movies. Thank God for subtitles especially in syfy and other complex political etc. movies that words are jumbled so fast that you miss out every time. This movie was made before its time, well advanced for animation in general at the time. A really good movie, you will be pleased. Go back again and enjoy it from a different perspective. "},{"Title":"A Cult Classic Cartoon","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Now i could write this review about what makes this cartoon stand out of or the rest, but if your reading this you probably already know that!So lets get the obvious statement out there in the open...Titan AE is a cult classic to me because it was the last animation by Bluth and Fox Animation Studio's its also the last hybrid animation.On the technical side most of the 3D models are fantastic, especially the big ships and certain props are fantastically modelled, however you will spot some low polygon count rush jobs but it is best to just ignore them accept the movie as it is.The story, while not original, is solid and if you see any problems or potholes, you should only blame yourself because i found the story to be excellent, its why i keep coming back!Voice acting is really a standout, raw and uncompromising, fun and fantastic to listen too, the SFX are also excellent as well.a Rare 5/5 from me "},{"Title":"This is  the next generation's  Heavy Metal!","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I'm of age to have seen Heavy Metal first run in a theater. I was sorely disappointed with Heavy metal 2000. When I got a hold of this and showed to my child and her friends (they were over the age of 12), they thought it was the BOMB! I firmly believe that this film is what a Heavy Metal sequel should have been!! This has one of my favorite soundtracks and I have it right next to my original Heavy Metal soundtrack.The music is awesome. The animation is a mix of CGI and hand-drawn, which is a lost art, but it melds beautifully. The action is captivating. I would recommend for children ages 8 and up because there are some intense scenes like in the opening of the film with Earth being blown to smithereens and people die. But it is a must see. "},{"Title":"dazzling visuals sub par plot","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie has been designed for those who like sci fi alot and also those who like to look at pretty pictures, but for those who want a good story line and those who want to be able to get involved and also feel good about a movie, i suggest u look to another sci fi movie. Unfortunately, the makers of Titan A.E. didn't go far enough when developing their mature animated epic. I enjoyed Titan A.E. mind you (I own the DVD), but it to often got stuck in a rut of a story that's been done ten times over. Sadly, most of the supporting characters are stock and pretty predictable. Not even 20 minutes into the film, I had already figured out who was going to double cross who, and what the final outcome of the story would be.The script and music are juvenile.   the secret discovery is somewhat unbelievable.   The action scenes missed something, I don't know what it was, but they were simply not very interesting.The Drej. OK, they are bad, and blew up the planet. But exactly what are they afraid of? Several references to the Drej fearing what humanity could become.  There is no indication of what this fear is. Did the Drej think humanity bred too much and would overwhelm the universe? Would humanity evolve into energy beings and threaten the Drej? How come no one else seems to be threatened by humanity? And do the Drej blow up other planets because they fear something? If it sounds like I'm being to harsh on Titan A.E. (especially after I stated I liked and own the movie), it's only because I haven't gotten to the positive parts of the movie, which outweigh the negative. FACT Titan AE is one of the few sci-fi films that does not bore us to death with futuristic technobabble. It instead focuses on keeping the audience entertained with every scene rather than make them scratch their heads thinking what the heck is a graviton deflector pulse? This movie keeps it real, and at the same time, maintains a fantasy element. FACT Titan AE is an animated film without songs or talking cartoon animals. It is a movie that full grown adults can go see minus their kids without feeling out-of-place. Even better is that you can go see it with your kids because they'll enjoy it just aswell.. FACT The animation in this movie is ground breaking. Don Bluth and Gary Goldman mix traditional hand-drawn art with background computer animation to create an immersive environment that really pulls the audience into the world.   The space vistas are colorful, interesting and just plain gorgeous. The interactions between Cale and Akima (Drew Barrymore) are good, and the film moves along quickly. I also liked how the Drej remained mysterious and spoke in their own language. As I said at the beginning, Titan A.E. is an animated film geared towards those who are looking for something a little less traditional, and there are numerous scenes that point out that that attempt was made. The one memorable sequence is a game of cat-and-mouse played out in a field of giant, free-floating ice shards. Also  I cant see the beginning of this movie enough... When planet earth gets blown up, it literally is spectacular!! This one scene just about makes the movie. This is what the whole film should've been. FINAL FACT One of my good friends describes Titan AE as the most beautiful movie ever made. In a way, it's true. If you were to freeze the movie at any point and frame the image on your wall, you would have a masterpiece in your den.  "},{"Title":"Cool movie has different look and interesting voice cast","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan A.E. is a movie I really liked. The animation concept, mixing cel-animation with CGI effects and backgrounds was visually impressive to see. The sights alone were worth seeing this movie in the theaters. I wish I knew more about how they got actors into the movie. There are some fairly decent Hollywood names in the cast Matt Damon, Drew Barrymore, Bill Pullman, Nathan Lane, John Leguizamo and Janaene Garofalo all show up. Those are some big names to buy into a movie that is so different from anything we've ever seen before. All of them performed well, especially Leguizamo as Gune. So maybe the plot had more twists than it needed, but Titan A.E. was still cool. I'm looking forward to more movies that look like it does.  "},{"Title":"Best SF animation movie I`ve ever seen","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Right after I`ve seen this movie I fell in love with it. I watched it over and over again. I fell in love with those animations especially the Ice Rings of Tigrin with all it`s reflections were very impressive. Although just animated those movies live as well of their characters as a real movie and I really liked the voices of the characters and how they gave them life. They were as real as real actors can be. I also fell in love with the soundtrack. It´s a great one that fits perfectly to the movie. Although I had a problem with the question why this all started and why it had to be I was quickly silenced by the rest of the movies story. I don`t want to tell you anything about the movie itself so I just say it consists of romance and adventure add SF to the mix and finally you get one of the finest animation movies. If you really love animation this is a must see. Anyway even if you`re not and don`t know what to rent this is worth it`s money. "},{"Title":"Best animation sence Heavy Metal","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was made animation wise like the extremely liked Heavy Metal Movies.. With an all star cast, featuring such actors as Jim Breuer, whom you would have no Idea who he was unless you read the credits.. This movie would be liked by any one who would give it a chance. To put it at best and as simple as possible, if this movie were live action, everyone would have gone to see it!! But instead you have a great animated movie that is second best only to the Heavy Metal Movies!! You can't really like one and not the other!!! Must see Movie!! "},{"Title":"One of my all time guilty pleasure flicks.....I love this movie! 10/10","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It might not have the most captivating dialogue or a very original premise, but by God is Titan A.E. an enjoyable animated film.  It's very successful at being an adventurous science fiction saga, in fact it works better then most non-animated films in the same genre.The thing that really makes me love this movie though, is it's oddly hypnotic feel, and the sheer beauty of the animation.  My favorite scenes involve no dialogue, but just shots of the colorful space and the film's successful soundtrack.  This film has some of the most beautiful colors I have ever seen in an animated film. "},{"Title":"One of the best animated movies yet!","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm a big fan of animated movies with killer soundtracks, that are also aimed at the teenage generation, so i was very keen to see this movie. But by the time i had even heard of it, the movie had been and gone in the cinema's, so as soon as i saw it on DVD i bought it, and what a good buy it was...nearly rivaling to my all time favourate animated movie Transformers The Movie...Animation and CGI were great, Voices were good, plot was ok, and the soundtrack was excellent!!A very good watch indeed! "},{"Title":"Great !!!","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is one of the best sci fi movies ever.... That is all i can say right now about this movie. I dont know why this movie flopped in the theater. I know there is no chance for  a sequel now. I just feel don deserved more credit on this film. Watch this Movie if you have a chance !!! "}{"Title":"Who's Your Daddy? Gune's Your Daddy! *no spoilers*","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I missed this flick in the theatres - BIG mistake. I finally rented it with a couple of friends and we were literally blown away by it. It has everything a Science Fantasy adventure needs humour, bad guys, awesome action sequences and stunning pictures - as well as a killer sound track.Why this movie didn't kill off Disney as the lead animators on the market, I will never know. The guys behind this movie did everything bigger, better, faster and far more innovative than any of the other animation companies have ever done before. I guess true genius really isn't appreciated in their lifetime. *sigh*Anyway, critics seem to focus on poor plot as their sole point of criticism. And they're WRONG! The plot is there to create a driving force behind the movie and its characters - and this plot is both simple enough for kids to understand, yet powerful enough  in theme for the audience to get sucked in. All you have to do is forget about French film and high culture. This is a classic tale of Hero triumphing against greater evil and saving universe in the process, great and simple - if it isn't done in a trite manner, which this movie isn't. George Lucas should have watched this film prior to making Star Wars Episode One, he might have learned something about directing, humour and how to make a very simple plot both entertaining and breathtaking on the screen.The characters are wonderful, the dialogue okay and quite catching at times, Drew Barrymore's character has the sexiest voice you've ever heard and the original soundtrack is just devastating (and kept in the background!).10/10. It has just become my favourite animation film - and scores better with me than Star Wars One! (maybe Lucas will get up to speed in the sequel -after all, his original trilogy is unsurpassed!) "},{"Title":"Excellent Animation!","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The story is full of twists, it is very well written. It has many surprises, unlike some others, I was surprised as who is actually the evil or the good.The animation is amazing! Some are very realistic. Comparing with final fantasy, they could have just make it all real. The only thing is that the cartoon characters don't have too much details, that is something that seems to be the trend in the usa's cartoon production. That is pale comparing with the environment and the amazing astonishing ships, etc. "},{"Title":"THE movie to watch...","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What a blast. This movie has everything you want in a sci-fi flick --  Awesome aliens, neat spaceships, rock music, and a subtle relationship underneath. Matt Damon, Drew Barrymore, and Bill Pullman provide their voices to the main characters, an array of unique and special people, each with a certain destiny in mind. Speaking strictly as a true fan of sci-fi, this is the movie to get, for any reason or function. "},{"Title":"Star Wars, beware!","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Best Without saying &#145;The whole movie', the crystal rings scene was truly breathtaking action sequence, as well as all the special effects on that scene. The great majority of the CGI in the movie and the fantastic movie soundtrack all the songs are great and worth earing countless times specially, &#145;Cosmic Cast-Away' and &#145;It's my time' The Worst this movie was a step behind from being perfect, it should have been done not with cartoons, but with real characters and real characters, if so it would have been a truly Star Wars challenge. And one of the final special effects was truly bad achieved the scene when Cale and Akima where observing the new planet's look as well as when the camera gets away showing them on the landscape was truly bad looking like a Game Boy bad graphic. Rating 8/10A young and reluctant hero has the key to the future of mankind on the palm of his hand&#133;In the year 3028, the Drej, a malign alien race destroyed Earth. Fifteen years later, a young man named  Cale discovers that he has on his genetic code,  by the ring given to him by his father before the Earth was destroyed, an astral map, that will take them to Titan, a spaceship that has the secret of the salvation of the human race. With the Drej on his pursuit, Cale leaves on the Valkyrie with his friends Akima, Korso, Stith, Gune and Preed, trying to find the Titan, before it his destroyed by the Drej, as well as the human race's last hope of having their own place in the Universe.As I pointed out before the biggest problem on Titan AE. Is the fact that it was made through animation, despite having great voice talents from, Matt Damon (The Talented Mr. Ripley; Good Will Hunting); Drew Barrymore (E.T; Charlie's Angel's; Scream);  Bill Pullman (Independence Day; While You Were Sleeping) Nathan Lane (Mouse Hunt); Jeanene Garofalo (Romy And Michele's High School Reunion) and others&#133; Where this movie could have provided the audience very pleasant action sequences, as well as good acting, because this plot can provide it, all they had to do was call Michael Bay or Jan De Bont to direct, Jerry Buckeimer to produce, Mark Mancina or Hans Zimmer to the score and having the alien effects done by Industrial Light and Magic and the job was done profiting millions to the producers and crew, putting the audience in ecstasy and seriously challenging Star Wars trilogy. The other problem on the film was the lack of more human characters roles on the heroes team so the feeling of partnership would be present, and the intrigue (those who saw it know what I'm talking about) the mystery to discover which of them is an ally of the&#133;.. (See it&#133;!)This movie surpassed by far all my expectations and this is truly a breathtaking space epic. When you see it you will agree it. Also it contains some fantastic scenes that remind some blockbusters as The Phantom Menace on the planet of the Gauls, the hydrogen balls forest surely reminds the Gungan city, Cale's quarters and all, reminded Keanu Reeves' in the Matrix.Though my favorite scenes are the ice crystals chase, the ship chasing the &#145;ghosts' in space and the gouls planet.See it it's truly, truly worth watching, 8/10  "},{"Title":"mediocre","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie had some innovative rendering and animation as well a reasonable sound track. However the plot, characters and script is highly mediocre. There is really not  a single surprising plot twist in the whole show. The whole thing was highly predictable. The script was  marginally witty but overall disappointing.The point is, good animation and well executed rendering cannot hide the disappointment due to a mediocre script "},{"Title":"Worth seeing, but you have to see it in a theater","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan A.E. has probably the most amazing looking visuals ever put to film. The computer animation and the cell animation were godly. The sound effects were also very good. But then we get the story. It is okay, if a bit formulaic, throughout the first hour. The characters aren't anyone we haven't met before, but mostly they aren't awful. The only characters who were awful were the three aliens on the space ship. They were horribly annoying, and very unfunny. Their character design was really bad, too.SPOILERSThe thing that really ruined this movie for me was the completely unnecessary and silly betrayal of one of the characters. A character completely changes for no reason whatsoever. It is unbelievable, and it made me cringe. And what is more, there is a second betrayal that is even more silly! Also, there was a continuity problem throughout the picture. Often, a character would appear somewhere where he was not without any explanation. The character Stilth (or something like that) was standing on a platform with Akima in one scene, but later we find that she went back to her ship later (much later, actually) without us ever seeing her leave from the platform. Also, there are a lot of resurrections in this film, i.e., a character would seemingly be dead but would reappear at the last moment to save the heroes. Oh well.I'd still give the film a 7/10 simply because it is the best looking animation ever to come out (at least from this country. I think there are Japanese rivals, e.g., Princess Mononoke). It also contains the single best version of outer space ever put to film. It is a hundred times more beautiful to look at than the Phantom Menaced. I kind of hope the film is remembered at Oscar time for its special effects and sound effects, though, as an animated film, especially one that's released during the summer, it has little hope to win those awards. "},{"Title":"Poor Don's Swan Song...","Date":"3 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Possible SpoilersOver the years, Disney Alumnus Don Bluth has had some hits ' The Land Before Time ' series, ' An American Tale ', and a bigger hit with ' Anastasia '.Yet he has also had some misses ' Rock-a-Doodle ', ' The Pebble & the Penguin ', ' A Troll in Central Park ' , ' The Swan Princess ', Etc.-Big Misses...Now it's clear that Bluth puts of lot of care and effort into his work, but it is also just as clear that his work is simply not on the same level as his chief rival in 2D animation, Big D. His graphics lack the vividness and warmth and fluidity of motion, & his characters and stories lack the appeal, of D's best work.Now this could be simply because Bluth does not have the same resources as D, but whatever the reason, it is an immediately noticeable drawback.This brings us to ' TAE ', a film that seems to showcase all of Bluth's handicaps1. It is PG-rated (There is a shot of a naked human butt, as well as an on-screen death). Now I am a big fan of animation, but I cannot remember when a PG-rated 2D animated feature ever became a smash hit (As I recall, D's PG ' Atlantis ' was not received that well either, although the PG Pixar ' Dinosaur ' was successful. However ' Dino ' was of course 3D). Did Bluth really believe that mommies & daddies would bring their little ones in large numbers to see this film? And if he was aiming at the esoteric adult animation crowd, then how could he expect to recoup his $75,000,000 budget? So Who Exactly Was Supposed to Be the Target Audience Here???2. The story Shiny aliens who look like expensive Bling have destroyed the earth? The hero is a Luke Skywalker clone, who teams up with a Han Solo clone, so the Han clone must be a good guy, right? Wait! He's a bad guy? No, hold on! He's really kind of a good guy in the end, but some of his crew are still bad guys? -Ugh! This is all making my head hurt...3. Now let's get to the graphics In my view, Big D's ' Aladdin ' is the standard that I measure all other 2D feature animation against, simply because everything in that film is so stunningly beautiful, that you can even enjoy it with the sound down,just to drink in the striking visuals. Yet, sadly, ' TAE ' fails here as well. Not the same quality, either in coloring, backgrounds, or character design (Jeanine Garofalo as a giant kangaroo with rickets???)I just never felt like I was watching a real work of art. It's also worth noting that TAE was produced nearly a decade AFTER ' Aladdin ', so Bluth had the advantage of advances in graphics technology, which makes it all the more frustrating that Bluth did not improve his artwork.The result? Well, It's my understanding that ' TAE ' bombed so badly that it nearly bankrupted FOX Animation, until that studio later rebounded with the 3D ' Ice Age ', which Bluth was not involved in. And TAE is Bluth's last animated feature to date, more than a decade later.I think that pretty much says it all.One final note It is also strangely interesting to note that ' Preed ' was voiced by Nathan Lane, only a few years after voicing ' Timon ' in D's 2D classic ' The Lion King ', and that after ' TAE ', Garofalo went on to voice ' Colette ' in Disney/Pixar's 3D hit, ' Ratatouille '.M "},{"Title":"Why I hate Titan AE (Contains Spoilers)","Date":"26 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I hate this movie because of its premise of a spaceship blowing up Earth for ridiculous reasons that do not make sense story wise, its disjointed story. and how unrealistic the movie is. The notion that the Drej destroy our planet only because they don't want us to make planets when they are supposed to be unstoppable does not make sense. The Drej are supposed to be unbeatable because they are pure energy, yet they were beaten in the climax when their energy was drained, this is a contradiction. Plus how can both the Drej and their spacecraft be pure energy if they have tangible bodies and their spacecraft are all solid crystalline designs, this violates basic physics. Handwavium means anything that flat out violates physics and Titan AE is brimming over in handwavium.This movie is unrealistic because Earth is our only home when it is destroyed and our only hope is a handwavium device known as the Titan Project which create and makes habitable an entire earth-like planet in a short time span which violates physics. Another reason why Titan AE is unrealistic is that its villains are pure energy and solid at the same time as well as no interstellar colonies readily available for humans to go to in 3028 AD when Earth is destroyed. Titan AE despite its box office failure really taints astronomy, and that makes me furious because I love astronomy. And this review is the tip of the iceberg on why I am against Titan AE. Titan AE should not have been made in the first place. I look forward to the movie Interstellar which will open in November 2014. I would much rather watch Star Wars Episode I The Phantom Menace than Titan AE.My beef with Titan AE is that this movie views the pointless destruction of Earth by the Drej and aggressive war alike although portrayed as villainous in the film as a thrill ride. I know that both destroying for no good reason and war are not trill rides. Newsflash Titan AE, war is not a game and destroying Earth for silly reasons is not a thrill ride. Contact provided a real movie thrill ride in the scene where Ellie traveled through wormholes to far-off places in the universe. Titan AE is not even a mildly underrated; let alone criminally underrated as some of its fans claim, it deserved to flunk the box office since it is highly illogical, poorly written, selfish, stupid, and asinine. "},{"Title":"  What are you going to call the planet?   I am going to call it . . . . . .Bob! ","Date":"4 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Audiences have seen and enjoyed other works by Film Animator, Don Bluth such as 'The Secret of Nimh', 'Land Before Time and An American Tale.' Enormously popular, Bluth and writer Hans Bauer now offer this film call  Titan A. E.  It's colorful majesty is only surpassed by a wonderful story about Earth in the year 3028 A.D., when it is maliciously attacked by the dreaded Drej. Realizing there is but one chance for the Planet, Professor Sam Tucker (Ron Perlman), sends his son Cale (Matt Damon) to safety, along with the last Vestiges of the human race. With the planet destroyed, Cale is left to fend for himself and fifteen years later finds himself working on a salvage station, where he meets a girl called Akima (Drew Barrymore). He is further befriended by Capt. Joseph Korso (Bill Pullman) and his strange crew, Gune (John Leguizamo), Preed (Nathan Lane) and Stith (Janeane Garofalo.) The lot then have to travel across the Galaxy and ahead of their mortal enemy in search of the lost ship Titan. The movie is a delightful combination of both location and humorous exchanges between the friendly aliens and the last of the Human race. Filled with space age fun, visual scenery and explosive special effect, this film is a delight to behold and should garner for Bluth and company, yet another Classic movie. Easilly recommended for the entire family. **** "},{"Title":"A thrill-ride from start to finish, with amazing visuals to boot","Date":"26 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Ever since I saw the trailers for this, I've wanted to watch it. I guess the reason this was overlooked(prompting the abandonment of the planned video-game... boy, would I have liked to play that!) was that it was not done in 3D... let me assure you, I enjoy visuals that take the viewer in as much as the next guy, and I hold little attachment to the classic style of animation, 2D... and I was continually impressed with what they managed for this film. Granted, some is 2D, but much of it is 3D, and the 2D still moves fast. The two blend together remarkably well... think Futurama. The plot isn't bad, if it is, admittedly, a relatively simple premise(though don't think that everything is as it seems), but it works, and the film is actually quite engaging. The pacing is really good, the film neither speeds out of control nor slows down to the point of ever becoming dull. The action is very cool... the film is exciting and intense throughout. The soundtrack consists mostly of rock music, which I suppose not everyone will care for... but I thought it fit well, and the choices were good. There are excellent visuals and ideas found in this. The casting is great. Damon, Barrymore, Pullman, Nathan Who moved the rock?! Lane... all fit and work well. Garofalo is surly as ever. Leguizamo is, unsurprisingly, a marvelous weirdo alien. The characters are magnificent, another of the great things the film has going for it. Dialog is clever(without trying too hard to be) and smooth. The tone and contents are relatively safe for all, so this can be viewed by pretty much anyone, any age, without it being cutesy or otherwise irritating to those who, well, aren't children. The few jokes that are for more mature audiences are sufficiently vague that they, whilst having those who have at least reached their teen years chuckling, will merely have the kids scratching their heads. There's no actual violence, but it doesn't feel like it's missing, either. I thoroughly enjoyed this film. The one thing one could argue is that it's somewhat simple, and that the characters could have had more focus put on them, though they are rather well-developed. The DVD has some extras that are worth your time if you enjoyed the film. I recommend this to any fan of sci-fi action, the actors and/or visual feasts. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Joss Wedon's blend of heart and razor-edge should have been unmistakable...","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I always like Titan AE, but didn't realize it was a Wedon project until I linked to it from his page here at IMDb.Joss Wedon is master of writing heart and soul -- and, I'll say it, WHOLESOMENESS -- into difficult plot situations and narrative treatments of thorny issues. Humanity seems to have a paradoxical need for sweetness combined with an instinctual revulsion to its representation in dramatic characters and situations. I don't think our distaste for wholesomeness is 'modern' or recent, and in that sense, Wedon's penetration of that veil of revulsion for it is likely to stand him as a maker of time-tested classics.This one might not be quite a classic, but it's the kind of quality stuff that makes you stop fearing the evil in the world and think how cool it would be to take a 10-year-old child to see this... "},{"Title":"Far out...no pun intended","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie was well done, indeed. Considering that it is the possibly first ever film to be a animated and science fiction is quite a feat for the film industry itself. The story is that of a youth out in the middle of what seems to be a space station which most have forsaken, and after the ending of the Earth as a whole. In time, he is taken with a ragtag crew of characters who are out to find a craft somewhere in space which can restore Earth and save the Human race. With several funny moments and unforgettable characters, this film certainly isn't going to be forgotten, though good as it was, it had a small multitude of flaws. There were some elements which some fans may find a disappointment. There were some moments which were fairly uncanny, but in short, save for those small moments, the film was excellent. "},{"Title":"One of the best animated movies!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After reading all the bad critics about this movie, I decided to make up my own opinion!WOW WHAT A GREAT ANIMATED MOVIE!I don't understand why this movie earned such incredibly bad critics, because everything on this movie is great! The animations, the story, the characters and the music are a real blow out!If you have the chance to see it, just go for it! If you want more information just look for the first comment for this movie here on Imdb! "},{"Title":"bleah","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I don't understand why this has so many high votes.  It was simply awful. Unless you are 15 or younger, this movie's awful plot and lack of characters will drive you absolutely mad.  There are so many contrived scenes that its unbearable.  Pure formula, without much to redeem it but the occasional great drawing.  The scene on the hydrogen planet is quite good, but the rest of the movie is awful.  The evil characters have absolutely no meaning, no motivation, and there is no way to understand them.  They are just pure evil but nowhere near as cool as terminator, the agents in the matrix, the sith in star wars, or other relatively one-dimensional evils that managed to be great.  Please, do not watch this movie under any circumstance. Chris Anderson. "},{"Title":"3 directors and 5 writers and this is the best they could come up with?","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This lacks any real quality and has more plot holes than plot.The characters personalities are all clichés and the designs of them are bland and boring.The actors do what they can but there is a limit to how much impact the voices can have.The animation is average to poor, average in the big scenes and poor in the dialogue scenes where the characters mouth and head movements are so over drawn they'd get whiplash and lock jaw if they were real people! Maybe children will enjoy it but even they should find the plot simplistic and unbelievable. "},{"Title":"My favorite animation movie","Date":"5 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Titan A.E. is one of the movies I can watch over and over, it puts me in a place where I only focus on the movie, it drags me in. It is my favorite animation ever, in any category. Don Bluth caught my attention early in my childhood with his magical competence of bringing more life to animation, this movie is just empowering this memory. Following Cale and Akima is a joyful journey, it has so much content that a science-fiction-lover hopes to find in the movie-universe. In a way it has elements that connects it to Firefly, Stargate, Pirate Planet and even Pandorum. Those have components I see as the content that makes a scifi-lover tick. With voices from Matt Damon, Bill Pullman, Drew Barrymore, John Leguizamo and more you are bound for a lifetime experience. For me it was pure magic. "},{"Title":"Fantastic film very underrated","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Great animation, solid voice acting and original plot and story. Titan A.E. needs to be seen to be appreciated. Don't pass up a chance to watch this visually stunning film that also brings good story substance. The characters are well developed and captivating and well thought out. One of the best sci fi animation attempts I've ever seen. If you are a star wars I suggest you check out this movie it is fun to watch but also has a wonderful seriousness to it which is refreshing as not to make the film too campy to enjoy. This movie is a go to for myself and family as it is a film that is enjoyable more than once and a perfect movie to enjoy whether alone, with someone special or even a family movie night. "},{"Title":"A testament to animation and its limitless realm of infinite visual possibilities","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The name Don Bluth doesn't mean anything to a generation of kids raised on the previously unimaginable visual beauty and thematic potency boasted by each Pixar release every year, but prior to that, Bluth's animated works were an oddity of their own. In the 1980's and 1990's, Bluth's projects, no matter how strange or out of place, always seemed to be greenlit. He's responsible for giving my generation beloved home video classics like The Secret of NIMH, The Land Before Time, and even All Dogs Go to Heaven. Despite those films not boasting record box office office numbers initially, they went on to be classics and have spawned their own line of sequels, particularly The Land Before Time.Bluth's formula seemed to be give it time; eventually, his films would find their desired audience once that same audience convinced their parents to rent or buy the VHS tape after having failed to live up to their promise of taking them to see the respective film during the initial theatrical run. This is likely what kept Bluth working into the new century after repeated box office failures; despite costly studio efforts that have the ability to roll eyes just by titles like Rock-A-Doodle and Thumbelina, Bluth kept on pursuing his visions, most likely with studio-heads still possessing the mindset that Bluth's films would be hits in due time.With the inception of Fox Animation Studios by Bluth and frequent collaborator Gary Goldman, Bluth had a whole new playground on which to operate. His next move and the studio's debut would be Anastasia, Bluth's first box office hit in years, one strong enough to make his studio look to have a lot of potential. That's when his fate was sealed with Titan A.E., debatably the biggest cinematic risk in his filmography. Titan A.E. was stylistically, thematically, and fundamentally different from his previous films; unlike the music-heavy, cartoony look of his previous works, this was a darker, more violent film that combined the slick palette styles of anime with the traditionalist principles of hand-drawn animation to create something that was visually unique and resembled a graphic novel.Fox was convinced the project was promising enough to funnel more than $90 million into the production alone, plus God knows how much in the marketing department. Bluth's biggest risk ended up being a devastating financial blow to the studio, barely meriting a third of its production budget back, and scaling Bluth's studio far enough back before it was shuttered later in 2000. Bluth's studio closed basically as soon as it opened and Titan A.E., as well as Bluth in some respect, went on to be a curious piece of history.Titan A.E. isn't a mind-blowingly elaborate animated film, but its charm and its energy is undeniable. Taking place in 3028 A.D., humankind has found a way to perfect space travel and intergalactic communication with an invention called Project Titan. When the device is first used, however, it awakens the Drej, an energy-based alien species who begin to attack Earth with intent on wiping out the human race. When the Titan's lead scientist is killed in combat, he sends his son to the evacuation ship to seek safety.Fifteen years later, the story focuses on the son, Cale (voiced by Matt Damon), who is working in a salvage yard. He is eventually found by Joseph Korso (Bill Pullman), the captain of the Valkyrie spaceship, who reveals that a map to his father's original project. In order for humanity to regain control of its planet, or at least have the means to start a new one, all the fate lies in Cale obtaining the Titan, and after being joined by the beautiful Akima Kunimoto (Drew Barrymore), it's difficult for him to refuse, especially when the Drej have turned to using incredible violence in roder to remain in control.As mentioned, the animation in Titan A.E. is slick and stylish; characters are drawn sharply and in a manner that highlights their physical features with great artistry. It reminds me of Atlantis The Lost Empire, which would open theatrically under Disney's impenetrable umbrella to mixed reviews and middling box office returns, that also showed extreme desire to break free from the time-specific confines of animation to be something new, exciting, and impacting. These kinds of films appealed to another kind of young child, but that young child didn't seem to discover these respective films until they were much older, perhaps even college-aged, like myself.With that, nothing about Titan A.E. is particularly special; its characters are painfully average archetypes, its plot-points are foreseeable, and its character-chemistry is forced in many aspects, particularly the love interest between Cale and Akima. The reason I'm recommending it, however, is that this film features some seriously skilled art direction and enthralling action sequences that remind us why animation is such a wonderful medium. Bluth and Goldman work to remind us that the ostensibly unimaginable can be achieved through the medium, and effectively make most of the film's weight rest on the competence of the animation team rather than the screenplay by a trio of writers (one of them, Buffy the Vampire Slayer's Joss Whedon).Needless to say, with the challenge the animators had presented in front of them - make an action-adventure film with the visual depth and potency of a computer-generated project in-line with Pixar under the guidelines and abilities of traditional, hand-drawn animation - they did a wonderful job. Titan A.E. is far from narratively perfect, but it's a beautiful film in size and scope, and works to remind many of us, especially Bluth, who has had a fairly dormant film career since the closing of his studio that is looking to be revived with a Kickstarter and Indiegogo campaign, interesting failures will always be more fascinating than modest or unambitious successes. "},{"Title":"Already feeling nostalgic about this movie.","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Wow, released in 2000? Was it really that long ago. I remember being in high school when this came out, and I loved it. I was just watching the Wake Angels scene on YouTube with the band Red song overlapping it, the one called So Far Away. The chorus of the song matches the video perfect. Came over to IMDb to see what kind of rating the movie gets, and was really disappointed that it only got a 6.6 rating. I still love this movie, even if nostalgia plays into my 8 out of 10 rating. The movie isn't perfect, but it is captivating, a quality I find difficult to find in many movies made these days. Sci-fi fans really need to give this one a shot, I think most of you would really enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Amazing Animation","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Years ago I went to the movies just to see a show. I didn't care what it was just as long as it was age appropriate and killed a bit of time. So I watched this movie. I was not disappointed. I found myself being sucked into the story and the plot. I think of that day as a turning point in my life in how I view animation. It seemed to me more life like than anything I've ever seen before.The plot is easy enough to follow if you pay attention. Probably not good for young children just because they might find it difficult to follow. As an adult though its easy and enjoyable. It's an amazing piece of science fiction and I can honestly say I never regretted the day I walked into that theater. "}{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Titan A.E.If aliens ever blow up Earth at least it'll make us feel less guilty over poisoning it for centuries.So the surviving humans in this animated-adventure must sure feel absolved.Fifteen years after Earth was eradicated by the Drej, a salvage worker on a barrage, Cale (Matt Damon), is accosted by a starship captain (Bill Pullman) who insists the map in Cale's ring will lead him and his crew (Drew Barrymore, John Leguizamo, Nathan Lane, Janeane Garofalo) to a device Cale's father invented that can create a new Earth.But with traitors aboard the Valkyrie, Cale must make sure the planet producing machine's location is not divulged to the relentless Drej.First-rate renderings and a roller-coaster script, this underrated Don Bluth directed space-opera introduces viewers to some spectacular worlds and intriguing new life forms.And while we're at it why not make a second new Earth just for our garbage.Green Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"fun ride but questionable simplistic quest","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It's 3028 A.D. Earth is attacked by the Drej, aliens of pure energy. Hundreds of ships manage to escape before the earth is destroyed. Cale is separated from his father Professor Sam Tucker who saves the spaceship Titan. Sam gives him a ring which is a map to find Titan. Tucker was the lead researcher on Project Titan which is feared by the Drej. 15 years later, Cale is working on a salvage station with other aliens. Humanity is reduced to lower class citizens. Joseph Korso, captain of the Valkyrie, finds Cale and his ring to search for Titan, humanity's last hope.The blend of traditional hand drawn animation and CGI works well mostly. The best is the ice crystal world. The hide-and-seek game inside the crystal is both exhilarating and visionary. In general, the story is a little too simplistic with questionable plot lines. Why would the father give the key to the ship to his son? Why couldn't the father do what the son ended up doing? If the father figure out how to build Titan, couldn't he build simple weapons against the Drej? Wouldn't it be simpler to build contraptions that sucks up Drej energy? The whole quest seems manufactured. The simple story has some rip-roaring fun. The characters are interesting. The evil aliens are formidable. The animation is interesting. I don't like the use of rock music. Overall it's a fun ride but not that compelling. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film with a hollow center","Date":"4 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Don Bluth's films are equally as distinct in their look as Disney or Ghibli films. Especially the character designs and their facial expressions are easily recognizable, sympathetic and filled with personality. Unfortunately, somewhere down the line Bluth has lost his touch with storytelling. Most of his earlier films became instant classics because they were unwilling to pull the punches, filled to the brim with dark imagery, heavy themes and unforgettable story lines.The same cannot be said about his later films, Titan A.E. being one of them. It's certainly kid-friendly, not that it's a compliment in this case. It's also rather unoriginal, the characters are forgettable and, even worse, predictable, and as a whole it doesn't leave much of an impact.It looks great, don't get me wrong. The animation, topnotch, despite the limitations of a smaller studio. It seamlessly mixes hand-drawn animation with computer effects, being one of the first films to do so to this scale, the character designs are interesting, shying away from the usual humans with rubber foreheads designs and the animation itself if smooth and nice to look at.The problem is that I don't identify with the characters or their story. The script borrows heavily from science fiction clichés, all of the characters are textbook cutouts with no surprises and the villains lack impact. They're creepy-looking, but that's about it. And the quest is the quest all these movies seem to have. An orphan, hating his parents for leaving him alone in the cold, cold world, finds out that the memento he has is the key to some huge mystery that could be a great force for either good or evil... and you pretty much already know how it's going to play out, don't you.I've seen worse family movies than Titan A.E. It's by no means a movie you shouldn't show to your kids. What it lacks is an identity, an edge, that would separate it from its peers. As it is, watch it if you're interested, but if you're really looking for a good scifi family animation, might I suggest Disney's Treasure Planet. "},{"Title":"Pretty solid visuals, but it is lacking in the other areas","Date":"4 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Titan A.E. has some interesting ideas but there are too many characters that simply aren't interesting and the plot isn't involving enough to make you care. The premise is that Earth has been destroyed by the Drej, an evil race of aliens. The remnants of humanity are now scattered across the stars, doing their best to survive among the multitude of other species found in the infinite galaxies. Our hero Cale (voiced by Matt Damon) is the son of an inventor who promised to deliver a way to fight back against the Drej, but disappeared right after Earth was destroyed. When he meets a crew of explorers, including Captain Joseph Korso (Bill Pullman), love interest Akima (voiced by Drew Barrymore) and the aliens Preed (Nathan Lane), weapons expert Stith (Janeane Garofalo) and inventor Gune (John Leguizamo), they embark on a journey that is full of danger, but is humanity's only hope.With the earth being destroyed and humanity clinging on only the smallest shreds of hope in a galaxy where the friends are scarce, the stakes here are high. Somehow though, there's not a lot of tension because the characters aren't really developed. The main villains hate humans and want to destroy Earth for no reason. They're literally just bad guys that show up, attack Earth Death Star-style and are never explored any further. Do any of the other alien cultures object to their behavior? Did the humans stumble upon some kind of weapon that could be used against the Drej? You never find out. When it comes to the crew of the ship that comes looking for Cale, they don't have much personality beyond the surface. The nerdy looking Gune, the one with glasses, is socially awkward and wacky. The strong aggressive female Stith is... strong and aggressive. The human female is (predictably) the love interest, which means she is cold towards our hero at first but warms up to him as the plot moves on. My problem isn't the romance angle. I don't fault the characters for being attracted to each other almost immediately because all of these aliens are pretty ugly. It's just that this movie's story is pretty bland and that the characters are just way too familiar to get you very invested. Take the reluctant protagonist. He's told that he holds the key to saving humanity! He could be a hero and get out of the dumpy space station where nobody likes him! Is he excited at the idea? Not at all. His too cool attitude means he's always making snarky remarks until he finally gets into the spirit of saving the world (but only after some pretty big disastrous developments). It's not all bad. If you look in the credits you might notice that Joss Whedon worked on the script and once in a while you can recognize some hints of what this movie could have been. It's just bogged down with too many typical 90's sci-fi moments and tropes.On the plus side, there are some alien worlds that are pretty creative and make for some cool moments. On the planet Sesharrim, these hydrogen-filled plants and it's bat-like inhabitants work really well for example. There are also some exciting chases scenes throughout. Most impressive by far are the scenes set in the ice rings of the Andali Nebula. They play with the idea that the place is filled with reflective surfaces and that there's so much debris that at any second they could all be crushed very well. The visuals are quite good and there are many moments where they look genuinely inspired. The film uses computer animation extensively and most of the time I thought it blended well, but once in a while, it clashed badly. It looks like most of the teams working on the film were really talented and one just wasn't very good at all because there is one particular scene towards the end where the CGI looks downright awful.Overall I have been saying mostly mixed things about the film. The ratio of good to bad segments is about 32. It makes the movie more of a disappointment than an actual bad movie because I can see what people like about it. My biggest problem is that there are many plot conveniences or moments that don't make any sense. I have to ask once again how come there are no consequences to this alien race wandering around and destroying alien home worlds without provocation? Why is it that with the dozens of different alien species we see, none of them have banded together to fight off such a huge menace? Why is an incredibly crucial artifact, one so important the fate of the human race depends on it, given to a four year old without any instructions? Why, when there is a secret plan that could really create some turmoil within the crew, are only a few members aware of it? Why is it that the Drej use prisons that don't keep anyone in or out of them? Visually the movie has a lot going on and it gets props for not pulling its punches and actually showing characters get hurt, bleed and die but often that's all it has going. While young audiences that may not question the plot so much will enjoy the film, adults will find it flat. I really wanted to give the movie a shot, having seen it once and not finding it particularly special, but even upon repeat viewings, with lower expectations I just kept finding more problems with it. The music used in the film for example, is downright terrible. Just generic 90's pop over and over. No big orchestral score to get us pumped for the action at all. I'm going to give the film a 2,5/5. Higher than my previous rating because honestly, the movie is fun to watch, it's just not particularly memorable. (2,5 / 5, May 16, 2014)(2/5 DVD, January 11, 2013) "},{"Title":"Very interesting film.","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This film was co-produced by the same guy who did The Land Before Time and you'll actually see familiar elements between the two. Picture, if you will, Disney's Treasure Planet mixed with the violence of a mild Naruto episode and you pretty much have the movie. It was worth a watch for sure. There is some really great animation in some parts and you sometimes feel like you're right in the cockpit of one of the spaceships. The soundtrack felt very forced at times, lyrics not really fitting what was going on in the scene and some fitting too well, like the song has only been written for the particular scene. There were many lame jokes, but also a couple funny ones. There seems to not have been a target audience, which was the biggest downfall of the film and which is why I think it did poorly at the box office. Rated PG, though with all the blood splatter and general dark feeling of the film, I'd rate it PG-13. This was a very interesting movie and certainly different in style from many of the animated films of its time. Overall, 7/10. "},{"Title":"Titan A.E. - Average Entertainment","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Titan A.E. is very similar to Disney's Atlantis The Lost Empire and Treasure Planet (And to a lesser extent, Dreamwork's Road to El Dorado). All three are early 2000 American sci-fi 2D animated films where a rag-tag team uncover a great mystery and journey into a fantastic world(s). They were also the last nails in the coffin for American, big-budget, traditional animation. Now, we only have 3D digital animation in our theaters.It'd be more tragic if they were actually good. VThe problem with this triple feature is that they're too mature to be good family movies, but too derivative to be good adult movies. Titan A.E. is far from a masterpiece. Its a passable sci-fi film at best.The animation is good. And in terms of scope, few western animations bother to be this ambitious. Too bad its plot offers nothing original to the table. The characters have all been done before - the hot-headed, athletic male lead, the female love interest, the guy whose in it for the money, the wacky scientist, and the evil, evil, evil alien villains. While everything has already been done, Titan A.E. lacks depth, and creativity beyond the aesthetic.Okay, maybe I'm being too harsh on the film. Like others, I did grow up with it. My family checked it out multiple times from the local library. It was pretty cool when I was, like, 9. And quite a few have good memories of the three. So maybe they aren't bad family films after all. They are never insufferable, and can be adventurous. exciting, even magical...from a kid's point of view. You won't be frustrated by watching this with your children. But, considering all the movies that are out there, do you need to limit yourself to just these three? I dunno.Going in alone? It depends on your tolerance for the typical, and love of animated art. If you're fine in either category, you should check this out, plus the others. I'm not a huge fan, but I have some sort of respect. But if you're seeking more, I'm afraid Titan A.E. doesn't deliver. "},{"Title":"Seriously underrated","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" In the midst of the animation war in which studios seem to be competing to dethrone Disney as the animation champ, Don Bluth's 'Titan A.E.' is the first theatrical that reaches for the anime audience. It is a work of great imagination in the spirit of 'Star Wars'.'Titan A.E.' is an incredibly ambitious space opera that not only looks good but gives us a story that is worth telling. In the year 3028, earth is destroyed by the fearsome Drej, a race of aliens that fear man's superiority. One of the survivors is a little boy named Cale who has a map in the palm of his hand that will lead him to The Titan. What's on the Titan? The movie leaves that little gem a secret until the end.Ten years pass and we find Cale living a miserable life working on a junk ship. He is approached by Korso (Bill Pullman), a ship captain, who can help him use the map to find the Titan. Also along for the journey is a pilot named Akima (voice of Drew Barrymore) who collects artifacts from earth and Gune and Preed a pair of aliens not a million miles removed from R2-D2 and C3PO.My favorite species was the vile Drej, a race of glowing blue insects which seem made of electricity. Just the look of them alone and you know what trouble our heroes were in (and I for one was glad to see at least one alien race that did not speak English).Their mission takes them millions of miles across the universe to various planets one more awesome looking then the next. This is one of the best looking science fiction movies I have ever seen. There are moments where I sat staring at the sights with my mouth open. Space in this film is not dead hostile blackness with pinholes in the distance. The vibrant color schemes, the red and yellow gas clouds spanning the length of the universe make space seem to pulse with life.Seemingly inspired by the painting of Chestley Bonestell, there are planetscapes here that are pure works of art. One of the most amazing has a red coated surface with gigantic bubble membranes of heat and gas. Bust one and you'll be ashes.There is the hull of the enemy Drej ship all cold blue and gray and everything seemingly run by bolts of electricity. But the highpoint is a scene inside the rings of Trigrin, enormous chunks of ice which float and smash together and which our heroes get caught up in a game of hide and seek using their multiple reflections to fool their enemies. The sound effects allows these glaciers to creak and groan uncomfortably. These great images are an example of what talented animators have the freedom to create.I was never bored for a moment, the action is more then just gunfights and fistfights and explosions. There are throwaway moments there that took me by surprise (a group of angel-like space dolphins). This was the first science fiction movie that I have seen in a long time that I didn't feel were written for a ten year old audience (much like 'Independence Day' and 'Starship Troopers').Don Bluth is one of my favorite animators but for a long time his work fell way below what he was capable of. Three years ago he created the vastly underrated 'Anastasia' and it was hailed as a comeback. I think 'Titan A.E.' is just as good and signals his return. "},{"Title":"Very, very good","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I never saw Titan AE in a theater but I remember discovering the DVD, half- hidden between B or C movies whose titles I didn't notice. But I noticed Titan AE because I'm a SF fan. So I bought the DVD and lo! What a catch! I wondered why this movie never caught the attention of the public, then I saw what the critics said of it and I realized once again what damage can ignorant people with connections can do to a product.Since then I've watched it several times alone or with my kids and I warmly recommend it to you today.The spaceship Walkyrie is one of the sexiest I've ever seen and looks like it's built for speed -it is- and the scene of planet creation is literally out of this world. Characters are well built and the dialogs are sometimes surprisingly profound.You'll enjoy this one I promise. It is one of those forgotten gems that'll make you feel like you've just found something not everybody knows about. "},{"Title":"Titan A.E.","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I had heard the title of this animated film a few times, I knew it was a space movie of some sort, but I didn't anything about the stars providing their voices, the plot or story, or that it was from animation director Don Bluth (An American Tail, The Land Before Time) and co- director Gary Goldman (Anastacia). Basically the year 3028 A.D. humanity has interacted with several species of aliens from across the galaxy and mastered deep space travel, but an antagonist alien race called the Drej are alarmed by a human invention called Project Titan, they attack, Earth is close to destruction, so the project lead researcher Professor Sam Tucker (Ron Perlman) puts his young son Cale (Home Alone 3's Alex D. Linz) on an evacuation ship with his alien friend Tek, while the father and other team members fly the Titan spacecraft into hyperspace. Following the destruction of Earth most surviving humans have become nomads, generally ridiculed by other species, and fifteen years later grown up Cale Tucker (Matt Damon) works in a salvage yard in the Tau 14 asteroid belt, and he meets humans Captain Joseph Korso (Bill Pullman) and female pilot Akima (Drew Barrymore) on the ship Valkyrie, and with their technology they reveal Cale's ring contains an encoded map to the Titan, which many be humanity's only chance of recovery, and the Drej want him dead before he can find it. The map is interpreted on the planet Sesharrim by the bat-like 'Gaoul, the Titan is in the Andali Nebula, but before the journey can begin to reach it the Drej fighters capture Cale and Akima, they eventually let Akima go and extract the map to the Titan from Cale, the pair are rescued and rejoin their crew. It is later though while visiting the human space station 'New Bangkok' that the pair discover Korso and his alien assistant Preed (Nathan Lane) are working alongside the Drej to find the Titan to destroy it and get a great money payment, they are then stranded, but the with help of the station colonists Cale and Akima pursue the villains to the Titan, which they discover has the ability to create an Earth-like planet, with all animal and plant life, it is only missing the energy to start the process. Preed is killed trying to start the heroes, Cale and Korso and fight as the villain tries to seize the ring, the Drej show up to attack but are diverted by the remaining crew on Valkyrie, and Cale uses the modified Titan energy beam to fire at the Drej mothership, Korso also sacrifices himself, the Drej are vaporised, and new the Earth-like planet is created, Cale suggests they call it Bob, Akima suggests New Earth, and it ends with alien friends leaving them in peace and all remaining human colonies approaching the new planet to settle. Also starring John Leguizamo as Gune, Janeane Garofalo as Stith, Tone Loc as Tek and Jim Breuer as The Cook. All the stars seem to have been chosen well for the character voices, and the story is full of interesting concepts about survival and co-operation, the animation is obviously the most charming part to the film, like all other Bluth films, but this was the first to combine computer animation as well, which means plenty of cool looking machinery and explosive action sequences in space, it all adds up to fun animated science-fiction adventure. Very good! "},{"Title":"A Decent Enough If Not Spetacular Film","Date":"20 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The sci fi plot and animated visual effects for its time are decent enough, but nothing that stands out today, though the extended icicle formation and crashing scene remains a unique and fascinating experience in and of itself. The characters are two-dimensional, the plot is the usual good guy, bad guy, betrayal, man meets women scenario. Animation has accelerated immensely in the past decade and the character development and plots have become even more relational and deeper since. 3-D and the rich detailed texture has bumped this animated sci fi movie into the backwaters of visual design while the storyline that purports no real new original advances except for perhaps the pure energy beings though in that sci fi element would take a new innovative presentation, if not completely successful in Final Fantasy The Spirits Within (2001) and then Avatar (2009) would come out that would set an entirely new bar for technical visualization of sci fi movies. Other gritty graphic sci fi movies that would break the mold include Sin City (2005)and WALL*E (2008). Nor does this movie nor most sci fi animations have had the imagination and creativity that has been rarely exceeded by the animation classics La Planete sauvage (1973) and Spirited Away (2001) or the emotive and humanely relevant storyline of The Incredibles (2004). "}{"Title":"An underrated animated adventure","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" 'Titan A.E.' came with a large media blitz&#x97;and a lot of merchandise. Unfortunately it was a massive flop, quickly disappearing from theaters while all of that merchandise languished on shelves.I watched it when it hit video back in the good 'ol days of VHS (kids, look it up) and I wasn't exactly blown away. Sure I thought it was snazzy to look at, but I found it to be otherwise forgettable. Fast forward to 2013. I had bought a used VHS copy of 'Titan A.E.' at a thrift store for .49 cents a few years ago and had been saving a re-watch for a rainy day. Today was that day.While still not a classic, 'Titan A.E.' remains impressive visually, and the story&#x97;a hodgepodge of ideas from better films&#x97;is held together with a nice energy, some snappy dialog and a game cast to deliver it. It deserved a better fate, and is worth a watch for anyone in the mood for a fast-paced sci-fi adventure. "},{"Title":"A great flick and my personal favorite","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" At first when I heard about this movie, I was hesitant in going to see it. I wanted about a year and I finally got the confidence to sit down and watch this movie. Now, I love it! Despite how it did in theaters, I thought it was a masterpiece. Not the best animated flick but good all around. The story was good, the animation was amazing and the voice acting was pretty damn good. Matt Damon, Drew Barrymore and Bill Pullman all did great jobs bringing their characters to life in this post apocalyptic, beyond the stars adventure. What I really liked about this movie was the music. It was bad-ass! Music from LIT, and Powerman 5000 just put it over the top for me. I was a little disappointed like everyone else, no Creed was on the soundtrack nor Vertical Horizon. There were a few moments that I thought didn't fit or just didn't like but the presentation is great! My hats go to the Animators (even though the studio is no more) Overall, 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Certainly not as compelling as Secret of NIMH, but one of Bluth's better films","Date":"9 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I liked Bluth's previous works from the 80s. Secret of NIMH, An American Tail, and The Land Before Time were masterpieces while All Dogs go to Heaven, while not nearly as excellent, was at least heartwarming.Rock-A-Doodle, Thumbelina, and The Pebble and the Penguin were quite decent despite their own problems with their stories while A Troll in Central Park, although not Bluth's worst movie ever made, wasn't sadly as good due to the storyline's predictability and cutesy filler. While Anastasia made a great comeback to Bluth's career, he made another great film which was met to mixed reviews and leading to it's failure at the box office, but has then got a cult following since 12 years have passed. The biggest problem to this film's failure is it's marketing. It left people confused to whether or not it was made for kids or for sci-fi crowds and I understand the reason why.To those who read my John Carter review about that film's marketing being terrible as well should know that it was quite different than Titan AE's marketing. It should've added Based on the books by Edgar Rice Burroughs and it should've attracted not only people, but to fans of his works. Despite that, however, I liked the film because of it's own merits and with that said, I also like this as well as that film. Sure, it's not as excellent as Secret of NIMH or his previous hits like An American Tail and Land Before Time, but like Anastasia, it's one of his better works from the late 90s to the early 2000s.The story/script, although not the greatest, was at least interesting and the concept, which is quite similar to Star Wars in which people think it might be a rip-off, but not exactly, is beyond terrific. The characters are likable especially Cale, Korso, Akima, and their sidekicks Gune, Stith, and Preed were great too thanks to a brilliant voice cast like Matt Damon, Bill Pullman, Drew Barrymore, Janeane Garofolo, John Leguizamo, and Nathan Lane. There are other redeeming qualities including it's perfect pacing, it's heart-pounding and thrilling action sequences, and it's excellent soundtrack and music from Greame Ravell, but the strongest aspect goes to the animation. It has dynamic visuals and it's excellent detail on the Drej, the enemy of the movie, along with the army. Even the look of the ship along with Titan AE is beautiful to look at.Before I end this review, I looked up the screenwriter of the film named Joss Whedon, who also wrote the screenplay for Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Alien Resurrection, and Disney/Pixar's Toy Story and would later direct films including this year's The Avengers. With that said, Titan AE does have it's terrible marketing and it's mixed reception when it first came out, but I think that this is one of Don Bluth's better works and it's sad to see that the direction has got nothing else to do to make another film. It may not be a masterpiece, but I think that this deserves a lot more recognition. "},{"Title":"Good, with reservations","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This animated feature, helmed by Disney renegade turned indie Don Bluth, has quite a lot going for it. In particular it is excellent eye candy and features an excellent blend of traditional hand drawn animation and CGI backgrounds and artefacts, together with decent vocal performances.The plot, however, is less satisfactory. While it is adequate, it still gives rise to a number of questions which are never satisfactorily resolved, not least of which is why the Drej (who appear to be massively technologically superior to mankind) fear humanity, and not other races, to the extent they have to wipe them out. There are assorted other questions of that type (what did xxx hope to gain by his betrayal? Is the secret of the incredibly important Titan really only that it terraforms?) and the lack of resolution leaves a vaguely unsatisfactory feeling.The other concern is who exactly was the movie aimed at? Kids? Adults? Sci-fi fans? Animation fans? The area where these groups overlap is, I suspect, not very big, which may be why this movie didn't do very well. "},{"Title":"Funny how things change...","Date":"18 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" What is amusing is that now, 2011, this film is a bona fide cult movie! Go look it up if you don't believe me - why not try Googling 'Titan AE cult movie' (or whatever, your choice of wording, and search engine, of course.) - so a lot of these comments seem just, well, pointless. What a difference 11 years can make. CGI is now part of just about every film, whether they mention it or not, and there's even a lot of subtle(and just as many not-so-subtle)touches on everyday TV...and this movie helped the process. It was one of the first to try the blend of 2D and 3D animation for general, non-niche marketing release, and at least it didn't use the same old 'Humans are the best race in the Universe' trope. Now you know who to thank/blame!  ) "},{"Title":"Good story, voices; but terrible soundtrack, so-so animation","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Titan AE could've used some major refinishing and editing. The story is pretty interesting, and the characters are distinctive and likable; it has some funky, blue, made-of-energy bad guys that are sort an interesting concept but lacking villainy really. The voice actors led by Matt Damon in general are fun - supporting voices are good too with exception of Barrymore, whom I don't much care for. The 2 problems here are one major and one moderate. The moderate one is in general good background blending and motion animation, but at times terrible character animation with close surroundings - especially on closer-ups and changing of perspectives. Looked like they had nailed down the look of space-crafts and outdoor/other-world drawing and animation, but blew it at times with basic lead character drawings. The result is mixed. The blundering problem is the choice of sort of pop-rockish mini-songs littered throughout accumulating like garbage trying to rev-up audiences. I started wondering what the point was and figured the filmmakers were too lazy or thought it hip then it started getting so bad that I'd fast-forward on cue,....so this was no fault of the voice actors. Anyway, it's not a bad animation flick by any stretch, just sort of a mixed one that could've hit its mark with some cleaning up, editing, and management of the soundtrack! "},{"Title":"Interesting ideas, crappy music","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I finally taped Titan AE off HBO and watched it later. Loved the concept, liked the animation (the ice ring bit was fantastic). Character development was adequate.Two things bugged me about this movie.1. The Drej. OK, they are bad, and blew up the planet. But exactly what are they afraid of? Several references to the Drej fearing what humanity could become. Uh, what, overweight celebrity stalkers? There is no indication of what this fear is. Did the Drej think humanity bred too much and would overwhelm the universe? Would humanity evolve into energy beings and threaten the Drej? How come no one else seems to be threatened by humanity? And do the Drej blow up other planets because they fear something? I could never get the bad guys set in my mind because they seemed to just be passing through.2. The music. OK, I know the movie was aimed at teens, but sheesh, a space drama with bad 80s metal rock. I fast-forwarded my video every time a gratuitous music scene came on. It was just too much. If this movie had had normal movie music it would have been much,much better. As it is, I can see it playing at some midnight show for years.Overall, I give Titan AE a 6. A good start. Let's see move attempts. "},{"Title":"Not the best in the genre","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just rented this movie when I saw it in the store, and I was actually expecting a bit of a cool action movie, but there were somethings that let me down. First of all I noticed at a very early stage that the animation and special effects didn't mix at all. It looked corny seeing an animated character peeking out through a incredibly detailed CGI space ship. And therefor this movie has a pretty corny look throughout the whole film. Big mistake.Second The alien CGI monsters (Dreejs or something) didn't look all that incredible. actually they looked like they were taken directly out of a computer game from 1998 or something, and their ships weren't all that detailed either, like all the other ships in this movie.Third The action scenes missed something, I don't know what it was, but they were simply not very interesting.Fourth The characters were like ripped off from a Disney movie. At least most of them. And many elements of this movie have been seen one-hundred times in Disney movies before.There are better movies to watch, nothing really I would spend my money on. Still, if you are a die hard sci-fi fan (like me) you can't hate it... You just simply cant! There's something good about it, but it could have been way better. "},{"Title":"Rip off of Star Wars characters, great animation","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is worth watching for the breathtaking animation, but the story is very weak.  There isn't anything original in the script, it three main leads are carbon copies of the three main characters in Star Wars, in a Battlestar Galactica plot, re-enacting scenes from the Star Wars trilogy and other Sci-fi films.   The main villain seem to be based on the queen borg. There is a little Terminator plot 'borrowing' too.  Throw in the Lord of the Rings too. But again this film is worth viewing once for the great animation. "},{"Title":"AWESOME","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is by far one of my favorite movies of all time... I cant tell how many times I've watched it... I cant see the beginning of this movie enough... When planet earth gets blown up, it literally is spectacular!! The story is cool, pure sci-fi... The sound is great... The characters look a little cartoonish but the surroundings look incredible... If I remember correctly, they didnt made the characters look better because of lack of funds...! Overall, I love this movie, I cant say enough.. Rent it or buy it... Blast the speakers especially in the beginning!!! "}{"Title":"Good effects, pity about the story line...","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok, lets get this stright, i DO like sci fi, and i also like animation, but an attempt to bring them both together in all of my  knowledge (however small it may be) does not seem to have ever worked. ( Usually people leave that sort of thing to Manga and Anime, but i have to admit, i was surprised when i saw this movie!First of all, i think that the baddies in this are one of the better ones that i've EVER seen, they are just plain ruthless and evil! And the graphics in this movie perhaps are the only thing that truely redeem it in my opinion. I've seen the documentaries on how many hours went into this thing, they were HUGE! And in the movie it pays off. However, when i watched this movie it reminded me of a classy meal with a NASTY aftertaste.The characters in this movie couldn't be more unrealistic and silly even if they had tried, i will take alot of artistic flair from established sci fi series such as Babylon 5 and Star Trek, but i won't take the nonsense in this movie! One of the things that really infuriated me was the time line, altho i can't give any details ( I wasn't impressed with it.This movie has been designed for those who like sci fi alot and also those who like to look at pretty pictures, but for those who want a good story line and those who want to be able to get involved and also feel good about a movie, i suggest u look to another sci fi movie ( It wasn't THAT good, but nevertheless, it was a good shot. "},{"Title":"Simply put awesome","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As stated above this movie, simply put is awesome. The animation is awesome. It left me in awe the first time I saw it. Sure, the love story in it doesn't exactly make sense, but there's plenty to make up for it.Unlike what the critics said, I found the plot original and creative. The characters seemed real and 3-D (both in animation and personality) to me, you have enough of the background to tell you what's going on, but not enough to bore you out of your skull. The voices they chose are great. The animation is awesome. The alien races are inventive and awesome. Seeing this movie somehow made me wish that I could live in deep space. Don Bluth did an excellent job.  "},{"Title":"the Wonders of Animation","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  TITAN A.E.  -- 01/07/01Very good. I was surprised by this one. Had I known that it was that good, I would have seen it in the theatre. It's all very Star Wars-like as far as the story, but the images are stupendous. Only thing, I hated how they never credibly explained how the Titan worked. Just Boom! and we've created a planet now. Obviously, the ice field was somehow important in the process, but none of the characters said a word about it.7/10 "},{"Title":"Underrated.  Good, but didn't reach far enough...","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Matt Damon voices Cale, the teenager who's going to save the universe from the Drej, an electric blue alien race that within the first 10 minutes of the film reduce the Earth to rubble.  As animated, Cale looks like he could be a fill in for N*sync if Justin Timberlake ever takes a sick day.  It's quite obvious that this film is aimed at people who have grown tired of the traditional Disney formula.  The filmmakers even went so far as to give Cale a butt shot.  Now, I ask you, how many times did Aladdin, Hercules, or even Tarzan moon the camera?  I thought so.  Unfortunately, the makers of Titan A.E. didn't go far enough when developing their mature animated epic.  I enjoyed Titan A.E. mind you (I own the DVD), but it to often got stuck in a rut of a story that's been done ten times over, and it's done with a mix of computer and traditional animation that doesn't always blend together seamlessly.  Sadly, most of the supporting characters are stock and pretty predictable.  Not even 20 minutes into the film, I had already figured out who was going to double cross who, and what the final outcome of the story would be.If it sounds like I'm being to harsh on Titan A.E. (especially after I stated I liked and own the movie), it's only because I haven't gotten to the positive parts of the movie, which outweigh the negative.Visually, the film is stunning.  No, some of the cross animation doesn't blend together very well, but the majority of the film is beautiful.  The space vistas are colorful, interesting and just plain gorgeous.  The interactions between Cale and Akima (Drew Barrymore) are good, and the film moves along quickly.  I also liked how the Drej remained mysterious and spoke in their own language.  As I said at the beginning, Titan A.E. is an animated film geared towards those who are looking for something a little less traditional, and there are numerous scenes that point out that that attempt was made.  One such scene is the much talked about ice crystal cat and mouse chase.  This one scene just about makes the movie.  This is what the whole film should've been. Given it's checkered history, it's not hard to see why Titan A.E. looks more like a committee movie than a filmmakers passion.  This film put the last nail in Fox Animation Studios, and from what I understand, Don Bluth was never that into the movie to begin with. It's too bad that all the behind the scenes actions hurt it like it did because Titan A.E. really is a good flick.  I was never bored and have watched it repeatedly since picking it up.  With a little more focus and freedom, I think this film really could've been the envelope pushing sci-fi epic it was originally intended to be. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but less than I thought it would be","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My summary just about says it all.While I enjoyed this film, it was of less quality and made less an impact than I would have hoped and, to be blunt, than I was expecting.In the media of animation your characters are freed somewhat from the constraints of real world actors and sets, even when CGI embellished.  This film only marginally and occasionally took advantage of that potential.  Animation also allows for a more fanciful or imaginative ambiance.  I didn't get this any more than most films.The story was good but nothing special and certainly not anything we haven't seen in various iterations.Nonetheless, this movie had its moments.  Were these the flashes of inspiration the creative team slipped by the Hollywood suits that want everything to work by formulae?  I can only guess.Watch it on TV or rent it when you have a coupon.  "},{"Title":"Great animation for setting, standard Disney style for figures","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I put off seeing this movie for a while, but finally saw it and enjoyed it a lot one Saturday evening over a pizza.  Some of the scenes are really breathtaking, great surfaces and textures, great imagination.  For me the settings made the movie, the action was secondary.  One limitation of standard animation, I think, is the areas of flat color and simple contrasts of light and dark.  You adjust to it and move on and stop thinking about it, but when confronted with all the great variety shown in this movie, you wish the standard were higher.  The figure style is disappointing, standard Disney stuff, the young woman looks like a Mulan/Pocohontas clone.  The contrast between setting and figures is strange, I guess someone made a concession to market appeal.  An opportunity missed.   "},{"Title":"good but too much CG","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  (If you have no idea of what CGI is, skip this review.)Don't get me wrong, I like CGI. I even own a program that will let me make graphics almost as good as in this, and I plan a movie with it. But you shouldn't use too much CG when your film isn't live-action or complete CG.The plot (or what there is like it) is that aliens destroy Earth. Again. (Them destroying Earth has been done in Independence Day, and it isn't that much alike, but still, it has happened.) The humans are forced to leave before the aliens destroy it all, and thus, humans become like whales Endangered, and few care.Well, the part about humans not in the most is actually fresh. (This was used again in Final Fantasy, which means that this is a little better with plot.) But, a project called the Titan can save mankind. Cliche. Why is it that humans can come out on top in all of these films?If it should happen, we will probably have no way to survive.The CG problem is caused by the fact that this is cel-animated. (Well, not really; more than 90% of the film is CG. Notice the problem?)Rating 3/6And when will the IMDb add info on 'Horus?' They did Kung Fu Kenobi's Big Adventure, which is also an Internet movie, and since Horus is better, why isn't it on? "},{"Title":"Very, Very Cool!!","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First off I would have to say that this was a very cool film. I am a fan of cartoons and animation., and yes I am 17, so I'm basically a big kid at heart, but I don't care. I still enjoy watching good cartoons, especially ones like this, because they have a more mature story line. I have always enjoyed Don Bluth's work, especially when I was younger with The land Before Time, but I think that this was his best. The animation was great. The animation mixes very smoothly with the CGI effects. I even enjoyed the voices. They fit the characters perfectly. All in all if you enjoy animation, or sci-fi, then I recommend that you see this. I Think that you will like it. I don't think that you will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"failed attempt in an epic proportion","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The release of Titan A.E. was spearheaded and followed by floods of merchandise, in Malaysia (that's where I saw the film). They proofed to be overtones, as the content of the animation fell short somewhere in the abyss of misguided ambition and a penchant for dollars. The storyline, I believe, suffered the most. The plot simply lacks a balance of background narrative and action-pace. The character development was poorly treated, and I was particularly shocked at the low quality of character designs. Sure, the digital animation looks nice, especially on the Titan spaceship, but the overall effect doesn't blend with the 2D animation. The only thing I appreciate from the film was the revelation of the true purpose of 'Titan'.I'd recommend a comparison with 'Blue Submarine No. 6' by Gonzo, in terms of character design and animation techniques. I think this anime was the main reason why I felt that I was let down by Titan, since I had seed 'Blue Submarine No. 6' prior to Titan A.E.Furthermore, the voice acting in Titan A.E. was badly performed (you should compare it with the English release of Princess Mononoke by Miramax, which had a superb voice acting except for the miscasted Claire Danes).Aside from that I find that the winged-bat-alien creature is very similiar with a tribe of creatures from the classic BeastMaster.Watch Titan A.E. if someone else is borrowing it and you have the leisure time. Otherwise, go and get yourself some cool anime, now widely available in North America. "},{"Title":"Food for thought.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I absolutely loved Anastasia when it came out, so I was eagerly awaiting Fox Studio's next animated project, Titan A.E.  Unfortunately I missed it at the cinema, but just today found it at the department store and being the animation buff that I am, decided to blow some cash...I enjoyed this movie.  This has to be the first animated film of its kind, in that it's sci-fi.  The story was pretty interesting and the concept provided a little food for thought.  For once we're not stuck with the usual orchestrated score and there are no random show-stopping Hollywood musical pieces, but a fairly contemporary and rocking soundtrack. The animation was standard fare, and the character design was very similar to Anastasia...almost in a bad way.  Straight away I could see the resemblance between Cale (the lead) and Dimitri (of Anastasia).  Perhaps they could have tried a different style...?  As for the special effects, they were stunning.  For the most part, the CGI integrated seamlessly with the traditional 2D animation, so kudos to the artists for doing such a good job...My gripes with Titan A.E. lie with the story and the voice-acting.  As I mentioned before, it's quite an interesting concept, but as with so many Hollywood productions these days, the story just didn't seem to have any substance...As for the voice-acting, Drew Barrymore's portrayal of Akima seemed flat and emotionless at times, it was almost cringe-worthy.  Don't get me wrong, her voice has a lot of character, she just failed to inject her onscreen persona with...much.I realise that I'm getting all down and dirty with this review and it mind sound a little negative, but don't be put off.  I'd give it 7 out of 10...only because I have a thing for animated flicks.   "}{"Title":"a review from an animator....","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok first off Mr. Bluth is a genius.  Not for titan but for nimh, and for all the work he has devoted to the art of animation.  This movie however had problems, from the weak character development, to the equally bad voice acting.  The animation was ok but it could have been better and the CG elements just didn't seem to mesh well with the 2D.  Yet I can't say that i did not enjoy this film.  It was trying to take animation to a place that only hardcore anime and videogame fans know about; but obviously the studio exec's thought that making money was more important.... and they couldn't even get that right.Animation needs a good kick in the pants right now.  It needs the studios to step back and let the artists do their job.  I'm sure we'll see this medium grow to new heights in North America if the people with the money don't make artistic decisions and leave that to the professionals.  kudos to Bluth for trying... (it's funny that Atlantis has the exact same plot) hmmmmmmmm......check the iron giant, fantasia 2000, and serial experiments lain all are groundbreaking... "},{"Title":"An amazing movie, the best animation ever for a film","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this movie on opening night, and I'm sad that it was such a flop. I believe that if Fox had ADVERTISED the amazing cast (Damon, Pullman, Barrymore, Garofalo, etc.) that it would have been a sure hit. The plot had been done a million times in a million settings, but the plot isn't what made Titan A.E. great. Of anything I've ever seen, no movie has ever had better animation. Points that stick out in my mind include the hydrogen field (renowned as the best scene of the movie) and when Korso follows Cale. All of the actors who contributed their vocal talents were stupendous, especially (in my opinion) Nathan Lane and Drew Barrymore. The music was also incredible. Fox did a bad job of putting songs into their commercials that were neither used in the movie or put on the soundtrack. The songs actually used in the movie were well-placed, and every song on the soundtrack was tied in to the movie, not just a song they happened to use. The song that stands out is Karma Slave by Splashdown, a heavily-acclaimed and extremely talented band signed by Capitol Records, only to have Capitol not release their CD. Although they are on permanent hiatus, they deserve another look in this film. Other great songs are by well-known bands on the album, including the single Over My Head by Lit and Jamiroquai's offering.Overall, this was a stellar movie. There are few movies I have ever seen that I liked more than this. Yet when I saw that the theater was only 3/4 full during the premiere showing at the cinema, I was saddened. I knew it would fail, as much as I did not want it to. But how much do I love Titan A.E.? I've only seen 2 movies since I saw it, because no movie could live up to how great this was. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought the movie was very entertaining, although maybe a little too shocking in some aspects for the littlest kiddies.  The ending was a little anti-climatic as I felt that it was a little anti-climatic and predictable.  I felt that the animation during the movie was so much better than the very end which is what made it a little bit of a let down.  In summary, good flick, go rent it, watch it and enjoy. "},{"Title":"A Fantastic piece of mindless Sci Fi!!","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan A.E is a landmark film for 20th Century Fox animation, mainly because its poor box office grossing was too low and the studio was forced to close down, but mainly because its probably the only Don Bluth film that isn't diabolicaly awful. The Storyline is predictable yet entertaining and what could have been a very poor film is boosted by the wonderful character design and Visual look. The Drej are fantastic looking villains, their mothership magnificent to look at. In fact all the ships look brilliant, with one exception, the Titan. I would have thought that the designers could have come up with something better than a gigantic football! That aside this film is fantasticly entertaining, I defy anyone who doesn't have a manic grin on their face as they watch the Destruction of Earth! I bought this on DVD recently and I can tell you that it looks fantastic! This is a science fiction film which I think is alot better than some of the big name releases lately, such as Red Planet and the disapointing Pitch Black. Titan A.E. Is a must watch film. "},{"Title":"Good graphics and great sound, plot on the skinny side.","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  No spoilers here, read on.The Drej' motivation is clear enough to me. Why don't you guys get it? Professor Tucker tells about the Titan-project during the opening credits. The abilities of the Titan itself and the human drive and imagination that made it possible is what the Drej fear.I have to agree with others that the character design is not the greatest. When it's animation you have the possibility to go far away from the standard humanoids, which they didn't do a lot of. I had to watch it a second time to understand Korso's motivation.I find the hip pop music tracks quite good actually. The regular score varies from 2001-nostalgia on the opening title, to traditional space-classical, to Babylon 5-style programming (Gaul planet) and semi-ambience.Then there's the regular gripes about how fast an explosion moves through space, and how you can't see stars at daytime. It's made for 10-12-year olds, but I though it was OK. I didn't hear any hype beforehand, so I had no reason to be disappointed. "},{"Title":"storyline's just nice, but it looks great","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The storyline is not very original mankind's on the run for some nasty predatory alien species and only one person, a cowboy-like hero is able to rescue us. But apart from that, everything looks awesome. Despite that it's animation, if you've got a reasonably large screen to view it on, it really gives you the feeling that it's real (or at least, it could be). I particularly like the scene near the end where two ships float between large numbers of huge constantly colliding ice crystals and their crews get confused by the reflections. Soundtrack really good too. This is art. "},{"Title":"Excellent Eye candy","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  maybye the story is plain and without life, but definetely this movie is the best graphically full feature animation movie I've ever watched. The scene with the wind ghost flying around the spaceship is excellent. Good use of colours all through. I really had a good time watching this. Also an excellent soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Top-Notch Production","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  How can anyone not like this movie?  It has some of greatest animation ever from the greatest animator ever (Don Bluth), an exciting plot, characters with more life than almost any real actors, and an energetic soundtrack. I feel so great after seeing this movie.I own the Titan AE Widescreen DVD, and it is quite a site to see.  The opening, escape, wake angels, and ice crystals scenes are some of the best ever.  See it on dvd if you haven't already because it is awe-inspiring.I think that the problem with all of the bad reviews for this movie is that people don't think for themselves.  One person says that they don't like the cgi and classic animation blend or the story and then everyone follows their lead like ignorant sheep.   It's is a tradgedy that the low box office figures will most likely prevent a sequel from being made.  At least, we will always have this 85 minutes or so of superb Sci-Fi animation. "},{"Title":"So this is the infamous cartoon aimed at teenagers...","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had heard quite a lot of mixed reviews about it, but when I saw it, I must admit I liked it. Liked it enough, in fact, to buy the DVD. I think it has quite its share of good ideas, but when the time came to execute it, it didn't come up as they had hoped. The premise is good as the movie starts, we see our planet earth destroyed. Humanity's last hope is the Titan, a gigantic vessel that can create a New Earth for the survivors. Unluckily, a race of quasi-invincible aliens, the Drej, has decided to bring an end to our imagination (and our vanity). So from then on the movie is a race against the Drej to recover the Titan. The problem is that the revelation of what the Titan really means is late to come up, well after the audience has guessed it.  And the Drej's intentions were never clearly explained, which makes them look like very standard villains. But I must say they are the most imaginative creatures I've seen in recent sci-fi movies they are made of energy, and so are very tough to kill. They were drawn by computer, and look very electric-like. Quite a bit of computer imagery in this movie, but unfortunately it sometimes clash with the classic hand-drawn characters and locations. Sometimes it falls into cliches, other times it laughs at them (the stupid guard scene). So what we got is a flawed film, but still a very good sci-fi adventure that should please anyone sick of Disney's musicals. "},{"Title":"A decent film that has a few flaws here.","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Good yet a very questionable animated science fiction/fantasy in space about a young man who has a map on his hand and becomes involved in a search for the Titan before the Drej find it and blow it up.  The part of the film that I enjoyed the most was the visual effects, which left me speechless.  Some of the performances (Nathan Lane, Matt Damon, and Drew Barrymore) in the movie were quite fine although the top-notch cast was nearly wasted.  Another problem that I had was part of the musical score had some very annoying songs, but the score composed by Graeme Revell made me forget the songs.  Titan A.E. reminded me of the Star Wars films and David Lynch's Dune, both of which were far better than this.  "}{"Title":"It's not just a cartoon, guys...","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I loved it.  I hated that Fox shut down their animation studio as a result.People (read critics) were very quick to slap the word CARTOON on this film and debase it instantly on that premise alone.  This movie would have been fantastic if isolated from every other animation.  Or just done live-action.  It's not anime.  It's not Lion King.  It's a space epic, it's animated, and it's much more than any other sci-fi cartoon on film has ever been.This movie was visually thrilling, inventive, and had a plot that did itself a huge favor by not being Disneyesque and explaining itself every second of the way.  This is what critically acclaimed cinema is.  It leaves you to guess, fill in the holes, and explore the movie as wish.Titan AE requires that you actually use your brain while being awed at the stunning eye-candy.  Unraveling the loosely tied mystery at a feverish pace and energy that becomes part of the experience, drawing you into their world.  The music is pop but its slick tempo just accentuates the thrill ride at the right times.  The transitions don't make sense at first but synergize into the plot soon enough.The plot holes are straightforward, if you think about it with a scientific mind.  Many technical aspects of the movie have a backing in real life science (ok, not Bob), and this adds to a believability that is key in the movie.  And the Drej's motivation's absence from the film puts the audience in the shoes of the heros in a way that has never been done before. But why?  We don't know.  And it scares us.  Good movies don't come in neat packages.The characters may seem to be copies of other characters, but instead they are a collection of archetypes of your average sci-fi ship crew. Scientist, gunner, pilot, commander, captain.  Looking beyond the unavoidable urge to label them as their counterparts in every other sci-fi movie, the characters are developed slightly in a way that is subtle and easily missed, but more importantly they are uniquely complex in an obfuscated way and revealed bit by bit.Why did this movie flop?  People saw only veneer-thin eye-candy and wrote off the rest, missing the enchanting complexity of this fast-paced ride through space.  It disappoints me that critics in general flamed this movie. It was just too smart for animation.  If it were live-action, it would have been an unstoppable at the box office, though a visually less vibrant thrill ride.Saddest of all is that there likely won't be another movie like this one for some great while since it was such an abysmal commercial demise of Fox Animation Studios.  This movie was a push in the right direction for animation.  If done again with a better story, there would be an unstoppable transition in the animation industry.In short, see the movie with an open mind.  And spend your mental energy nitpicking the good things that make it feel like an amazing triumph it is instead of shredding it to oblivion.And as a final note, let's just pray Final Fantasy kicks us into an age where cartoons can be serious vehicles of film and story, like Titan AE could have. "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I wanted this movie to be good, I really did.  If there's anything we need here in the States, it's more intelligent animation aimed at an older audience.  But as much as I wanted to like this film, it's just too jumbled and derivative to amount to anything.  And that's sad, because it could have been something really great.Of course, Roger Ebert had me actually *expecting* a good film, and I watched the first few minutes with growing anticipation.  But then the movie just falls apart.  The mess hall scene early in the film is one of the most boring, unbearable sequences in the history of animation.  It just goes on and on with drab gray backgrounds and pointless dialogue until we start yelling at the screen.  Thirty minutes into Titan A.E. I already knew I would never watch it again.  But probably the worst thing about the movie is how poorly it integrates different animation styles.  Hand-drawn 2-D characters simply do not mix with CGI backgrounds, or at least in this film they don't.  In movies like Ghost in the Shell and The Iron Giant, the CGI animation is combined with traditonal cels so subtly that sometimes you don't even consciously notice it.  Titan A.E. bashes us over the head right from the beginning with all kinds of jarring computer camera moves and CGI effects that do nothing to enhance the story and just make the hand-drawn characters look out of place.  Worst of all are the Drej characters, who seem rough and unfinished--they completely lack detail and often move at less than 24 frames a second.  More effort should have been spent actually blending these elements instead of just putting them on the screen together.Titan A.E. is an okay movie for a lazy Saturday afternoon if you REALLY have nothing better to do.  But it could have been much more.  It could have been the movie that made Americans realize that animation can have a greater purpose, that animation is a legitimate creative option for filmmakers with great visionary ideas.  But for now we have to settle for this feature-length Saturday morning cartoon. "},{"Title":"Good graphics, no logic","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think this movie must be a cinematic milestone.  Nothing in this film made any sense at all!  Even the many cliches made no sense.But yes, great animation.I think I'll watch either Toy Story movie again - there's no reason a movie with great animation can't have a good story to go with it. "},{"Title":"A terrific and thrilling sci fi epic","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Finally, a big budget animated film that appeals more to adults than kids.  The movie had a somewhat dark, and menacing tone, and was a huge welcome after the hugely disappointing Dinosaur.  The story may have been a little cliched, but then again, it is a science fiction film.  The script, pace, and most of all, the visuals more than made up for it.  The film is eye candy at its striking best.  More so than The Phantom Menace.  This is what that movie should have been.  On a 5 star scale, here's a breakdown of the film      Story............4   Characters.......4    Script...........4.5   Drama............3.5   Pace.............4.5   Visuals..........5  Final Grade......4.2 "},{"Title":"If it helps any, it's colorful...","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I anticipated this movie wouldn't do well. After all, an animated sci-fi adventure, with the storyline cliche and touch of Waterworld?? What were they thinking! It did much worse than expected (I attribute it to poor release date and marketing).  I did not see this film until it's dvd release (and even then, I borrowed it from a friend).  The opening is great, the animation superb.  The dialogue and storyline is a little cliche, but we can look past that.  The big problem lies in the fact that we don't know why the humans were attacked in the first place.  Nor do we understand how a ship can help the entire human race (and when we finally do, we don't care anymore...).  The ending seems abrupt.  Fortunately, I watched it a second time with the Director's commentary turned on.  I think that was better than the actual movie.  Overall, the subplots were better than the big PLOT.  But it's worth seeing nontheless.  (Just one question What's with the random rock songs springing up at the times where orchestrational music would be masterful?? Watch it and you'll know what I mean..) "},{"Title":"Too trite for adults, too dark for kids","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"     First of all, I could tell by the commercials that I didn't like the animation--a blend of CGI and traditional animation that just didn't work for me.  More importantly, though, is the fact that I can't determine just what age group this movie is aimed at.  Possibly 11-15 year-olds.  Anyone under that age group will probably be (at least subconsciously) disturbed by the end of the entire human race scenario this movie plays out.  Anyone over that age group will easily see through the highly visible plot devices and overly contrived conflict situations.  (This movie absolutely exhausts the old show the viewers something; let them forget about it; then make that thing become important method for creating surprise and suspense.  I am not exaggerating when I say the movie did this *at least* ten times.)   It's a decent Saturday afternoon flick if you're bored, but don't spend any money on it or go out of your way to see it. "},{"Title":"Visually Brilliant.","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  How many times did I hear What a pity the visual brilliance of this film is not matched by an equally stunning story line. What rubbish.True - This film's plot is pretty mundane sci-fi fair...think Star Wars or Star Trek's weekly plotline for that matter. But we haven't been selling sailing adventures and Sci-Fi novels and books in huge numbers because people don't enjoy them!Where it excels is the truly beautiful visual landscape that is layed out as the story unfolds.The initial exploding earth scene and the final scenes are breathtaking to behold.A complete Visual Feast. "},{"Title":"This is what SCI-FI CARTOON.","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Man, I love this cartoon. It has a good story, you know, mankind's last hope is in a young man's hand which lead to the ultimate spacecraft called The Titan. I love it!  The animation is great, realistic. Soundtracks are excellent, I even bought the cassette tape. I reallylike the song Over my head by Lit.If you like good sci-fi cartoon, check this out. "},{"Title":"A total miss.","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Though the animation is great, this movie is bad.  There is nothing unique about a boring plot and characters entirely stolen from Star Wars and Star Trek.  The dialogue is atrocious.  The characters are completely unlikable.  The attempts at humor are unsuccessful.  Only children with no sense of sci-fi history will find anything redeeming here. What a complete disappointment!    "},{"Title":"Good... (if you are 12 years old)","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan A.E. precedes X-Men at Fox's attempt to corner the young movie-going market this summer. Combining standard animation with computer-generated special effects, Titan A.E. aims at audiences too old for Disney and too young for American Pie, a market the Phantom Menace corralled last summer. The results are better than expected, even though Titan A.E. will seem too juvenile for anyone out of their teens.Titan A.E. begins with the destruction of Earth in the 31 century by an alien race called the Drej. Without a home, the human race is scattered across the galaxy in make-shift colonies, slowly dying out. The only hope for human survival is Titan, an enormous ship that escaped the Drej attack, which holds the secret for a new Earth. The story focuses around Cale (Matt Damon), the son of the Titan's creator, and the key to finding and activating the hidden ship. Fifteen years after Earth's destruction, Cale is found by Korso (Bill Pullman), an old friend of Cale's father, to search for Titan and save the human species.The characterization is generally good in Titan A.E., with the notable exception of Cale. Surrounded by non-humans, and still angry at his father for 'abandoning' him, Cale is essentially a jerk for the first half of the film. It would seem that leaving your child to secure the fate of the entire human race is justifiable, but apparently it isn't to Cale. The result is an audience initially left with a main character no one likes. Akima (Drew Barrymore) is Cale's love interest, but acts as a very strong female character, and the film's best pilot. Of all the actors, John Leguizamo stands out in the character of Gune, a mole-like eccentric genius helping to find Titan. Unlike the infamous Jar-Jar Binks, Gune is actually funny, and the viewer cares about his survival.Thankfully Titan A.E. gains some momentum in the last half after a shaky start. Cale finally loses the chip on his shoulder, and amid some sexual innuendo, he and Akima begin to fall for each other.Following this, the audience is hit with a genuinely surprising plot twist, throwing the Good vs. Evil paradigm for a loop. Most films of this genre set the protagonists and antagonists from the beginning, so it is refreshing when Titan A.E. alters the formula.One noticeable problem with Titan A.E. is the ridiculous soundtrack. It is as if the producers randomly gathered the songs by which title fit the movie's plot. A scene with Cale getting the chance to pilot a ship is made laughable by the repeating chorus of The Urge's `It's My Turn To Fly'. The rest of the soundtrack proves to be a feeble attempt at connecting with audiences too old for Phil Collins/Elton John arrangements. The visual results are mixed as well. The special effects are no doubt impressive, but they also serve to make the standard animation look that much more cartoony.Titan A.E. must be looked at for what it is, a cartoon geared at audiences too old for Disney. Of course the cliches are incessant, but combining a workable plot and enough action to hold the short attention span of a 12 year-old boy is daunting task. On the whole, Titan A.E. succeeds, but it remains to be seen if audiences will take the bait. "}{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wow...the animation in this film is INCREDIBLE!  Everything looked so REAL! Great heroic story in a fantastic setting.  I took my son and really didn't know what to expect.  I am an ardent sci-fi fan and was definitely pleased by this magical, fantastical, scientifical film...GREAT MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Strictly a kid's movie","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a movie that will no doubt delight young people, especially of the male persuasion.  But to my wife and I, the 15 minutes we watched were a total waste of time, and the rental fee a waste of money.  It's  another space cowboy flick, albeit with some impressive animation.  It's just a shoot-'em-up with an obnoxious young twit for a hero.  To compare it with Toy Story, A Bug's Life, or especially Fantasia, is ludicrous.  Those are truly imaginative movies that appeal to all ages.  If you're past your 20s and love great animation, forget this one and watch one of those again. "},{"Title":"Mixed feelings...","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  ***Spoiler***Like many of the previous comments I definitely have mixed feelings about this film.  I had expected a little bit more. However I will not repeat most of the things that have already been said but make one brief observation.For me the worst offence in this film is the blatant ripoff of Star Trek II  The Wrath of Khan in the last scenes.  I mean come on; a nebula chase and then a planet forming device set off.  A tad more originality here would have made the movie a lot better.  If the Titan would have just been something different (like a generic device to manipulate energy hence the Drej concern or even a cliched super weapon or new star drive) then the ending would feel like a lot less of a hack and I would have been a lot happier.  IMHO the end of a film is one of the most important aspects and in the case of Titan the aftertaste is certainly stale.  "},{"Title":"My favorite Animated film.","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The problems the story should have been at least ten minutes longer, the characters needed more development, the alien Drej needed more development. But I have a thing for animated films where things like this are almost negligible if the movie is done well enough. As it is, you care about the characters, the action scenes are some of the best you'll ever see, and the overall look of the movie is different from Star Wars, yet it would look at home in the Star Wars universe. Also, if you think about it, the plot is a little more fleshed out than the original Star WarsA New Hope movie. If you don't believe me, compare Star WarsA New Hope with The Empire Strikes Back in terms of story style. Also, despite the cliches(which I have no problem with if they are handled well and creatively), the story and setting is pretty fresh. If the movie had not flopped, it would have made for some good sequels. Well, it is far more creative and fun than some of the more recent Disney movies, excluding the action packed Tarzan, and the music for the most part is very good. I recommend you buy the Soundtrack for the film. Also the last 20 or so minutes, starting with Ice Rings to the end, are phenominally beautiful and fast paced. This movie is better than a lot of summer movies due to it's immense visual imagination, and it has far more imaginative space scenes than any of the Star Wars movies. George Lucas, take note.  "},{"Title":"Good Story, Amazing Special Effects!","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It merged the above average story line with state of the art traditional and computer animation to make a truly engrossing movie. The only 'drawback' is that they gave it a 'All' rating so the story between Kayle and Akima doesn't progress as much as it could of and the fight scenes aren't all that 'violent' or 'realistic.' "},{"Title":"Decent enough to watch once.","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I actually liked this movie, I thought it was cute and a little quirky. The voice talent was excellent, the script was a wee bit hard to swallow at times because it flip flopped too much for me. I'm not a big animation expert but I thought that it was very easy to watch and wasn't too over the top or distracting. Overall it was a good movie, I wouldn't buy it, I've already rented it once, if it came on TV I'd watch it again.  "},{"Title":"Look at da purdy picturs, ma!","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan A. E. is pretty to look at and painful to think about.I am a big space person.  I love it.  It interests me.  Space truly is an unexplored wonder that only science fiction can let us see.  Well, to this day I've only seen a few movies that accurately portray space.  2001 is at the top of the list. There are even less space-movies that are fun.  Star Wars is at the top of this short list.  So when I saw the teaser trailer for Titan A.E., I was extremely excited.  Then I learned it was animated.American animated movies have a bit of a pattern. they're made for children. Some movies aren't like South Park  However, most of them are Disney movies or Disney-carbon-copies.  So I was conflicted.I went to the movie with two frames of mind.  One half of my head thought the movie would be a science fiction landmark with gorgeous special effects, even if it was animated.  The other half said it would be a horrible mess of a film with decent special effects.  So, I paid my money and went inside..I have a tradition with my reviews I list all the good points then the bad points, followed by a conclusion.  There are some spoilers, BUT BEFORE YOU STOP READING, please understand that you're doing yourself a favor by reading this before you see the movie.  I'm looking out for you people and you should thank me.Happy Premise Number One The GORGEOUS special effects.  I drooled in this movie.  No joke.Happy Premise Number Two That Ice Scene.  I'm sure you know about it already, and if you have skip this one.  If you haven't, read on.  There is this GREAT cat-and-mouse scene in an outer space ice field.  Two ships flying through giant shards of ice who can't find each other because the ice reflects hundreds of ships like a fun house mirror room.  One word FUN!Happy Premise Number 3 The sound.  Great sound my friend.  Good music too.Okay, enough `positive' things.  On to the fun part!  Oh Boy!Depressing Premise Number One The CHILDNESS!  This movie was targeted at teens and Generation Xers.  Well, it is a child's movie.  There is cussing, nudity (of the male buttocks persuasion), and violence, but trust me, this is a child's Disney movie.  It's thee way the characters look and talk. For example there is this character who is an alien and looks like a kangaroo. Literally, I'm not kidding floppy ears, long tail, and large, uh, kangaroo legs.  At first glance this movie looks like a Pokemon movie.  There is a bartender who is a roach.  Seriously, a really large roach.  That TALKS! Let's not even get into that frog thing, Gune.  Ugh!Depressing Premise Number Two The Characterization.  HOLY S***!  This is bad!  This goes against every thing I've ever learned as a writer.  Oh, God. Oh God, Oh God, Oh God!  This is truly bad!  Mere words cannot explain how bad these characters are developed.  AHHHHHHHHHHH!  Just. just take my word for it.Depressing premise Number 3 the animation.  Sure the 3D CG (computer graphics) are beautiful, but the 2D hand drawn animation, while not totally bad, looks bad when compared to the CG behind them.  Putting bad animation of people and aliens in the foreground on beautiful space 3D animation in the background JUST LOOKS TERRIBLE!  If you're going to have some average 2D animation, have everything be 2D.  If you want CG, at least improve the 2D so it can compete with the CG.  You get it?Depressing Premise Number 4 the Titan itself.  Here is a bit of spoiling, but please keep reading.  I'm doing you a favor.  I can deal with logic holes.  That's when, in a movie, something creates a paradox and just doesn't make any sense.  Take Terminator 2 for example.  The time travel thing is completely un-logical.  But the movie is still good.  The movie is so good that you don't notice the little piece of bad logic.  Well, when you put something that is ill logical in a bad movie, well, it shows. big time. The Titan is supposed to be special.  Well it is, and it also defies every law of physics, EVERY ONE!  It has the power to make a planet.  Yes, you read that right.  It can MAKE A PLANET.  Because Earth blew up, what's better than making another, huh?    Okay, this. this is so ridiculous that it. it. it makes my head hurt.  And, normally, I wouldn't care about this. But the movie doesn't let you forget this.  The entire ending takes place in the Titan, so this stupidity is very evident.  Oh, man.  I can deal with some unrealistic things.  I can.  I can deal with it up to a point. when it is the whole purpose of the movie.Depressing Premise Number 5 (it just keeps going doesn't it) The Drej. What the hell is this?  I think the idea of an alien made of pure energy is cool.  But if their ships are made of pure energy, what's the point?  Why not just make the ship a giant laser beam that homes in on its target. Another very, very big logic hole.  Believe me, there are many, many more.Conclusion (Whew! Almost done my friend!) This movie reeks.  Bad.  I like many bad movies with cool special effects.  Who doesn't?  Good old fun, popcorn movies are worth the $7.50.  But this is not.  This is one of the worst movies of the year.  I would put it in my worst-movies-ever-made pile, but the special effects save it from THAT fate.   This IS a bad movie folks.The DVD is pretty good if you want to test your system, or you want some great skeet shooting!4/10  "},{"Title":"Visually Stunning and Very Cool...This ain't no Disney movie","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I saw the previews for this film I thought it looked very cool, like a fun fantasy. Then heard some reviews and other movies came out during the time period so that it pushed me away. Why did I do that? This would have been great on the big screen. Titan A.E. is an animated action-adventure that breaks the norm for American animated features. There's some adult language, brief nudity, action sequences with guns, blood and death. I was taken totally off guard. I was expecting one of those lame Disney type adventure. This ain't it. Not to give anything away but I knew that this wasn't a Disney film when in the first five minutes of the film Earth blew up. Titan A.E. tells the story of Cale (Matt Damon), a miner worker in the distant future where humans are the endangered species. His father died years back trying to save the human race from a group called the Drej. They are a alien race that want to wipe out the human race. On a routine day he's is confronted by a friend of his father's a ship captain named Korso (Bill Pullman), who informs Cale that he is the only person that can save the dying human race. Cale joins up with Korso's crew (who feature Drew Barrymore, Natan Lane, John Leguizamo, and Janeane Garofalo as various characters), and they head a search for the Titan, a ship that can save the human race. This leads to a gun fights, a very cool boat chase, and other action elements. The film is visually amazing. The CGI FX look beyond belief. They're reason alone to see this film. One sequences through an ice field will dazzle the eyes and bring a whole new level to the word eye candy. The performances are as good to be expected. Matt Damon seems like he's playing himself and not a character. The only problem is John Lieguizamo's character has a Jar Jar Binks quality and can get on a person nerves extremely quick. The action is fast and furious with gun battles and lots of chases, there's even a good fist fight at the end. This is not the normal animated feature in that shooting hurts and people do die. This is not for the little kiddies. I think anyone one at the age that they can concept death should see this film. But if the kid still thinks they're just taking a long nap, keep them away from this one. Titan A.E. took me on a wild and very fun ride in a time where humans aren't on the top of the food chain. The FX are incredible, the action is almost non stop and the story is convincing. Check this one out, even if animation is your thing, the FX alone will have your glued to your TV screen.             "},{"Title":"Titan A. E. is pretty to look at and painful to think about.","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am a big space person.  I love it.  It interests me.  Space truly is an unexplored wonder that only science fiction can let us see.  Well, to this day I've only seen a few movies that accurately portray space.  2001 is at the top of the list. There are even less space-movies that are fun.  Star Wars is at the top of this short list.  So when I saw the teaser trailer for Titan A.E., I was extremely exited.  Then I learned it was animated.American animated movies have a bit of a pattern. they're made for children. Some movies aren't (South Park, ya! and, ugh, Heavy Metal).  However, most of them are Disney movies or Disney-carbon-copies.  So I was conflicted.I went to the movie with two frames of mind.  One half of my head thought the movie would be a science fiction landmark with gorgeous special effects, even if it was animated.  The other half said it would be a horrible mess of a film with decent special effects.  So, I paid my money and went inside..I have a tradition with my reviews I list all the good points then the bad points, followed by a conclusion.  There are some spoilers, BUT BEFORE YOU STOP READING, please understand that you're doing yourself a favour by reading this before your see the movie.  I'm looking out for you people and you should thank me.Happy Premise Number One The GORGEOUS special effects.  I drooled in this movie.  No joke.Happy Premise Number Two That Ice Scene.  I'm sure you know about it already, and if you have skip this one.  If you haven't, read on.  There is this GREAT cat-and-mouse scene in an outer space ice field.  Two ships flying through giant shards of ice who can't find each other because the ice reflects hundreds of ships like a fun house mirror room.  One word FUN!Happy Premise Number 3 The sound.  Great sound my friend.  Good music too.Okay, enough `positive' things.  On to the fun part!  Oh Boy!Depressing Premise Number One The CHILDNESS!  This movie was targeted at teens and Generation Xers.  Well, it is a child's movie.  There is cussing, nudity (of the male buttocks persuasion), and violence, but trust me, this is a child's Disney movie.  It's thee way the characters look and talk. For example there is this character who is an alien and looks like a kangaroo. Literally, I'm not kidding floppy ears, long tail, and large, uh, kangaroo legs.  At first glance this movie looks like a Pokemon movie.  There is a bartender who is a roach.  Seriously, a really large roach.  That TALKS! Let's not even get into that frog thing, Gune.  Ugh!Depressing Premise Number Two The Characterisation.  HOLY S***!  This is bad!  This goes against every thing I've ever learned as a writer.  Oh, God. Oh God, Oh God, Oh God!  This is truly bad!  Mere words cannot explain how bad these characters are developed.  AHHHHHHHHHHH!  Just. just take my word for it.  If you thought Star Wars Episode One had no character depth, just stop even thinking about this movie.Depressing premise Number 3 the animation.  Sure the 3D CG (computer graphics) are beautiful, but the 2D hand drawn animation, while not totally bad, look bad when compared to the CG behind them.  Putting bad animation of people and aliens in the foreground on beautiful space 3D animation in the background JUST LOOKS TERRIBLE!  If you're going to have some average 2D animation, have everything be 2D.  If you want CG, at least improve the 2D so it can compete with the CG.  You get it?Depressing Premise Number 4 the Titan itself.  Here is a bit of spoiling, but please keep reading.  I'm doing you a favor.  I can deal with logic holes.  That's when, in a movie, something creates a paradox and just doesn't make any sense.  Take Terminator 2 for example.  The time travel thing is completely un-logical.  But the movie is still good.  The movie is so good that you don't notice the little piece of bad logic.  Well, when you put something that is ill logical in a bad movie, well, it shows. big time. The Titan is supposed to be special.  Well it is, and it also defies every law of physics, EVERY ONE!  It has the power to make a planet.  Yes, you read that right.  It can MAKE A PLANET.  Because Earth blew up, what's better than making another, huh?    Okay, this. this is so ridiculous that it. it. it makes my head hurt.  And, normally, I wouldn't care about this. But the movie doesn't let you forget this.  The entire ending takes place in the Titan, so this stupidity is very evident.  Oh, man.  I can deal with some unrealistic things.  I can.  I can deal with it up to a point. when it is the whole purpose of the movie.Depressing Premise Number 5 (it just keeps going doesn't it) The Drej. What the hell is this?  I think the idea of an alien made of pure energy is cool.  But if their ships are made of pure energy, what's the point?  Why not just make the ship a giant laser beam that homes in on its target. Another very, very big logic hole.  Believe me, there are many, many more.Conclusion (Whew! Almost done my friend!) This movie reeks.  Bad.  I like many bad movies with cool special effects.  Who doesn't?  Good old fun, popcorn movies are worth the $7.50.  But this is not.  This is one of the worst movies of the year.  I would put it in my worst-movies-ever-made pile, but the special effects save it from THAT fate.   This IS a bad movie folks.The fact is, this movie is terrible.  Nothing can save it.  Is it worth the money HELL NO!  Well, wait, I do want to rent it on DVD so I can test it out on my DVD player and surround sound system.  The movie does rock visually (except in 2D) and audibly.  To be truthful, I did kind of enjoy it.  Give it a look if you want, but I highly suggest you spend your money on something else.  If you made the mistake of buying the movie, well, it' ain't that bad.  You can always use it as a coaster or have some wondrous fun skeet shooting with it!4/10  "},{"Title":"Expectations were low, Titan was a cool surprise.","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Attention S.F lovers everywhere. People this movie had some great Stuff, O.K the story and voices maybe average but man the action scene's were simply fantastic. e.g the spacecraft sequences were up there with any thing Lucas is offering and I'm a Star Wars Fan.!! I think the animation was ground breaking, the use of C.G in so many scenes and the camera angles were very original.My expectations going into this movie were low so I was surprised to find such a Quality movie on offer.Yes the plot was thin and yes there was more character development needed but hey us S.F fans don't get many movies made with such long and well executed sequences such as on offer here.Star trek could take a lesson from Titan and actually include some action space scenes of this calibre or anything with action in it.And dare I say it even the king of S.F (Mr Lucas) could learn a thing or two.Well done to the team who made this movie,well done. If a sequel was made tomorrow I'd be of to see it. "}{"Title":"Depends on how you look at it...","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There are two ways of looking at Titan A.E., and they will determine whether you think it's great or not. 1.  Look at it as a regular action movie/cartoon movie. If you look at it this way you have a movie with excellent CG and hand drawn animation, which unfortunately don't blend at all.  You have a great soundtrack, but the movie has a lot of scenes that seem to be there just so they can stick in cool background music.  And you have a plot with several holes and characters who are underdeveloped and stereotyped. 2.  Look at it as a very long music video with a plot. If you look at it like this, the animation works, the spots for music work, and the characters and plot are acceptable.  The music really rocks, and the animation (even though it doesn't blend) is excellent.  I think Titan A.E. is a good movie, if you look at it the right way. "},{"Title":"God-Awful in a mediocre way","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  And I almost went to the theater to see it. Whew! dodged a bullet on that one. Here's a little hint to all you American animation studios out there. Good actors (especially good American actors) do not necessarily make good voice actors. Case in point Titan A.E. Now the term good actor is used rather loosely in Matt Damon's case and doesn't even apply in Drew Barrymore's case, but anyway they are terrible terrible voice actors.This is my theory most if not all American actors are judged on appearance first and acting ability a distant second. In addition, acting for the screen allows them to use their appearance to convey their emotions and their voice isn't as important. When some bigwig gets the bright idea that popular people will draw an audience and decides to cast them in an animated movie, many are completely lost without their precious good looks/physical antics to distract the audience from their horrible acting skills as far as actually speaking their lines. Their solution is to Over-act and Over-deliver their lines which makes them sound even worse.This is the general problem I have with most American voice acting. There's rarely any subtlety which means there really isn't any complexity in the characters. They're boring cardboard cutouts whose personality can be summed up in a neat little sentence.Now, all that being said, the voice acting in Anastasia and The Iron Giant are both much much better than in Titan AE which I think reflects primarily on the quality of the script and the skill of the actors involved. Also, hearing Drew Barrymore's voice coming from an Asian girl makes me physically ill, but I'll get into that later.First of all, as has been said a hundred times before the script is the most derived, bland piece of sci-fi mishmash imaginable. I can say with confidence that the average twelve year old if given some paper and a pen would produce maybe not as polished a script, but certainly a much more interesting one. As far as the animation quality is concerned, by any standard it is subpar. The character animation suffers from the Disney rubberized effect where motions and expressions are overemphasized to make it perfectly clear to the dumb little children exactly what's going on because everyone knows that children are incapable of detecting subtle emotions. (I dare you to tell that to any mother of a young child.) The computer effects have been done several years ago in Japan and even older Saturday morning cartoons like Beastwars look more impressive and polished. Also, inexplicably there is a drop in framerate when a lot of computer effects are used. That's right, there is videogame slowdown in a movie! Uhhh...I'm not sure how this happened, all I can think of is that the prerendered effects were done at a low framerate to save money and they tried to match the animation framerate to make it consistent. In any event, the movie is visibly jerky druing most action scenes which is distracting. Now, a rant on casting With the exception of Nathan Lane and John Leguizamo, the characters in the movie don't match their voices.Even Matt Damon, whose Cale character looks fairly similar to the actual actor doesn't seem to matchup voicewise. (but the appearance of the character shouldn't really make a significant difference anyway to a decent voice actor.) It's most likely due to a combination of bad voice acting, a lousy script, and poor facial animation of the characters. One obvious complaint, Drew Barrymore's voice is extremely lazy (as is her acting). Her character is supposed to be the silent, intense type (I know my Asian stereotypes). The resulting mismatch sounds ridiculous.Janeane Garofalo's standup is funny because she's a sarcastic little complaining woman. Her character is a large angry military alien. There is a basic mismatch in terms of personality and voice that can only be overcome with good voice acting skills which just aren't there. Finally, realism. It isn't there either. I think that most people understand that there are certain qualities about a vacuum that make it impossible to float through it unharmed. A couple would be temperature and the lack of freaking air. It reminds me of Episode One in the way that it seems to have been created by flimsily linking together preplanned action sequences with no regard to a smoothly flowing plot or even the most basic scientifc facts and laws of physics. Now, the good points. John Leguizamo has fun and his character is believable. Nathan Lane sounds like Nathan Lane which can be good or bad depending on your opinion of him, but I thought he did a good job. In a radical departure (I'm sure there were several marketing meetings held about this) there is no wisecracking animal sidekick in the Disney sense. *spoiler* The best scene in the movie is when you think that the insect-like cook will take that role and he is then shot. *end spoiler* This movie is also too short, apparently the Disney standard 90 minutes was in place and it feels very rushed. Of course with a poor movie like this, I was glad when it was over. This is an utterly flavorless movie that stands as another shameful example of the horrible quality of American animated movies. I am quite ashamed to have rented it, and I will do everything in my power to forget that it exists. PS If your excuse is that the movie was intended for young viewers, several young people whose opinions I respect pronounced the movie as boring and predictable and okay, but I don't want to see it again. In any event, I think that the standards for holding an intelligent child's attention and capturing their imagination are quite a bit higher than those for the average American adult these days. "},{"Title":"The animation was utterly amazing, unfortunately the rest of the film didn't quite live up to this.","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Basic plot outline In this eyecandy-filled animated masterpiece, Earth is destroyed and humans are a dying race. Their only hope lies in a mysterious hidden ship - The Titan. The map to where this ship lies has been genetically passed on to Cale, a young human, whose destiny it is to find the ship, and ultimately save mankind. Review The animation was utterly amazing, unfortunately the rest of the film didn't quite live up to this. It's an enjoyable film. It has it's funny moments, and lots of interesting characters. The storyline is just a little thin, but not unbearable. I would sum it up as 'good, not excellent'. Maybe I am just bitter because they didn't simultaneously burst into song. Blame Disney for propogating me to expect cartoon characters to do so! "},{"Title":"Call it Don Bluth's Guide to the Galaxy; lots of fun!","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Here we have our good friend Don Bluth attempting to absolve himself for everything post-the Secret of N.I.M.H. (in my humble opinion, the very best animated film of all time).  Although Titan is not nearly as perfect as N.I.M.H., it comes very, very close.  This is quite obviously the one movie Bluth has wanted to make from the very beginning of his career, and I believe it was well worth the wait.So, my question is, why not make more animation like this?This is one of the most visually compelling animated films I've seen in many moons.  Titan is blessedly song-and-dance free and cliches of both space opera and animation are totally skewered (look for the delightfully anarchaic scene where the annoying sidekick is fried the moment he threatens to ruin the movie George Lucas could learn from it).  I still think the Great Postmodern Animation has yet to be made (all the Disney cliches get deconstructed a la what Scream did for horror), but until then, Titan will do very nicely.  Awesome soundtrack, too. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi Cartoon on Steroids","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Feels like hard-core sci-fi buffs haven't been handed a real cinema masterpiece in decades.  Yet there's no shortage of recent product, anime and live.  To be fair, Titan AE has visual concepts that are just ravishing. The plot however, is paper thin, too recognizable; the characters uninteresting, unmotivated.  The pop-culture gestalt of this thing is just psychotic  Titan wants to appeal to kids (as in cuddly, furry Saturday morning crowd) and angsty teen-agers who prefer their universe dark, dangerous and mortally challenging (with a metalhead score in the background).  That's a huge producer error, and I believe the reason Titan tanked at the B.O.   "},{"Title":"Truly One Of A Kind","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My husband and I just finished watching the Titan A.E. movie and loved it! I have never seen an animated movie made so well like this one. I love the way that the characters were made to look like the classic animated cartoon characters but the back ground and surroundings all had a new computer animated feel and look. The special effects were awesome and I recommend that everyone give this movie a watch! "},{"Title":"A ROAD-MOVIE IN SPACE!","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When watching this movie I couldn't stop thinking this is how truly alien environments should be rendered in sci-fi; the visits to the methane-bubble-sea, New Bangkok, the ice-rings of Tigris, etc., really inspired that grand old sense of adventure found in classic movies like Star Wars A New Hope, Battlestar Galactica, The Ice Pirates, etc.Too bad the people-stuff wasn't aimed more at adults; this could have been Heavy Metal with a coherent story. Well, now I'm just looking forward to HEAVY METAL F.A.K.K. 2!Oh, and a great soundtrack! "},{"Title":"Ummmm....","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I enjoyed this animation film, and well, I think it would have been cooler if all the cast actors appeared as themselves not the cartoon characters.But the main reason I give 8 out of 10 to this movie is the excellent music score in it. They have everything - Powerman 500, Electrasy, LIT, etc... and wow, I had to buy the Soundtrack! "},{"Title":"Much better than you may have heard","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This animated film from Don Bluth and co. is much better than anything we've seen from Disney in years (outside of the Pixar films, of course). Placed within the context of traditional animated films, Titan A.E. ranks second only to The Iron Giant (another underrated classic) in the last 10 or more years, easily overshadowing more successful Disney releases of late. It really is cutting edge in so many ways.Be warned that we are not talking about the usual touchy-feely fair you see in 'cartoon' genre films.  Everything from the rocking soundtrack to the Earth destroying aliens makes this film a little harsh on the common kiddie crowd. This explains in part why Titan A.E. did not do so well in the theaters ... it really struggled to find an audience. However, I should say that my 6 year old daughter absolutely loved the movie (and the soundtrack). She is bugging me already to go out and pick up the DVD ... which I am leaving to do right now.You should too. "},{"Title":"A Stylish Repackaging of Anastasia","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  For all it's gloss and special effects, the story is basically a rehashing of Don Bluth's semi-successful 'Anastasia'.  The background special effects were worth watching though the characters, themselves, appeared flat and lifeless.  The fact that we've seen these same characters in the same situations removes what little interest there might have been.  I didn't feel there was any real chemistry between the Matt Damon and Drew Barrymore characters like there was in Bluth's previous movie.  In all, it was barely watching once.  I was sorely disappointed because it appeared to have the makings of another 'Heavy Metal' in the beginning.  But the movie loses it's tempo quickly and you were left with nothing more than a prolonged chase scene with little real interest in what happened in the end.  Wait for this one to come to HBO. "}{"Title":"Finally a good animated feature from Warner Brothers and the USA!","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I personally think that this movie shows finally that some parts of Warner Brothers can make a decent animated movie without ruining it with cliches. Its about time for people in the US to realize that animated movies aren't just cartoons, or made for kids. Soon enough movies like this will be commonplace in every theater in the world, and its about time for more Americans to start respecting animated movies like this one. It was an excellent movie that anyone could enjoy. This truly was a movie for all ages, young and old. I would recommend that everyone should see this film. "},{"Title":"RULED!!!","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The movie rock with good animation, sound and humor, no stop action. It was a good movie, I enjoyed it, the castings was a good choice, I go to see this movie again. The special effects and the stuff blowing up was good. "},{"Title":"Calm down. All sci fi are like this.","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well. Except for the original Star Wars. That was plain awesome. But they can't all be like Star Wars. In fact, many sci fi movies are just plain bad. As sci fi movies go, this one is actually acceptable. Okay, so the story has a lot of holes and is a little weak. So the characters are nothing to write home about. This movie still has a few amusing moments, breathtaking moments, action packed moments, and suspenseful moments. It even has a few twists that you would not expect. And the visuals are amazing. Stith and Gune are probably the best characters, but a more developed romance between them would've been amusing. I did feel more could've been done, but this isn't really all that bad. Really. I admit I was hard on the movie at first, but it's much better than the more cookie cutter Disney movies. Like Dinosaur. It's just not as great as some of their better scripted ones. "},{"Title":"A visually stunning as well as exciting animated feature","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just saw Titan A.E and it has got to be the visually most impressive animated feature I have seen so far. Sure, a lot of it is computer generated, but it doesn't keep your attention.The storyline is fairly simple. A guy turns out to be the sole hope of the human race after Earth has been destroyed by the bad guys. What kept me interested in this movie (apart that it is exciting) was the visual imagionation used. I loved how original and exciting the things in it looked. It was a very Heavy Metal look and feel over the movie. If you enjoyed this one, you might enjoy Heavy Metal as well, although Heavy Metal isn't nearly as polished as Titan A.E.Still... despite that fact that it felt a little shallow at times I found this to be worthy of two hours of my life, and I recommend it if you're into SciFi and need a film that everyone in the family can watch. "},{"Title":"A Definite Disappointment","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The animation in this film is VERY well-done and at times breath-taking to behold.  If only the STORY were as ambitious and imaginative as the visuals used to tell it.  Instead, we're treated to the same old sci-fi good Vs. evil battle that's been done SO many times before, we can predict the plot twists a million miles away....it's like an animated, reheated kiddie version of Star Wars.  The movie would have been better (and had better word-of-mouth) had they went for something closer to Heavy Metal than the adolescent slant they settled for here.  It's not exactly an insult to the intelligence, but you DO wish for something with a bit more drive and grit....and imagination.   Kids might enjoy the story, but even my 13-year old nephew was more than a little restless in his seat after the half-hour mark.  As is, I'm glad I saw it, as I did enjoy the animation....but it wouldn't hold up interest for repeat viewings. This is the movie that buried 20th Century Fox's animation studio, which is a powerful shame.  It would be nice to have more quality NON-DISNEY animated films.      "},{"Title":"Between STAR WARS & the Don Bluth world","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan A.E. is one of those films that lacks in plot but not in SFX. Don Bluth & Gary Goldman have created a well-done masterpiece, reaching another level in the 3D animation. All the CGI stuff is brilliant, outstanding, in my opinion at the same level of STAR WARS or any other science-fiction production. However, the film incredibly lacks in plot and character deepness. I mean that the characters are so plain that they become the stereotypes of the good rebel (Cale), the cute but strong girl (Akima) and the veteran captain (Korso). I must say that the music of the film is delightful! Instead of using the typical musical score, like Disney's or Anastasia, the score of the film includes only Rock-style music (do not miss Over My Head from Lit!!).Finally, just remind you to SEE this film if you're a Don Bluth fan, STAR WARS fan and a science fiction fan. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Bluth and Co. have finally found their niche","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was tempted to see this film initially, but the fact that Don Bluth was directing kept me away, having seen such abysmal mistakes as All Dogs Go To Heaven and Rock-A-Doodle. However, some good word of mouth from a family member convinced me to go see it, and I don't regret it for a minute. This is the kind of thrill ride I haven't seen at the movies in years (and yes, I did see Star Wars Episode I). This film rocks in so many ways, even as it tries to fill the gap between anime and Disney-style kiddie fodder. The use of live action models for some sequences evoked Ralph Bakshi's late 70s work (Lord of the Rings, Wizards)but at the same time was so much better. I think Bluth has finally found the audience for whom he wants to make movies; here's hoping it finds him. By the way, even if you don't care for the movie, get the soundtrack; it's one of the best since The Saint "},{"Title":"Almost wipes the floor with Star Wars! Brilliant !","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok, maybe not with the first Star Wars, or with Empire Strike Back, but it sure wipes the floor with Return of Jedi, and all i could think off when i watching TITAN was, - poor SW Episode I. I hope George Lucas watches this movie, so he can get back on track, and remind himself on how a Space-Opera is done.This is how you do it. It couldn´t have been any better. People who point the fact that the screenplay is not the most elaborated or that there are plenty of unscientific facts in it, apparently don´t notice this is purely a 30´s and 40´s,  Space-Opera. Adventures in space, heroic characters, big bad alien civilizations and huge spaceships, this is all it matters in the genre that George Lucas revived and which was created in the 1930´s by the writer E.E.Doc Smith. Scientific credibility is not important here. Space-Operas were and always will be Fantasy stories set in space, despite being included as a sub-genre of sci-fi. A good mix of classical clichés is more important for this type of stories than anything else. It´s this good mix of situations and references that´s been missing from George Lucas saga since ROTJ or EPISODE-I, but are perfectly accomplished in TITAN-AFTER EARTH. E.E.DOC SMITH would be proud of this story and i´m sure he would love the film.This movie is the best Space-Opera, since the original STAR WARS, and it´s a shame that many people thought it was just another kids movie, as it is an animation movie. This is not a movie for little kids, people. This is a serious action adventure space-opera, which happens to be made in animation. There are no cute little characters or humor for little children to enjoy. Just credible characters, some sexual subtle references and a little violence, not usually found in movies for young ages.The animation is brilliant, the computer special effects are totally mind blowing, it is set in truly original landscapes and alien enviroments, the plot couldn´t be more excelent as it uses all the classical references brilliantly and it even has some surprises in it, and above all it´s a great roller coaster ride. I guess the only thing that annoyed me, was the soundtrack, which looks a bit out of place in a story like this. Then again at the same time, by not using a full traditional orchestral music soundtrack TITAN gets an atmosphere of its own wich works great. A miracle, considering some of the musics in this movie are truly awful and almost ruin the action on the screen.By the way, if you liked this, try to find an old movie called STARCHASER, which almost can be considered the father of TITAN A.E. (check my review), as it was the first animation Space-Opera not for kids who also used computer animation for many bits. And both have more or less the same atmosphere actualy.Anyway, if you like space-operas, and specialy if you´re a fan of the 30´s and 40´s Doc Smith novels, you can´t miss this movie. TITAN A.E, is the best space adventure in decades ! And much, much better than any recent real image special effects movie extravaganza.Trully a must see. I WANT MORE ! -) MORE ! MORE !Now where can i buy this on DVD ?...  "},{"Title":"cool","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie rocks it was jammed packed with awsome effects. Bill pullman was a cool charecter. if you haven't seen the movie please don't read any further.............................Bill Pullman was cool as a good guy but the bad guy thing then change back was a little much well I liked it. "},{"Title":"The Movie of ... Romance?","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Personally, I will always have fond memories of this film, as it was the first that my now ex-boyfriend and I witnessed together and laughed at, hysterically.  Oh, sure ... the animation was just fine ... peachy keen.  Forgettable, but still, neat.  The music was quite rousing, and I actually thought I would be interested in the sound track ... something I'm not very used to thinking, definitely ...I shall remember this eternally as the film of my first French kiss.  Oh, the thrill, the emotion ... what a blend ...   "}{"Title":"Cool SF cartoon.","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan AE is an excellent piece of work. It has the mainstream Science-Fiction story with a good-to-follow, clear, and zestful plot, it has amazing special effects and computer generated images, good drawings for characters, and, it even has Matt Damon as the lead voice. It is a remarkable SF cartoon which is far better than many a sci-fi film. That is, if we overlook the badly conceived ending which makes us believe that a planet may be formed off of ice blocks in about an hour or a week or whatever! Yet, it is a must-see for teenagers of all ages and I'd rather this to Babylon-5 anytime. "},{"Title":"Good story ruined by lack of depth in the plot and characters","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really wanted to like this film, as i am a big fan of animation and science fiction.  The idea of having earth destroyed and humans be the lowest of the low in the galaxy seemed like an intriguing story. However, the film barely even touched on some of the potential plot elements. I didnt feel for the humans all that much because we barely even saw them anyway, except for the main characters. The dialogue lead us to believe that there was deeper, more complex aspects to the main characters but the film never even went there. The bad guys were shallow, and there not much motivation for them or the aliens who helped the good guys (unless i am completely missing something) It seemes like they cut out a whole bunch of scenes for the sake of making the movie shorter and more flashier for people who can`t handle a darker, complexer storyline.I did think it was rather amusing that the aliens destroyed earth becaue of the titan project; as it was the Titan project which could make another replica of earth. But a new earth wouldn't have been needed if the original wasn't blown to smithereens; which it was, because of the creation of the titan project. (I know there's paradox in there somewhere)and somehow i dont think it`s physically posible to be in space without a suit even if you are holding your breath...heheI would one day like to see all the scenes that i am sure were there before. Then again I wouldnt be surprised if they were never were at all. It seems hollywoodishness has struck again. "},{"Title":"SciFi animation for adults","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Its a little bit sad to see such a good movie while knowing it was a failure. I really liked it. It has style and suspense, the story was very well made. And yes, I'm a fan of science fiction in general and I also liked this one.It might have be a success if the initiators would have decided to drop the classical way of drawing completely and use the computer generated 3D only. That was the main, and maybe only true problem of this movie. Computer generated 3D and classical drawing just look too different to harmonize on the screen.This movie contains very much violence and the story is not very interesting for children. For older people, this one is recommended if one likes science fiction in general.  "},{"Title":"Wish I'd read a few more comments before parting with £4...","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw the trailer for Titan AE and was hooked, surely this would be something new an adult-orientated animated feature with stunning CG and a decent score?  Some previews hinted that I was right and I decided I wanted to see it.When I came out of the cinema I was left feeling somewhat cheated.  Almost all of the cheesy sentiment and cliched plot developments were left out of the trailer, with them the film felt *very* PG-rated.I feel that this would be a good flick to watch with young teenagers who will gloss over the gaping plot holes and limited charcter development and just enjoy it.Also the Jar-Jar Binks-style 'funny' characters were truly abysmal. "},{"Title":"Everything's excellent, except the script.","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'll start out with what I loved about this film.  Technically, the visuals are beautiful; the way that computer graphics are integrated with traditional hand-drawn cel animation gives the movie a very unique look and feel.  The animation is also very fluid.  The soundtrack is excellent and fun to listen to, definitely a refreshing change from the classical score of most American animated films (although I'm sure it's the kind of thing that I'll look at in ten years and find incredibly cheesy, but nonetheless I'll still revel in its nostalgia).This film's story is very good.  The premise of a tale that takes place after Earth has been destroyed is incredibly dark for an American animated film, and that also makes it very unique and refreshing, because most films of this sort aren't very dark at all.  I'm sure this makes the film very marketable to today's generation of post-grunge, angst-ridden adolescents, but at the same time the movie isn't just dark for the sake of being dark the unusual, hopeless atmosphere is genuinely intriguing and makes you feel empathic towards the entire human race, not just the main characters, and it also serves to effectively evoke the themes which the story touches upon--the loss of a home and the absence of unity, the meaning of hope and its relation to trust.  The characters are deep and interesting, with dark sides and emotional complexities that aren't usually present in films of this type.  As I hinted at earlier, the story is also unique in that it centers around the hopelessness and redemption of an entire race, not just the main characters--and this is carried throughout the entire film, because at the end of the movie, you're still interested in the fate of humanity, not just whether the main characters live or die.  This is different from most animated films like Disney's Aladdin, in which the focus is clearly on the individuals you really want Jafar to die because he's a selfish worm and he's trying to kill our heroes Aladdin and Jasmine, but you're not so concerned about the fact that Jafar is a despotic tyrant who will ruin the lives of millions of people if he isn't stopped.The only thing that crushes this film is the way the story is executed. Most of the dialogue is very poorly written and cliche, which makes characters' otherwise interesting emotional complexities seem trite and generic.  Character developments are believable and even innovative at the level of an abstract storyline, but are made thoroughly vague and unexplained through the movie's terrible scripting.  For instance, in the movie's love story subplot, the transition that occurs when two of the main characters turn from casual friends to intimate lovers is completely abrupt and unexplained; there actually is no transition, because in one scene they're friends, and in the next scene they're lovers.  There are many more parts of the movie that could've been made much more immersive and believable if only the writers had added or changed some of the dialogue.As it is, Titan A.E. is still a refreshing film for me because of its dark atmosphere, unique story, gorgeous visuals and great soundtrack.  If only the script had been much better, this movie could have easily been one of my favorite animated films of all time. "},{"Title":"Decent US Sci-Fi Animated Movie, but how many of them are there?","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  you don't get many of these around do you? well is this worth the wait for one? the answer is yes, with a few buts. On the good side, it's got some great writing, cool flying and fighting sequences, Cgi incorporated, cool music and decent acting. Now for the bad points, the cgi is cool but did they have to make it the same frame rate as the cell animation, IE about 14 fps, in Starchaser the legend of Orin the cgi was blended in and it was all done at the full 24 frames. That's another thing, it kept reminding me of Starchaser, it's really quite packed with cliches. if you were to write a quite run of the mill mid eighties space movie this would be it. There aren't any real surprises or new ideas. But still with all this said, it's a very enjoyable experience to watch. because although it is done very much to the formula, the formula is a good one. And although the music doesn't fit as well into the movie as it does in Transformers The Movie or Mortal Kombat Annihliation it's still a good window to the past, being an old style animated space opera but with the technology of today to make it crisper cleaner and nicer looking than it's older counterparts. I'll be getting this one when it comes out on DVD. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A blast!","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan A.E. is definitely taking animation to new heights!  It explores what might happen in the 31st century when the human race is almost wiped out by an alien race, the Drej.  Watch out for Matt Damon as Cale and Drew Barrymore as Akima.  There is some good humour in the film also.  Animation is mixed with model shots of spaceships and backdrops, which works well.  I enjoyed this overall, but the story does have a lot of plot holes in it which leaves you having to fill them in with your imagination. Overall though a good movie...... 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have seen this movie twice now. I'm 17 years old and I am the biggest Kubrick fan I know.  Now that I got that out of the way I can tell you that this film was very good without you saying I should grow up and see real movies. I enjoyed Titan A.E. not only for its animation(which was fantastic) but because the plot that many others picked apart piece by piece was great. People have been saying that the film is a waste of time but can't back it up intelligently.  I've been waiting for this kind of animation and more adult themes to hit the mainstream for a long time.  I'm growing so tired of Disney's Song and Dance films with such a formulaic plot that I'm excited when a film aimed for teenagers and adults hits the screen.  My only problem with the film are the alternative music which seems very out of place for a space adventure(Powerman 5000's song matched the scene, but Lit...um..no) and the fact that 20th century fox didn't have the guts to release a PG-13 or R rated version of this film to try and attract even more adults and teenagers because kids really weren't they're main target, even if they have Titan A.E. toys (even Spawn has toys). "},{"Title":"Flash without the bang","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There is little doubt that Titan A.E. achieves what it set out to do in terms of visual impact. From stunt-flying through a nebula to a deadly game of cat-and-mouse amongst gargantuan ice crystals, viewers are taken on a roller-coaster ride through spectacular digital effects with scarcely the chance to draw breath. Unfortunately, the generally high quality of the scenery and effects animation sits at odds against the character animation that is only above average at best. I am willing to overlook the visual shortcomings of any movie if they are blessed with well-crafted characterisation and an intelligent plot. Alas, Titan A.E. fails hopelessly on this count, feeling as though someone accidentally got hold of a first draft of the script, and made the movie out of that instead. The film lurches between plodding tedium and impatient haste, revelling in cruel and pointless dramatic or comedic devices, starting plot arcs that never see an adequate conclusion, and forcing characters to change their motivation halfway through just because they get a gun pointed at them. Even as a 'popcorn' movie, Titan AE is flawed to the point of distraction; we are teased with elements that, with work, could make this a genuinely mature and intelligent sci-fi movie, only to have our piqued interest rewarded by shoddy writing and hackneyed cartoon humour. And no one likes to be slapped in the face like that when they're trying to enjoy popcorn. "},{"Title":"I loved it, and the soundtrack was great too....","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  The idea of Human beings without an Earth was one I hadn't explored before.  Although the movie is made for a younger set of people (ie under 20), the plot was interesting enough for adults as well. It's fun, light-hearted, and has touching moments and good action sequences.  And some of the animation scenes were truly beautiful.  Plus, I really liked the sound track.  "}{"Title":"outstanding artwork","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was wonderful. The art was fantastic and with such artisticly talented people as Jenny Neuberger and Will Makra lending their strengths to create vivid imagery. By far the inking and coloring was some of the best seen in an animated movie yet which will surely make this film a cult classic. This movie is fun and entertaining for both adults and children. Even though it was marketed at teenagers and pre- teens i had no reservations about taking my 6 year old son to see it. Fantastic! "},{"Title":"Misfire","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've never been one to follow the animated pictures of Don Bluth, being an avid Disney disciple, but this looked like the kind of movie that could take animation in a new direction, it looked like maybe it might be more adult-oriented, maybe have some hard-hitting action, bringing the Manga style into mainstream Hollywood. But I was wrong - Titan A.E. is dreadfully dull, using an uninteresting story as a flimsy foundation for admittedly great animation designs. Overall however, it is nothing more than a Saturday morning kids cartoon, in the same league perhaps as 'Transformers' or 'Thundercats' (both of which I'd rather watch than this). There is little tension between either the bad guys or good guys, or even between the hero and heroine (one scene shows the heroine, voiced by Drew Barrymore, undressing behind a computer-generated shield ... the hero simply turns away and starts playing with a baseball). Where great things could happen, the filmmakers shy away all too often, particular in the action scenes. This movie should probably have been wholly animated by computers, like Toy Story, A Bug's Life, etc ... and I think this is its failure.I wouldn't recommend this movie in a year when there are so many greater movies to see. Maybe take the kids, but if you're over 20 I wouldn't bother. "},{"Title":"Great animation and effects. Pathetic story line.","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan A.E. was one of the most enjoyable animated movies I have ever seen. Even Disney has not made a movie with such terrific special effects, music and acting. Matt Damon was great, considering it was his first animated movie; Drew Barrymore and Bill Pullman also helped a lot to make the story better.I do have to say, though, that the story line was all around lousy. Besides being predictable and unorganized; the whole time I was thinking, haven't I seen this before?. Copying off about a hundred other sci-fi teenage hero action adventures, it lacked originality.Besides the plot, I loved it. The acting was good, the animation was terrific (it includes computer and traditional animation, and maybe even some live shots), and the music was loud and fun! I bought the soundtrack immediately (which includes songs from LIT, Texas, Electrasy, etc) and was not disappointed.So overall, Titan A.E. was fun but don't go into it expecting to leave the theater with deep thoughts about the movie or anything. It was just fun I give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Could be a lot better","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Big holes in the argument. Not defined.The computer graphics are amazing, and some mixes between cartoons and computer graphis are ok, like to see a ship and the guys inside. But generaly the cartoons are poor, is a big difference between the water at the begining and the water in the planet where the Hidrogen Baloons are.May be it's a good movie to see on video.  "},{"Title":"A future cult favorite.","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Every time I think about this film, I get a little sad. Why? Because it mystifies me that it bombed at the box office and in turn, caused Fox to shut down its main animation studio plus fire Don Bluth and Gary Goldman. Folks, this movie deserves a better fate.The story has been done before in many different forms, yet somehow it still comes across as fresh and fun. How does this get pulled off? First, you've never seen it like this. The animation is jaw-dropping at times - the detail is astounding. It looks like every bit of the animation budget was well used. Second, the music isn't as jarring as it could have been. It's actually refreshing to hear songs play a part in the film, instead of tacked on to the end credits. Lastly, the actors succeed in immersing themselves into their characters. For the most part, it works. There's never any Hey! That's (insert star's name) moment that breaks the spell of the film.I wholeheartedly recommend it to anybody who's looking for a old-fashioned space adventure, and some good music. I own the CD, and will buy the DVD in time. Reading various reviews online, I think time will be kinder to it than some more successful films this summer (quick, quote a line from MI2). If it's still playing at your local theatre, go. Well worth it. Otherwise, grab it on video at Christmastime (my guess as to how Fox will try to recoup its losses) and enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Awesome Animation and Great Science to back it up","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan AE provides some of the best animation that exists today.  It definitely gives Disney a run for their money.  The science in the movie, like the DNA encoded map ring to the creation of a planet parallels some of the great sci-fi movies made in recent years.  So what happens if the earth was to be destroyed...cool plot. "},{"Title":"Excellent Animation - Poor Plot / Editing","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The excellent artistic vision, fantastic animation, and impressive detail put into the animation of this movie kept hold of my attention. Unfortunately, the poorly written, hole-laden plot kept distracting me from the animation.  I couldn't tell if this movie was for adults or children. The director included partial nudity, and the grusome death of a cricket-like alien... but then has fuzzy moments throughout the film... you can almost see Dont Bluth making the deals with the toy manufacturers... All in all, if the script would have been written for Adults, and a few things re-writeen, this film would have been a classic.  As it is, the compromises in plot and demographic-targeting are too evident and too distracting.  All in all, the film ended up being average.  It's not the first time an effects movie has fallen into this trap.  It's a shame it had to happen to this film too. "},{"Title":"Ignore everyone else, and see it for yourself","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Rarely are critics and audiences found to agree on a film as a unit.  Even more rarely are both so universally wrong.Titan AE has been maligned almost across the board (Roger Ebert a notable dissenter) as dull and derivative, with murky animation and shallow characters.  How the movie-going public that turned Armageddon into a massive hit can say this with a straight face is beyond me.I'll admit to having had my reservations.  After all, Don Bluth hadn't made a really remarkable film since The Secret of NIMH in the 80's, and his ability to skew a film to an older audience seemed questionable at best. But Titan AE surprisingly turns out to be a terrific sci fi adventure film of the type we genre fans rarely get anymore.  The art style, while admittedly a bit devoid of color, works quite well once you've gotten used to it.  The combination of classic cel animation with CGI, while not my favorite artistic decision, does become acceptable about ten minutes into the film.As for the story being derivative, does it really matter?  What really mystifies me are the accusations of Titan's resemblance to Star Wars. Modern film-goers seem to look back on that film with rose-colored glasses, and assume that George Lucas actually invented the story elements that made Star Wars work so well. Those elements, however, were old in 1977; Star Wars itself is derivative.  It seems odd to me, therefore, to accuse other films of ripping it off.Sadly, Titan appears to be doing lukewarm business, making further experiments in non-child-centered animation that much less likely.  I can only hope it redeems its investment on video, Austin Powers style, as I'd really love to see more work in this vein coming out of American studios. "},{"Title":"Deja-vu central","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  At most points during Titan A.E. I felt like I was having a sense of deja-vu; it was like I had already seen the film before.  I had.  Titan is a complete rip-off of Star Wars and Independence Day, among others.  The only novelty about it is the fact that it's animated, a fact which doesn't (and shouldn't) warrant viewership and quality on its own.  The movie is attempting to do one thing bring Anime to America, because there's a huge market waiting to be tapped into there.  It's a great concept, but it will take something much better than this science-fiction rehash to do the trick. Grade D+ "},{"Title":"Bluth's Latest Artwork is Spectacular","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I got hooked on Bluth back in 'eighty-something with the arcade games Dragon's Lair and Space Ace.  My kids loved (and still watch) All Dogs Go to Heaven, Land Before Time, An American Tail, and Secret of NIMH. Now I see that Bluth has used his delightful talent to create a wonderful work of art.I've been reading the professional critics' reviews and wonder how jaded these folks must be.  When Heavy Metal came out, I was impressed, but not wowed.  Tron was neat, but didn't quite hit the spot.  The Iron Giant was the best non-anime cartoon art I've seen to date, until I took my son and his friend to see Titan A.E..  My favorite scene was on a planet populated with man-sized flying creatures.  The hydrogen-bulb trees are beautiful and the chase scenes here are incredible.One reiewer griped that the computer animation clashed with the line-art. What a bonehead.  The contrast of computer art and line-art is EXACTLY what made the movie wonderful.  I've watched enough fully computer-generated movies and kids' shows to know that both types of art has their strengths and weaknesses, and this movie used both to make a wonderful impression.Storyline?  I agree that this is neither Shogun nor Mr. Holland's Opus with regards to character or plot development.  However, this is a great and awesome shoot-em-up show.  Take the older kids.  Preferably boys.  Don't analyze the film, just enjoy it.  It's time well spent.  "}{"Title":"It was great.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I liked this film a lot.  The animation is nothing short of groundbreaking and the backdrops are truly original on celluloid.  What I can't figure out is why this film has done so poor at the box office.  It is good film all around with some weak areas in the character department, yet phenomonal effects.  I gave it an 8 out of 10.  I sincerely hope this film can redeem itself financially when it goes to video.  I think it will become a long-time favorite of video and DVD renters for many years to come. "},{"Title":"9 for animation, 6 for story.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  See this before it goes - there won't be many American animated movies of this calibre.  The animation is spectacular - really fantastic colour, beautiful locations and objects, and great effects.  I also thought the framing and direction of the characters was quite good and very sophisticated compared to many animated films.Too often animation is directed too tightly - the main action or character completely dominates the scene.  Titan AE lets the camera hang back a bit and take in peripheral activity, adding greatly to the immersiveness and illusion.  When it needs to, it does get in close.Other than a couple rough-looking interior shots, the animation is flawless.I didn't think that much of the story, however.  It didn't matter since I was there to see the animation, and the plot was adequete to keep the movie going.  Still, there is almost no backstory, no explanation of most of the major plot devices, and it seems like some scenes are missing in the middle of the movie (involving Corso & company meeting up with Akima). "},{"Title":"Great looking, but with problems.","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan A.E. is great idea that very nearly worked.  It was made as an animated film that wasn't for little kids.  The aim is mainly at the 12-year-old to young teenager crowd.  To do this, it has many action-flick elements, like fast chases, loud gun battles, a rather gritty hero, and at one point a death of the major character by snapping his neck.  During a majority of the film, it pulls the action-animation blend very well.  The movie is fast-paced with an appropriate love interest and some interesting plot twists.  The animation is extremely well done, with the old-fashioned hand-drawn characters blending well with the computer-generated background.  The major problem with this film is the characters.  Our hero, Cale (Matt Damon), is drawn with very plain looks.  This is also the problem with Akima (Drew Barrymore).  In fact, of the humans, only Korso is that distinctive.  The most expressive face in the entire movie is that of an alien, Preed, who, voiced by Nathan Lane, is also by far the most interesting character as well.  The Drei, the villains, just are too vague to be that frightening.  The filmmakers don't bother to disclose the fact that they're made of pure energy until midway through the film.  We never do find out the details of why the Drei want to destroy the human race.  `They're afraid of what we might become.' is stated by Akima at one point.  Become what?  And why should they care?  Overall, although it has many flaws, Titan A.E. is a fun film with breathtaking visuals.  Plus, I love that `Planet Bob' joke at the end.  Grade B "},{"Title":"Breathtaking visuals. Excellent setup. Moronic plot.","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was worth my money just to see. The computer animation sequences are nothing short of awesome.Unfortunately, a promising setup leads into a very thin plot with some characters who essentially rebel against everything they believe in and, in the end, do things they obviously would never do. This all sounds very vague, but I don't want to give the story away. I'll just say that at least one character performs a savioristic stunt that goes against that character's very definition. Then, that character DOUBLES the stakes. It's just so unbelievable.The film has a decent score and good editing. Again, it is absolutely picturesque. But this is like eating pizza with painted-on pepperoni. Looks great, but it leaves you unsatisfied in the end. "},{"Title":"Heavy Metal 2?","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  They could have put Heavy Metal 2 on as the title for this film and I would not have minded.  Its a classic sci-fi tale.  In the tradition of E.E.Doc Smith and Robert Heinlein, Titan AE presents a hero's quest to fight evil and save the earth, or in this case, create a new earth.  I was more than happy with this film.  I had many trepidations as this was coming from the guy that did Rock-a-doodle to me.  He has redeemed himself.  This is also a most beautiful film.  The animation and action are top notch and deserve to be seen on the big screen for Maximum impact.  This film, to me, did everything that the fiasco known as Phantom Menace did not do.  It had characters.  It had a story.  It had scope.  There were numerous surprises involving all. Like Heavy Metal, this is really a film aimed at adults.  Unfortunately, the sci-fi audience is not going to see this and they should.  I'm hoping that this will do better overseas where animation doesn't have to be Disney and always have singing animals.   "},{"Title":"A failure? Why?","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was very afraid to watch this one. The news about its box office failure scared me badly. If recent successful Sci-Fi flicks (like Mission Mars) were terrible, what should I expect from one that failed badly? But I forced myself to go. First because I always like Don Bluth's movies. Second because since Akira I was dying to see another animated Si-Fi movie (and Akira was THAT GOOD). Then, there's TITAN A.E. on the screen, and me in the audience, and I have to say it wasn't what I expected. I didn't get disapointed at all. On the contrary, I thought the film was amazing good characters, good acting, good script (ok, it has flaws but nobody´s perfect), and the visual... do I really have to say anything? Once out of the theater I started wondering what went wrong with TITAN A. E.? It is really good. So, why aren't people going to see it? Maybe the problem is Disney's Dinosaur, also visually impressive but shallow as a water puddle, when it comes to script. TITAN A. E. might not be a great movie, it certainly is not a turning point in animation history, but it is great fun for all family (my eight Y.O. is playing Cale since we left the theater, just one week after Dinosaur; I assure you that that means something).  "},{"Title":"Open eyes, turn off brain","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Warning  At no point in Titan AE do any of the characters do anything that makes sense.  The plot is incredibly unbelievable, the dialog insipid, the bad guys are worse shots than Imperial Storm Troopers and the ending doesn't justify the beginning.Still, if you want to turn off any critical faculties and just watch a very pretty shoot-'em-up-in-space movie, this will get the fake butter boiling.  The characters are nicely drawn (literally) and you can actually tell them apart.  The locations are interesting and excellently rendered.  The battle scenes zip by fast enough that you don't notice how stupid the whole thing is until one of the rare slow scenes gives you time to think.Titan AE is the flip side to Princess Mononoke, which was an intelligent animated film.  This film is Sci-Fi Adventure! and not real science fiction.  Still, there are worse ways to spend a couple of hours.  Just let the movie wash over you and don't think too hard. "},{"Title":"Stunning visually, but too drawn out story-wise.","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  While without a doubt Titan A.E. boasts the most stunning visuals of this summer's movie crop, the somewhat derivative story leaves the visuals without any support, making this a less than stellar effort.  The animation team at Fox clearly know their work, and if they could get a script that was lacking the blatant Star Trek II ripoffs, then they'd have something.The story concerns the destruction of Earth by an energy-based life form called the Drege.  The Drege fear that mankind has become too smart for the universe's own good and set out to exterminate the race.  The Titan spaceship is mankind's last hope and only a young boy named Cale (voiced by Matt Damon) can save it.Thats about it folks, its really hard to comment on acting in this one since its voiceovers and animation, but the animation is very strong.  That's the one thing I can't fault this movie on.  The regular and computer generated images blend together well, and studios will be reviewing this one for years to come.Titan A.E. is a visual marvel, full of eye catching images that hold you spellbound, but a story that leaves you dozing.2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Great fun for everyone","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Don't know why I hesitated about seeing this movie, writers Joss Whedon and Ben Edlund rarely let me down. Joss wrote the most under-appreciated of the Alien films (Alien Resurrection) and he's the creator of the often funny and entertaining Buffy the Vampire Slayer show (which I hav'nt seen in a long time. I should start watching it again). I've been a fan of Ben since way back when he was still writing and drawing his Tick comic, as well as his Tick cartoon, and I can't wait for the Tick live-action series.This has to be the best American animated movie I've seen (that wasn't a comedy). The animation really is incredible, and a welcome change from the Disney monopoly on cartoons (though I suspect it won't make Disney dollars). Some truly breathtaking visuals to be seen here.I enjoyed the story, though I had to be reminded as to why they were taking so many detours on the way to find the Titan (but it wouldn't have made for much of a movie if they found it in the first twenty minutes, would it?). Although the evil Drej had no personalities, I thought they made for exciting and visually interesting villains. All together, I'd give this one a 9/10 stars. I hope this animation for adults thing catches on here. The Japanese have known it works for a long time, and why should they have all the fun? G'night!  "},{"Title":"Sensational!! WhatEpisode 1 should have been.","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is the ONE I have been waiting for. A true animated science fiction epic that left me breathless. I used to read a lot of science fiction comic book but never did I see one on the screen. Well Fox animation and Don Bluth have done it again and it just means that Disney is not the only capable force out there that can produce masterpieces. After the beautiful Anastasia, they are now bringing science fiction into the world of animation and did a magnificent job. Lots of people are criticizing the script and all the Star Wars like scenes. Well people, remember that EVERYTHING has already been done but no one has had the guts to do what TITAN A E is A fantastic science fiction animated epic for both kids and adults !!. This is what Episode 1 should have been. I loved it and can't wait for the video to come out. Just go ahead and have a blast !!!!. And Disney, remember, you are no longer alone out there. "}{"Title":"A motion picture comic book","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Feature-length animation though it may be, Titan A.E. could best be described as a motion picture comic book.For all its visual splendour, Titan A.E.'s storyline barely rises above the level of good versus evil injected with an overdose of superhuman heroics. Welcome to an installment in Heavy Metal brought to life, so to speak.About the only difference between this and standard science fiction fair is that this time the humans are not trying to prevent some alien force from destroying Earth, if only because the story begins with the planet being blown up.   Instead, our heroes are trying to save the last remnants of the human race, now adrift in space, from the merciless Drej, a race of gleaming blue insect-robots (what else?) that are worried not so much about what humans are but what they could become.Although they managed to disintegrate the planet, the Drej failed to achieve their real goal -- to destroy a mysterious sphere called Titan, which was somehow launched before the bad guys' giant laser did its work.This central subject of Drej ardour is also the key to the survival of the human species, now scattered throughout space. Trouble is, no-one knows where it is, let alone exactly what it does.But there is hope in the form of Cale (Matt Damon). Not only did Cale's father help build Titan but he also genetically encoded a map on his son's palm that reveals where it is hidden. With the help of a ring that Cale's father gave to him just before evacuation, the map is illuminated for all to see.Cale is made aware of this fact only when an old friend of his father, Korso (Bill Pullman), tracks the boy down to an outpost in a distant galaxy. With the Drej close behind, a high-stakes treasure hunt begins, giving us a tour of intergalactic life as seen through the eyes of producers Don Bluth and Gary Goldman, two Disney alumni now out on their own.Although Titan A.E. amounts to little more than an interplanetary chase movie, there is no denying that this is one awesome example of animation. Of particular note is a red planet covered by `hydrogen trees' and the movie's finale, where everyone converges on the Ice Rings of Tigrin.   Considering the Titan A.E.'s lack of depth, it's only fitting that animation was the chosen medium. Conversely, it's thanks to the animation, Titan A.E. is one vibrant, luscious bit of eye candy. "},{"Title":"Perfect Summer Cheese","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay, so the plot may not hang together in places, and the science is all messed up, and some of the plot twists aren't fairly foreshadowed...we don't care.  We have the witty dialogue, the edge of the seat suspense, the breathtakingly beautiful animation, and the mandatory touch of romance. It's summer cheese at it's best.  Find the biggest screen you can, grab some popcorn, and sit back and enjoy the ride.   "},{"Title":"And God Created Bob","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  We have learned that the first draft of the human genetic code is complete.  In seeing the movie, Titan AE, I can't resist thinking about the parallel to the mechanistic life solutions  that both offer.  The genetic coders will tell you their answers are not the be-all-and-end-all.  Titan AE cannot give us a similar defense.  This film seems to follow in the footsteps of Princess Mononoke with the real actors and actresses doing the voiceover of the animated characters.  But this American attempt is a poor imitation of the Japanese film.  When the first ten minutes of Titan AE are the most interesting part of the film and the remainder only bare witness to the superficiality of the plot and the futility of too many 'Star War' chases, you have to wonder about the minds of writers caught up in too much animation (mechanism) and in too little humanity (what makes those characters tick).  The irony of using Matt Damon, Drew Barrymore, Bill Pullman, and other well known stars is that the very familiarity of their voices is wasted in animated characters who have no history and no heart.  Titan AE is really a sign of the times, a film you can go to at the end of a work day, do very little thinking about because the story does not lend itself to thought, watch a lot of exciting animation, and leave the theater not remembering much of what you had seen.  It is the moment that counts, not the cherished memory.   "},{"Title":"Visually beautiful, suspenseful, animated brilliance.","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's a terrible shame that this movie has not gotten the attention it deserves, both as a sci-fi action film and as a stunningly beautiful animated feast.  Too many good movies go unnoticed because they don't sell big right away.As for the film's storyline, it's a bit thin in places (the resolution of the plot seems undeveloped), but that's forgivable, considering the sheer visual brilliance the audience is presented with.  The soundtrack works well, with the exception of a couple of songs which play out like a music video and do not seem to fit the flow of the movie.  Overall, highly recommended.   "},{"Title":"A great space epic that should not be ignored for its animation!","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After the first 5 minutes of this film, I had totally forgotten I was in a theater at all, and I was in another world.  This may sound cheap, but it's true.  This film blows all other recent adventure films away.  It's unique soundtrack works well with the movies images...I loved the scene with the space angel things and the Its my Turn to fly music in the background.  It sent shivers down my spine more times than I could count.  Many are beating on this movie, saying that the plot is unoriginal, the characters are boring...etc.  I think that the plot was very intriguing, especially the whole part about the map in Cales hand.  There are holes in the plot...one of the complete characters acts completely out of character about halfway through the story...it only happens as a plot device.  But when watching this movie, you hardly notice it.  Many of the audiences this film is intended for don't even want to see this movie because its animation. I think animation can be much more powerful than live action, and it is exactly that here.  Some of the scenes in this movie could only take place in animation, where there are no rules.  The characters are very simple, but you do care about them.  This film contains some of the most explosive action scenes, some of the most amazing and beautifal locations, and some of the most memorable experiences youll find in any movie since Star Wars. "},{"Title":"Lame and Incomplete","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It may be incorrect to call `Titan A.E.' a cartoon, but it is certainly as thin as one. For all the advance billing this movie received, it has a surprising lack of inventiveness. The movie is filled with things we have all seen before or that are so similar that a slight variation adds nothing. The depth of the story is on the level of a `Pokemon' movie and the characters are stock, uninteresting, and unlikely to be remembered. The movie, however, is too mediocre to garner either our praise or scorn, in other words it's cartoonish.I had a hard time concentrating because so much of  `Titan A.E.' is mindless action. Often when major plot points had occurred I found that I had missed them, having spaced out. I wasn't impressed with the special effects either and when the movie ended everything felt so incomplete-- there was a lack of  struggle,  lack of journey, an absence of development.The Batman cartoon series is one that has impressed me, but `Titan A.E.' doesn't have the smarts of the Batman series. Animation may well be the wave of the future in the movies, but judging from `Titan A.E.' it's no closer than Wile E. Coyote is to catching the roadrunner. Two stars. "},{"Title":"Spectacular animation and music brighten predictable plot","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I wanted to see this movie from the first time I saw the preview!  I am happy to say this movie did not disappoint.For me, the best movies inspire emotion.  My high rating for this movie is more of a reflection of the well-crafted blend of animation styles than any specific emotion the plot provoked.  There were times I sat open-mouthed wonder at the animation sequences.  The computer-generated backgrounds mixed in with the more tradition cel animation make this movie the perfect escape for any who can at least appreciate the reused themes in the plot. "},{"Title":"A good Flick that Doesn't fit!","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  You know, it's a shame that Titan A.E. has been so misjudged.I believe it was a great animated movie, with brilliant illustrations, a likable cast of characters, interesting plot twists and a solid ending. I believe Titan A.E. is a must see for Science Fiction fans, Anime fans, and fans of animated movies in general.Was it earth shattering (well, I guess it was in a sense)? No. However, for other critics to say it was the worst movie they ever have seen? Hardly. Highlander 2 was the worst movie ever made.Titan A.E. was a real first of it's kind. It wasn't a kiddie movie. It wasn't an adult animated flick (like Heave Metal). It wasn't just for Sci-Fi buffs. It seemed to just be a mishmash of a lot of different things that just didn't fit a particular genre.However, I believe the lag in plot (why did the Drej do what they did to the human race?) can be overlooked by the tremendous visual eye candy. Heck, MI2's plot was nearly non-existent, but when you see Tom Cruise in slow mo doing stupid bike tricks it makes you forget about all that. I think you get this with Titan A.E., too.Does it rip off Star Wars? No, I don't see that at all. Cale isn't looking for the force, he doesn't have a special power that makes him the chosen one. He just had the burden of being the son of the man that created a machine that could save humanity. Is that Star Wars? I don't think so. However, I do see a similarity to Star Trek IIThe Wrath of Khan. It has some typical stereotypical scifi generalizations that you see in just about every Sci-Fi flick.I think Titan A.E. is an exciting animated adventure with thrilling visuals, a plot that's pretty simple to follow, exciting action scenes, a pumping soundtrack, good voice actors, and a funny, yet fulfilling resolution (One word for those who've seen the movie, Bob). "},{"Title":"interesting things abound","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The second animated feature from Fox Animation STudios, and a rael nice try all around.  Animation is pretty spectacular, although a couple of the money shots don't quite work as well visually as one would have hoped.  At other times, the wham-bang visuals seem a little superfluous, like this entire sequence where the Matt Damon-voiced hero flies a ship through some sort of energy field for no reason other than to plug another sound from the soundtrack.  Whatever.  The story is pretty much paint by numbers, ripping off Star Wars, Starship Troopers--heck, pretty much every science fiction man-against-aliens movie ever made.  And that's all right.  It's entertaining, darn it.  I don't really know why the film is flopping so bad except.  It's a pity. Doesn't deserve this type of treatment from the audience.  Anyway, the voice work is decent--Matt Damon is good, though, as usual, a little on the Will Hunting side of things.  Natahn Lane is amusing and sniveling as an alien.  Bill Pullman is decent in his part.  Drew Barrymore is terrible, as usual.  Who really believes this girl can act?  Well, not me, anyway.  Also, and here's an interesting one, Titan A.E is the first animated film produced for a kid's audience in the U.S that I can remember to feature male dorsal nudity--that means we see the Matt Damon character's butt a couple of times.  In fact, there's more of Damon's flesh on display here than in the entireity of The Talented Mr. Ripley.  And it's a nice butt too. Good, not great movie, but lots of fun, and much more deserving of the success that it is not getting. "},{"Title":"A Good Film With Better Special Effects Then Story","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  How many time have we seen movies when people are trying to save earth from aliens?  Many.  This film is a little different from those though, it is what earth is like after it is destroyed by a alien race(Hence Titan AE After Earth).  The story follows a young man named Cale(Voiced by Matt Damon) and how he lives in alien planets because earth is no more.  He then is confronted by a man named Korso(Vocied by Bill Pullman)that tells Cale that his father gave Cale a map on his hand to find a ship called Titan, a ship that could save human life and make a new earth.  Cale agrees to join him and his crew members to find the ship and save human life.  The effects in this film a great, especially with the alien race, The Dredge.  Anyway I say see this film, its worth it.   "}{"Title":"Episode 1 should have been this","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Visually entertaining, and better if you can add your own imagination to it. While certian things are left unknown, this is where YOUR imagination comes in play. For kids and adults alike, is it really possible to get this much action out of american made cartoons? Lets hear a hell yes for TITAN A.E.!! "},{"Title":"Enjoyed the movie, expected a bit better","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan AE is the latest of the anti-Disney films from Don Bluth (director of such gems as An American Tail and The Land Before Time) and Dreamworks. While Disney's cornered the market on cuddly, adorable, MARKETABLE characters, Bluth and his team have in Titan found a niche of their own mature characters and somewhat disturbing plot-lines.  Cale isn't Simba or Hercules.  Captain Korso isn't your everyday Gaston or Scar.  The evil Drej Queen is not your parents' Malificent.  The one thing this movie does have in common with its Disney counterparts is its amazing visuals. I was floored by some of the astounding and dazzling scenes in this film.  Foremost among them are the Ice Ring and Wake Angel sequences, which are on par with Tarzan's treesurfing or the carpet ride through the cave in Aladdin.  Some of the greatest scenes in animated cinema history pale in comparison to the absolutely incredible pictures Bluth, Goldman, and their team have given us.There's one slight problem though.  Whenever the combination of Computer Generated Images (cg) and standard cel-animated characters appears, the result is a somewhat choppy mixture of the two.  Though visually appealing when frozen frame-by-frame, the result, when played back, isn't exactly 100% smooth.  If the animation directors had taken a tip from the producers of TV shows like Matt Groening's Futurama or the late, lamented Silver Surfer series, and created cel-like CG components, the result would have quite possibly been the greatest- at least visually- animated feature ever.The voices and acting were dead on, and the plot was what one should expect from a feature length 'toon Boy meets girl, girl hates boy, boy and girl get kidnapped by hostile, world-destroying aliens, boy and girl fall in love and reignite the human race as we know it... pretty cut and dry.  I really enjoyed the acting and simple plot a movie like this is a breath of fresh air from heavy movies these days like American Beauty and The Talented Mr Ripley.In a few words, Titan AE has the potential to become a classic animated feature, though it is flawed in a few places.  If one looks past its imperfections, you get the enjoyment of a pulse-pounding (sorry for sounding too film critic-y) ride through the cosmos and the thrill of seeing good triumph over evil once and for all.Now I'm off to Planet Bob. "},{"Title":"multi-age viewer comment","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went with 5 other people.  We ranged in age from 30 to over 70. We enjoyed the animation and all liked the movie as a whole. The story might have been better but the graphics kept us involved with what was going on.  Even though some of us knew who did the voices ahead of time, they were well done and fit the characters vs sounding like the performers. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but still pretty good","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan A.E. marks the first time in about fifteen years that I have ventured to the local cineplex to see an animated film.  What I got was a pretty entertaining (albeit slightly flawed) animated action/sci-fi flick.Right off the bat, it should be mentioned that for the most part, the voice casting was well done.  Matt Damon and Bill Pullman voice their characters well, as do most of the other major players.  The only problem I had in this category was that Titan A.E. suffers badly from what I have termed Don Bluth Syndrome, a recurring disorder among animated films, which manifests itself in the form of cutesy characters with exceptionally obnoxious and grating voices. Two examples that spring to mind immediately in this film are the insect-like cafeteria worker from the salvage yard at the film's beginning, and the bespectacled navigator that appears later in the film. I found myself praying that the navigator would either get killed or just shuffled off to movie limbo, so that I wouldn't have to listen to his voice anymore.  No such luck.The story itself is fun and is handled well, for a film that seems to be primarily geared toward children.  Looked at in this respect, Titan A.E. succeeds where countless others have failed it handles a serious and violent story in an appropriate way for kids.  The blood is kept to a minimum, but there is no avoiding the fact that, yes, people die in this movie. Quite a few of them, in fact.  But, as they say, presentation means a lot, especially in kids' movies, and Titan A.E. scores big in that department.One major problem I had with this film is that it didn't really develop the Drej (the villains) very well.  Okay, so they want to destroy the earth and all humans.  Why?  And while I understand that it's a little creepier to leave those questions unanswered, it drove me (and most of the people I've talked to about the film) crazy.  Hell, at least they had the decency to tell us why the aliens wanted us dead in Independence Day.My final complaint is in regards to a purely cosmetic aspect of the film. While I'm not the type to drool and ooh and ahh over neato special effects, I have to say that I have a problem with the computer animation in Titan A.E.The film should be prefaced with a gigantic readme.txt file that says Warning This film encounters framerate problems when viewed on large screens.  In some scenes, it is obvious that the computer animators decided to cut down on the number of frames rendered.  Part of the appeal of computer animation is that it can be astoundingly fluid, and a lot of its lustre disappears when a spacecraft goes skipping across the sky.  C'mon, guys... limiting the number of frames per second to lessen the render time only cheats yourselves and the moviegoers.These things aside, Titan A.E. will most likely be enjoyable for kids and adults that can tolerate the requisite cutesy stuff. For the most part, the story is well-paced and entertaining, and while there is a little blood here and there, it never crosses the line into the tasteless. "},{"Title":"Another candidate for the Trashcan","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan A.E. is by far the WORST movie (excluding Troll 2) that I've seen in my life.  It has no story, very little character development, choppy animation, lots of inconsistencies (almost Commando quality).  The rendered environment looked ok, but it seemed out of place.  The problem was that it was not seemly integrated with the animation, like in any anime of the past five (5) years or any Disney and/or Dreamworks movie.This movie is far too violent for children.  Even worse the blood and the violence scenes are plain stupid, and do not add anything to the story, (Akima getting shot anyone?).  Furthermore the story and its execution makes this movie even harder to follow than Isthar, negating chances for adults to enjoy it.I won't even waste time, trying to dissect the movie, it was just too dumb. It is a good thing that Fox wants to make animated movies, and at that separate itself from Disney and Dreamworks.  But this is not the way to do it.  A good storyline, plot and character development are what's needed, not gratuitous blood and violence.  Please note that I'm not opposed to that, just to its use in dumb ways.  The worst part (or the blessing) of the movie, was that after reaching New Bangkok, the storyline went into turbo mode, and nothing more was either explained nor cared about, (the little kid at the station?;the Kangaroo getting into the other ship at the end?, etc.)Even Star Wars Episode I, had a more friendly storyline (yikes!).  God, even Star Trek  Insurrection was less annoying in dialogue and plot.  I wonder what the Drej problem was.I wonder what the target audience was for this movie?  I vote for people who bought Troll 2 when it came out on video, and drooled over the Mangler on the big screen.If this movie was any worse, it would have an X rating for obscene  "},{"Title":"Animation was incredible! Story was dull.","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I found the storyline to this movie to be completly boring. I also found parts of the storyline to be downright stupid and idiotic.The animation was the best I've EVER seen. The combination of traditional animation and computer graphics is by far a marriage made in heaven. All animated movies should strive for a combination like this.Unfortunitaly I can only rate this movie a 6. The story was simply to dull and stupid to overcome the fantastic animation.Based on the IMD rating scale this movie falls below the minimum 7 rating that makes a movie worthwhile to see. Incredible animation though. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie in almost every way","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'd like to say that this movie was perfect, and that there wasn't a single flaw.  I'd like to say that, but I can't.  It's ALMOST perfect-- the combination of media used was brilliant, the voice-acting was second-to-none, and the movie was gripping.  But it was also predictable in many ways.  That's it.  Other than that, it was a wonderful movie.  One of the best animated features I've seen, including Disney's productions. "},{"Title":"Why can't all cartoons by like this?","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Absolutely stunning.  I consider myself a large sci-fi buff.  I've seen them all( and unfortunately Star Wars The Phantom Menace).  If you saw that movie, prepare for your redemption.  Titan A.E. is THE most marvelous and entertaining film I have seen in years.  And the best part is that everyone will enjoy it.  You don't have to be a genius to be blown away by the best animation to ever be on the big screen( and yes, I mean EVER).There is only one puzzling thing about this film.  It makes me wonder why all cartoons can't be like this.  I can still remember back in the day when Thundercats and Transformers ruled Saturday morning.  It is like the animation world has been on crack for a decade.  But could this be the start of an animation revolution?  We'll just have to wait and see.I also want to send a shout out to Don Bluth, the man who made this movie possible.  I have never had a movie going experience like this before, and I am looking forward to your next work.  "},{"Title":"Superb graphics - storyline makes you wonder a little","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The graphics were awesome.  I love to watch an animation where I forget it's an animation.  Don Bluth is a master at making characters that make small gestures and movements in their faces and also at making them appear realistic.My only gripe with this movie was the storyline wasn't quite complete.  The reason the bad guys wanted to take out the humans was never really made clear.Still, it was a fun movie to go see.  I'd recommend it! "},{"Title":"Best Science Fiction Film of the Season","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  No joke...I enjoyed Titan A.E. more than even Star Wars Episode 1.  Mind you, I had a few problems with Titan...namely, the perennial problems inherent with trying to mix cel animation with CG graphics.  As with other films of the same nature, suspension of disbelief is sometimes disrupted when the two don't merge perfectly.However, Titan's strength lies primarily in its fresh and energetic approach to the movie-house animation field.  You will not find song-and-dance numbers here, you will not find cutesy characters, you will not find villains who gesture theatrically --- as though they were on camera.  What you WILL find is a strong background rock soundtrack, fast-paced action sequences, believable characters, and depth in both script and plot.If I have any problems, it is with a few _deus ex machina_ matters...but if it didn't bother you that Anakin Skywalker can climb into a ship he's never seen before and blow the bejeezus out of a heavily-armed and -shielded space station, these shouldn't cause you any real discomfort.I'll tell you one thing as a guy into his thirties who outgrew toys when he was half his current age, I'm looking to get my hands on a Stith action figure.  Alien or not, that character has more depth and range of emotion in her left dewclaw than Jar Jar Binks would have if he were cloned.  And let's not even go THERE. "}{"Title":"Reviewers show a lack of experience with Japanese Animation","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After reading Dark Gryph's review drawing comparisons to Japanese animation and several other reviews describing Titan A.E. as some of the most impressive animation they've seen, I can only conclude that most of these people need to watch more Japanese Animation. Dark's comment about anime plots and animation shows no experience with Studio Ghibli, such as the fantastic movie Mononoke Hime (Princess Mononoke).  Anime is not all violence, 30 gallons of blood, and big-breasted women.  Dark would do well to watch what is actually popular in Japan.  I would refer the interested reader to the IMDB page on Princess Mononoke rather than write a short review here. Those who describe Titan A.E. as the best-looking animation ever would do to watch more theatrical anime - what Japan does on a fraction of the budget of America (Mononoke Hime had a budget of $20,000,000) continues to impress me.  Titan A.E. had many animation flaws, for instance the water was several generations behind the cutting edge.  Having said that, Titan did a good job integrating CG and cell-based animation, but Ghost in the Shell (which had a wide-spread US distribution) had better back in '95. Titan had some inspired sequences - the best planet detontation I've seen, an inspired cat-and-mouse game in ice crystals, and a good job following the laws of physics.  It had an OK story - enough to keep you interested, but you should watch the films for the inspired sequences. And finally, it made the right choice in not explaining everything.  Coming back from the theatre we had an enjoyable conversation figuring everything out, and realized that had they explained it with any flaws, we'd probably be ripping the film to shreds.... 6/10.  Watch it if you like the genre and/or animation, otherwise skip it. "},{"Title":"Visually, not mentally stunning","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film appears to attempt to be a teen movie, but fails miserably at it. While everyone talks of the great visuals of this story, they fail to mention that the story was as empty as the vacuum of space.  The music was almost right, the characters were almost human, but we've seen it all before in either Independance Day or Twister or ... well, you get what I'm saying.This movie shows both the technical potential of blending cartoons with CGI, and the lack of fusion between action and emotion in movies. "},{"Title":"Easily the best movie I've seen, involving cell animation!","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Usually, I do not comment on movies that I have watched in the theaters, but I must say that I am really looking forward to the DVD release of TitanAfter Earth, for my home theater system!The movie, is easily the best traditional cell animation (combined with CGI or otherwise) that I have ever seen, and easily beats the Dreamworks animation such as Prince of Egypt in my opinion.If you have not seen the film in the theater, and you like scifi, you should go see it. It will please Star Wars fans - or even just plain scifi fans who at least somewhat likes animation. If you're not sure about animation but if you at least liked Toy Story or Toy Story 2 a little bit, then you'll have no problem with this movie. There is a HEAVY amount of CGI for the backgrounds. It is a visual feast for the eyes - lots of very 3-dimensional CGI special effects thrown in - especially the outer space sequences. Very scifi and lots of fun - the movie was even better than the trailer suggested it would be. Do not judge based on the trailer - the trailer made it sound somewhat initially corny, but the movie was less corny than I expected! Even though this is animation, this movie is PG rated for violence, brief language, mild sensuality. This isn't a little kid's cartoon!  "},{"Title":"Best Animation, Best Movie of the last 20 years","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've heard it said a dozen times, but I'll repeat  this is the movie Episode I should have been.  Excellent Sci-Fi movie, great tense action and the best effects on film to date.  If you didn't love this movie, you must not be a sci-fi fan.  It does not follow the Hollywood formula so it won't work for the sheep who flock to see all the Julia Roberts movies, or even the predictable Mission Imp 2.  If you like spectacular awe-inspiring original movie action... this is for you.   "},{"Title":"Visually, not mentally stunning","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film appears to attempt to be a teen movie, but fails miserably at it. While everyone talks of the great visuals of this story, they fail to mention that the story was as empty as the vacuum of space.  The music was almost right, the characters were almost human, but we've seen it all before in either Independance Day or Twister or ... well, you get what I'm saying.This movie shows both the technical potential of blending cartoons with CGI, and the lack of fusion between action and emotion in movies. "},{"Title":"Better than Phantom Menace","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Yes, I liked this movie better than Star Wars Episode I. Maybe because, ironically, these animated characters have more humanity. This is what a SF movie should be. It all starts with the story (George Lucas take note). You have all the basic elements, the young reluctant hero, the goofy supporting characters, and of course the totally evil bad guys. Add in the well cast voices, good music and interesting sound effects, and you got a film thats worth your 7 bucks. "},{"Title":"Terrific animation and a decent story","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan A.E., the newest animated feature from Don Bluth, is a terrific SF movie with fantastic 3D animation. That being said, I would also say that, as with most SF movies, the story was pretty predictable, and the 2D animation of the characters was typical of Mr. Bluth's earlier films.  While most SF aficionados will certainly recognize various plot elements (and even certain background elements -- my friends were sure they saw a Death Star in the drifter colony conglomeration), it is the weaving of those elements together with the wonderful 3D animation that make this movie so enjoyable.  Yes, we've seen the chase through the asteroid belt or nebula cloud done in other movies, but using it as a vehicle to show off some terrific 3D animation effects was both clever and entertaining.  Overall a very enjoyable experience. "},{"Title":"Heavy Metal for kids.","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"       TITAN A.E. is one very weird film, since it reminded me a lot of the 1981 cult classic, HEAVY METAL.  There were more similarities than differences between the two films.  They both have futuristic settings, spectacular settings and animation, grotesque aliens, a hard rock score, fantasy worlds, gung-ho men with guns, animated nudity (yes nudity), and animated females that are very shapely.     TITAN A.E. takes place 15 years after the destruction of Earth by the Dread species, a alien species that are supported by energy and have a amazing glow.  There was a ship that left Earth just before the planet's destruction, and now it has disappeared.  Enter Cale (voiced by Matt Damon) a hard working driller who is treated poorly since he's human.  Cale is approached by two other humans, gung-ho pilot Korso (Bill Pullman) and beautiful Akime (Drew Barrymore).  Korso tells Cale that he has the hidden key to the location to the disappearance of the Titan ship.  Besides the three humans, also going along for the ride are some aliens, and they are all different by personalities.  There is the egotistical and stuck-up Preed (Nathan Lane), the short temper but loyal Stith (Janeane Gorofalo), and the excited and nerdish Gune (John Leguizamo).  Together, these few try to beat the Dread species beats them to the ship and destroys it.      I've been figuring out who Don Bluth made TITAN A.E. for? It's too juvenile for adults, and too violent for kids.  So I'm guessing it's made for boys ages 9 to 13, but I know that boys that age would rather see MISSION IMPOSSIBLE 2, GONE IN 60 SECONDS, and X-MEN.  So it's not really going to be a success for the Fox studio, which is a shame, because I do give them credit for trying very hard to make some quality family films. And what's even more sad is that the disappointment business that TITAN will do will mean closing down the Fox Animation Studios which are in the same city I reside in.     But TITAN A.E. is o.k., but nothing great.  It's nowhere as charming or whimsical as ANASTASIA, and it's not nearly as entertaining as CHICKEN RUN.  But for a different taste in animation and stlye, TITAN A.E. does manage to pull it off.  I guess that this movie is for the older boys, and young men, who love STAR WARS, STAR TREK, and Japaneese Animation.  But as for I, I consider it to be HEAVY METAL 1 1/2, since the sequal is coming out later this year.  ***1/2 (out of five)  "},{"Title":"See this movie","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  For all of you  complaining about Titan A.E. being unoriginal I will point out a few other unoriginal things. For you anime fans is 3x3 eyes the anime about a chick with three eyes. For you complaining Trekies there is the Borg. Would you name a bunch of cyborgs The Borg?  It seems everyone has something to chip away at this movie, Namely lack of creativity. How many times has a space ship exploded or someone been sucked out into space? Tired of it? No, because it's still cool. Where would movies be if you took away all the things you know and expect. We might have another Mission Impossible.  I don't think I am the only one who that movie confused.Movies need certain things. And in America it's a good guy, a bad guy, a comic relief, and some silly unrealistic violence. Bluth did a rather good job of breaking some of the Disney created requirements. We still got comic relief, good and bad guys and so on but at least this time around we got some blood and realistic violence with consequences. My god, if you break someone's neck they die...Gasp, Disney was wrong.I think that the best combination of animation would be between anime and American animation. I have problems with people who lean heavily to one particular side. Though typically more action packed  anime has its flaws. Such as everyone has about thirty gallons of blood that is under high pressure, dang near every city can be destroyed by some big evil guy that the hero inevitably fights and one or both are killed, every person has some rare illness that causes their eyeballs to swell to ungodly proportions. How do you even blink grapefruit eyes? There's also the soap opera plots, big breasted girls who are always too weak to do anything, the punks that become heroes, bad mix of future and present, the much loved elders, giant power suits, laser weapons, bad portrayals of Americans (were all surfer dude cowboys), repeated animation (look there goes his car, look its his car again, look its the same six cars in a four frame loop),  sound effects for every action,  sun with glinting sound off of every shinny object , unoriginal plots (crap they have guns, lets infiltrate and destroy something vital), mouths that can shift shape to cover 90% of the face, ect, ect. Don't get me wrong I love anime, but it's just as flawed as ours.Anime one side of a coin and ours the other. ours has its problems, namely it's plain, has  kiddy plots,  the annoying habit of being made by Disney and usually gives teens a great deal of shame when they have to watch. Animation could benefit greatly from having films with both influences. The surrealism of Japan and the realism of America. Titan A.E. is a start in that direction. Some voices weren't hot and the movie lacked the violent power of some anime but it's a start.I think that Bluth made a valiant effort to break the cliche. People who are aggravated with our animation should give him slack and a helping hand. You can't expect the American animation to be anything great when you sit complaining without helping.What will we do without our planet? That has been done before, true. However never like this. A few of the things that this movie could have changed are the soundtrack, editing, camera angles, and pace. The pace should have been quicker during action, the camera could have been more dramatic in chases, the editing, such as when Gune and Stith get blown up, could have waited to cut, without so choppy a transition. Finally the sound track. I think that they picked the right bands but had them play the wrong songs. Powerman 5000 is a great choice. Their CD Tonight the Stars Revolt Is practically a rock space opera. I recommend it to anyone who passed it up. Instead of creating new songs they should have used older songs that fit the mood. During the leaving earth scene Blast Off to No Where by PM5K would have fit very well.  Last Day on Earth by Marilyn Manson would have fit excellent for the introduction. It has no swearing or satanic references, and is hard rock with an acoustic guitar intro that would have fit perfectly for when young Cale is playing with his invention. Several songs used in the previews were not used in the film. Great songs that would fit the movie well and gave the previews their sticking power. I still plan to buy the soundtrack because it wasn't horrible, But I could have done better.I think a few other things could have been changed around to make it more dramatic. Rather then  Korso being the traitor that redeems himself I think it should have been Preed.  Preed redeeming himself would have given his character more depth. Although Preed is all ready one of the deepest characters. Considering Korso BuckRodgers meets Duke Nukem, Akima was poorly voicecast, Stith and Gune didn't have enough airtime, and our hero was a bit typical of American animation. (Still, I loved the movie and want my own ship of alien sidekicks. Just FYI)Overall I would say that this movie is a great example of  a film. It has American traditions but is sampling  Japanese style. Bluth made a film that has a nice stack of positives to smother the negatives. Of 10 stars I would give it 7 for mechanics and 10/10 for  personal enjoyment. I recommend it to everyone, including diehard Anime fans. Have any of you tried to draw something like a comic strip? It is near impossible to create something consistent. Try forty installments of a comic strip. It's not easy and it gives you a lot of respect for animation like Titan. It's easy to complain when you're doing nothing. See this movie it is worth it!  "},{"Title":"Incredibly aesthetic","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What an amazing film. I'm not sure I have seen anything that looked so good on the big screen.The human characters are rather bland. Korso, for instance, doesn't have an original line, and seems to be in hero mode with every line he speaks. Kale is interesting enough, though the love story isn't developed at all. It only has a start and an end. No one ever gives a satisfying explanation why the drej have it in for the humans, and even the drej themselves never say anything revealing about them as a species. The brain or king or whoever only issues simple commands. But this is all so very forgivable.Graphically, the movie has no equal, animated or live, much like Star Wars when it came out. The blending of traditional and CG animation isn't seamless, but it doesn't matter. Only rarely does one particular scene look off such as a scene that takes place inside the Titan when the background is hand-painted rough looking. But there are so many other scenes and sequences that take your mind off the exceptions. Basically, from the destruction of the earth, the awe-factor kicks in.To summarize, the film is just plain entertaining. Don't expect to become emotionally involved with the characters, but don't expect that to deter your enjoyment, either.For an animated film, and a sci-fi, it gets a solid A. "}{"Title":"80% of a good animated movie","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  While definitely very entertaining and not at all a bad effort, Titan A.E. lacked certain very necessary details that are key to pulling off an impressive animation piece.  The use of CG could have been much better - the framerates on certain pieces (anything involving the bad-guy alien Drej, for example) were atrocious. Choppy, frame-by-frame motion is inexcusable in a large-screen production. Also, a lot of the CG-rendered pyrotechnics (the exhausts from the ships, the explosions) were horrible. I've seen better in bad video games.Aside from these technical issues (which probably don't annoy anyone who hasn't had experience with CG graphics), the movie was very good entertainment. Relatively solid plot, clever dialogue, and pretty likeable characters. The only other complaint I have is how scripted the soundtrack seemed. Every time a song started playing in the background, the lyrics seemed exactly matched to either the plot of the movie or what was specifically happening in that scene. Good soundtrack doesn't have to be lyrically matched; it just has to provide the right mood.Enough complaining for me. I still enjoyed this one quite a bit.  "},{"Title":"An animated, Gen-X, rock-n-roll adventure space opera for all ages.","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan A.E. is a different kind of movie than any I've ever seen -- it's an animated, Gen-X, rock-n-roll adventure space opera, and one that's basically suitable for all ages.Simply put, I liked the movie. It was a fun break.I would agree with many other commentators that, while the basic plot was not bad overall, the characterization was shallow at points. For those who like plausibility, there were also a couple of plausibility holes you could steer a starship through, but that was okay in this film. I frankly never expected it to be an Oscar Award winner -- just a fun, decent movie, which it was.It was also one of the cleanest movies I've seen in a while. The directors managed to make a few romantic sparks fly between the lead characters without ever getting what I would call lewd.There's one suggestive comment by Cale during a scene in which he's wearing only a towel (which will totally go over the heads of any kids watching), and a moment in which Cale opens Akima's door to find SHE'S wearing only a towel. Somewhat to my surprise, Cale turns his back while the lady is dressing.A review I read somewhere also mentioned some mild swearing -- whatever it was, it was mild enough that I personally never noticed it!So (for those who LIKE swearing and sex) does the lack of such material make for a boring movie? Naaah. They keep the pace going pretty well, in my opinion. And there's quite a bit of pretty graphics along the way. Watch especially for the scene with the wake angels, which to me was just about worth the price of admission by itself.Some of the old folks won't care for the rock music constantly blaring. Even for me, there was a scene or two where it just didn't seem to fit and I thought, Who's sitting in the back row with their jam box on? Wish they'd turn it down, it's distracting me from the movie...If you're looking for a real hair-raising thriller to make your heart pound every step of the way, this probably isn't it. But if you're up for an exciting-enough, reasonably well-paced, different, rock-n-roll animated space adventure -- if you're just looking for a good fun escape from reality for a little while, with some cool visual scenes and a few twists in the plot -- then this movie is for you.Tempted to see it again, and take my daughter next time. I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"A very good summer film, and another reason to launch the critics into space.","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well if you have not seen Titan A.E. you should. It's as simple as that. A lot of reviews that I have read proclaimed the movie as having a bland plot, bland characters, and bland artwork. If this movie is bland then so must be Secrete Of NIMH, Anastasia, Dinosaur, Lion king, Akira, and any other animated movie that has ever been made. Titan produces some dazzling windscreen shots of Ice fields alien worlds, space, and interplanetary warfare. If the destruction of earth were bland then I would love to see what is not. I only saw one scene in the movie that seemed fakey, when there is a shot of the inside of the Titan and it looks painted. For the most part I forgot about the movie being a cartoon and got wrapped up in it. Character development was well worked out. I personally think the best character was Stith, a kangaroo/bird/dragon chick with a penchant for heavy weaponry. I didn't think she got enough airtime though. Nathan Lane also produced a great bad guy in Preed, reptilian counterpart to Korso. It is a bummer what happens to Preed because he is a cool character. I'm not going to tell you the end of the movie but I can tell you that it is well worth the money to see it. If I had to grade it I would give it a big GRADE A. "},{"Title":"Very inventive, worth the time and money","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I didn't hear a great deal of hype about this one, but I'm always up for a good animation flick.  This was an impressive movie, I liked the use of 3-d effects coupled with the classic 2-d characters.  The characters were expressive and in some cases endearing, I didn't even realize who was doing the voices until the credits, John Leguizamo was excellent as the strange little Goun.  Okay so they defied the laws of physics in every other scene, and it's  got me wondering exactly how I would go about getting myself an orchard of hydrogen trees... I was especially impressed by the venues and races, and especially that not everyone spoke English (however lots of things were inexplicably labeled in English, but I'll file that under the laws of physics problems) My personal favorite was the ancient race, whose name I can't remember, let alone spell, off the top of my head, I loved the fact that they never spoke at all. In conclusion, good movie, worth seeing, creative, but not about to let the laws of physics restrain it.   "},{"Title":"An Insult to anyone who truly appreciates Animation.","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What good things can I say about Titan AE... hmm... some of the spaceship and background designs were good.  But that's about it. This movie is the cliched drivel that passes for Science Fiction nowadays.I'll comment on the two things that make up a movie in this review... the story/characters and the visuals/direction. For a good movie (or any type of narrative media) these to forces have to be balanced.  Think of it like a Yin Yang. Both parts are equal but each part has a little bit of the other part in it. Just like a Yin Yang. That being said....Story/Characters Okay...  I didn't have any feeling for ANY of the characters. All the main human characters were cardboard cut out of some generic character guide. They didn't have any unique traits, quirks or flaws.  Unless you count that they suck... that's a flaw.  And the hero and the heroine magically fall in love... it has to show that they fall in love.  All of a sudden when the hero meets up with the heroine after they were separated they're really close and all lovey dovey.  Another thing that bothered me were the treatment of the Aliens. They weren't so much as Aliens... but just animal sidekicks. Most of them had a specific gimmick that they did.  If they wanted this film to be more extreme mature and cutting edge they failed miserably.They thought they were doing something new and different with this movie... but all it was is the generic Disney/american animation formula with a more mature premise.  All the parts that were dramatic.. weren't, there were not happy parts, no sad parts, no suspensful parts... the whole movie was a straightline from start to finish.  I generally like movies with alot of character to them. And this one didn't have any.  I know most people knew this was coming... but if you want to see Animation that's intelligent, sophisticated and deep? Watch some good Anime. The japanese have been doing it since the first started animating... they have much more experience.Visuals/Direction Okay... this section is too easy. THe art style was generic. I'm modest about my artwork, but I can honestly say I can draw better than the artists on this show. They just looked like regular old Disney (or in this case Disney wannabe, which is worse) people.  Why do they try and draw these realistic looking people and then have these goofy big eyed aliens? Who knows. The costumes and design of the characters was horrible. American animation usually never has complex costumes, most of the time people are just wearing a plain shirt, and plain pants, nothing great or exciting about it.  Even the crazy aliens were wearing generic pants and a generic shirt. The designs on the aliens was just taking different animals and putting them together.  But it's like they just drew each alien once and didn't revise the concepts.. they just went with the first idea they had.  All the action was boring. There wasn't one part where I was somewhat excited.... totally bored.  Part of the reason for this is because of the Animation. It was almost all rotoscoped (meaning traced off of live action) these people moved so real!! So real that it looked wrong. It was slow, and boring. It's like what's the point in animating someting when you're just going to make it look live live action!!  Well.. this review is getting too long... so I'll just end it...BAsically this movie was horrible. I love animation and this movie was an insult to the art.  See it if you want to know what NOT to do when you make a movie.  I'm just glad that I don't have to settle for this when I can watch some good animation...Anime.  They still push the medium forward (rather than let is lie stagnant like they do here in America) with each new animated show that comes out. (for the most part)  If Titan AE were shot using live action it wouldn't look any different. That's it's problem. That and the story was crap.  There were a TON of Star Wars and other Sci-Fi rip off stuff too.  Also the Evil Aliens were mindless, and they just added naked butt shots for the sake of adding naked butt shots. Way to be cutting edge! "},{"Title":"A fast, exciting movie with actual plot and characters (!)","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The bad news the traditional animation is horrible. All else is good news, so just get past that when you see it. The CGI animation is spectacular - there were several places where my jaw dropped. The direction is fast-paced, and there are some neat surprises. Unlike The Road to El Dorado, the music isn't allowed to interfere with the pace of the film. Best of all, this movie has a good plot and characters that actually develop during the story. Despite the beauty of Fantasia and the incredible CGI accomplishment of Dinosaur, this is my favorite animated film of the summer. "},{"Title":"The best of Star Wars, Heavy Metal, and TFTM","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  In a word - fantastic. This is the best cartoon I've seen since Transformers the Movie. (For the record, I am *not* a fan of Anime - I think it blows) The CGI were incredible, and while the 2D animation was typical, I found it adequate. My only complaints were that it ended too soon, and not enough rock montages for a good animated feature. But I think there were at least 3, the best of which was the Cosmic Castaway-Intro to Cale segment, which was perfect. Not as mesmerizeing as Heavy Metal, but with so little quality animation, I know I'll be owning this on DVD the minute it's available. I already have the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"The Animated Star Wars.","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went into the movie not expecting a lot.  Maybe some decent story-line and impressive animation based on the previews.  What I was given in the hour and a half was far beyond my expectations!  The plot-line was very involved and was extremely well supported by the dialogue and surprisingly enough, the strength of the animation.  Certain aspects of the animation were so well done, it felt as if the scenes must have been made with object models and not just animations and computer imagery.  The scene transition was very reminiscent of Star Wars, and while certain aspects of the movie seemed to have been drawn from various elements of Star Trek, Flash Gordon and Star Wars, they held a uniqueness that made them their own.  All in all, I'd definitely see this move again. "},{"Title":"Great film on its own, not just as a sci-fi or animation movie.","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I did not know what to expect coming in, but I'll admit I was a bit scared after the SF Chronicle reviewer gave it the highest rating. That said, I came out of the theater highly satisfied.  I found the characters engrossing, fun, and almost immediately they weren't just animated cels talking, but they eventually became as alive and real as any other other live or real movie characters, even more so.Sure, if you like to nitpick, the movie does cater to a younger audience, simplifying many aspects of storyline and dialogue. But to most, those details aren't bothersome at all, leaving Titan AE to be an immensely enjoyable film.  "},{"Title":"Studios need to make more movies like this.","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Warner Bros. finally figured out with The Iron Giant that just because it's a cartoon, doesn't mean it needs to be a Disney knock off, with songs and a neat and tidy G rating. With Titan A.E. Fox built on that by making a pretty well made animation movie geared at slightly more mature audiences but still marketable for kids. Its great to see that American film makers are starting to see that you can make high quality cartoons that aren't necessarily kids movies. The animation is incredible in this movie, especially how realistically the human characters are drawn. However, the computer animated material does tend to stand out on occasion, but for the most part, it blends in quite nicely. I especially liked the humor in this movie, some of it being reminiscent of his work in the Dragon's Lair and Space Ace games. This one is definitely bound to be a cult classic in years to come. "}{"Title":"Amazing in most respects -- sadly lacking in others.","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  In spite of a few plot holes and a few &#145;how did we get Here from There' moments this is a good movie.The soundtrack was uneven in the extreme.  When it was just the orchestra it was very good; but the &#145;pop' songs that were worked in did not really seem to have much relevance to the story.The whole concept of the story is very compelling &#150; it just is not executed as well as it could have been.  There were times when I wanted more  but with a 94-minute runtime (obviously aimed at television addicted kids) the writers could not expand too much without losing their audience. Speaking of which I do not think this is a movie for kids &#150; too much violence, the Drej are sure to give more sensitive children nightmares and the total destruction of Planet Earth and the attempted eradication of all humans is not exactly a light subject.The animation was beyond superb &#150; I do not think there is a word to describe it.  The incredible attention to details, the colours used to evoke emotion and the unbelievable speed at which scenes flashed across the screen were quite simply mind-boggling.The voice casting was great  I spent a lot of time wondering `Who's voice IS that?'Every animated film I have seen in the past year breaks new ground in its mastery of Computer Generated Imagery &#150; this film brings it to new heights of excellence.  "},{"Title":"Like Heavy Metal but made for kids.","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Take Heavy Metal, mix it with the Dragon's Lair video game, throw in some modern Silver Surfer cartoon style animation, and you have Titan A. E. But don't expect it to have a sound track like Heavy Metal.The voice casting and performances were excellent. I didn't recognize any of the voices until the credits.There were a few story line details that were a little thin. I found it strange that a human could find a simple way to manipulate the energy fields of the evil alien mother ship, (like Independence Day's Trojan virus,) particularly when the aliens are composed of energy themselves.Also some explanation the titan ships phenomenal ability would have been helpful. At least in Star Trek The Wrath of Khan they made an attempt to explain the technology.Some of the races look suspiciously like ones right out of the Alien Legion comic book. (One of my favorites back in the 80's.) This film has the closest feel to that series of any movie I have seen. Specifically the mixture of different alien races that composed the crews of the ship and colonies.Even with the week points, this was a decent movie if you like animation or sci-fi. I gave it a 7. "},{"Title":"Mixed thoughts...","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A few minor spoilers contained below...First, I suppose I'll address the handful <well, one so far, anyway> of comparisons to Anime <Japanese Animation/Japanimation, whatever you wanna call it>...  This is *not* Japanimation and shouldn't be judged by the same standards.  It's a different style, with some Anime influences, that's all.  I'm saying this as a fan of Anime.  For American animation, it's pretty darn good.Anyway... moving on...As I stated earlier, this is quite good for American animation, and it's nice to see that 'cartoons' are starting to be targeted at a more mature audiance than the typical kiddie fare that most production companies put out today.  Overall, the story was entertaining, though not entirely original... well, not at all, really.Unfortunately, the movie suffered from far too many plot and character cliches <Humanity's last hope for survival, the young and brash hero, the traitor who redeems himself in the end, etc. etc>.  You won't find anything here that you haven't seen already a dozen times over.Other minor, and perhaps very personal quibbles include a few complaints with some of the voice talents <Drew Barrymore in particular> didn't quite seem to fit their character, and the actual acting was less than convincing...  It takes more effort and talent than one would thing to make a good voice actor.Anyway, it's still a fun ride if you're willing to look past everything...7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I'm alright with it.","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's a good step in the right direction, imo, that Titan A.E. has good character detail (reaction-wise), and superb animation.  The story was cool, but noticibly rushed, and had a lot of dry aliens in it.  It did not have a musical, nor grandeur memories, but rather a straight forward let's get into action plot.  I'm not going to rate it, but it was well worth seeing how the North American market is realizing the ultimate quality of true anime. "},{"Title":"Mixed bag of unusually good animated Sci-Fi fare with cheap stuff","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I lean toward liking this movie, even though it's a cartoon and rather cliche. But the reasons I do (see below) are what make this one of the best Science Fiction films ever released.There's been a lot of hullabaloo about its amazing animation. I guess I should be more animation grateful since it is such a tedious art form & requires so much hard work etc., but as an average jaded viewer I've seen so much amazing animation recently that it just doesn't wow me anymore. I look for something more, and I believe I am speaking here for many.Here is where the film/sound editor professions usually pop in to make the difference between what is considered an A+ and an A- action thriller. That is, quick editing shifts accompanied with Boom! Bam! soundtracks is what we've been getting to make us believe that this or that film is just a cut (pun intended) above the rest. Problem is, such sound/film editing techniques have recently been getting cliche, too. Today they're common on TV dramas, which translates to saturation - i.e. I've been there & I'm looking for what's next?What's cool, however, about Titan A.E. is that apparently there was little effort made to edit this film in any extraordinary manner. There are plenty of quick shifts and loud booms, but these kind of edits have not been made the priority, have not been allowed to short-change the plot and the extension of ideas. This is what is otherwise annoying in other films - you know, that quick-shift bit where we are suddenly clobbered over the head with 16 simultaneously over-dubbed & amplified bass drums and jolted into another area of the plot - as if we like being shoved around the book. I don't. To its advantage, Titan A.E. spares us this sadistic treatment.Funny thing, most of the pro critics, whether they admit it or not, are criticizing this movie for this very weakness (to them, quality to me). It lacks, for this reason, what they would call style. Then they criticize it for lack of story depth. Hmmm...  I agree that there are many cliches, one-liners to make you gag etc. Those I hate, too. But the other criticism, that the story is shallow and typical is something I believe we should leave well enough alone.This is where vanguardism (the mantra of all artistic criticism) goes too far and bites itself on the #$%*#. No pro critic ever complains about a cliche plot when a classic novel is made into a new movie. They know better than to criticize art and jeopardize their career (which is what keeps them from complete honesty and makes forums such as this sometimes a better place to learn about a film).Here is an example of what I mean Many pro film critics bashed this movie for its shallow story, but did one of them see the relation between the ring in Titan A.E. and The Ring from the Nordic Legend of the Nibelungen? I believe Richard Wagner would have loved this film for its story (not for much of its music, though). In fact, with Wagner composing the soundtrack, this could have been a really, really wonderful film experience. Incidentally, this is why Star Wars movies are so good, but we already know that.  "},{"Title":"I will see it again and again and again...","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After hearing about this movie about a year ago, i've been quietly anticipating its release since then.. After watching the movie, all that built up excitement didn't fail me! It was everything i had expected and more.. for some reason i was getting shivers after the first minute! "},{"Title":"A quality animated flick and the best sci-fi film so far this year","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  WARNING Contains some minor spoilers.There's something about Titan A.E. that, despite its flaws, commands recognition, particularly from those of us who are sci-fi buffs and animation conossieurs.  It is a film that utilizes a medium long relegated (in this country at least) to kiddie fare to best bring to life the characters and worlds which make up the film's story. Other sci-fi films could learn a thing or two from Titan A.E, after all sci-fi in general naturally lends itself to the freedom of animation, where the extra-terrestrial and the extraordinary can be easily created on paper and now, the computer screen.The combination of CG and traditional cel animation works surprisingly well in Titan A.E., far better than any of the earlier teasers hinted at. In most instances, the 2D characters interact rather seamlessly with the mostly CG environments.  However, one cannot help but feel at times that the hand drawn figures seem out of place, particularly among the more spectacular CG sequences.  If Titan A.E. has one real glaring flaw, it's that animation quality can often appear inconsistent.  In some of the more involved action scenes, such as the chase through the Sessashim hydrogen trees, certain CG objects seem to move with a noticeable lack of fluidity.  This occurs only a few times throughout the film, yet it gives the impression that the film may have been rushed through post production.Titan A.E. may have its downs, but it also has plenty of ups.  Bluth and his legion of animators created this film to dazzle and amaze, and dazzle they most certainly do.  For all of the more mundane CG work on this flick, there are an equal number of jaw-dropping effects sequences.  In the first five minutes, we see the Earth of 3028 violently ripped apart by the sinister Drej; fleeing escape vessels are pulverized by flying hunks of the exploding planet, while the shockwave and debris pulverize the moon.  Later on, cale and crew must speed through the exploding hydrogen trees on Sessashim while being pursued by Drej fighters.  Nothing in film looks quite as good as the final confrontation among the gigantic ice crystals of the Tigrin system. Some of the best and most creative CG work ever put to film can be witnessed during this sequence, particularly when the protagonists use the reflective qualities of the massive ice formations to outwit a pursuing ship.Complimenting the often-mind-blowing CG is a cast of traditional cel-animated characters (with the exception of the Drej, where CG helps to give them a mysterious supernatural appearance, since they are entirely composed of energy).  Quite the contrary to the inventive computer animation techniques, the characters are distinctly Bluthian in origin.  I could not help but think of Space Ace (Bluth's laserdisc follow up to the Dragon's Lair game) upon seeing the peanut gallery of critters Bluth has created for this film.  While sometimes at odds with the CG environments, the 2D animated characters give the movie its heart, and are certainly more believable than any rendered characters that may have been substituted (only Pixar has seemingly been able to create halfway believable humans using computer animation).There's already plenty here to crown Titan A.E. the best sci-fi movie to be released this year, but not only does this animated feature quash films like Mission to Mars and Battlefield Earth underfoot with it's imaginative scenes, it also tops them (quite easily, I might add) in story and characters.  Titan A.E.'s plotline may not be the best or most original space opera out there (it often blatantly borrow from Star Wars), but it certainly is more imaginative and engaging than most sci fi features these days. Considering that Titan A.E. is a space opera, its characters are surprisingly well-defined and unique in their respective personalities, thanks in part to some fine voice acting and intelligent dialogue.  Only Bill Pullman as Korso gives the most questionable performance of the flick (Pullman too often delivers his lines without any real sense of emotion).It is overwhelmingly satisfying to see an animated film that does not cater to the age 4-12 bracket, and is instead more concerned about spinning a thrilling sci-fi yarn. Indeed, Titan A.E. posseses a much darker tone than most audiences are used to in an animated feature.  Think the hanging death in Tarzan was bad, how about a villain being dispatched by having his neck visibly broken?  Nevertheless, Bluth's latest work isn't totally free from the disney mold. Gune, the turtle-like scientist voiced by John Leguizamo, reeks of the now old-hat comic relief role seemingly needed in every animated film.  His cry of who's your daddy now? as he flies into battle against the Drej is enough to make more serious-minded people cringe.  None of these flaws however, should keep anyone searching for a good animated film or a decent sci fi tale away from the theaters. In both cases, this highly enjoyable movie is the best to date this year "},{"Title":"A good movie with a few flaws","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you're a science fiction fan, go see Titan AE.  The animation is good, the sound effects are good and overall it's an entertaining movie.The only things that gave me some reservations about this film were1. Some of the dialog and characterization seemed to be a with a little bit too much fake/tepid attitude.  Does every alien really have to be an alien with baddditude?  Look at those loveable but wacky aliens?  Aren't they wacky and aren't they bad and have attitude?  It doesn't quite get to the level of scrappy-doo in horribleness, but it's a little irksome.2. The pop/rock music sections of this movie seemed tepid and insincere. Again the movie seemed like it was trying to have attitude but not offend or bother anybody or any age group.  It was kind of as though Kenny Loggins or John Denver was trying to write a hip alternative techno/hardcore soundtrack.  Whoever wrote this stuff--you just don't understand this musical genre--it's obvious.  It just came off as insincere since I'm familar with these genres and this music doesn't fit into any genre but the non-offensive tripe category--the pop music from this film won't be winning any awards.  The orchestral music--since it wasn't trying so hard to be hip were fine, though.Other than that, it's a movie worth seeing if you've got nothing better to do or if you're a science fiction fan.  7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"wish I was 15 years younger","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  OK, I have to admit, I am not already an anime fan or a big comic book guy. So I understand that to judge a movie in a very specific genre, you ought to knwo the rules and standards of that genre. Don't criticize Garth Brooks if you're not a country fan, for example.So I went to this film with a friend who is more well-versed in comic books and anime than I am. He loved it. I enjoyed it, I suppose, but it left me with nothing after the film. I have come to a conclusion either A This is a great example of what anime is all about. or B This is a fluff piece.If A is true, then I am right to avoid this genre. If this is the great example of the genre, then it is to be reserved for grown men who are still adolescents. If this is all it is, then I am too old for this. I remember going to see Heavy Metal a few years ago in re-release. I was disappointed. Why? I last saw it when I was 14. It was SOOOO COOOOOL then. However, I grew up. So many of my contemporaries have not.But if B is true, then I still give anime a chance to wow me. I was always told that comic books and anime, at their best, are a better representation than live action, of the great romantic mythical themes that pervade every culture. I am still seeking for good examples of that depth. This wasn't it. This was just a distraction, and what has been called so many times, eye-candy. That's fine if it's what you want, but if the guys hanging out in comic book stores want more respect from the general public (and I am talking about my own personal friends here, so this is not a slam) - then attempts at reaching a broader audience had better get more depth than Titan A.E. (Or any tripe that Disney offers either - because as much as every fan complains that they have nothing in common, the general populus can't see any difference - and lightweight stuff like Titan AE won't help your case any.)  "},{"Title":"Whoa!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this movie on Friday. It's SPECTACULAR. The special effects are out of this world. The story is excellent and the soundtrack is amazing. This is Don Bluth at his best. The movie is very fast-paced and action packed. This is not just another crappy kid's movie. It's animation at it's best. The 3-D and 2-D animation is blended perfectly and most of the time it's hard to tell them apart. The scenes with the space angels and the ice field are spectacular, with unbelievable graphics and a lot of suspense. If any of you out there were complaining about the lack of story or graphics or basically anything that makes a movie great in The Phantom Menace, run to your nearest movie theatre and watch this movie. You'll forget all about Jar-Jar Binks in the first few moments and may just find yourself a new favorite movie. The dredge are without a doubt the best-looking, badest aliens to come out of Hollywood in a long time. Bill Pullman, Matt Damon, Drew Barrymore, John Leguizamo, Janeane Garafalo and Ron Pearlman deliver great performances. My advice to you go watch this movie AS SOON AS HUMANLY POSSIBLE. What are still doing here? GO! I heading there myself right about now. I can't wait until humanity moves to Planet Bob!!! "}{"Title":"Fun fun fun","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Why is it that every animated movie that's come out in the last few years has been compared to Disney?  When viewers enter a film with preconceived notions of what the movie is going to be (Disney), they invariably end up disappointed.This is not a Disney animation.  This is a standard sci-fi movie done in an animated format.  If you like fast-paced action sci-fi (if you loved Star Wars and stood in line to see Phantom Menace-- four times), you will love this movie.  If you love eye candy, this movie has a surplus.And especially if you believe that not all movies were made to reach some obscure designation known as art but rejoice in movies that are pure entertainment, this movie will appeal.Yes, there were a few plot holes.  But many of the big reviewers must not have been paying attention, or they would have noticed many of them explained.  Yes, the characters were occasionally shallow and the dialogue cliched.  But they were better drawn than in many a popular sci-fi and even the cliches had me in hysterics.  And though I have seen complaints about the unrealistic flight scenes, they conformed perfectly with the known laws of physics.In short, I had a lot of fun at this movie.  That's what is important in the long run. "},{"Title":"Interesting but Shallow","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Frankly, the animation in the movie is, at times, stunning.  Several scenes (Think hydrogen trees and massive ice crystals) left me amazed at what can be accomplished and wondering what can be around the corner for animation in general.  That said, the remainder of the film was completely unengaging. I never felt more than a twinge of interest in either the story or the characters and the end result of the movie was entirely predictable.  These factors, combined with lame dialogue as well as a fairly standard sci-fi plot (disaffected youth teams up with pretty woman, rogue-ish pilot and aliens to attempt to save mankind - sound familiar?) and plot twists (I won't reveal these) made for a movie that was more boring than nail-biting. "},{"Title":"A bit disappointing","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The visuals were impressive, I will give the movie that much.I also grant that the movie started out fairly strongly, and the end was amusing.  Go Bob.Unfortunately, as a whole, Titan AE came across as one of those movies that could have been amazing, but instead turned out to be a mediocre flick that on many levels had a lot of potential.  It just didn't live up to that potential.The idea is good, but the execution was weak.  The plot got a bit cookie-cutter, and none of the characters' actions seemed to have any real motivation behind them.  For one, Cale and Akima both transformed from the cold, arrogant, obnoxious ingrates they started out as into these warm, caring people.  I couldn't tell why exactly; it seemed to happen between one frame and the next.  The betrayal scene was predictable and ridiculously cliche; the guy I saw the movie with spent half of it whispering plotline predictions, and was correct 9 times out of 10.  Not a lot of surprises.All that aside (as the length of the film really didn't allow for very much development), it was the ending of the movie that annoyed me most.  I don't care what the year is, the laws of nature still apply, and.. I don't think that would be possible.  I'm willing to make quite a few leaps in the name of entertaining sci-fi, but that was a little too far for me.I was really bummed.  I really thought it would be good, and I still think it could have been.  Movies like this are more disappointing than the ones you expect to suck. "},{"Title":"One of the best anime films to come along in a long time!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film was great.  FOX might not be one of the best companies in the business, but Titan A.E. was wonderful.  Granted this film might not be for the young ones, but I definitely recommend this film to everyone with an imagination.  Even though the story line has been done before(i.e. Star Trek 2) it adds a new twist.  For those of you who love a well written story and stupendous cinematography, then this film is for you! "},{"Title":"Star Wars + Heavy Metal + Transformers the Movie","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  While I admit this movie combined elements of everything from Star Wars to Waterworld, I completely ate it up. I don't know if I've ever seen such a cool animated movie. It could only have been better if the people behind it had the cajones to make it PG-13 or R-rated, and erased a couple of disney-ish moments. But all in all, a fantastic movie, for any sci-fi or animation fan. A must own the minute it hits DVD. And I've already got the soundtrack too. Here's hoping for a sequel! "},{"Title":"Great eye candy, unique, tightly crafted and believable story!!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan A.E. is an animated movie that works.  Sure, it's not real, but for anyone who loves science-fiction, you can get into the story and root for the good guys without saying to yourself, Yeah, right!! That's not possible.Add to that a well-crafted story-line, good dialog, well designed characters, and fabulous animation and CGI, and you are left with a great movie. "},{"Title":"Prequel to Titan A.E.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Like most others who have seen this film, I found it to be truly enjoyable and a science-fiction animated masterpiece. The few negative remarks I've read about this film all seem to revolve around apparent plot holes and not understanding some characters' motivations.  However, what I'm sure many moviegoers don't know is that there is a licensed comic-book prequel to this movie that explains all of the things that the movie doesn't.Do you want to know why the Drej hate humans?  Where did the idea for Titan come from?  Why was there a need for Titan in the first place?  Need some insight into Korso's  motivations?  All of this is explained in Titan A.E.--a 3-issue comic book mini-series from Dark Horse Comics, Inc.  As a comic-book collector, I picked up this series months ago.  Reading it then, I found it quite dry.  But after seeing the movie, I realize what the writers were doing and I find that the movie and comic books only make each other better!  If you really liked this movie, find any way possible to get the 3 issues of the Titan A.E. comic book.That way you can show all of these nay-sayers how much this movie truly rocks!   "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but nothing that stuck with me.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw Titan A.E. this weekend. How was it? The best I can say is that it was OK. Here in the US we're still under the impression that animation (with the exception of South Park) is for kids. So, the plot was very simple and nothing was left to the imagination. It was one of those movies where after the lights come back up, you just stand up and walk out of the theater. You don't really comment on the movie, or talk about it. At dinner afterwards you don't discuss your favorite parts or anything, maybe you talk about the weather or something. It was just unremarkable, an entertaining way to spend two hours, but not something that lasts with you at all.Of course, no American animation can make it without a some cute comic relief, something that will make a good happy meal toy. Well, in Titan they even told us who was going to be the funny one by naming him Gune (goon). I'm surprised they didn't name the Dredge - The Bad GuysThey do get some bonus points for the great idea of giant ice crystals, but they may have overdone it it bit. The sequence with the Angels was really quite pretty, but again, it seemed like it went just a little too long. "},{"Title":"Good fun for your whole family","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What a pleasure to take my whole family (ages 4 - 11) to see a movie that all of us enjoyed! The blend of cgi and hand drawn is well done and breathtaking in a few spots, and the plot is fast moving (if a bit predictable).  Bluth and Goldman are to be complemented on making a true family entertainment film.  "},{"Title":"visually stunning","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  this movie was visually breathtaking. i would not see this on video or DVD, you'd definitley lose something by doing that. see it in the theater. the story was just passable enough to support the animation. the music is a bunch of 20 year olds who want to sound like pearl jam, but that's not necessarily a bad thing for everyone. "}{"Title":"Great but choppy","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I found the Special Effects wonderful, and the score mixed in nicely.  Characters could have had a little better development but sufficient.  The only major crticism I have is that the flow from scene to scene was choppy.  It made you wonder what happened between scenes.  i just hope ther eis a nice Editors Cut when this is released to show what must have hit the cutting room floor.  "},{"Title":"Don Bluth's newest animated adventure is a must see","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Yes, I may be biased I enjoy seeing movies with great special effects _and_ a plot; I was a great fan of Dragon's Lair, Space Ace, The Secret of NIMH, and most of Bluth's other previous work; and I love the idea of a great space adventure.Despite looking forward to this film for a long time before it came out, I was very careful to be unbiased in my decision of whether or not to allow this film into the revered inner circle of great films that you watch time and time again. This film was only running a few minutes when I realized a true masterpiece was unfolding in front of me. Don Bluth's saga of a few ragtag humans floating in space trying to make a brighter future for themselves after the evil destruction of Earth (and almost all of the humans at the same time) by the cowardly Drej, fearful of the amazing discovery humanity had made... another discovery as important as discovering fire or smashing the atom. Their discovery was the Titan project.This is the film that Star Wars I should have been, complete with a very engrossing storyline, amazing special effects, great characters, and an epic quest for the future of humanity.Must see!!! "},{"Title":"From the tough brute men that brought you the testosterone-packed adventures of Thumbelina and Anastasia, comes the next big thing....","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  For a while I was really enthusiastic about AE... then I played the game at afterearth.com and got bored with it and because of that, became a little unsure about the movie. Bot now that I've seen it, I'm completely blown away. Titan AE is not only the best animated movie in a the last few years (next to Prince Of Egypt) and the best sci-fi movie in years, this one is the coolest movie I've ever seen! Halfway through the movie, I was already left speechless; and by the end, I had the same excited look in my eyes as a little kid in Disneyland. Never before have I seen such a superb mix of animation, music, voice-acting, and story. This movie was truly awe-inspiring and helps you remember the magic of animation. But it must be seen on the big screen to be fully appreciated.... twice at least. I especially loved the Wake Angels sequence.... completely pointless but extremely beautiful nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  An okay movie, but nothing to write home about.  From a writing standpoint, the characters were very Don Bluth-y, and the plot was predictable.  Quite predictable.  The film suffered more on the technical side, with a poor integration of traditional animation and CGI.  The CGI was the most disappointing feature, as it had texture maps that looked more at home on 3-year-old home computer games (except perhaps for the ice rings scene). All in all, not up to today's writing and production standards.  Sorry Ben, sorry Joss.  Good movie to rent or take the kids to.  Pick a matinee, though. "},{"Title":"A SF Classic.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have just seen this film and I was completely blown away. The destruction of Earth in the opening sequence is enough by itself to earn this film the status of a classic, but the film repeatedly tops that with amazing action sequences, stunning visuals, and futuristic scenes. The fact this is animation, and, I think, a bunch of computer stuff, allows the camera to float in impossible positions, and show us stuff that we couldn't see. Frankly, and here is a sentence that well may become cliche but This film has everything that SW TPM lacks.Plus, it has a plot! It even makes a sort of sense! Well, sort of anyway. The ending leaves me with a few questions, but maybe a sequel is in the works? Joss Whedon has his name in the writing credits, and he has shown in his Buffy TV show a dislike of cliff-hanger endings, but also a strange skill in writing endings that close things up and leave openings at the same time. Ben Edlund also has his name in the credits and signs his name in the story in a way that can't be missed by any fan of The Tick.It's also got the usual problems that SF films always have, signs in english on alien bases, space ships dog-fighting like they are airplanes, but there really are only a few cases and anyway, who cares?I'm afraid that a lot of people will give this film a miss. The film is animated, and a lot of people will think this means it is for kids. This is not a film, no offense, about a kid with a giant robot. This is space opera. People who skip it will be missing out on one of the great SF films of all time.  "},{"Title":"impressive animation","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie tries to set new standards on animation-movies and of course Titan A.E. does! It breaks with almost every typical classic aspect animation movies do have. It is a brave project Fox Animation and Goldman/Bluth did realize. The combination of future storytelling with a teenage-hero combined with the latest songs of top-musicians makes it worth watching. But actually the special-effects do amaze you and leave you with your mouth open in your seat. It is breathtaking what Fox Animation did put on the big screen. So if you are curious for a new kind of animation-film...go for it! "},{"Title":"My favorite movie this year.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  For those of you that haven't seen this movie, go!!!. For those that have seen it go again!!!Just a few things I picked up on in the movie that I thought I would share with the rest of you. Titan's were mythical beings that challenged the gods and because of that they were caged under the sea, destroyed. I think it is interesting that the Titan project was a challenge to the gods also, showing that man could create a world like a god. Because of this grand challenge we brought the drej upon us. The good thing is is that in the end we succesfully challenge the gods. The other thing was that the spaceship Akima and Kale fixed up was called the phoenix. The phoenix was a bird that would resurrect from the ashes, bringing new life. I am sure there are dozens of other symbolic references in this story, and I can't wait to see it again to try and pick them up.Now I would like to congratulate Fox, Don Bluth and Gary Goldman, for producing such an incredible piece of art and action. This movie puts you in a state of wonder and the beauty of a fantastic world. The ice scenes in this movie alone will have me watching it over and over again. I also appreciated them not explaining every bit of what was going on, this leaves more up to the imagination. Like what was the deal with those bat like people? Why didn't they use technology? or leave their planet? Why was Tik blind when he could see fine when kale was a boy? What was the drej relationship to other alien races? Had other races been crushed by them before? Was the human planet the first to go? How did Kales father die? What was Korso doing for those fifteen years? What happened to Kales mother? How did Kale and Akima get the drifter colonies to band together with them to launch the phoenix? Why was it that everyone seemed to understand the drej laungauge?It was obvious that Kale was a technological genius and not really a military man like korso. I liked that he wasn't a tough guy... he got beat up all of the time... I think that they underplayed his technological skills in the movie, (this might be in keeping with the way humans were treated, i.e. he wasn't encouraged or recognized as being as smart as he was, because he was just a human) here is a guy that could figure out the drej technology in minutes, was smart enough to give a numerical reference to goon as to who he was, he figured out how to fix the navigation system, he was inventing things that worked at the age of four and could fix the phoenix up in days. Kale really was a motorhead, and I loved it.I guesse you can tell I enjoyed this movie. I am so hoping for a sequel (I mean there has to be another drej hive hasn't there? or maybe more riddles in these alien worlds to figure out.) Whatever it is I am enjoying Titan A.E. while it is hear and look forward to a book or a second movie to fill in what I am craving.  "},{"Title":"Awesome computer animation, good adventure yarn","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I read all of the user comments before going to see this film, and guess what...I have to agree with most of them.  The computer animation was awesome, even incredible at times.(This would have been *really* neat as a 3D film!) The blend of 2D and 3D animation was excellent...the 2D characters interacted extremely well in the 3D environment.  You didn't even notice that they were 2D unless you really looked for it.  The action scenes were great, and the timing was well done. This is a film well worth seeing on the big screen...or you can wait to see it on a good DVD/Big Screen combo. NO...wait...see it at the theatre, and then see it again on DVD!If you are a sci-fan hardware fan, this is a must-see.  My 9-year old really enjoyed it as well.  The film is rated PG-13 (in Canada) because of violence and some scary bits.   "},{"Title":"Beautiful, but forgettable.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm going to make this short and sweet.  If you go in there expecting to get what they've been advertising (Star Wars and The Matrix), you're going to be disappointed.It was good, though.  The animation was VERY good, actually.  But it's missing some... beef.  Maybe it's me, but I just didn't find myself engrossed, laughing, concerned or even bored.  It was a lot like watching something cool on Nova.  Interesting, yes, but ultimately forgettable.MATINEE "},{"Title":"One of the greatest Sci-fi/Rock Operas ever","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was awesome.  Since it's a cartoon, I can't really say much about the acting, but the voices were awesome.  But the music.  Oh, the music....  <cue drooling>  The movie would have been good w/o the soundtrack.  But the soundtrack is what made the movie great.  Highly recommended, check out the soundtrack, and sit through the credits for the tunes 9/10 "}{"Title":"Might have been better with real people","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Even thougn the movie was great, I was missing real actors. But it is a great ride and there is no time loss.Drew Barrimore's voice is rich and made me long for her face. But I could say that for most of the characters. It is a great movie for the family. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of the Year 2000 (So Far...)","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is simply the best movie of the year 2000 so far. I mean, Gladiator is good, but this one is BETTER. The graphics are great, the characters are great (with perfect voice too), the plot is great, although some people might not like the idea that the New Earth was formed so fast. I wonder whether they still nominate animation for Oscar? "},{"Title":"Great story, AWESOME graphics!!","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A REAL movie with animated characters. An awesome concept that blows you away when combined with the great computer graphics. I was glued to my seat with my mouth hanging open from the first ten seconds of the film. This movie has a great storyline and a great cast of characters! The actors who do the voices play the parts so well that you can't even tell it's them. A movie that I would want to see over again. When it comes out on video, I'm buying it! "},{"Title":"Great start, slow middle,  weak finish","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  At the beginning of this movie I was Over excited and hanging onto my seat in anticipation for what seemed like a great movie.  The characters were super refreshingly developed and I felt that the 2d animation which was beautifully wrought on it's own meshed in really well with the CGI computer animation.I didn't even mind the poppy songs playing along with the movie, it almost made it a little more endearing.  The big letdown though was the weak storyline that just didn't follow through.7/10 "},{"Title":"Save your money, wait for the video","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What a let down.  The animation is first-rate, but the story and characters are as lame as that Titan christmas tree ornament... not to mention the plot holes, where they could've hidden that bulbous monstrosity.  I was cheering for the Drej by the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"Visually Unique!","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have to disagree with the critics once again - Boy I hate those guys!  I found the animation on this film to be the best yet.  With its combination of traditional 'disney' animation and 3cgi it pops a wallop of a ride. There were times when it seemed completely real.  What I liked even more about the film was the very original settings, the hydrogen trees, the backdrops.  It felt like I was really in another distant part of the galaxy. It was a refreshing part from the traditional fray of films which feel like the same old crap rehashed with a slightly re-written story.  This movie was fresh, new and enthralling.  There was so much visual content that I have to go see it again to absorb more of it.  The films weakness was that it didn't develop the characters enough, and certain of the rock songs didn't fit well with what was going on. "},{"Title":"Great Sci-Fi","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ignoring the fact that this film features some of the most beautiful artwork in animation history, it is still a great movie.  The characters and plot are more thoroughly developed and explored here than in any recent sci-fi film.  I was somewhat skeptical going in, but within minutes I was totally turned around.  Although some of the plot elements do relate to other films, Titan A.E. has the spirit that most recent sci-fi has been missing.I think this film works just as well for adults as kids (I'm 27 and married), and I think it makes for a great litmus test as well If you can't enjoy it, then you don't really remember the wonder of being a child. "},{"Title":"Quite enjoyable","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I truly pity people who go to a movie and critique every small detail. Who catalog every continuity gaffe, or 'scientific impossibility'. They're missing out on some great entertainment. Such as Titan A.E.I go to the video store, and I see many, many new releases in the drama, comedy or action/adventure sections that I would really like to see. Then I get to the Science Fiction section and I see the drivil that has oozed east from Hollyweird. This section is dominated by the 'Star' franchises. Star Trek, and Star Wars. Oh, sure, occasionally you get a gem like The Terminator, but for the most part, you get one decent Sci-Fi flick to every twenty from other genres. Which is interesting, when you consider that some of the earliest film making involved Science, or Speculative Fiction. A Trip to the Moon, in 1914, or Metropolis in 1927...Anyway, I was very entertained for the duration of this film, and feel it was well worth my time and money. And the fact that I ran out of popcorn, and was more interested in the movie than in a free refill speaks highly of it, as well! My rating 7.5/10  "},{"Title":"The very best Sci-Fi animation feature.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  You like Star Wars, The Matrix, Transformers...? Tron...? Titan A.E. is the next best thing, and whatever is going on at the top of the box office doesn't give justice to this film. Only 33 votes so far, for maybe the best animation feature of the year, and beyond! This movie has everything next-generation of drawn animation, great music, and Action! It's a non-stop instant classic that anyone who likes the genre has to see. Am I pushing it here? Maybe I'm just awed.  "},{"Title":"Cartoons Aren't Just for Breakfast Anymore","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What a great film.  It was a lot of fun, and had a story, characters and effects that both children AND adults could enjoy.  A lot of people will assume that just because it's a cartoon, it's kid stuff-- that's a false assumption brought about by years of simplistic Disney musicals and the lack of any other American studio willing to break that mold.The three screenwriters credited are even more amazing than the film itself-- Ben Edlund (The Tick), John August (Go) and Joss Whedon (TV's Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Alien Resurrection, script doctor on Speed, Twister...).  Bearing that in mind, I thought maybe the movie should have more good one-liners, but the characters were still a lot of fun, and so was the story.  And so was the soundtrack too, by golly.Hopefully this will bring America into the 21st Century, and make all ages realize that Animation is not just kid stuff.  But Don Bluth did The Secret of NIMH almost 20 years ago, and that is still thought of as a kids movie, even though it's more adult (and scary) than anything Disney would ever dare produce.Titan AE is not scary, but it is rated PG for a reason.  It's exciting, with a bare hint of violence (c'mon, they blow up the EARTH) and well-worth seeing, for the either the kid, or the adult, that's locked up inside you.9/10 "}{"Title":"Seriously man that was GREAT!!!!!","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  So far this was the best movie of 2000! Everything about was great. I want to keep this review short, so this is what's good about this movie EVERYTHING!!!! I can't believe that some people thought it was garbage. Come on!!!!!!!! It had beautiful visuals, it had a great cast, it had hilarious dialogue, it had a sci-fi story (who cares if it was formulaic, aren't all sci-fi's nowadays like that?), it had mature elements (it really isn't a movie JUST for kids), and it was the most exciting animated movie I've ever seen. It was one of the only movies where I forgot that it WAS a movie and just sat back and enjoyed the ride. What more can you ask for a science fiction? Did you guys think it would have deep morals or oscar-winning performances. It was a space opera sci-fi serial with the spirit of the original Star Wars films and the extremely advanced technology we have now. Thank God there is finally an animated movie with breathtaking excitement and groundbreaking animation that wasn't an anime movie (Sorry guys, but I HATE anime)! Don Bluth is back and he's finally returned to his days of talent. "},{"Title":"This is what EPISODE 1 should have been.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Since the very first preview I saw a long time ago, where the film was simply titled After Earth and no hint was given that it was animated, I'd listed this one as something I'd like to see.  Last night was not disappointing.  Recreating the Star Wars feeling much better than EPISODE 1, and then tossing in bits of MACROSS, this is a perfect example of the US finally waking up to more serious animated films, targetted more to young adults than kids.  The art is neat, and the 3D is nicely integrated, which is thus far rather rare, though at times frame rates get silly and the 'map' moves differently from the hand it's on...  The story is nice too, though obviously mising a half hour spread here and there.  The kind of movie that could have been a 9+ with some more work, but still comes off as entertaining, if slightly lacking in the energy department.  Oh, and some drastic mistakes on the scientific side kinda hurt the ending. "},{"Title":"A good space opera romp","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is one of the few animated feature-length movies to hit the American silver screen that stands on its own as a movie. If this had been live action, I would have still liked it. The plot is nothing super-intricate, but it does the trick. For anyone who has ever read the under-publicized comic Fusion, this could have come right off the pages of that wonderful comic. With fun characters, wonderful animation, and natural dialogue it is definitely a movie I would recommend to any fan of the space opera genre! "},{"Title":"Great non-stop animated action.  Amazing graphics!","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wonderfully entertaining movie in which there is something happening every second.  It's animation, so leave your sense of reality and character development behind and enjoy the joyride.  If you're a comic buff or just appreciate computerized animation at its best, you will enjoy this one.  "},{"Title":"Eye candy but... horid story","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I enjoyed watching this movie.  It was a feast for my eyes.  The CG was unlike any animated feature I'd seen although it did resemble Shadow Raiders a little too much for my taste.So why didn't I like this movie?  Well other than the animation it was total garbage.  The characters were just horrible.  Predictable behavior, bad guys excessively evil without any reasoning behind their deeds, plot holes so big you could drive that ugly titan spaceship through it, horrible horrible science and to top it off, painful dialogue.  I guess I was expecting it to be a movie that took itself a little more seriously but all I got was another stupid kids movie.  I wish they'd make more animated movies that are not targeted at the 4-8 year old age group. "},{"Title":"Something adults and kids will love.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan starts out strong, then seems to linger in some of the predictable areas that science fiction action movies do.  However, this is to lull the audience into a false sense of security, for there are quite a few unexpected twists along the way.  The animation is fantastic, breath-taking in quite a few places.  There is more than enough action to entertain both adults and children.  Parents of younger children should be warned of some sexual content that might make them squirm, but otherwise, sit back and enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"Awesome animation, well-done fast-paced adult-themed story.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to this movie with my wife, my 2 sons (9 and 12) and my 73 year old father...and we all liked this movie! It was fun. It was loud (which, since my dad is a bit hard-of-hearing, turned out to be a good thing), the music was great and really helped amplify the story, and the quality of the animation was exquisite.I wished I had known in advance who the voices were for the main characters. I became distracted a few times because I knew that I recognized these voices, but I just could not place them definitively.The story had some unexpected twists, and the character development, although predictable, was well done. The action was fast paced and took up quite a bit of the movie, so the plot itself was fairly simple and straightforward, but the cliffhanger scenes and inevitable last second rescues (and there were many) were a blast.I definitely urge you to see Titan A.E. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was a total surprise - I didn't even really think I'd like it, but I LOVED it. It has some of the most amazing visuals I've ever seen in my entire life. I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"lots of good parts overshadowed by lots of bad parts","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Bad parts1. Near the beginning when the heros jettison from their ship without spacesuits and survive.  3 seconds in absolute zero = human popsicle. Even if their bodies would've somehow survived, they would've been extremely damaged someway.  Just a really stupid glaring mistake some 15 minutes into the movie.  Almost completely killed my initial enthusiasm.2. Paper thin, stereo-typical motivations for all of the characters. Characters which were utterly stereotypical to begin with - character sketches written by a committee of 15-year old wannabe writers that grew up with Star Wars and science fiction novels.4. The Titan was built to rebuild the Earth in case of the planet's destruction.  This CAUSED the planet's destruction by an Alien race that was motivated by what exactly?  Jealousy?  Fear?  Fear of what?  No explanations given.  Besides the point, it might've been better to have the Titan built in response to the Alien threat.5. Hideously flickering 2d animation that drove me to distraction in many scenes.  I swear there's better animation in some saturday morning cartoons. What was the problem?  Rendering farm of 2 486s that could only pump out what, 6 frames of cell animation per second?  What a joke!Good parts1. The ART was excellent (the 2d ANIMATION sucked).  I loved the moody muted tones and the function before form look of the space stations.  The character art was also decent, though it could've used a bit more detail. Overall, the best reason to see this movie if just for the  f e e l  of it. It just grabbed me.2. Above par CG scenes and an interesting inegration of 2d with 3d gave the move a very unique look.  I thought it worked, but I guarantee there's many mixed feelings about this aspect.3. The story potential was great.  I was inspired by what MIGHT have been if the story was handled correctly.  So much good in there; so much cruft caked on top that you could hardly see it.All in all, I can't shake the sense that this movie was made by a committee rather than a core focus group that was given a free hand.  There was so much potential for this movie to be something more than it was and I think that's what sucks the most.  To many cooks spoil the soup or so the saying goes.It could've been a mature sensible movie that presented an epic story.  It could've had deeper characters that had real reasons for doing what they were doing.On the other hand, it could've been a rock musical for kids.  A purely fun excursion for the testosterone fueled or imaginatively inclined youngsters.Unfortunately it ended up somewhere in the middle and didn't succeed at either.It's not a bad movie, it's just wasn't focused enough.  That bugs me.------------------- Theory --------------------The producers thought animation = child audience The creators thought animation + good execution = ANY audience Result Titan AEI'm still waiting for a GOOD animated feature that was made for an adult audience.  There's so much of it on TV and on import video, but no N. American feature films. "},{"Title":"Nice movie but disappointing artwork","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've just seen the movie and think it's ok, nothing more. I was disappointed by the artwork, because I found the mix of 2D animation and rendered objects strange. The objects constantly reminded me how simple the other animation was. Make a plain old animated movie or something like Reboot, but not a mixture. Especially one drawn picture of the big ship was so bad and blurred that I thought it must have been some kind of mistake.The other thing was Matt Damon's interpretation of the main character. I like his voice very much, but the calmness and callousness of his dubbing didn't fit to the angry young man on the screen. There just wasn't enough temper in his voice. I don't know why, because in Good Will Hunting he showed that he can do it.Executive summary mediocre movie. I'm looking forward to X-Men. The story won't be better, but the effects will. "}{"Title":"Visually strong fun adventure film.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan A.E. may be a little shaky in some plot areas as far as logic is concerned, but the look of the movie is stunning. Outer-space sequences in gas clouds and ice fields really capture the imagination, and most of the CGI stuff is very well done. The voice acting is all fine, except for Barrymore, who is exceptionally good. All around a fun film and a goodsummer flick, even if it borrows from a myriad of sci-fi sources. "},{"Title":"Beautiful...","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wow,this film blew me away. I'm still stunned and I can't wait to go see it again. I guarantee this will take you to places you wouldn't believe. Excellent work by the Voice Actors, I must say. All in all, the story, characters, and emotions are as deep and rich as the backdrop of space...  "},{"Title":"Just doesnt quite pull it off ...","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great animation, but thats about all to this recent addition to the genre.  Visually it *really* has some great moments.  The story however lacks in a lot of areas.  Why are the bad blue guys so bent on our distruction? How come drifting colonies are allowed to survive if they want us gone? Why would we be building a ship like the Titan anyway? etc.The acting follows along with the story with some touching moments that just werent, I found myself chuckling at times I know that that was not the intention. If you enjoy animation and a great soundtrack go see this movie, just dont think too hard and you'll have a great time.  "},{"Title":"One of the greatest animated sci-fi flicks EVER!","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I first saw the preview for this, I thought that it was going to be a lot like Fox's previous attempt at animation, The Iron Giant. Now don't get me wrong, it was a pretty good movie, but Titan A.E. surpasses it on so many levels. The 2D/3D mix is splendidly creative. The 2D animated characters are very true to life in their movements and ways. The 3D scenery and space sequences can only be described in one word...amazing. The story is actually an above average one that keeps viewers of all ages awake and ready to see what happens next. In my opinion, nobody should miss out on the sci-fi/animated experience. It should be seen on the big screen. GO SEE IT!! "},{"Title":"I am starting to wonder if the collective IQ of professional movie critics cracks 100","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just saw this movie not more than three hours ago, and I must say that I have not enjoyed a movie as much in a long while.  I was slightly disconcerted by all the reviews I had read while scouring the web for info. Fortunately, movie critics are pretentious fools whose opinions are not worth knowing.  I read multiple reviews stating how the plot is cliched and the CG overwhelms and blah, blah, blah. . .Cliched!?  Oh, I'm sorry.  Sooo many movies today are not cliched; or once somebody has made a movie no one else can EVER make a similar one.  Sorry GLADIATOR, you were a really good movie but you are too similar to other movies we cannot like you.  Will critics never judge a movie for what it is supposed to be?  If you go into titan AE and do not shut up inside and outside your head constantly picking and picking you wont have fun and you probably do not have fun very often at the movies; however, if you go in, sit down and JUST watch the movie you will feel as great as I did upon exiting the theater.  The key, as with any movie with a sense of the fantastic, is suspension of disbelief.  I say this only because nearly all movies require this to some extent.  Leave it at the door and you may have lost your chance for a good time there, too.  Bring it with you and you will not be disappointed--Besides if Titan AE is too cliched for good taste, I have to throw out my Letterboxed edition of the Star Wars trilogy. "},{"Title":"At last!!!","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  At last some one in the US can make a fairly good animated movie and not have to kill time with a useless song and dance sequence. This movie isn't Anime, it isn't even close too Anime. I like various things about this film. Good characters, Good technical designs, and ambiguious evil aliens.Why the Drej hated humans is anyones guess. They reminded me of a cross with Babylon 5's vorlons with the shadows and you get the Drej evil and an enigma all in one. The thing I hated about this movie was it's soundtrack. Not the music by Graeme Revell his was good. I'm talking the useless top 40's or other pop music that chokes up the CD soundtrack just to sell some songs that odds are people already got them on another CD. To compare this movie to an Anime movie is not just a mistake, it's outright stupidity!!Anime is not all cool action and loud music. Gundam 0083 Stardust Memory is a good example of good Anime.This is not Anime, this is just a movie that happens to be animated. "},{"Title":"An engaging, exciting movie-- the graphics are as good as Star Wars","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Put aside your preconceptions about cartoons, and prepare to enjoy this movie. This is a real movie; this is a worthy movie. The characters and action mean something; you care about what is happening. It is as exciting, moving, and thrilling as any sci-fi flick made with real film. Especially now that so many movies are substantially computer generated cartoons anyway-- the only thing slightly different about Titan AE 2000 is that the human and and animal characters are drawn as well. Otherwise, the scenery and backgrounds aren't any different from those used in Star Wars, or Gladiator.This movie is uplifting-- it's an engaging and rousing movie most folks will really like. So go see it! I gave this a 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Don Bluth is back on top!","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Don Bluth is somewhat like the little girl with the curl in the middle of her forehead  When he is bad (Rock-A-Doodle), he's not necessarily horrid, but definitely unmemorable.  However, when he's good (The Secret of NIMH, he's very very good.  This film, along with NIMH, is by far his best.  What I really like about this film is that it does not feel like it is borrowing anything from Disney, but rather it has a look and feel all its own.  The blending of hand-drawn and computer-generated animation against jaw-dropping backgrounds is pure eye candy, and the decision to shoot the film in the widescreen format was a very wise one indeed.  The Drej are the most uniquely designed aliens I have ever seen.  Equally on par with the visuals is the story and dialogue.  The voice cast is right on the mark, and I have to say that I was so caught up in the film that none of the voices seemed instantly recognizable, which only added to the enjoyment.  Graeme Revell contributed a nice score, and I even found myself liking the hard rock songs in the film.  In short, I would say that this is the Star Wars of animation.  It's interesting that they both come from 20th Century Fox.Disney, watch your backs!  Don Bluth and partner Gary Goldman are back, and if they (and Fox Animation Studios) keep on making films like this, they will be great forces to be reckoned with. "},{"Title":"Animation has grown up!","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan A.E. is truly one of the best animated movies I have seen in a long time. First off, when I say animated, I don't mean a bunch of Disney quality cartoons with singing chipmunks. I mean in your face, action packed, explosion filled, blasters blazing, Anime quality action without the huge, round eyes!The special effects are incredible, the dialogue is great, and the character depth is AMAZING. Each character has their own traits and special qualities that are well followed through by the actors. Like when Cale (Matt Damon) first meets Akima (Drew Barrymore) the female pilot who he has a crush on he is nervous talking to her as they know nothing about each other. But as they go along, Akima's rebellious, free spirit begins to show the woman that is just looking for a new home and Cale begins to understand the big picture. (Bill) Pullman, (John) Leguizamo, (Jennean) Gerrafolo, and (Nathan) Lane play their roles like they were born to do it. The plot has more twists than a Twizzler, and the story line is remarkable as well. (also, as with animation, the camera angles are perfect).Kids will love it for the funny characters and comedic scenes, teenagers will enjoy the action scenes (Like the scene where the Drej and the crew of the Valkerie are fighting in a field of huge balloons that explode at the slightest impact) and the older folks will love the story line and dramatic qualities.Go see this film, if you loved Star Wars you WILL love this. I give it a 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Man that was sweet!","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just got back from it, and let me tell you it was so very well worth the wait. Ever since I saw the teaser trailer for it during Star Wars Episode 1, I was dying to see it. I've also read about it a lot at the Coming Attractions site when it was called Planet Ice. It has come a long way. Awesome special effects, wicked humor, and a great cast (great acting too) all contribute to this extremely fun ride. It never let up, and so many sequences were a wonder to behold. Easily one of my favorites of this year...and I'm already ready to see it again. A great summer escape, if you ask me. However, you have to see this on the big screen, with a top quality sound system. Otherwise it'll never be the same. Don't wait for video, run to see it now! "}{"Title":"Poor editing makes you feel as if you're missing something","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT Let me begin by saying that I've been looking forward to this film for quite some time.  However, now that I've seen it, I can only hope that somewhere on the cutting room floor are all the clips that would make this film flow together.  The soundtrack didn't bug me, the animation was top-notch, and I thought the voice acting was great.  However, the film is dragged down by the fact that it leaps between scenes with so little transition that you get the feeling that you've just missed something very important.  For example, when the Drej eject Akima from their spaceship, the next thing we know the other crewmembers are hip deep in rescuing her from slave traders.  How did she get on this asteroid?  How did they know where she was?  How did the slave traders get her?  One thing is for certain, the audience doesn't know. Another good example is towards the end of the film when after your dramatic battle sequence Stith, who we last saw engaged in dialogue with Gune, is suddenly standing right next to the main characters.  How did she get there?  Magic perhaps.  Ironically, most of this transitional material that would have closed some of the gaping holes in the storyline can be found in the novel version.  It makes me wonder why they didn't tag an extra 20 minutes or so onto this film to help flesh it out some more.  As it stands, the editing leaves plot holes big enough to drive a spaceship through. "},{"Title":"Biggest Surprise of the year","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ever since I saw the first teaser trailer for Titan A.E. over a year ago, I have been dreading the release.  Three other trailers that I personally thought were hokey have come and gone and until I saw the film I was convinced that it would be mediocre at best.  Wrong.  This is definitely the best animated sci-fi film I have ever seen.  I also think that this is Don Bluth's master work (even though topping Land Before Time seemed impossible).  The story is interesting, original and there are enough plot twists to keep me completly enthralled.  The digital animation is awesome, and puts the lame CGI battle from the Phantom Menace to shame.  I would recommend this to anyone with kids or to anyone that claims to still have a spirit of adventure.  Other than a little blood shed and an alien that gets vaporized, the film ends up with a happy note that is sure to fill everyone with a sense of hope for the future of mankind.  The cast is great, the music is excellent and the film itself is just beautiful.  If you're planning to see this movie, I recommend finding a theatre that carries premier prints.  That was what I saw and the image was very clear and crisp, making the digital shots so much more real.  I can only hope that everyone gets a chance to see this movie. "},{"Title":"visual breakthrough","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan AE By Dean Kish	Hollywood brings the timeless style of the space opera to its animation department in a visual breakthrough.  	`Titan AE' (or Titan After Earth) chronicles the journey of a young hero named Cale (voiced by Matt Damon) as he is caught in the struggle between the last of humanity and the evil energy beings known only as the Drej. Cale seems to be the key to winning the struggle as he meets fellow earthlings Corso (Bill Pullman) and Akima (Drew Barrymore). Hidden within Cale's ring and hand is a map that will lead the last of humanity to its savior, a top secret project known as Titan. The Titan project was hidden after the annihilation of Earth and built by Cale's father. Can the last remaining humans fight off their annihilation and survive to flourish once more? 	As I first walked in to watch Titan AE, I was afraid that there would be a problem with melding the 3-D animation (as seen in `Toy Story') with 2-D animation (as seen in most Disney animated films). What I found was the effect drew me in more. It was amazing how the 2-D animation brought alive the characters and the 3-D animation encompassed the world around them including spaceships and backgrounds. It truly is a marvel to see. 	Another amazing site to see is the different worlds and aliens the animators have dreamed up for this film. Winged creatures who live on a planet full of `hydrogen trees', the `ice-rings', and even the mostly alien crew that befriends Cale. The imagination really ran rampant in those departments.  It really is a shame that kind of imagination and originality never really found its way into the story. A reluctant boy tries to save his race from an evil presence as he tries to unlock his father's past. Befriended by a motley crew of misfits he sets off to find his destiny. Now that doesn't sound familiar. Putting aside the obvious comparison, Titan's story reminded me also of a couple other animated projects. The projects being the great animated series `Invasion America' and the short lived animated series `Pirates of Dark Water'. If you have seen these then you probably know what I mean. And if you haven't I recommend them highly. 	The look and visuals are the best part of Titan. Other parts that bugged me are when the film seemed to switch from animated movie to animated rock video. I could barely understand the lyrics or the connection the song had to that part of the film. These musical montages really messed up the whole experience for me. A huge mangled rock song would play and as soon as the chorus would come there would be a laser blast or swooshing of a spaceship disrupting the song and its effect.  	As I close this review I ask you as the audience one question. Do animated films need Hollywood stars as the voices? In Titan, I barely recognized any of the stars. (3.5 of 5) So Says the Soothsayer	  "},{"Title":"Entertaining,  if not highly memorable.","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Fifteen years before the events of the film,  a menacing alien race called the Drej destroy Earth in response to something called the Titan project. The Titan is a gigantic ship that will somehow change the role of humans in the universe.  The movie follows Cale,  the son of one of the scientists who developed the Titan,  as he is recruited by former military commander Korso to hunt for the Titan.  His father hid the ship to save it from destruction by the Drej and placed a map to its location within Cale's hand,  leaving him as the only way of locating it and making him a target of the relentless Drej.I was anxious to see this movie after seeing the effects on display in the trailer,  and it certainly delivered in the eye candy department.  The computer generated scenes are quite entertaining.  The cat and mouse chase that takes place in a field of gigantic ice crystals near the end of the film is a treat to watch.  The atmosphere was very well textured,  with a very gritty feel to the environments that were brought across quite well.The rest of the package? Well...The characters are all done with traditional 2d animation and, while I thought were technically well animated,  seemed a bit out of place against the high tech backdrop generated by the rendered scenery.  They are without a doubt alien in appearance,  but in a way that is distinctly...Bluthian (for lack of a better word).  This studio has a style all their own,  and it is very apparent in the character designs.  I felt at times that I was watching Secret of Nimh instead of a space opera.  This, I felt, was only slightly annoying.  All of the characters are flawlessly voiced and easy to like, however,  and I certainly had no complaints about the humans providing the voices.The soundtrack does get a bit intrusive at times.  Several scenes seem inserted simply to serve as a visual backdrop for the grunge inspired songs. While none of them are really annoying,  and the visuals are quite nice, they eventually start to intrude on what would have been a perfectly interesting story all by itself.And the story...  It is quite compelling and well set up early in the movie. However,  not enough backstory is really given to answer all the questions you will have about what motivated whom to do what they do.  The Drej are certainly the most alien looking race in the movie and easy to loathe,  but they are left a fairly faceless bunch whose only words are their leader's cliched orders to wipe out humans.  The reason for their relentless hatred of the human race is NEVER explained.  There is a scene where it seems this would have fit very well,  so perhaps some story elements were cut in the interest of time.  This was my biggest complaint with the movie however. The device that sets up the entire rest of the rather interesting plot is never really explained!  After learning of the Titan's purpose (and extrapolating that use to other races besides the human one),  it's slightly more apparent why the Drej would seek to destroy our species,  but their motivations are still left very murky in the end.  There is one plot twist that comes completely out of the blue and while the character's explanation is satisfying enough,  it still happens so quickly as to be a bit unsettling.If you were wondering about the child friendliness of this animated movie, there's nothing older children won't have already seen on prime time television.  But I'd consider it perhaps a bit -too- violent (lots of gunplay) to take my five year old to see.An entertaining if disposable joyride for a couple of hours.  It won't be remembered as well as The Iron Giant (my favorite animated film) or much of the more cerebral anime fare,  but I felt overall it was certainly worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"GO SEE THIS!!!!!!","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  While i'd love for everyone to go see this, i'd like all of you guys and girls out there to realize Akima only has eyes for me. But seriously it was a great movie.  Full of action and great animation.  The combonation of CGI and animation make it an innovative success.  Great soundtrack, plot and relatable (is that a word?) characters.  GO SEE IT!!!! "},{"Title":"Would, could, should...","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Maybe I should preface my comments by saying that I'm a pretty big fan of anime, and so my view of this movie is colored by the viewing of a lot of fantastic stuff.  That said, this isn't  of the same caliber as Ghost in the Shell, Macross Plus, or Akira. I'll spilt this up into a few sectionsVoice Acting - On the whole, excellent.  The only voice I thought wasn't quite right was Janeane Garofalo's.  Partly, it just didn't sound as bang-on as the others, and partly, it seemed like the sound was off on a lot of her lines.Dialogue - Related to the above, of course, but also taking the script into account.  Again, a good job with only a few flaws that I won't point out to save others noticing them.Animation - This is a tricky one.  At some points in the movie, it was fantastic, and at others, borderline poor.  Let me explain.  I watch a lot of animated entertainment, so I'm used to Disney, where everything is of consistent, typically high quality, and to anime, where the art is always of incredible quality but the frame rate shifts from low to high for dramatic and action sequences, respectively.  But this movie was odd in this regard. The hand drawn animation was quite good throughout, as one would expect from a Bluth film.  It's integration with the CG art was highly variable, from indistinguishable to obvious to painfully bad.  And scenes involving CG only were the most curious of all; about 95% were  brilliantly done, but every once in a while there was a serious flub where the CG would become quite choppy for a second or two, typically at the beginning or end of a scene. Why these weren't rendered smooth is beyond me, but it hurt what was otherwise an extremely well drawn film.Plot - Well, I won't give specifics, but it borrowed heavily from a number of pretty obvious sources.  That being said, the general thrust was good, but some of the twists were unnecessary and cheapened the overall effort.General - There seems to be a great deal of disagreement on this one, but my take is that (regardless of how down I might have sounded above) the movie was decent, but could have been a lot better.  I hope it does well enough at the box office that we get the chance to see more mature animated features on the big screen.  And for the commentary above where it is hypothesized that some critical scenes must have been chopped out, I agree.  I just hope they end up on the DVD. "},{"Title":"Amazing cutting edge use of 3-D/2-D animation storytelling","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is the kind of picture I've been wanting to see out of American Animation for most of my life (since I was a youngster checking out Speed Racer and 10 years ago when I first saw LENSMAN and had a glimpse of what might be possible when 2D traditional animation was combined with 3-D computer generated animation. In the U.S. the audience has always thought of animation as solely for fantasy / funny animals and (thanks to the Flinstones / Bugs Bunny / the Simpsons) sarcastic commentary on society. Now I hope and pray that TITAN A.E. can open up an avenue long disregarded by the U.S. audience, that of epic storytelling for adults. Lord of the Rings (the Ralph Bakshi version) not withstanding...TITAN is our first glimpse of a story outside of the traditional Disney realm. It's not an amazing story, it is a staple space opera (but I was surprised at points) but it IS beautiful to behold and it is a GOOD story.  The characters are pretty well realized (and far less wooden than Phantom Menace) Go see this on the big screen.  The trailers do not lie, it will blow you away! "},{"Title":"Disney, eat your heart out.","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie rocked!!  The animation of the characters was traditional and good, but the computer animated space scenes were amazing.  The characters are well developed and much edgier than Disney or Episode I.  There was definitely an element of the same old epic plot line, but the flow of the story was  engaging enough to still make it interesting.  I really enjoyed the humor of the film as well as the amazing battle sequences.  If your a fan of this genre at all you should definitely see this movie in the theater.   "},{"Title":"Beautifully done, feel good summer animation flick","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A wonderful coupling of classic story with fresh animation and computer graphics.  Everything about this film feels very tight; the voiceovers, the action sequences, the overall direction, the gorgeous colors used, the attention to detail and character development.  Some scenes were just jaw dropping in the richness of the color and detail.  I don't think it's really fair to compare this film to Japanese Anime, as others have, since it brings its own special flair and originality to the genre;  I've seen many Japanese Anime movies and the art work probably rivals some of the artwork here, but the Japanese Anime work I've seen could pick up a thing or two concerning the beautiful, bright and intense colors at work in Titan AE.One thing I thought was pretty obvious is that Titan AE definitely seems to borrow from other SF films, like Independence day, Star Trek II, and Star Wars - Definitely a lot from the first two, I'd say.  But the end result is that the film still ends up being pretty good, since it combines these borrowed concepts in a such a way that it doesn't take away from the film. "},{"Title":"Fun eye candy- who cares about the rest?","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have seen Titan twice now, and I am thoroughly surprised to read some of the reviews on the film. Granted, the story is cliche sci-fi, a narrative pulled together from every other space movie you've ever seen. But to say that it has no heart, that the Drej are not a formidable enemy, or that viewers need to be slow to enjoy it are just off base. If there's anything Titan has it's tons of heart, in many ways that's what obscures the plot. The characters are not so dull that we don't cheer for them, or feel pride in their victories. The Drej are just plain scary looking, and their leader is a force to be reckoned with. Finally, I saw this movie with other twenty-somethings, who all really enjoyed it, not some 5 year olds. It's just fun people! Cast aside your pretensions about art and film, suspend your disbelief, and immerse yourself in the spectacle of it all.  "}{"Title":"Soo close...","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is one of those movies where I walk out of the theater thinking 'that was great, but...' I really hate when that happens. I can deal with really great movies, or really bad ones, or ones that are so bad that they're good, or even movies that are simply too weird to be judged at all. But when a movie is so good in some ways, and a let-down in others -- even a little -- it tears me up inside. It really does. Long story short, this movie has only two things wrong with it the story and the soundtrack. Visually, this movie is a knockout. The acting is great -- not a single casting mistake in the bunch. Characters, dialogue? Great, brilliant.  Even a couple of fairly accurate sciency scenes. But the story just doesn't add up. The overarching plot is that a bunch of evil aliens single out Earth and its inhabitants for destruction, apparently because we built something called the Titan Project, which is a device specifically designed to deal with the problem of what to do if Earth gets destroyed. How's that for cause and effect? Of course, the problem is that we don't really know why the aliens hate Earth so much, or why the main character decides to accept his destiny and fight for humanity, or why one of the characters turns traitor midway through the movie (oops, uh, SPOILERS!) or much of anything. It's all just sort of accepted that these guys are good, and these other ones are bad, and this one other guy was good but now he's bad but (SPOILER!) he turns good again just in time to save everybody and etcetera. The thing is that the actual writing is excellent, but the plot doesn't hold up. I wouldn't be surprised at all to find out that several minutes of footage that would have made this all clearer, or foreshadowed some of the abrupt twists, wound up on the cutting-room floor... Or in this case, the Deleted Items Folder.  Which just makes it all the more painful to think about.Then there's the soundtrack. Not only do they bring the movie to a screeching halt to play some godawful disposable top-40 tune by Jamiroquai, but the song is actually directly related to what's going on on-screen. It's like they decided at the last minute to try and make this a musical. Seriously, the main character, a refugee from the destroyed planet Earth, is first introduced to us over the strains of a little number called 'Cosmic Castaway'. Later, they halt the film so he can practice piloting a spaceship while they play a song called 'It's My Turn to Fly'. I'd say it's like a Disney cartoon, except that Disney usually includes songs which at least attempt to be timeless, whereas these tracks are going to show up in a Not-Available-in-Stores-6-CD-Set-With-Free-Poster sometime before this film hits video. Feh. Now that I've got that off my chest, I actually like the movie better. Yeah, it's pretty good. Go see it. But you'll probably feel better about it if you catch a matinee.   "},{"Title":"While I personally didn't care that much for the film, I believe that it is a step in the right direction","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The plot of Titan A.E. seemed compelling at first, but due to a variety of factors, It eventually lost my interest.  The movie doesn't make a good attempt to incorporate the fabulous universe created for it into the story very well, instead just trying to wow us with visual effects, and the fact that the plot only focuses on several characters in their quest to save humanity, while the rest of the humans are completely oblivious to the struggle going on, denies the film the epic feel that it strives for.  The heavy-on-action, light-on-character plot doesn't help much either. In fact, this story doesn't stand up to any analysis of its plot at all. The more I tried to think about what was going on, the more I was confounded by all of the holes in the story.  It's hard to explain all of the problems without giving away the end of the movie, but I'll simply say that it seems like no one stopped to think about all of the contradictions and impossibilities presented in the story.  In case you really want to know, I'll give you just a few examples of some of the many problems, BUT THESE ARE ***SPOILERS***, SO IF YOU DON'T WANT TO KNOW, DON'T READ THIS 1) No effort was taken to explain how Cale managed to escape from the Drej prison just by sticking his hands through the wall (did I miss something or what?). I know that they are creatures of `pure energy' and that the cell was the same way, but it still doesn't make any sense.  2) Why didn't anyone (Preed and Korso excluded) on the crew of the Valkyrie care when Akima and Cale ran away? Didn't they think about the fact that their crewmates had mysteriously left without saying goodbye, that Korso all of a sudden became a mean and nasty guy, and that they were ordered to secretly follow Cale and Akima and were not to contact them.  3) What ever happened to Cale's father?  Did he successfully leave with the Titan or what?  Why was the Titan deserted when they finally found it, and how did Cale's father die?  4) Finally, what threat did the Drej ever see in the humans that convinced them to attack earth?  Since they are pure energy, they essentially cannot be destroyed anyway (one of the Drej soldiers grows back an arm that was destroyed). These are just some simplified explanations for problems that I could analyze in much more detail, and I'm sure that if you've seen the movie and think about it, you can easily realize that there are all sorts of other plot inconsistencies.  ***********END OF SPOILERS************ What about the animation?  It is, after all, an animated movie.  Here, it does a better job, but there are still a few annoyances.  The movie looks great.  A good job was done of putting the cell and CG together so that it didn't look out of place, and the movie was definitely visually stunning. But that, ironically, also led to another of the film's shortcomings. This is that the film relies entirely too much on visual gimmicks that get old and don't do anything to advance the story.  The first time the camera circled around one of the characters, I was impressed.  But after it had happened several times for no particular reason, I got annoyed at how blatantly the animators were trying to impress me just by showing me a pointless visual trick.  The moving shots were unnatural and unnecessary, and presented so often that they lost their initial visual appeal.  The space sequences were overused in a similar fashion.  By trying to make every single space shot as cool as possible, they actually made the ones that should have been exciting less impressive than they would have been had we not seen so much before them.  The character animation is very good.  As an Animator myself, I am always impressed by nice animation, but I also get suspicious when animation looks TOO realistic.  I checked the credits at the end of the film, and sure enough, there was a (rather large) section titled LIVE ACTION REFERENCE.  The vast array of actors, cameramen, and jib operators listed in this section made me suspect that portions of the movie had been rotoscoped.  For those of you who do not know what rotoscoping is; it is a term that refers to filming real life actors going through the motions of the characters in the film, then tracing the images of the actors onto the cels and painting the characters over them.  The reason it looks so realistic is because real actors are providing the motions.  I'm not absolutely sure, and if it wasn't rotoscoped at all, I'm very impressed, but if it was, I'm very disappointed. I'm not completely negative about this movie.  One thing that I liked was that it was acceptable for that commonly-neglected demographic of kids between ten and thirteen years old.  I remember that when I was younger there wasn't very much in between G-rated kiddy films that I was embarrassed to go see and extremely violent and dirty PG-13 and R rated films that my parents wouldn't let me watch.  This film, although surprisingly violent for a PG movie, is acceptable for kids who like action but whose parents don't want their ears filled with profanity and other garbage.  And although I personally feel that they should have just gone all out on the film (you can tell that they really wanted to) and turned it into a PG-13 movie, I can understand that it would not have been a smart choice in America, where people think of animated films as children's entertainment.  While I personally didn't care that much for the film, I believe that it is a step in the right direction as far as animated films go, and I hope to see more films along this line in the future. "},{"Title":"Titan's an Art Enterprise","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The movie's a little soul-less to stack up against the great animation motherlode of last year, but the art work, the direction, and the character animation were imaginative and unusual. I also appreciate animation that doesn't simply replicate camera movement and the realism of live action, but startles with images that couldn't exist in the real world. Very rich and rewarding imagery.   "},{"Title":"All fluff, no substance","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan A.E. has been hyped by some as the best animated film of the decade. I guess this is true, because of it's release only a few months into this decade.  While the film is visually spectacular, and has a great cast, it lacks a little in the story department. Every sci-fi & action flick cliche is used to try and get the viewer's adrenaline flowing, but the film never reaches the point where one thinks the unthreatening villains might triumph, or makes you want to cheer for the good guys. Don Bluth has directed much better films, and will surely direct better films in the future.  If the same amount of effort was put into srorytelling that was used to incorporate skillfully hand drawn characters into state-of-the-art computer animated environments, this might have been one of the best animated films of all time.  Unfortunately, all you get is some really pretty eye candy, and a bunch of characters that are better suited for a video game than a feature film. "},{"Title":"Zeus A.D.","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Powerful and beautiful. A deadly combination. In a stunning animations, superb camera movements, and satisfying special effects, the movie takes you further in animation history.The story is fair, but opens lots opportunities for much stunning animations and acts.If you are an animation freaks, or a true movie fans, watch this one! "},{"Title":"not even up to the standards of current anime","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The trailer was laughable.  When I saw the trailer before The Phantom Menace, I was laughing so hard at the poor animation quality of this film. Not even close to the current standards of those being produced in Japan.You want some anime with visual quality and interesting story lines?  Check out Cowboy Bebob.  It's an animated series from Japan that is now being released on DVD.The combination of CGI and 2D anime just does not work well in Titan AE. Even people at Fox know this.    If you have ever seen the Silver Surfer series then you know what to expect from Titan AE.  CGI that sticks out like a sore thumb.  This is not the next level of anime.  The 2D anime is standard and not in anyway a milestone step above anything else previously released.  Aladin was equal to better anime than this film.  The next level of anime has been proven to be Ghost in the Shell.  American animators have a long road ahead of them to equal what is being produced in Japan.In the words of Chuck D  Don't believe the hype!  "},{"Title":"A fantastic mature animated film","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The makers of Titan A.E. have put heart and soul into the characters on screen for this eagerly awaited animated film. Don Bluth has once again proven that Disney is not the only game in town. I would compare this to The Iron Giant as a film not only children will enjoy but teenagers and adults will have their fun with this film as well. Some parents should be warned that there is a fair share of sci-fi violence and gun play in this film, it's not Bambi by any means. Cale is one of only a hand full of earthlings who have survived an attack from aliens of pure energy that have compleatly destroyed the planet and made humans space refugees. His father was the inventor of a space craft called Titan which holds the key to mankinds survival and the aliens held this as a threat and exterminated man because of it. Cale is the only one, unknowingly, who has the map to find the Titan since his father was killed in the attack. A race against time on all sides is on to find Cale, the map and the Titan. Fantastic computer animation blended with Bluth's characters are a sight to behold and will impress even the most jaded of science fiction fans. This is a highly recomended film, so don't just sit there, get ready for the human race and go see this film! "},{"Title":"The best movie to come out of Fox Animation Studios so far.","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I watched this movie multiple times already and it is great. I believe this is because Don Bluth has gone back to what he is famous for and that is killer Sci Fi with creative, funny, and amasing characters. The posters and the advertising do not give the movie justice. The 2d characters were spectacular (except for stupid Gune. The 3d was much better than their previous feature films. All and all I would say this is the best animated film of the decade. So prepare yourself Star Wars fans for the movie Episode 1 should have been and race to see TITAN A.E. "},{"Title":"Star Trek Connection?","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I was wondering if anyone else noticed how similar the Titan project is to Star Trek 2's Project Genesis? Secondly, It looks to me like the Titan A.E. creators payed homage to this Star Trek connection with Cale's tattoo, which at least to my eyes, looks mysteriously like the common emblem used on Star Trek to represent the mirror universe. The sword sticking through the center on the planet Earth is shown frequently on all of the Star Trek TV series in pretty much any episode that has anything to do with the mirror universe. If I remember correctly, it has been a while since I've seen any of these episodes, the logo is used to represent the Terran Empire. If you were to pause Titan and take a good look at Cale's tattoo on his right bicep you will definitely see the similarity. "},{"Title":"Nice Animated Sci-Fi ...","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Nice movie - nothing really bad to say about it. I had been meaning to see this movie for a while and was glad I did. The (voice) cast of characters was impressive with Mat Dillon, Drew Barrymore and Bill Pullman in the fore. I also enjoyed seeing Ron Perlman have a role as a top scientist.The space scenes were nice - esp. the views that tried to capture the vastness of space. Also nicely done were the planet scenes and the space debris areas. The story moves along pretty briskly.The various alien forms (outside of the enemy) were a bit odd/awkward looking. They all had typical human personalities and quirks - kind of made them less alien. Also - the ending seemed a bit rushed. All in all, the movie is fine. Misses being great by not being too interesting. I never felt strongly drawn into the movie. "}{"Title":"Animate Sci-Fi with a good story and lovable characters","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I enjoyed this tale of humans of the future who create a device that brings down the wrath of the meanest aliens in the universe. I found the realistic characters engaging each one has flaws as well as talents. I also liked the way the main character, Cale, learns from his experiences and changes from a self-centered jerk into a likable and humble person. The movie begins with Cale as a child, as earth is attacked by the evil Drej. Cale's father entrusts him to the safety of a friend and then runs off to the mysterious Titan project which is the source of the title. As Cale's escape craft leaves earth, he watches his father take off in a special ship just as the Drej begin to destroy the earth. Cale and his father both escape, but in different directions. When we next find Cale, he is a young adult working in spaceship salvage yard. He is soon recruited by an old friend of his father to help save the human race. A classic sci-fi adventure story follows as Cale and a rag-tag crew try to find the hiding place of the Titan project. Although the plot has some predictable elements, the animated format allows for some stunning visuals and introduction of alien races and characters that could not be accomplished with live action. Along with some unique elements, like the back-story of humans living in drifter colonies, there are plot-twists and surprises all the way to the exciting conclusion. And although this movie has no religious content, the character growth reminds me of the changes a person goes through when devoting himself to following the narrow way. "},{"Title":"Worth a couple of viewings if only for the spectacle","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I had never heard of this movie. I don't usually get 'into' cartoons unless they have a touch of zany or, like this one, clearly demonstrate a determination to provide the viewer with visual feast even if you end up not liking the story. We'll deal with the story momentarily.Having this recommended by the video store guy - and he has been correct so far - I slid it into my DVD and soon saw a familiar name. Don Bluth! I have usually been OK with every Bluth movie so a relaxed. But the first thing you notice is that it is typical Bluth characters against atypical backgrounds graphically. They are overwhelming. I didn't expect this. It goes pretty quick at the beginning. In fact, the beginning is so eye catching you may be afraid to leave for fear of missing some other jaw-dropping graphic.The visuals are quite striking in many instances. That alone is probably worth 2 or 3 viewings. Multiple formats are used and at times are effectively used in tandem. You may not even get it all in 2 viewings. I'm not sure I did. Enough about graphics. It's simple. If you like visual effects you will like this. As noted, the characters are fairly typical Bluth stock. But the one thing that bothered me the most is that none of the characters are really warm. The main male character is pretty much a jerk through a good chunk of the movie so it is difficult to sympathize. Without giving away details - The Captain is the most likable at first, but he isn't the main character. Plus he does a few flip-flops in character that don't make sense. The female lead is handled well and seems the most normal, but she isn't the one you want to follow. She isn't the story. The side characters, mostly alien fabrications, had the potential to be - well, more lovable and memorable. They just don't set well. In fact, some are just downright silly. It is my feeling that because this seems to be a rather serious attempt at a good science-fiction story the typical Bluth character formula makes it seems to confuse the viewer a bit.The enemy aliens and their concept was most interesting. I enjoy when someone comes up with an alien concept that seems possible and isn't based on Earth biology. Unfortunately it is never quite explained why they hate humans. Instead all I recall is a vague comment about the future of mankind which, for a science fiction movie, is dreadfully ambiguous. Nevertheless the concept was interesting. Did I mention that the enemy aliens, Drej, are also a visual treat?The story seems to be based on a number of prior sci-fi films. I can live with that. But there are raging holes in the logic. Once you get past the visuals the story has areas that just don't make sense. The logic of purpose for a number of things doesn't add up. I am left asking questions at the end. Maybe it's just me.In fact, it is toward the end that there is a certain graphic sequence that doesn't work. I thought it was embarrassingly amateurish compared to the rest of the movie.Bottomline I give it a seven. It is definitely worth a few viewings if only in admiration for the work put into the graphics. It's great. "},{"Title":"Action sequences keep you on the edge of the seat","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  9/10 for Titan A.E. I really found it amazing, there is a constant mix of top notch graphics with a bit older style of animation, and both blend very well. I don't know really how to describe this movie, i suppose you just need to watch it, some scenes are simply breathtaking, and I have seen a lot of Animes before. The ice field is simply stunning, as is the construction of the new Earth (Planet Bob). There were a couple of excellent jokes, treason, love, passion, will to fight on, Titan A.E is complete. Great imagination from the creators to invent the hydrogen trees for example, that was a great idea.At no moment in Titan A.E you are bored. Action sequences keep you on the edge of the seat, and the story explanation blends in well to fill the gaps. But it is not filling in a boring way, it is done quite fantastically to blend in with the overall subject. Characters are funny, there is enough background for all main characters really. *SPOILERS* Well at least it inspired the game Freelancer, with the Nomad ships, don't know who took the idea first but there we go *END SPOILERS* , yeah by all means watch it, expert's recommendation ) "},{"Title":"Most underated film ever","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Normally films are made with the aim of entertaining, dazzling and creating something that an audience can relate too as a visual masterpeices. Titan A.E is not a film, it's an animated feature film. However, it dos dazzle and impress me. The internet and film articles are bombarded with negative reviews of such a wonderfull film. Pretty strange? So you wonder why? The general public is only interested in a film with sexy young women and drugs, that actually wouldn't be parsecs away from the truth.You really have to appreciate how much work went into a project such as Titan A.E. Over thirty animators working day and night to provide the eye candy experience usually expected for the money we exchange to see the film. The animation is not only top draw but, the voice acting, the storyline and the soundtrack is all perfectly relevant to the type of move T.A.E is.The storyling isn't complex but, it's still consistently interesting. The story tells us of how the Human species is on the brink of extinction, only one may hope to restore what the species once were. Only a few remain, scattered accross the galaxay in a minority. Cale Tucker must track down the most powerfull of weapons, The Titan. The only tool that can re-created the Human species. However, The Drej aliens stand in their way. Pretty much of the story you can gather for yourself once you see it, and I insist you do watch it.I found the entire film enthralling and a joy to watch. You know it's a worth feature when Joss Whedon (Buffy the vampire slayer) is involved in the project. One of my favourite films ever!*****/***** "},{"Title":"Heavy Metal meets Star Wars","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" TITAN A.E. (2000) **1/2 (Voices Matt Damon, Drew Barrymore, Bill Pullman, Nathan Lane, John Leguizamo, Janeane Garofalo, Ron Perlman, Alex D. Linz, Tone-Loc, Jim Breuer. Fantastic animation set in the futuristic 31st century where mankind is nearly extinct and the fate of a new Earth to emerge rests literally in the palm of a reluctant hero (Damon) who's hand has a tattoo of a map to show him the way to a pre-destined new evolution. With the help of a no-nonsense space ship captain (Pullman) and the sexy pilot (Barrymore) and a few tag-along aliens he's on his way with only the dreaded alien race of Drejs determined to stop his quest. Don Bluth and Gary Goldman, co-directors and animation director Len Simon bring a unique look a la 'Heavy Metal' meets 'Star Wars' with some state-of-the-art 3-D computer animation giving the film a look not unlike any other of the sci-fi genre but ultimately the rote screenplay falters in the long run to maintain interest by the film's climax. "},{"Title":"Dumb Dude Dialogue w/ Nary an Original Idea In Sight - Still, Some Cool Effects","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Three main problems that could have been corrected with a bit more upfront work1.  Story line starts far too abruptly and without any context; 2.  Too much California Dude mentality inhabits the script and voice-overs (do screen writers have to dumb down the language just to sell it to a more teen-oriented audience?); 3.  I'm waiting for an idea not already stolen from previous Sci-Fi classics and/or recent television fodder (like Babylon 5, StarTrek, etc.).However, the final action sequencing redeems this movie (having lumbered through the first 7/8ths).  Overall, some fairly tepid/vapid sci-fi leading up to a rousing conclusion.   "},{"Title":"Not impressed...","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, I've seen a LOT of animated movies in my time, and this isn't going to stand out in my memory in the years to come.  Yes, it had some nice special effects, and it SURE made use of that SDDS sound system, but overall I was not particularly impressed with Titan A.E. The animation was less than spectacular (it seems like Don Bluth studios always uses the same stock footage of someone moving as reference for animation, because in every movie you can easily predict how a character will move according to the situation), the 3D characters moved choppily, the 2D characters were so badly colored (Don Bluth doesn't believe in shading unless a VERY strong light is on the character or the character is frowning), and the story was abysmal (aliens blow up the Earth because we develop a technology that in the end poses absolutely no threat to them or gives any reason for them to fear us, and everything ends happily even though we only stop some of the aliens and the credits roll while I imagine scores more of them coming to kill us all).  It's a little fun to watch, the 3D models were nice and kids will have a good time watching it (which is the sole reason I gave it a 4), but if you're just a group of adults I suggest spending your cash on Shaft this weekend, instead. "},{"Title":"maybe we should leave sci-fi cartoons to the japanese","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Titan A.E. isn't an awful movie.  It's perfectly watchable, and there is some very pretty animation, although the character design is rather bland.  But it's so unoriginal and hackneyed that you have to wonder why they even bothered making it.  I watched this because it was written by Buffy/Angel writers Edlund and Whedon, but this by-the-number script doesn't have a single surprise in it and doesn't put any work into making the character's route actions sensible.  And there are several scenes set to generic rock songs, which is always a bad sign.  Those looking for an original, intelligent sci-fi cartoon with some ideas would be better served by the anime industry; even their dumbest products at least are distinguished by some sort of quirkiness. "},{"Title":"What's the PROBLEM??","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've seen this movie when it came out in theatres,and I now own on home video!I'm cool wit this movie,there's alot that goes into any film,we've got to understand this,this paticular film is just fine!!I think in order to appreciate the effort of this film,you all would've have to have seen another great full length animated feature by the name of StarchaserThe Legend of Orin!!!Now,this film was done in the 80's and it also made to the big screen(I didn't get to go see it tho')but,I own this on home video!Looking at that movie,and seeing the great artistry and animation of that film during that time period,you would say WOW!!These 2 films to me MIRROR each other in terms of the tone of both films and just the fact that they were MAJOR action,space age oriented films!!So,maybe if some of you would see that movie,you'll look at Titan A.E. in a different light.But,Titan A.E. to me will DEFINATELY go down in film animation history as being a ground breaking animated feature................maybe it's the KID in me,I don't know-)!! "},{"Title":"What movie did YOU GUYS see?","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I don't get it.  I THINK I saw the same movie as these other reviewers. Ebert loved this movie?This movie SO sucks!  The computer animation is awesome to look at, but the cell animation is about as two-dimensional as it gets.  Did they do this on purpose, so that the CGI would have that much more umpf?  Whatever the reason, seeing 12-frames-per-second blocks of cell color superimposed over 24-frames-per-second intricately detailed CGI is pitiful.The plot--pretty darn good, although too epic in scope for this kind of execution.  The script and music are juvenile.No wonder I had never heard of this movie until I saw it on sale in the DVD bin.  This movie is destined to be forgotten. "}{"Title":"Not your typical sci-fi flick","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Animated with cartoons and computer animation mixed in, I thought this would be a great movie, but when I saw it, I wasn't impressed... at all.This movie makes you wonder why they didn't just put it straight to video instead.Rating 3/10 "},{"Title":"It's a step up from Disney...","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Good to excellent F/X, some nicely conceived scenes (the ice field, the hydrogen planet), at least one decent plot twist (no, I didn't think it was that obvious Korso was a bad guy initially, although his redemption later was pretty obvious), so-so characterizations, and a mediocre plot.The whole Drej thing seems unmotivated do they go around being bad just to be bad, or is there supposed to be a deeper motivation here or what? If they're so paranoid, why don't they go around wiping out other races? If they actually have a valid concern about humans (not that this is ever really substantiated), why doesn't the rest of the alien races share it? Without anything else, they're just generic bad guys with Tron-type ships.One never really gets the impression that humanity is in that poor a condition why not just move to another planet and start up again? We need the bit with the drifter colony much earlier in the movie to show how far humanity has fallen, rather then just the focus on a  doing-pretty-well Cale, Korso, and Akima for the first 45 minutes.The characterizations are okay nothing special. There are a few plot holes and sudden jumps. How does Cale get out of the Drej cell again? Stith shows up on the Titan awfully quick after the explosion. Why does Korso detonate a massive explosion on his own ship?And the use of 20th century slang and music (Who's your daddy??!?) gets really irritating after a while.Still, for an animated feature it ain't bad, and it's probably better then 75% of the s.f. movies out there. It's straightforward enough for younger children (my 7 year old son enjoyed it), fun to look at, and generally I give it an average rating. "},{"Title":"flat, lifeless disappointment.","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"     I kept seeing the previews for this film and going, It's nothing but explosions and ships flying around. I finally rented it and found out it also has a lot of pointless, musical interludes and no character development whatsoever.  Completely dead, unmotivated performances by Damon, Barrymore and Pullman, and who can blame them in a timewaster like this?  The plot is acceptable, but the other aspects of this film are just so bad it's pitiful.  It's nothing but an FX romp, fully inhuman and impersonal... ironic, considering that this film is supposed to be pleading the case for humanity being worth resurrecting.  All the dialogue (All two pages of it..) is meaningless and cliched.  Oh, and the whole movie is orange and red.  The opportunity to portray the universe in full spectrum splendor is fully wasted.   And it's boring, too.  I kept wanting to turn it off, because the characters gave me no reason to be interested in their plight.  The editing is choppy.. There were lots of times when I wasn't sure how, or why, characters had come to be in their current locations and situations.  Or maybe I just wasn't paying attention because I cared more about my Junior Mints.  The only good scenes are near the end, when the ships are lost in the ice crystals, and when New Earth is finally created. Beyond that it has nothing to offer.  I don't think there's a closeup of anyone in the whole thing, and there certainly isn't any personality in any of the lead characters. I'm not surprised this one fell flat on its face at the box office.  It's got no heart, no meaning, no identity, and I'd like my $3.25 back. "},{"Title":"Eh....ok...","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It was...interesting. The visual effects were decent, and the action was not bad. The voice acting was really bad though...worse than most anime dubbing. I suppose, to an American animation fan, dang cool. But to a Japanese anime fan like myself, it's very sub par. The characters have no depth at all, and to add to that, the story line has little as well. An Alien race destroys earth, and keeps the remainder of the human race on the run until they destroy the alien race, and make a new Earth. Now this plot is not really bad in itself, the massive plot holes are bad though. 1. The destruction of a planet the size of the earth would have created a shock wave that would have taken out ALL of the ships what were leaving the now defunct earth, including the Drej ship. 2. The amazing impossibilities that occur several times are so stupid; I have never seen anything like it. Cale, the main protagonist of the movie, is captured, along with the love interest, Akima (best name in the movie). Akima has a tracking device on her, which is not out of the question, and after she is jettisoned and kept alive for some reason, and her captain locates her quickly. But what is random, is the fact that Cale just randomly shows up out of deep space in a stolen Drej ship...this is highly unlikely. This happens to many times to count...a character randomly shows up without warning or explanation on how they arrived to that point. This becomes rather annoying, and severely detracts from the enjoyment of the movie. 3. This is the best one. In the final action sequence of the film, the Drej ship is destroyed, the ONLY Drej ship in existence apparently, and the new Earth is created, which Cale decides to name Bob while standing on the planet surface...yes, that's right, on the planet surface. The process that took billions of years on our current Earth took oh around 5 min in Titan AE. Now this type of thing has been done before, most notably in Star Trek 2. But one must remember, in Star Trek 3, that planet promptly blew up. So chances are, this planet is going down within the next few weeks. Despite these major problems, Titan AE is not bad American animation, a certain step forward from the standard Disney movies. If you're a young adult, looking for good Si-Fi animation, I highly recommend Ghost in the Shell, or perhaps Battle Angel Alita. Both are rather violent, so keep the kids out. Happy viewing! "},{"Title":"Poor","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Look, I'm all for more sci-fi, anime style movies, but I see a crucial difference between this and the good stuff from Japan--PLOT.  Simply put, this movie's script is grade school level at best.  Massive plot holes, ridiculous settings and motives, and massive scientific and logical inconsistencies mar some good computer sequences and decent animation. Maybe good for kids, but those who actually like using their brains might want to try something like Macross Plus instead.Oh, and the bad guys are not only terrible shots, they're PATHETICALLY STUPID.  Poor.   "},{"Title":"Average Saturday Morning Cartoon","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After all the hype about this movie I was expecting something a little out of the ordinary.  What I got was somthing that would fit well on any Saturday morning cartoon program for the under 13 year old crowd.Disney and Pixar needn't start worrying just yet... "},{"Title":"Boring aimed-for-the-teen-audience popmovie","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First thing that came to my mind when watching Titan AE was that it reminded me of Heavy Metal and where Heavy Metal was groundbreaking and a cult-classic, Titan AE is not. The film was definitely aimed for teen-market with a catchy soundtrack with no musical score of it's own. The main character looked spot on like matt damon who provided the voice and there was little innovation in the plot.Even the animations weren't up with the current standards with occasional points where the CGI/CEL animations were poorly composited. The low-point of the film were definitely the bad guys. With no motives or little background, these 'do-it-your-self-glowing-blue-silicone-badguys' were very uninspiring and without depth. I'm glad Fox announced that they aren't going to do any more animations. They should leave it to the pros.So, instead of spoiling your day with Titan AE, go see Mononoke Hime, Ghost in the Shell, Prince of Egypt, Lion King or some other film that has even some sense in it.Technically, one thing I liked was the ice planet sequence. Technically that is. "},{"Title":"Epic?  Yeah, right","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, I appreciate the misdirected comments of people who praised this film, calling it epic... because you've obviously seen WAY too many Disney cartoons to realize how absolutely horrible this movie is.  And for those of you who still think its good, because you've seen anime on Toonami and think its just as good, please remember that what is shown on Toonami can hardly be construed as good anime. Anyway, Titan AE was quite possibly one of the worst movies I've ever seen in my entire life.  I was laughing at the dialogue, out loud.  And then there was the plot.  Ugh.  The average Dragonball Z episode, plotless to begin with, has more plot than this movie. This is NOT a teen/adult animation spectacular.  This is a kids cartoon with some rock music(albeit very soft) thrown in. And the anime comparison?  Yeah, right.  Ignoring the hard edge between the 3D and 2D animation, which could have been cool if they took time to anti-alias and smooth, the characters and enemies absolutely killed this movie.  The REAL hallmark of Japanses anime is character development. Well, first of all, the enemies, the dredge, have ZERO personality.  None. They don't talk or do anything but attack.  And the good guys... pfft... barely a wink of development.  And then suddenly, Cale and Akima fall in love. Where'd that come from???  Anybody?  Entirely out of the blue.All in all, a GIANT waste of my $8.  Too bad a friend of mine got in without paying, cause it was the last showing and the counters were closed.  He was lucky.  I have to work an extra hour to recover.  And I'll never get that movie time (REAL SHORT MOVIE TIME) back.  Sucks. "},{"Title":"The best layed plans of mice and men...","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went in to this movie with a completely open mind, because I wasn't sure if the ticket I had just paid for would hold its value two hours later. At first this movie looked promising, the opening scene was purely breath taking,the plot was very intersting, and the voices behind the animation kept the flick moving.But then all the hard work that went in to the first wonderfull thirty minutes were quickly ruined. The movie seemed like it skipped scenes (the main female role's relationship with the lead goes from distant to loving for no reason), made poor plot choices (a lack of much needed the foreshadowing for the major plot twist) and failed to use logic in most scenes (for exsample when the lead is trapped in the villians ship, he escapes by simply touching the walls, you would then the most inteligant race in the univerise could make a simple prision but I guess not). Overall this movie started out great, had awsome cgi effects mixed with great animation, but the main point was that I felt like I had wasted my 6 bucks when I got in my car after the movie. It could have worked but it just didnt. "},{"Title":"Good animated entertainment; not as good as I remember it","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" RE-EDIT I recall I wrote this line in a review for Titan AE back when it first came out I love films that add or have computer animation (especially when the film itself is animated)...Great stuff here to see. For any one, kid, animation lover, etc. Comments like these should make me put a paper bag over my head in shame for their ineptitude and naiveté, and my only excuse was that I didn't know much better. Seeing the film again, I'm still impressed by a good lot of the animation, and the story still works almost in spite of the very thin story. The voice work is also top-notch, which helps, especially with an unlikely villain in Nathan Lane. Unfortunately, it's nowhere near the level of quality and artistry that Don Bluth had with his 80s movies, and if it is his last movie as director it wouldn't quite be the best note to go out on. And yet, if you have a kid, or are one, and are browsing through the video store for something visually appetizing once all the PIXAR and other Dreamworks CGI movies are swallowed up, this one can suffice. "}{"Title":"MIXED BLESSINGS","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Gary Goldman and Don Bluth are perhaps the two greatest talents in animation at this moment, the turn of the century, and for the last twenty years or more.  The visual aesthetics they both possess, talents for translating into form unusual ideas, abilities to properly lay out and plan a scene are unsurpassed. Their talents for the creation of the latent image, graphic motion that transcends and often surpasses life motion itself in the subtle gesture, the tiny piece of business that can be expressed only in animation are peerless.	How sad, then, how tragic it is that these two almost legendary animators have yet to meet a screenwriter who can at least come close to matching their talents.  In TITAN A.E. we are treated not only to a plotline so thin one can read the small print in the New York Times through it, but dialogue that transcends only the third grade in a public school.	Without repeating the storyline and trifling with your patience the bottom line is that this film, a refugee from Saturday Morning cartoons, is yet another great waste of the talents of Gary Goldman and Don Bluth.  One would imagine, in the simplest of logic, that studio production executives, given a multi-million dollar budget for a science fiction film in a country where at least 25 million children's still go hungry each night, the United States, they would knock themselves out to locate a fine screenplay.  They could do that from either the existing Science Fiction stacks, or select one of the many highly skilled writers that now abound in a Hollywood that has finally recognized science fiction hungry audiences. 	Some of the scripts to come out of the Star Trek establishment have been superb, to site just a single source.  	Titan A.E. is a visual beauty, but as a film product, a thudding bore. That the screenplay is wholly lacking in at least a basic, sound scientific footing even as a fantasy is the least of its failures. Audiences are given absolutely nothing to take home with them, in their pockets, as my mentor, Frank Capra, repeatedly told me for the years I knew him.  Save your precious time and money. 	 "},{"Title":"MIXED BLESSINGS","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Gary Goldman and Don Bluth are perhaps the two greatest talents in animation at this moment, the turn of the century, and for the last twenty years or more.  The visual aesthetics they both possess, talents for translating into form unusual ideas, abilities to properly lay out and plan a scene are unsurpassed. Their talents for the creation of the latent image, graphic motion that transcends and often surpasses life motion itself in the subtle gesture, the tiny piece of business that can be expressed only in animation are peerless.	How sad, then, how tragic it is that these two almost legendary animators have yet to meet a screenwriter who can at least come close to matching their talents.  In TITAN A.E. we are treated not only to a plotline so thin one can read the small print in the New York Times through it, but dialogue that transcends only the third grade in a public school.	Without repeating the storyline and trifling with your patience the bottom line is that this film, a refugee from Saturday Morning cartoons, is yet another great waste of the talents of Gary Goldman and Don Bluth.  One would imagine, in the simplest of logic, that studio production executives, given a multi-million dollar budget for a science fiction film in a country where at least 25 million children's still go hungry each night, the United States, they would knock themselves out to locate a fine screenplay.  They could do that from either the existing Science Fiction stacks, or select one of the many highly skilled writers that now abound in a Hollywood that has finally recognized science fiction hungry audiences. 	Some of the scripts to come out of the Star Trek establishment have been superb, to site just a single source.  	Titan A.E. is a visual beauty, but as a film product, a thudding bore. That the screenplay is wholly lacking in at least a basic, sound scientific footing even as a fantasy is the least of its failures. Audiences are given absolutely nothing to take home with them, in their pockets, as my mentor, Frank Capra, repeatedly told me for the years I knew him.  Save your precious time and money. 	 "},{"Title":"Japanimation it ain't.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  So it turns out Disney is not the only studio who has theright of making wonderfully animated flicks plagued withcliches and no substance.This movie works wonderfully in the eye candy department.Anywhere else it fails miserably. The characters are  cookie-cutter, the acting is no better than what you see onsaturday mornings, the plot... oh my. Why even mention it.It's as ridiculous as the 21st Century soundtrack slapped inthe movie, just for the sake of selling some merchandising.Strongly recommended for geeks who wait more than 3  hours in line to see George Lucas' latest garbage. Otherpeople need not apply. "},{"Title":"Beautiful rubbish","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Lets get this out there from the off, this is a truly stunning movie as far as the animation goes as Don Bluth can draw cartoons and has a good track record. Where Titan A.E goes to pot is that's its complete nonsense disjointed, piece of work. The movie jumps all over the place like its been edited randomly without thought or care. Who is the target audience for this work as it doesn't work for kids nor adults, which is a crying shame. The plot if there really is one, seems to have been added to the animation in post production. This is a very difficult movie to score as the visuals alone would score it high, however the boredom of trying to engage with the characters randomly inserted into the film without any introduction forces me to score it so low. "},{"Title":"Human race deserves to become extinct if people are really so stupid","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What a disappointment!  The only thing done right with this movie is the computer animation.The plot is entirely stupid and ridiculously obvious.  *SPOILER*  Raise your hand if you correctly guess that the captain will sell out the human race and only to redeem himself at the end.  What a convenient ending... how come not a single scientist on Earth thought of absorbing the Cruds as they are purely energy to defeat them???  How convenient that everyone in the universe speaks English, except those drifter colonists... +-)  and on and on...Watch this movie if you want a good laugh. "},{"Title":"dull, warmed-over Star Wars","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Is it possible that the special effects routinely used in live action sci-fi and action films have, in the last decade or so, become so sophisticated and convincing that they have simply left full-fledged animation films behind?  The stinging box office failure of `Titan A.E.' this past summer has resulted in all the predictable head scratching, second guessing and blame-pointing that inevitably takes place among baffled and chagrined studio executives when a lavishly budgeted and massively promoted film fails to live up to commercial expectations.  Yet the reason for the film's lack of success seems almost painfully obvious.  Had `Titan A.E.' been made in 1976, for example, (or any year prior to the release of the original `Star Wars'), it might have seemed innovative and visionary.  One of the glories of animation has always been that it can often create visions and accomplish feats not possible in a live action format.  But when, as is the case of `Titan,' the imagery actually derives FROM non-animated works that have already successfully captured those visions on film, the overall effect is one not of innovation but of retrogression.  In other words, `Titan A. E.' seems to have strangely reversed the course animated and live action films normally follow.  As a result, the sci-fi special effects and the action stunt scenes in `Titan' look somehow cheap and tawdry in comparison to the real ones we have seen in countless movies that have come before it.  There is simply nothing in this film to excite an audience that has seen it all before &#150; and often in a considerably more impressive form than it is presented here.Yet, one could almost forgive the technical inadequacy if the film's characters and storyline were not so hackneyed and old fashioned.  Here we are supposed to be watching a tale taking place in the early 31st century, yet nothing about it seems fresh or forward looking.  The story seems mired in all the tired conventions of 1950's Marvel Comic books.  Thus, we have the usual nonsense about how Earth has been annihilated by a race of vicious aliens and how it is up to a cynical, cocky and whiny adolescent (voiced by Matt Damon) to single-handedly save the human race from virtual extinction.   Now the race is on as Bob, one step ahead of his pursuers, searches the universe for the futuristic Noah's Ark &#150; Titan A.E. - his late but obviously prescient father created to help carry on the planet should Earth just happen to someday suffer the inconvenience of being blown to smithereens.  Of course, no reluctant hero would be complete without a sassy, smart and beautiful female cohort (Drew Barrymore) to accompany him on his adventure.  Naturally, early on in their relationship, they engage in a seemingly non-stop barrage of mutual put-downs and insults &#150; that is, of course, until they fall in love and accept the romantic destiny to which they alone have hitherto remained oblivious.  Alas, the equally bland, cardboard villains of the piece also fail to register in any way whatsoever.  (Where is Darth Vader when you need him?)  Similarly ineffective are the obligatory low comic sidekicks that no animated film of any form or stripe can seem to do without.  It seems almost impossible to believe that it took no fewer than three adult screenwriters to concoct this truly witless screenplay.  Most egregious of all is that the film has been fitted with a completely anachronistic and inappropriate rock music soundtrack that shatters any illusion that we could actually be witnessing a story taking place more than one thousand years in the future.    Admittedly, `Titan A.E.' does boast a few effective action sequences and some mighty impressive artwork in the background.  What a shame that it is all essentially thrown away on yet another piece of under-cooked, warmed-over `Star Wars.'  Icons are icons for a reason and should rarely, if ever, be tampered with.  As those who lost both their shirts and their fortunes on `Titan A. E.' have found out the hard way, woe to him who tries!  "},{"Title":"Great Graphics -- Poor Story","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The imagery and graphic presentation of this film are top notch.  I felt that the transition between animation and CGI were effective and the motion of flying, etc. drew me into the film.  However, I thought the film was very weak on story and detail.  I don't want to spoil the end, of course, but I was disappointed in the final sequence.Leading up to that, though, were answers to such questions as Will humans play soccer in basically the same way 1000 years from now?  (yes, surprisingly).  Or, If you advanced the people of Thailand 1000 years in the future and had them living in a colony in space, would they be changed? (no, they still run around in tatters and sampan hats -- apparently, time passes them by but at least they are capable of living in a space environment which must have been provided from some benevolent humans).These are not the most glaring failings of the movie, but they are indicative to the kind of poor attention to detail that server to undermine the development of a good, believable story.  I'm willing to suspend belief enough to watch and enjoy a good film, but when its many flaws scream out to me on first viewing, it's disappointing.  If you're an animation fan, you'll probably like it for that aspect alone, otherwise, you won't want to pay to see this film. "},{"Title":"May not be suitable for children over 14","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  While fans of anime or such might go to see this movie, I would suggest leaving it for the kids.  The plot is very shallow and while some of the animation is good, the rest is merely okay.  Basically everything was too obvious and simple. "},{"Title":"One of the *worst* films I've seen in a long time","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  *Titan A.E.* is a horrible movie. Why? It's so deriviate, it's not funny. I was bored through 3/4ths of it. By the end, when things pick up, I'd really stopped caring about what was going on up on screen.Some reasons1) The animation is *horrid* in places. It's very herky-jerky at times, as if you're watching a film on the Internet via RealPlayer. It seems as though this project was either rushed, or Don Bluth employs hacks for artists. Or both. It even seems as though some Fox executive came to Bluth and said, OK, listen, we need four or five really good set pieces to sell this flick. Everything else is fodder. Just ram this one through as quick as you can.2) The annoying character that John Leguizamo voices. Can you say Jar Jar Binks knock-off?3) This film has the same missing father/mother/sister/family element to it as every other Don Bluth film. Ever see *The Land Before Time*? Or *An American Tail*? You've seen *Titan A.E.* then, just without dinosaurs or Russian field mice as main characters.4) Zero character motivation, which probably has something to do with points raised in 1). Characters do things without any rhyme or reason. There is no shading or back-history, except we know from the outset that the protagonist has some big-time abandonment/father issues. But, then again, who doesn't? (Does Luke Skywalker ring a bell?)MINOR SPOILERS AHEADAlso two characters are believed to be dead and then, oops!, they're not dead and come to save the day! Yes, this happens *twice*! And good guys turn into bad guys -- and, in one instance, become good guys again! *Titan A.E.* easily wins the Most Bi-Polar Character Award for a flick released this year.5) Grossest misuse and overuse of hard rock music in a film (animated or not) this side of *Heavy Metal*. There are no less than three longish music montages that go on for no plot-motivated reason. Is this a musical or is it not?6) *Titan A.E.* can't figure out its audience. Is it a film for small kids? From the amount of bloodletting and brief nudity, no. Is it a movie for teens and twentysomethings? Not really, because it's far too silly at times and/or cutesy. So who's gonna watch it? Nine and ten-year-olds???Avoid this movie. It's a mess. Rent it, if you *must* see it. "},{"Title":"Not very good.","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Too much flash and not enough substance.They create the veneer of a great universe, but never flesh it out. Characters simply vanish, the ones that don't are never given much depth. It's very reminiscent of some little-known animated flicks from the 80s in look and story-telling style (Rock and Rule, for example). Of course, they're little-known for a reason.The animation is generally good, but the CGI used to augment certain characters and objects comes across as superimposed, almost like bad bluescreen special effects.Films like these probably go over better in Europe or Asia, where film-goers apparently don't ask why? quite as often. "}{"Title":"Stilted, exaggerated and cliched, like all Don Bluth cartoons","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Roger Ebert has lost his mind and this film proves it. I saw it based on his glowing recommendations.Like all of Don Bluth's work, this feature typifies what is wrong with most hollywood animation (with the exception of Warner Bros and one or two others). Bluth's animation tries to copy Disney (he left Disney studios in the 80's) and while some of the elements are there, it is just a Disney copy. Not only is the animation a stiff cliched Disney knockoff, so are the plots, story elements and characters. It's all cookie cutter production. Even the elaborate CG effects are uninspired. "},{"Title":"Just admit it ... this movie blew","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie just angers me.  Why?  Because I feel dumb for looking forward to seeing it!  I'm an animation student and I was very interested in Titan AE after seeing the teaser trailer.  I thought that perhaps Don Bluth might redeem himself for every awful post Secret of NIMH film that he made.  Not a chance.My boyfriend and I saw Titan AE opening weekend and hated it.  We rented it again last week just to make sure.  Yup.  Still hated.And now, just because, I am going to list out exactly what I didn't like about Titan AE.* Rotoscope.  I hate seeing rotoscope used in animated films.  Every human character in this film (and one alien, Preed) was very heavily rotoscoped. There are principles in animation such as exaggeration and squash and stretch which are essential to believable movement.  I know it sounds lame, but usually in animation, gestures and movements look better if they are more exaggerated.  What is the point of making an animated film if you are going to trace over live actors?* Clenched teeth.  This is incredibly nit-picky, but bear with me. If you watch certain characters closely (mostly Cale, Corso and Akima)they end every sentence with clenched teeth.  That just annoyed me.* Motivation.  Why were the Drej so anti-human?  They lacked motivation. Well, maybe they had motivation but the film didn't explain that.  I guess maybe all the money was dumped into the (bad) animation and not writer's salaries.  I made up my own motivation for the Drej.  I decided that they wanted to destroy Earth/humanity to rid the universe of crappy actors like Bill Pullman.*Stith the Kangaroo alien.  Why?  I mean, seriously.*Aliens.  The character designs of the aliens were disappointing.  One thing Bluth does have a flair for is unusual-looking creatures, but most of the aliens in this film had uniform characteristics.  First of all, most of them were bipedal like humans.  So, in the whole entire gigantic universe, ALL of the creatures are human shaped? The only exception I noticed was the hideously drawn, freakish Stith (janneane garofalo).  Secondly, Stith and Preed (Nathan Lane) looked like the same species, but one had a (rotoscoped) human body and one was a kangaroo.  The Gaol aliens had heads like Stith and Preed too; the only difference was color and wings.  Gune had a tubby human body and a frog head.  Cale's friend (w/ Tone Loc's voice) was a variation on the whole tubby human/frog thing.  And the damn cook was just a giant cockroach. Boring and unoriginal.* Wake Angels.  Um, okay, cool idea for this scene .... but... wouldn't something called a Wake Angel actually travel in the WAKE of the ship? You know, behind it?*Plot.  Was there one?  Not much.  This film is basically a lame attempt at capturing the preteen boy crowd and hard core sci fi addicts.  They tried too hard to be hip.  I think this entire movie was made to sell a soundtrack.  It moves from song to song like a long string of music videos played back to back.  The animation is reminiscent of a low budget music video.  Much of what occurs in the plot itself is ripped off from other movies anyway.  And the illogic is laughable.  The Titan can build a brand new perfectly formed planet in the span of an hour?* The Akima / Cale relationship.  First she hates him because he is rude to her.  After that, he is rude to her again.  Then all of a sudden they are in LOVE!  Yep, it's that whole plot(or lack thereof)thing again.* Overdramatic gesturing.  Why does every freaking character in the movie have to move/twitch/gesture ad nauseam?  I'm sick and tired of seeing sweeping hand movements for no reason.  I believe Preed's animation team was the most guilty of this.  He is always, well, posed so strangely.  It is not necessary to have a character flail all over the place in order to convey an emotion or act out dialogue.* 2D/ 3D blend.  What a jarring, ugly blending of animation styles.  The deep canvas that worked so nicely in Disney's Tarzan would have given the look of this film a boost.  It's much more subtle.  Unlike some other IMDB users, I was not wowed by the subpar visuals of this film at all.  I only saw rotoscope over blocky, polygonal CGI.  The Drej look awful.  Even though the movie's other CGI is bad, the Drej truly do not blend in.  They look like they were lifted from an mid 90's Saturday morning cartoon like Reboot. The cell shading of certain scenes was interesting but I only really find that technique effective in video games.  I suppose hard core fans of Titan AE (and you guys should be ashamed of yourselves, btw) could claim that this is intentional and gives the film a surreal quality.  I do not agree.* Gune's device.  This was the least of my gripes but it still bugged me. When we first meet Gune, he's talking about a device he built in his sleep but doesn't know how to use.  My boyfriend and I were both sure that this device would play a part in the movie's finale, like it was meant to activate the Titan or blow up Drej or something.  Nope, it's just there for no reason.What a shame that there are actually people out there over the age of 7 who are writing favorably on the IMDB about this crap. Do me a favor and go rent Iron Giant, please!!!!! "},{"Title":"Just plain bad","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to see this movie with some friends from out of town. One of them fell asleep, and the rest of us were jealous. At least he got to enjoy his time in the theater. To put it bluntly, there is absolutely nothing to recommend this film. The characters and plot both manage to be completely uninteresting and absolutely stereotypical at the same time. The film repeatedly came to a jarring halt so Don Bluth could show us a music video. The plot holes are enormous. I went in expecting a movie which, if not aimed squarely at adults, would at least have something for those over six to enjoy. The animation was pretty, but that couldn't save the film, and I felt that the traditional animation was poorly integrated with the CGI. Take the ten dollars you would have spent on the movie and buy yourself a tape of Reboot/The Simpsons/Akira. Or even All Dogs go to Heaven. Your money will have been far better spent. "},{"Title":"If only the aliens could have destroyed this movie...","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" ...along with the rest of the earth.  Had I not been seeing it with friends, I would have left the  theatre about half way through.  This is only the third movie of my life I've actually wanted to walk out of.  Granted, the computer generated visuals are spectacular at times, but the story and the dialog consist of a string of random cliches, thrown together without meaning or purpose.  Character and motivation are not implausible,  they are non-existent.  And where did they find that HIDEOUS music?  I don't feel bad that I payed 7.50 to see this movie, I feel bad that I sacrified 2 hours of my life to it.  I may not be able to save the human race from destruction, but hopefully I can save a few poor souls from subjecting themselves to an experience this horrific! "},{"Title":"Generic from the start","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I heard this film being presented as mature animation, it got me interested in seeing it.  Rarely does this country recognize that animation is not only for children.  When I saw the film, however, I was severely disappointed.  It turned out to be a children's movie afterall.  At least I think I would only have been entertained by it if I were still a kid.Titan AE was just a poorly put together movie.  There were problems with almost all aspects of it.  Boring design and art style, boring, often rotoscoped 2-d animation coupled with ill matching computer animation, and a generic story put together with ideas taken from countless previous science fiction/fantasy films.Watch out, I may have SPOILERS!!The aliens were not aliens, they were more like animal sidekicks.  I don't understand why they try so hard to make realistic looking human characters, and then stick in big eyed, cartoony looking aliens with them.  The humans were unoriginal, and no one had an interesting costume.  Everyone just was wearing pants and a shirt.  Even the aliens.  It seems like no thought was put into any sort of clothing style from these different alien cultures. The Dredge were very boring as enemies.  We aren't given any reasons as to why they hate humans more than any other alien race.  Only because of the Titan?  Too bad the humans hadn't built it to destroy anything, and they were already under attack for apparently no reason.  It was the generic bad-for-no-reason aliens vs. the good humans plot that we've seen a billion times.  The dialogue was extremely cheesy at some points, and there was no character development.  The characters sort of stayed the same through the entire movie, although Cale and Akima, of course, had to fall in love.  Even though it happened instantly as soon as they saw each other after their separation.  The designs of the ships were nice, and some of the CG on particles and effects was well done, but the computer animation overall seemed very primitive.  The way the film was shot was also unimpressive. The pacing was just wrong.  It seemed choppy at some points, and the movie never really had a climax.  I didn't care what happened to any of the characters, I never felt suspense when I knew things were supposed to be suspensefull.  I think the pacing of the film, and the lack of exciting camera angles helped add to this problem.I found that when we were supposed to be laughing at jokes, we weren't. Instead we were laughing at cheesy parts that I'm pretty sure weren't supposed to be funny.  If you're looking for a good sci-fi/space animation, I would recommend Outlaw Star or Cowboy Bebop.  They're both much more original. "},{"Title":"Titan Turn-It-Off!","Date":"2 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Titan A.E. (2000) Dir Don Bluth, Gary Goldman / Voices Matt Damon, Drew Barrymore, Bill Pullman, Janeane Garofalo, Ron Perlman From the makers of Anastasia comes a plot about something we often take for granted; our existence. The human race is vanquished with few survivors. The hero is a teenager whose father was killed by an alien race formed of mass energy. He is left only with a ring that has peculiar power. It reveals a map leading to where his father hid the Titan. Together with his human allies and mutant companions they board a trade ship thus beginning a dangerous adventure. Detailed and inventive animation from Don Bluth and Gary Goldman who also made All Dogs Go To Heaven. Matt Damon voices the hero who is thrown into a new responsibility and must prove himself for his family legacy. Drew Barrymore provides the voice for his female companion who is pretty much a romantic prop and nothing else. Bill Pullman voices a character who goes through two changes. Janeane Garofalo voices some multi-legged mutant who spouts out lines fit for a nightclub comic. Ron Perlman voices the hero's father who began what is led to the plot concept, which is to say it leads to nothing of any great importance. While action scenes are overlong the film is somewhat disappointing from a plot standpoint. The animation is dazzling to the eye but the plot isn't overly deep. Score 4 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Badly promoted, well intentioned","Date":"11 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Don Bluth went into a complete different direction with this movie, in not only ditching his usual musicals, but appealing to a more mature audience with a Star Wars themed animated science fiction.The result is good intentioned but confusing. Bluth obviously was not used to making animated films for grown or teenage audiences and by making the film animated, relying on little hand drawn techniques and extensive use of CGI, the storyline and overall animation were not that great. Some characters were quirky, others not explored enough and generally very diverse. In Bluth's other films, there was always a character or two who was merely present for comic relief. But they were for children, however bleak his films were.Because of the entirely new theme, animated science fiction instead of animated musical, the comic relief characters are misplaced in this universe but still maintain their quirkiness, as they do in many sci-fi movies.All in all, no matter how beautiful special effects look, the storyline always wins the beauty contest, and, unfortunately this one isn't powerful enough to make ends meet. "},{"Title":"A visual masterpiece, a plot and dialog fall out","Date":"9 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Titan AE a movie with everything. Action, adventure, explosions, amazing graphics, poor writing, confusing plot gizmos, and ridiculous solutions to problems. Seeing how things are about half and half, I gave Titan AE 5 stars. Now, while this may seem like an unfair score for a movie that is so obviously visually aesthetic, the other 5 empty star spaces are because of a more in depth lack essential movie elements.To me, what was most disappointing about this movie was the absolutely unfathomable solution to problems that characters came up with. The main character, in a matter of minutes, not only is able to magically figure out how the enemy ship works, but also how to find his friends with the it's navigation. Every time there was a problem, someone instantly had some kind of ridiculous idea that always worked. For 15 years, the ship that will save humanity was hidden in a cluster of huge, shifting, floating ice boulders and maintained no damage from them. Gimme a break. As an animated movie, I would imagine that it would be somewhat geared towards kids, but I couldn't really see any of the characters or dialog to be that appealing to a younger demographic. There were too many obligatory curt remarks exchanged between them and a good deal of I must of heard you wrong, it sounded like you said.. kind of clichés.Its really too bad though. Between the over the top visuals and full cast of star actors, its pretty clear that Fox Animation was looking to make a blockbuster hit. Unfortunately, it made half as much as it took to make and for someone who loves animation, I really couldn't wait for the damn thing to end. "},{"Title":"It is not Disney","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" While Titan AE is not a Disney film, it is okay to look at. My children certainly enjoyed it. The question is Do I recommend it? All throughout the picture, I kept telling myself that I had seen this kind of thing before. If there was any portion I objected to, it was the hokey rock soundtrack.Admittedly, there are animated portions that are incredible to the eye. It really looked fabulous on my big-screen, high definition television. I imagine that it looked beautiful in the theater.But, in the end, I am glad that I only paid $5 for this DVD. The movie entertained my kids, I thought it was okay, but I do not see myself watching this again and again. "},{"Title":"Very impressed with graphics and storyline.","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Working with graphics for the past 7 years, we couldn't be more impressed with the overall graphics. Not as impressive as Final Fantasy, but well developed overall. The storyline had at least something believeable and entertaining.  We watch movies to be entertained and come away feeling a little better than before. The movie fills that need and we'll watch it whenever the need arises.  It falls into that category like the earlier Star Wars, the action flowed continously and we weren't disappointed when the movie ended.  We had that satisfied feeling. That's why we replayed it over 20 times. It doesn't matter what other critics may say about Titan AE, we were totally, totally entertained and will recommend this movie to anyone, who wants the same results. Rated 4 out 5 stars. "}{"Title":"The UGH! Factor","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Ugh factor!Stuffy, derivative 'adventure'. Dull and safe. There's more excitement on a Disney park ride. As is the case with various artists put to a commercial task (cause that's why most are 'artists'), the effort can be among their best. Lit came up with a hit song, I think; but not my type of music (how many power ballads can one take?). And the visual effects, maybe even overworked - the ice 'field', 'wake angels' chase, the earth explosion, smashing the moon, the new earth formation, some others - were probably among the best the crew came up with for the film, maybe in their careers. Same for some of the backgrounds. Lots of noises in space (?) - but . . . what do want, after all? And good Hubble mimicry, I think, in some backgrounds.However others have mentioned the flaws of the film. Korso's incredibly inconsistent character is simply not believable. Try to save the kid and in the next scene, betray him? And Cale as the know it all engineer? Stith is crudely drawn. The 2D often doesn't fit where 3D is demanded by the rest of the scene. Why didn't the giant crystals bump into the Titan? If people already have spacecraft, why didn't they evacuate, at least in part, in the face of the 'drej' threat . . already? Why didn't the 'drej' give chase? The 'drej' go around as mock terminators and in spaceships and so on, but . . why - if it's just some single energy entity? Why do they have to march around in formation inside their spaceship? Why does there have to be an interior, at all? Perhaps for the convenience of the video game - shoot and the target 'vaporizes'?I would add that the voice characterizations are among the weakest I've ever heard! They are flat out TERRIBLE. Get these people off the sedatives. Please. They're flat. It's space adventures on valium. We . . are . . in . . control. All is fine. Just . . fine. Don't raise your voice. Don't be surprized. Loww . . errr your . . voice. Don't let the theatre audience hear. Don't let them see you . . . whatever. Nonplussed, phony courtesies in the corporate hallway. When they aren't mumbling, they're whispering. I mean - for pity's sake! At least Stith gets to shout a lot, though not with a lot of passion. And Nathan Lane is genuinely good as the pompous horsefaced lizard-man, the only interesting voice. It might seem as if the actors were bored out of their skulls at the reading. And according to the little documentary at the end of the video, the animators actually based their work on the voices, which came first. So, no surprise that there's no surprise in this thing. The actors were bored. The animators were bored. The audience was bored. Thus the disappearance of this animation studio.Again, I was just struck at how unfortunately and exceeding corporate the whole thing felt. Not only is there a whiny, white boy blandness, not merely the expressionless performances, not just the I-gots-money and I'm-in-control here thrown in your face throughout the film (even right up through the music videos after the film), but the fey bad guy (again, brilliantly voiced by Nathan Lane) mentions a . . health plan.(a health plan?)That's worse than the kid shouting - I'm more than four! In other words, this seems a film about almost no sense of excitement or adventure, drained of everything, lost in its forms filled out in triplicate, in the illusion of safe corporatism projected onto the film's characters by the cubicled creators of this thing - save for what is forced on you by the f/x guys (and, before Lucas' recent travesties, they always seemed to be the ONE bright point in any mediocre sci-fi film). Heavy Metal did the whole thing much better - rock music under outlandish 'underground' stories and hardlined cartoons. Not quite the animation. But the voice characterizations were actually . . voice characterizations. They were interesting. They were darned good! Too bad that the f/x and animation techique of today couldn't be blended with the story-telling, script-writing, enthusiasm and, oh yes, talent of the good old days.I suppose I might still recommend the film playing in the background, on the big screen, as you work away or play at something else. But for goodness sake - turn off the sound! "},{"Title":"Good anime cartoon","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If a animated movie can make you feel the power, the aggresion, and the whole exsistence of a place in time, it is a breakthrough movie.  This movie had no dull moments, and its funny moments.  The story was good, the effects were good, and the writing was good.  What more could you ask for?  8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"probably not as bad as I think it is","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I keep revising my draft of this review to tone down the negative, but I can't get away from my impatience with Titan AE.  Still, the sheer straightforwardness of this animated derivative of far too many pulp-sf models may make it an enjoyable primer on the genre for boys under about twelve; anyone else, even genre addicts, will need to make allowances for its unusually colossal stupidity and unoriginality, and be young at brain as well as heart.The screenplay is barely adequate, and the production as a whole only fitfully enlivens it with any visual invention.  Part of the trouble is the apparent lack of faith in the animator's imagination itself there seems little point in going for animation rather than live-action if your style is going to be so resolutely naturalistic; time and again the use of motion-capture source material for the drawing of the figures is obvious, and the special effects are in familiar Industrial Light and Magic style, nothing one doesn't see done (and done better) in many a live-action sf film-after all, your average FX-driven movie these days is essentially a hybrid live-action/animation form.  The innovation (more apparent than real) of doing it in animated form seems to have left the filmmakers feeling absolved from innovating in any other aspect of the film.The one memorable sequence is a game of cat-and-mouse played out in a field of giant, free-floating ice shards-an obvious homage to the asteroid field of The Empire Strikes Back, but in visual flair it comes close to eclipsing its model.  A pity that there's so little elsewhere that even lives up to genre expectations let alone transcends them.  Some of the roles are very fuzzily characterised, something that's made necessary by the arbitrary, bolted-on feel of the plotting, whose contrivances require people to behave in thoroughly irrational fashions.  To say that the plot has holes in would be to give the flattering notion that there's something solid in which to make the holes.In the cinema, the compensations of a grand visual scale, and a naïve, old-fashioned storyline that recalls the original Star Wars, probably drew attention away from the debilitating weaknesses, and make it a basically enjoyable, leave-the-brain-at-home popcorner. On the small screen it's well worth avoiding except for genre afficionados and possibly even for them. "},{"Title":"OK, it's for kids really...","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The story might be a bit tacky, with blatant comedy moments and lots of suspension of disbelief required, but the funny bits ARE funny (sometimes at least - I love the little alien character), and the whole sci fi idea is a good one. It's a blatant 2 dimentional holywood style coming of age story, with trust and betrayal and love interest stuff - horrible horrible, but we all had good fun watching it, and there are some great moments and a few quotable quotes. But while all this is going on, the imagery is gorgeous in places - pause your DVD a few times and appreciate it! "},{"Title":"Poor Story","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great animation, poor story.  It has been proven over and over that it doesn't matter how good the movie looks, you have to have a great story, too.Some of those big bucks, $75 million, would have been better spent on story boards and writers...  "},{"Title":"Great sci-fi action suitable for children as well as grown-ups.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I actually purchased this film before I had ever seen it. I thought the cover looked inviting, and a friend of mine told me it was a good film, so...now I own it... My opinion of this film is kind of different looking at what most critics have said or written about it. I thought it was great when I watched it for the first time, and I still think it is. An animated movie for the more 'grown-up' audience, it's filled with action, and it has its fair share of one-liners which aren't bad at all, and they fit the situation they are placed in. The story itself is quite good, fairly intelligent, and it has a few twists that you may or may not see coming. I didn't ). I would recommend this film for everyone who enjoys sci-fi movies and has his or her imagination intact. I don't think it's suitable for the very youngest of audiences, but a parent can safely watch this movie with his/her children (over 10 years of age would be all right in my opinion)  and have a good time along with them. I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It's a freakin' cartoon","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  How could I not have read any where that this was a cartoon before ordering it? As far as animation goes, it is one of the best I've seen, but come on people, it's still a cartoon. Actor voices were great choices and the sound -- WOW -- nothing short of amazing, this thing brought my home theater to life.  "},{"Title":"Ship of Fools","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am a life long SF connoisseur and I had high hopes for this movie. It was promoted as a significant event in the genre and a step forward in animation. It is neither. It is garbage. The animation style is no better then a typical saturday morning kid's show - in fact several kid's shows wipe the floor with it. The legendary 'Reboot' in particular. The mixture of cell animation and CGI clashes violently and removes all the merits of each technique. I audibly moaned when I spotted background after background with poor finishing and implausible imagery eg the opening sequence of a star field - we're in deep space yet the stars are twinkling - DOH! The concepts and plot are third rate and derivative (Star-Wars, Battlestar Gallacticrap, even the opening titles use kettle drums to get that '2001' feel) and the 'cute' nature of some of the supporting characters is nauseating. The biggest problem is the target audience. NOTE you do not make a great SF film by appealing to 12 year old boys - you make a great SF film and then likely as not, 12 year old boys will like it anyway. Titan AE is aimed squarely at an American youth market too brain-dead to appreciate REAL Manga and too stupid to care. Lousy music too! I hated it! "},{"Title":"Definitely worth seeing - Sci. Fi. fans must remember it is a mainstream movie","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Previous positive comments explain what I like about this movie.Essentially, it is a top quality movie and worth paying full price to see.However, it is so good at most things, its holes in logic and other issues will cause science fiction buffs to cringe.Very good, but they could have done better. It does sound a bit rough that the animation studio that produced this closed soon after. I would like to have seen a second attempt. "},{"Title":"technically perfect but...","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think Titan is technically perfect. It´s a hit in computer animation industry. But such an innovative film is absolutely classical in other things. The story is dull. And we have seen many times characters as those in the film a hero with a childhood trauma, etc.The Disney-an touch makes it worse. It softens a predictable film. If it had been harder it would have kept my atention.Graphics are worth watching.  "}{"Title":"Titan A. E. is fabulous!","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie was fabulous! The animation, the editing, the music, the characters, the casting and the plot were all A-1. So glad that my friend brought the DVD to watch. I would recommend this movie to anyone. It is an outstanding example of Science Fiction. The DVD say that Titan A.E. is an intergalactic thrill ride for a new generation. Well, I am 67 and my friend is 15. I am grateful that I remain a member of the new generation. I recommend that you also listen to the Director's Commentary which will tell you something about how the animation was created, amongst other things of interest. There are many extra features on the DVD that will make getting it a wonder-filled experience. I loved the movie. Wow! EmilieAManda -) "},{"Title":"Breath Taking Animated Sci Fi - Well Done!","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" ***Warning - some spoilers*** for those who haven't seen.The blending of 2D animation with 3D for outside views of space ships, stations, planets, etc, was extremely well done, making the cartoon characters seem as though they were dwelling in a physically real universe. The texture and feel of the 3D animation was worthy of a non animated sci fi, IMHO, albeit, not one of the ones they spend 8 kazillion dollars making.The Dredj made the perfect space villains, pure energy, completely cold hearted killers with no compassion, mercy, etc, just instinctively reactionary to Humans as a perceived threat, with no effort to establish negotiations, just the desire to wipe us out to the last person.The story line was acceptable, involving heroes, bad guys, and plot twists. I, like most, don't expect great depth in a movie that is intended as a animation with just enough kick to interest an older crowd along with the children.There are those who have criticized this movie for a variety of pretty half baked reasons. The main reason the criticisms are half baked are because THIS IS A CARTOON, and the critics somehow knock it like it was a full featured movie based on a classic novel. Let's check out a few complaints, just for fun1) The story lacks depth. LIGHTEN UP - IT'S A CARTOON! A simple sci fi with the bad guys trying to wipe humanity from the face of the universe and a reluctant and embittered hero, whose father was separated from him at a young age and whose planet was destroyed out from under him, having humanity's survival pinned on him. This ain't Gone with the Wind, gang, and it was never intended to be deep, just good clean fun!2) It isn't made clear why the Dredj hate us so much. First, for those who apparently missed this point, the Dredj are SUPPOSED to be somewhat anomalous beings with anomalous intentions - cold hearted killers, pure energy with no heart, no soul, and no regard for any form of life and no agenda but the survival and advancement of their kind. No species really likes them and most just tolerate them and try not to get them too angry lest they should be next on their hit list. Being who and what they are, they don't need much of a reason to be belligerent towards another species. However, and again for those who apparently watched the movie but didn't pay much attention, just enough information regarding a motive is given in no less than TWO DISTINCT PLACES in the movie. The opening dialogue says that it may be because of what the Dredj perceive that Humanity may one day become that they decide to destroy us. Later, the question is pointedly asked, Why us? What did we ever do to the Dredj? and the answer is clearly stated, Not what we did to them but what we may one day become. If you need more, go find a Dredj and psycho analyze it - quickly, before it atomizes you!3) With no real explanation, just a quick comment about changing the polarity or something, the hero states that he has discovered how to use the Dredj themselves as an energy source for the Titan, since they are in fact made of pure energy. This is a problem? How many sci fi's have we all seen that end in the day being saved by some simple techno bablish gibberish statement, a quick rerouting of some widget, then, push the button, and, ZAP!!! humanity saved and our heroes live to fight another day? It's the way things are done in the sci fi universe, so it was not too surprisingly the way things were done in this movie! Personally, I thought it was a fitting epitaph that the Dredj, who destroyed Earth and had every intent of destroying the Titan and all life aboard her, along with every last human, should be stopped by using them as the energy source to create a New Earth to replace the one they destroyed!Bottom line A great CARTOON! An animated feature with great action, a very interesting and unexpected plot twist, a great and fitting ending, and just plain fun.I highly recommend it. I saw it in the theaters with my children and am now the proud owner of the DVD I just received as a Christmas present. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"This movie made no sense at all.","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie made  no sense at all.  The Trailer was better. They made u think it was a adult film wit all that action, but it was actually a kiddy film. This movie just plain Sucked! "},{"Title":"Good Action, Bad Plot","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Unfortunately, while this film looked good on the surface it lacked a discernable plot and any form of character development. That said, the film DID have numerous CG action sequences that made the movie worth watching (even though they had no logical flow). As well, it was quite well animated.So, if you like looks and don't require any sort of storyline, watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Bad in every way","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Standard characters, meaning the kind of characters that have been used for a very long time, but never in a good film (and this is no exception). The soundtrack is abominable. There is, of course, plenty of sound in space and pretty much a complete absence of anything resembling science. Ladies and gentlemen, FYI ICYDNK, hydrogen is not explosive. The plot is bad. The dialog is bad. The animation is bad. Reminds me of 1960s TV, e.g., Jonny Quest (1964) - no, I suppose the animation really is more like Heavy Metal (1981), but it still reminds me more of Jonny Quest. In fact, now that I think about it, yeah, i think this film as a whole is pretty much on par with Jonny Quest. "},{"Title":"Pathetic... but at least they tried.","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film tries to break out of the shadow of Disneys oppressive (and now floundering) animation empire, but clusters so badly it makes many of Disneys more uninspired recent films look tremendous. Matt Damon might as well have just stayed at home, Bill Pullman should RETIRE. Better yet someone in Hollywood should make it clear to all these big name actors that just because they act in films, it sure as hell dont mean that they are qualified to voice act... neither showed any fire or passion, instead opting to give typical reads. Aside from the acting being subpar, the film looks TERRIBLE!!! Straight animation can look good with computer animation... but what happened with this film is anyones guess as it looks choppy and rushed. If your looking for a non Disney fix grab the Iron Giant, because this film will just bore ya to tears... "},{"Title":"Serious rant","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What is wrong with you? I waited a year for this smoking pile of dog poooie. Breathtaking? Not really.1. The script could have been done better by a group of first graders. There wasn't a great deal of plot and character development going on here. Be real. There was NONE. We care about characters because writers make them interesting, complicated, fragile....UNPREDICTABLE? *cough*2. The animation? One nice visual at the beginning of the movie. The rest of the movie was polluted with annoying cgi superimposed ontop of class anaimation. This became really hard to watch. I find it hard to believe that Don Bleuth was involved in this travesty.Titan could have been a great flick. Had they stuck with traditional anamation, maybe focused more on the downfall of the humans, and taken the time to develop things..... hey...there might have been a sequel.No chance of that. Fox anamation studios is now defunct because the movie did so poorly and cost them so much.There won't b a sequel to Anastatia either.;)People.. QUIT comparing this to Star Wars. Dirty Blasphmers. Bury it. "},{"Title":"Copies","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What a failure! Many comments here say the same thing some great visuals, but poor story. But the visuals are part of the problem as well. There's just no coherence. If the visual was coherent, it would make up for a thin story. Example Titanic.I think the lack of focus comes from a lack of understanding what science fiction is all about. It is not just taking contemporary characters and situations and plunking them into odd environments. Adding in anthropomorphic aliens and space ships doesn't count. What you need is to be projected into a world that is similar, but extrapolated. The strangeness should charm and prompt the imagination. When the production is purely animated, the possibilities are greater, which makes this a bigger disappointment than Lucas' recent folly.Only the `wake angel' segment is coherent, where the notions of extrapolation and image merge. Though the ice crystals and hydrogen planet are brilliant in the visual sense, they are not grounded in where they take our imagination. The lesson visuals must be more than grounded in the dramatic -- in the imagination as well. I've noted this problem in other films where the actors' sensibility is correct dramatically but misses the fact that the center of the film is in the viewer's mind.Think about the `Star Wars' saga. It used deep religious archetypes (starting with the stuff of the viewer's mind). While it started with a story about government conflict, it morphed into familial conflict, our most deepseated emotions. A very clever placing of the center of the films in your own mind where your imagination can gloss over stuff like the thin plot, poor acting, etc. None of that here. It's why Pixar will win and these folks have already folded.Other strangenesses I suppose that they began with the notion of homage to all the prior space films. If so, over time they transformed this into simply borrowing existing cliches. How can you be new when you set the tone at the beginning that, for example, all the space ships you see here will be just like you expect them to look.The girl here is clearly derivative of Disney's recent move into non-North European types, but with a larger bottom and harder face. Garofalano is the best actor, making the others seem thin. Did we really need the Yoda imitation? The innovation here is the moving camera. If they had just exploited that (instead of the five or six mere circular pans), it would have been worthwhile. In fact, the sole threeD character shot is at the end and it sort of sullies all the twoD stuff that has gone before. Daft.The music (especially the pop tunes) have the same-same feel. Copies. "},{"Title":"good for 8 year old's!!!","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" i saw this movie when was eight and i thought it was the best movie ever made. then a couple months ago i saw it again at my little brothers birthday party. all of them loved it.(one of my brothers friends started to cry at the beginning but he always does so that doesn't matter)i noticed some MAJOR CORN going on. sometimes corn is good. like in 50's movies.But in titan a.e.'s case it is not. there are some scenesthat are so cliché that my liver almost exploded.this movie should not be taken seriously by anyone over the age of 9 and a half . "},{"Title":"Great visuals, the rest is left-overs","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It is very clear that the makers of this movie so badly wanted to make a visually stunning animated film that they completely forgot all the rest the characters, the sound track, the story - all of it is just a load of left-overs. Titan A.E. is over quickly, but not until it has bored the interest out of the audience over a certain age. The sound-track is a weary attempt at adding some action to the whole thing, but it just doesn't.Too bad, 'cause I like the basic idea. "}{"Title":"Escape pod please...","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm horrified that I am forced to share a planet with so many people who actually liked Titan AE. Please all go and see '2001 - A Space Odyssey' or at least watch 'Fururama' at once and get a life! Yours with horror - Phil "},{"Title":"Great animation and surround sound, story and acting just OK.","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After watching this film and discussing it with my 24-yr-old son, we came to the conclusion that animation is not particularly suited to a serious story.  My favorite animated films are all comedies - Tarzan, Toy Story 1 and 2, A bug's Life, Chicken Run - I guess there's just something in most of us that associates animation with fun.Titan A.E. tries to tell a serious story, the destruction of the earth in the 3000s, followed by Cale's search for the Titan which his dad had hidden when the Drej attacked earlier. He has to find it, and destroy the pure energy Drej, to preserve the human race. The animation is very well done. Name actors, like Matt Damon, Bill Pullman, Jeananne Garafolo, Drew Barrymore, nathan Lane, John Liguezamo, voice the main characters. But animation just can't capture the real emotions and movements of real people, so I found myself being aware of this throughout the film. Contrast StaWars films, for example.Still, I enjoyed it very much and rate it 7 of 10.  Much of the outer space effects are done really well. However, many of them are not. As most Sci-Fi films do, they still fly spacecraft as if they were in air.  That may have worked in the 1950s, but now we know so much more about how ships really move in space, it is obvious when they violate the laws of physics.The DVD has both DTS and Dolby Digital 5.1 soundtracks selectable.  I found the DTS one better. The picture is always beautiful and detailed. There are several extras, my favorite being the Fox Kids special which is actually a making of documentary. Of note, missing, is a section on the actors, writer, and director. "},{"Title":"Solid sci-fi with good voices but overly Disney-fied","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A few decades after his father put him on an escape craft moments before the Drej destroyed the earth, and Cale Tucker is part of the dying species of human working in the universe.  He is approached by Capt Korso, telling him that he holds the map to where his father hid the powerful Titan craft. However the Drej want it every bit as much as humanity.I came to this film by mixing it up with that other multiplex sci-fi animation that was fully computer generated. I forget it's title but I realised quite quickly that this film wasn't it!  However, the opening 5 minutes are so gripping that I was hooked, however it couldn't keep it up and the tone was too uneven to be successful.  On one hand you have a basic sci-fi plot that looks great, has style and moves well.  The action is surprisingly bloody at times but at other times it chickens out of killing characters - preferring Looney Toons type reaction to explosions.The biggest area where it shows it's second speed is it's characters. They have character traits that are interesting and not everyone is as they seem, but they have all been through the Disney style machine and been made cuter and funnier than they should have been.  This is a major down side as the material and delivery required darker characters. Sure it would have made it less of a kids movie but it would have been better.  As it is, it is still an enjoyable sci-fi despite this kid-friendly shine to it.The voice cast are good on paper but not all as good in reality.  Damon is a solid All-American lead and does well, while Pullman adds much needed weight to his role.  Barrymore doesn't sound like her hearts' in it and Garofalo's voice simply doesn't suit her character or her dialogue.  Likewise both Lane and Leguizamo contribute to the Disney effect by playing it too humorous at times - they do OK but don't fit what I was looking for.Overall this is an OK sci-fi despite the weaknesses.  If I had the choice I would watch something else but, for what it is, it is pretty enjoyable but should have stuck with the darker tone that at times it has to good effect. "},{"Title":"How many people does it take to ruin a movie?","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies ever made. Its not so bad its good, its just bad. This is a film that actually has some wonderful things in it but its so badly put together with dreck that one wants to look for the masking tape holding the pieces of film together.Nominally the story of a young hero trying to save humanity after evil aliens have destroyed earth and driven mankind into space, this movie makes detours into other films and styles including the final surreal moment where it becomes the Tick in outer space (Planet BOB). The rumor was that everyone had a hand in the film and that despite Don Bluth's best efforts to remain in control he had to bend to other people's helpful ideas.(I haven't heard Bluth's commentary to the film nor do I have the strength to see the film again so I maybe wrong in what I remember) The result is a series of stitched together sequences that are fine apart but not good together.The animation is a bad combination of hand drawn and computer rendered that never really meshes. I remember seeing this on the big screen on opening day and leaving with a headache since sequences like the asteroids of ice were too much like a bad video game to be watchable.As I said there are moments (Planet Bob) but the rest is just awful.Avoid unless you like to see non fun bad movies. "},{"Title":"Predictable? Yes; Full of Itself? Sometimes; Good? Yes.","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"   By no means is Titan A.E. great, but it is a fun film with decent animation and good character voices.  Bill Pullman, Matt Damon, John Leguizamo and Drew Barrymore make up the characters, and though the plot is predictable and at times almost full of itself, it is still a good film to be enjoyed. Not great, but good.3/5 stars --John Ulmer "}]