[{"Title":"I can't help myself when it comes to Harrison Ford...","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"47 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I rented this a few days ago having discovered it was a Harrison Ford movie I somehow missed. Even though I'm a big fan of his, I really didn't expect much based on the jacket description. But, Eureka! I was completely charmed by this movie. Ford has a very low key way of delivering comedy and when you see a manly man like him being funny, it is all the more hilarious. Anne Heche is captivating as the gamin New York fashion sophisticate who happens to be very smart & sassy but grounded. She also has a tremendous flair for comedy and she plays off Ford in a grand way that Melanie Griffith couldn't even dream about doing in Working Girl. Griffith sleepwalked through that script whereas Heche embraces her character fully.There is a very unique thing that happens in this film that we don't see very often and that is how the romantic chemistry builds between the lead characters. It is as natural as the flora and fauna of the island they are trapped on - rather randomly and sometimes awkwardly taking root - and I give a lot of credit to Reitman for capturing this feeling between Ford & Heche. With most films like this, the leads either hop into bed right away and then sort out their differences, or there is no indication of increasing mutual affection until the last 10 minutes when someone slaps their forehead and a light goes on. In this movie, you see so many small moments when one character is creeping into the heart of the other. Despite this, it never gets sappy.I'd rate this movie as a 7 but am giving it an 8 to try to raise its overall score. It's a very, very good romantic comedy with a funny script, witty direction, great tropical locales, and an eclectic but engaging supporting cast. "},{"Title":"A fun movie, not to be taken too seriously","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"30 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A crusty pilot-for-hire is trapped on a tropical island with a fashion magazine executive.  I might have avoided this had it been anywhere else but the action part of the video rental store.  There was enough action in it so as not to disappoint the action fan too much, but there is a certain amount of romance too.  The executive has left behind a brand new husband on the vacation island she has been called away from.  And the pilot-for-hire has a girlfriend left behind there too.And so it goes.  There are some suprises, but not too many.  The grand old DeHavilland Beaver upstages everyone and so if you like airplanes, you will like this one.Harrison Ford + Airplanes = Great Movie every time. "},{"Title":"See Whatcha Get","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film probably wasn't made to make you laugh nonstop, but when they turn on the humor, the writers and those involved with the final cut have very nice timing and awesome lines! This movie is one of my favorites, because if i'm having a bad day...they (Heche and Harrison) are having a much worse one and manage to pick up my mood with the delivery of lines that make me laugh, so, yeah the humor. But also the style, pacing, and emotional involvement they make me feel as a viewer. I'm invested. And though I may think that Schwimmer's character is a shmuck, I can understand his POV, so, he's okay. David and the cast did an outstanding job, and while the filmed script may not have been the original one (I'd love to see it sometime) the end result is fabulous. If you haven't seen it, you should, and I hope you too laugh, and smile, and chuckle, and enjoy a rather grand movie. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Fun Adventure Film","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"33 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film was intended to be about romance and adventure, but I really wasn't feeling the romance.  In the end, I really couldn't care less if Anne Heche and Harrison Ford ended up together.  Especially since David Schwimmer's character was so likeable.  I did however want to see him end up happy (in fact, I wanted him to end up with Angelica), but they didn't follow through with his character, so we really don't know what happened to him.It may sound like I didn't like the movie, but on the contrary, I liked it a great deal, I just don't think I got out of the film what the director/writers wanted me to get out of it.  I thought the film was fun and entertaining but not superb.The cast in this film was pretty good.  Harrison Ford was excellent as always, playing a very interesting character.  David Schwimmer was superb in his role, I REALLY liked his character.  Anne Heche is pretty much the only player in the film that I'm not sure that I liked.  Don't get me wrong, she looks fantastic in the film and does a good job acting, but I'm just not sure if she was the right choice for the job.  Well, I guess there's nothing I can do about it now, so I better just shut up and deal with it.  Jacqueline Obradors looked absolutely stunning in this film!  She is reason enough to watch this film!!!  Her acting is quite good too.  Temuera Morrison (who would later go on to become Jango Fett in Star Wars Attack of the Clones...and Harrison Ford played Han Solo in the original trilogy...kind of interesting) does a fine job in his role.  Cliff Curtis plays a VERY small role in this film, but does a good job and has a very cool look to him.  I'm always amazed by this guy because he looks so different in each of his films.  Danny Trejo also plays a small role, but does a fine job.  Allison Janney kind of bugs me as an actress on the whole, but her role is minimal and has very little screen time, so I can deal.All in all, this is a fun movie, with a lot of cool stuff in it, but nothing spectacular.  If you end up seeing the film, I hope you enjoy it.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"It's like a small vacation","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't write many reviews, unless I really feel close to the movie or believe it was unfairly rated, like this one. This movie has found it's way back to my DVD player several times since it's first release to DVD about 10 years ago. It whisks you up from your easy chair to a sunny vacation spot in the Polynesian Islands and never slows up or misses a beat. One scene moves to the next in a seamless manner often foreshadowed by a soundtrack that is very good and quite catchy.The film was well cast with Harrison Ford as the crusty cargo pilot - Ann Heche as the assistant editor of a fashion magazine - David Swimmer as her pasty but very nice fiancé and Jacqueline Obradors as the beautiful but dingbat club dancer. This romantic comedy and action adventure film pits two people together from different backgrounds and age groups. Normally the two would never get along long enough to get to know the other. But, forced to spend time together and under challenging conditions, a small attraction begins to develop and grow stronger. The character development of the cast moves forward with the same speed as the rest of this cute story.While the film is certainly not for everyone, judging from IMDb ratings and rotten tomatoes, I really believe it was the message and not the movie that failed to impress. This story expresses a throwback to traditional values in the relationship of Ford and Heche and their experiences on the Island. This may explain the reaction to the film by many of the younger viewers. Some of the more mature viewers may have been turned off by news of Ann Heche and Ellen Degeneres in real life. This may explain why some seem to love the movie, while others have curiously rated it rather poorly.In any case, if you need a quick escape and love flying to beautiful Polynesian Islands loaded with beautiful scenery and good-looking people, then his film may be your ticket! "},{"Title":"What Went Wrong? Anne Heche","Date":"10 July 2015","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Spoilers AheadFord does a great job in the movie. He demonstrates his underrated comic talents that were hidden in the Star Wars movies. Also, the scenery is breathtaking as is the photography. These two factors are why I give it four stars. Remember the snake in her pants scene? Now, listen to his delivery compared to hers; imagine a better actress was doing the scene reading those lines correctly. The writing in romantic comedies is always awful. Yes, the pirates were silly; please, The Blue Lagoon did not even have a script; the two characters were so endearing nobody noticed. Heche goes through this movie like a piece of heavy machinery. That shrill, screeching, misandrist act gets old very, very fast. Yes, just because she is a career woman does not mean she has to be that shrill and pushy. Also, by the way, she has always been a terrible actress. Did you find her overacting and hyper gesticulations to distract you from her lack of talent convincing? When all is said and done, imagine Ford's hot girlfriend in the role instead of Heche? The movie would have been so much better. The woman is always annoying; always lecturing, correcting then yelling and overacting badly. It is worth watching once for Ford's performance in a very difficult role. No supporting cast, out there all alone with bad acting Anne Heche, trying to hold the movie up. Also, the scenery is worth seeing; it has some of the best photography I had seen in a long time. You just need to be honest with yourself about how much of Anne Heche you can take; I watch it occasionally but I would never buy it. She just is too annoying; yes, she had to land the plane, guess whose idea that was? Yes, superwoman saves the day; you can always tell which parts of the script were her ideas. Ford will surprise you in the movie; the writing is not the problem. I love when Ford says,It's an Island, if you didn't bring it with you, you won't find it here. When you watch the movie listen to her delivery, her lines would have worked with another, less strident, talented actress. She is the anchor that sank this movie. She also did considerable damage to The Juror. True, it was DOA when released but she really helped wreck it. If you can stomach her, I can recommend the movie. Ford evokes such sympathy when you watch it. You can see on his face, his worry that he made a terrible mistake. Poor guy, a great performance destroyed and rarely seen all due to dreadful casting. A mediocre movie. "},{"Title":"An entertaining romantic comedy with touches of an adventure movie.","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When a hard-working career woman by the name of Robin Monroe (Anne Heche) works for a popular woman magazine. When her nice boyfriend Frank Martin (David Schwimmer) purposed to her to married him. Also to come with him for a week at a tropical island. Once they get there... they meet a gruff, rough cargo pilot Quinn Harris (Harrison Ford). Once the pilot brings them to the island, Robin and Frank start enjoying their vacation. But the trouble starts when her boss (Allison Janney) calls her from their trip to take a photo shoot. Robin asks Quinn to bring her to the location, where she has to go. But once they left the ground to fly, they ended being hit by lighting and crashing to a deserted island and trying to find a way to get back to the tropical island. While Robin and Quinn dislike each other with plenty of problems and troubles. They find themselves chased by pirates (Temuera Morrison, Cliff Curtis and Danny Trejo). Slowly Robin and Quinn start falling for each other.Directed by Ivan Reitman (Ghostbusters 1 & 2, Junior, Twins) made this amusing, nicely filmed romantic/comedy/adventure with fun performances by Ford and Heche. This wasn't a huge hit at the box office but it should play well on video. Although involving pirate in the subplot seems out of place with the story. It's entertaining enough to overcome certain flaws in the movie. Probably the best thing of the picture is Ford, which he's especially loose and funny. Certainly worth viewing. Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of  'Six Days, Seven Nights'","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"29 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This romantic comedy and adventure story had a bunch of good and bad things going for or against it., but overall was an enjoying story that was a pleasant diversion. I don't know if I'd own it, but it's worth watching once or twice.THE GOOD - Some tremendous South Seas island scenery; a good mix of comedy and adventure with attractive leads in Anne Heshe and Harrison Ford; and fast-moving story meaning good entertainment.THE BAD - Poor messages about fidelity and marriages; an annoying, whining character played by David Schwimmer; too heavy - for family viewing - on the profanity and cleavage. "},{"Title":"Cute Very Cute Action /Romance Film, With A Cool Story, However It's The Fantastic  Chemistry Between Harrison Ford And Anne Heche That Really Make It Work!","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a cute very cute Action/Romance film, with a cool story however it's the chemistry between Harrison Ford and Anne Heche that really make it work!. All the characters are great, and the film has plenty of laughs!, plus Harrison Ford is simply amazing in this! and Anne Heche is fantastic. Sure it may get a bit silly in the 2nd half, but it's still quite fun, and it's quite underrated as well!, plus i found the ending to be really cool!. Thankfully David Schwimmer, is at least bearable, and it has some cool action scenes as well!, plus it's quite creative at times as well!. The scenery is really beautiful, and the finale is quite exciting!, however the villains(Pirates), had barely anything to do, and therefore, didn't find them menacing, it's basically a Romance Comedy, but it's quite a good one at that!. This wasn't too popular with critics, however i really enjoyed it, it had likable characters and 2 very charismatic leads with Ford and Heche, and there chemistry is what really makes it work, i highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great. Ivan Reitman does a great job here, with awesome camera work, great angles, and keeping the film at a very fast pace!. The Acting is wonderful!. Harrison Ford is amazing as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, hilarious, had fantastic chemistry with Anne Heche, was extremely charismatic, had some great lines, and didn't take it seriously, and had fun with it! (Ford Rules!!!!!!!). Anne Heche is beautiful, and is fantastic here, she is very charming, likable, seemed comfortable with Ford, had a cool character, and seemed to be enjoying herself!, i loved her (heche rules). David Schwimmer is thankfully bearable, but still managed to annoy me, and basically played his Friends character, he didn't impress me. Jacqueline Obradors is hot, and did okay, in he role but wasn't required to do much but act sexy, she did a good job at that though. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall i highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"holidays in the sun...","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Do you know Francis Veber? He's one of the most popular French film-maker. He owes his success thanks to a comic method which he knows the secret. It's the confrontation of two people who have got a different disposition but are compelled to cohabit together in an unfriendly environment. This situation is told in a comedy tone By telling Harrison Ford and Anne Heche's adventures, Ivan Reitman must have been influenced by Francis Veber' method. Here, a confident and bold Harrison Ford mixes with a coward Anne Heche. After a dragging beginning, the movie becomes lively and rhythmic when our two heroes are stranded on the island. It contains good and funny moments, especially when the characters are having an argument. But, it follows a predictable advance at first, Ford and Heche can't stand each other but little by little, they learn to know each other better. It's all the more as they'll have to go through a hard time so as to leave the island. Finally, it's love that will shine them.At the end, you get a nice but colorless comedy. Nevertheless, Reitman can sustain the interest during all the movie and skilfully avoids boredom.  "}{"Title":"Great! Never gets boring!","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie, because it had a little bit of everything in it. It had action, romance, drama, and suspense. I love watching it over and over again. Harrison Ford and Anne Heche work great together! I enjoyed watching Harrison Ford in this movie, he's a great actor, as well as Anne. "},{"Title":"fails the litmus test","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The litmus test is -- if big star weren't in this film, could it be a TV movie?  Alas, the answer is yes.  Though very entertaining with good performances, how Six Days Seven Nights made it to the big screen eludes me.  It is not original and doesn't have the kind of script one demands of a feature film.  I was just glad I didn't pay $8.50 or more to see it in the theater - but it will do well in video, where it should have gone directly in the first place. "},{"Title":"Okay by me","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"     Ford and Heche are stranded on remote Pacific island and face various dangers while Schwimmer and Obradors party and fret.  Never entirely comfortable as either comedy or drama.  Beautiful scenery (including Obradors) compensates for awkwardness in many scenes between the leads.  A movie I never really thought I liked, it often finds its way onto my screen.  8/10 on scenery alone  "},{"Title":"A romantic film set in paradise...","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have seen Six days, Seven nights and I loved it. One of Harrison's best films in a long time. I think what did it for me was the film being set on the island of Kuaii. Quinn and Robin's personalities may have been different but it just proves that in paradise, anything can happen. I would recommend this to anyone that's looking for a light- hearted romantic comedy.  "},{"Title":"Six days Seven nights.","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved the movie personally. I'm a very adventurous person and this movie draws you in. I think all these critics should get out more lol. They are way too uptight and wouldn't know a good movie if it hit them in the head. a good movie shouldn't be judged on a critics opinion which is far too often the case. it should be judged by it's ability to capture the audience. I believe the critics of this movie were out stuffing their faces instead of watching it and that's why the ratings are so far off course. Just watch the damn movie and enjoy it, don't try to analyze the hell out of it lol. "},{"Title":"A Descent Film","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There's really nothing overly special about this movie. It's acting ranges from fare, to good. Naturally, Harrison Ford is always good. And Anne Heche is great looking, and fare in her performance, as well. Simple plot doesn't really hurt this movie either, if anything it probably helps it. After all, what the heck can happen on a deserted tropical island. It's a cute film to watch with a date.  "},{"Title":"good survivor-like romance","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie mainly for the chemistry between the characters.  Anne Heche and Harrison Ford's chemistry works really good and their characters are very likeable.  Ross Schwimmer is their as Anne's boyfriend but he doesn't get stranded.  I especially enjoyed the pirate scenes.  That was cool with the cannon at the end.  quite imaginative.Overall the movie is cool with some minor flaws.  Rating 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Liteweight American fluff...","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...sort of the Cliffs Notes version of the superior SWEPT AWAY-but Americans dont have the  attention span for a film that long. (I thought the same of CASTAWAY-not very long-no REAL  dealing with survival issues-another quick, happy ending) BUT...the photography is gorgeous, and so is Hecht.   It seemed that Ford was just sleepwalking thru this role.... "},{"Title":"pleasant enough","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ford and Heche are a fun, mismatched duo who get stranded on a desert island after a plane crash. Slowly they warm up to each other and the rest is easy enough to figure out. There are enough gags and scenery to grab your attention, but some of the dialogue and characterizations are extremely annoying. 3/4 "},{"Title":"Give it a go, Joe","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is an enjoyable flick, if you've not seen it give it a go.  The first half is certainly better than the second, funnier too, but on the whole it is good.  Harrison Ford is always good money, and the  rest of the cast do a good job also (though David Shwimmer eventually just gets on my nerves). The soundtrack is great too.   So all in all, recommended if you've not yet seen it. "}{"Title":"Romantic Comedy with Adventure - A Date Movie","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  No part of this movie overly violent.  There was bodily injury, but nogratuitous violence.The plot was based on questionable morals, but the ending handled thosestrayings very well.This is not a chick flick, though Harrison Ford admirers willdefinitely enjoy some of the island views of him.  It is safe for guysto go to this with their girlfriends without the worry of feelingdragged to it.My boyfriend liked this movie, and he detests mushy st "},{"Title":"Interesting to watch","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK The plot is not great. Everybody agrees on this. But the movie is so light and fresh that it is interesting to watch. In fact the various comic situations that Ford and Heche get into are references from earlier Ford's movies. The ending is encouraging for old tough guys. The gall leaves the handsome rich fiance for Ford. Great!    "},{"Title":"The wrong film to watch","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Nonono...oh no! Oh man, that's disgusting...oh noThat's a transcript of my thoughts as I saw this film. It was corny, silly and so unbelievable I didn't even think Harrison Ford was any good - and that's a real bad sign.OK, so they end up on an island together, and some pirates try to waste them while the girl's boyfriend waltzes around looking as dumb as ever (Schwimmer always looks dumb). Has anyone any idea how deep the one major plot hole in this film is? How on earth can an airport of that size completely loose and aircraft and not be able to approximate the crash site? Forget it. "},{"Title":"Ford and Heche stranded on an island","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was one of my favorite movies that I have seen.  It was so funny. Harrison Ford was great as the pilot who almost took Robin (Anne Heche) to Tahiti, but a storm caused them to be stranded on a deserted island.  One scene that made me laugh, not because it was funny, but because it reminded me of a fellow student who I'd known back in elementary and middle school. She was a chubby Native American girl.  The scene was where a snake crawled into Robins pants.  This reminded me of the Native American's question she asked me.  What would you do if there was a snake in your butt?  I recommend this film to my friends and family. "},{"Title":"What was Harrison thinking?","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well at least Harrison Ford got a nice Polynesian vacation out of this deal, because this is by far his most utterly forgettable film. There is no plot whatsoever. The inclusion of PIRATES??? into the story is all one needs to understand as far as how the film has no antagonist. The biggest mistake was having Ford and Heche acknowledge their feelings for each other so early in the movie. They were a lot more interesting when they were sniping at each other. Once things get mushy all interest is lost. The only reason to check out this film is for the scenery and the gorgeous Jacqueline Obradors in her underwear. "},{"Title":"Charming light romantic comedy","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The relaxing music and the picturesque cinematography make this film a success. The widescreen shots of the Hawaiian Islands combined with a lively and sometimes dreamy musical element was something I found attractive. Of the films in my collection, this is one I see more than once. There is nothing earthshaking in the script but its not bad either and Ford's low key comedic abilities save the day with Heche pulling off the perfect NYC pushy ad exec persona with David Schwimmer's whining, nasal Friends character in the background. It's a very charming and relaxing cinematic experience, as if you were actually there in a relaxing island environment. I give it a nine. Explaining why I gave it a nine and not a ten would force me to put in a spoiler and I don't want to do that. "},{"Title":"Been there, seen that...... Neeext!","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Absolutely boring, totally predictable film. Only the beautiful scenery is worthy in this movie and a couple of agonizing scenes such as the chase scene, but then there is no agony at all once you think that the couple will certainly be safe after a couple of minutes. It's just a bunch of events, barely connected to each other, that this movie is made up of; and on top of that, you have the totally irritating David Schwimmer giving you his sad puppy smiles all the time. Urgh!3 "},{"Title":"Refreshing and cute","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Very good lite comedy that has great cinematography and great lead actors who perform very well.Hache proved she is a new top notch star to look out for.It was nice to see Ford do a comedy/romance movie since he needs more of movies in this genre if he wants to remain in contention for one of the best all-around leading men of all time.Schwimmer might want to take more diversified movie roles in the future because he is pushing his ROSS act too much.I know he has more talent to offer.The weakness here is the average screenplay/script,but still the movie should be enjoyed by most light romance/adventure/comedy fans who are not too conservative......   "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was obviously a very weak attempt to make some sort of modern Swiss Family Robinson.  It doesn't fly.  The storyline is very weak and simply unbelievable.  The romance between Quinn (Harrison Ford) and Robin (Anne Heche) on the island doesn't seem to have any basis whatsoever and it just appears out of nowhere.  The other romance between Frank (David Schwimmer) and Angelica (Jacqueline Obradors) is so poorly acted, it's like something out of an 80's B movie.The only good thing I can say about this movie is that the scenery was good.  The writing was terrible.  The acting was below average.  Hardly any of it was believable.  It was almost as if the writer had in mindOk, crash a plane.  Now I want these two to have sex later, so I have to find something to fill in the space....I've got it!  Pirates!!Yuck.  I gave it 4 out of 10.  It got that because of the scenery and Angelica's body.  They should have thrown a nude scene in there though.  That would have earned it at least one more star. "},{"Title":"One of our all time favorites","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The script/timing/acting in this movie is excellent, and is a great joy to watch. The perfect timing of the cast and an excellent story make this one of our favorites along with Fifth Element,American President, In and Out, The MatchMaker , The Local Hero and The Mystery Man..Sinan  "}{"Title":"Good concept, very bad execution, rate it 4 of 10.","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The concept of 6Days/7Nights - a NY advertising executive and an older south seas bush pilot hate each other, get stranded on an unhabited island, encounter bad guys, have to cooperate to get off the island, then somehow throw off all constraints to fall in love and start new lives together - is simple but not unlike the many Cary Grant movies. With the right actors and direction this could have been a nice romantic comedy.HOWEVER -- Ann Heche, with her nasal delivery of lines, her combatant attitude, just doesn't come off as a love interest of anyone, much less Harrison Ford. Almost anyone would have been better. Plus, Ford is not up to his usual quality, probably because he too knew it was going to be a bad movie.The movie starts as an obvious romantic comedy. Then, during the second half crooks show up, you see a man murdered and dumped into the sea, and the main characters are shot at with machine guns!  What gives?  This is very bad movie-making.I actually saw this movie twice, last night on my free DVD, just to see if I was too harsh the first time. NO! It really is a very bad movie. 4 of 10 is being very generous, but it does have a good surround sound track.Please, see it if you haven't, just to see how a good concept and Harrison Ford can still result in movie trash. "},{"Title":"Good all around movie...","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There was a lot to like about this movie. The scenery, (Hawaii, not Obradors), was fantastic. The acting was superb. While the plot held no surprises, (once you understand the premise of the film, you know right where it is going, but, in the case of this movie, it was fun to find out how they get there), it was interesting. The gags were very funny, (particularly when Heche's character displays the her inability to cope in situations where there aren't subways and cell phones.).The movie showcased the range of both Heche and Ford. It might have done the same for Schwimmer and Obradors, if they had significant roles. Since I have never seen a single episode of Friends, (I know, I must be the only person in the world who hasn't), I cannot compare Schwimmer's acting in this movie with his role in Friends. His acting in this movie didn't compare to his role as Lt./Captain Sobel in Band of Brothers. Based on this role and Band of Brothers, it seems to show that Schwimmer has a lot of range and can play different roles very well. Schwimmer does seem to be typecast as the inept loser who tries hard and always comes out second in the end. Unfortunately, he and Obradors seem to be limited to supporting , rather than starring, roles.So, if you are looking for a light, funny way to spend an evening, watch this movie. "},{"Title":"It's so good, I watched it more than once.","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has been given a bad rap.  The beach scene with the life raft and the scene on the mountaintop are two of the funniest bits I've seen in a long, long time.  Mr. Ford has always had a comedic gift for parody - Han Solo, Indiana Jones and now Queenie.  The only flaw in this perfectly casted film is, of course, David Schwimmer.  I hope he has saved his money from his role in Friends because he certainly is bloody awful on the large screen. He doesn't even do selfish, egotistic, self-involved, whining wuss that well; well, perhaps I'm being too harsh.  His whining and being annoying is well done.  He always convinces me.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly, delightful!","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I sat down in front of this movie fully expecting to laugh at it and was hardly ever given the opportunity although the opening, with David Schwimmer 'Friends-ing' it is pretty awful. You sense there's more to it all though when he asks Heche to wear something special and her naughty thoughts are quickly usurped with a ring. Nice script moment and I kept watching...The meat of the film centres around the burgeoning love between the unlikely castaway couple of Ford and Heche. I mean, this film has no pretensions beyond being a fully loved-up snog in the back of the flea-pit matinée, so we get flirting almost from the moment they crash. But a mixture of competent shooting at a marvelous location and great acting from Ford that's well matched by Heche (who's not only attractive, but game, wearing revealing costume throughout and having to refer to her own chest as 'small' more than once) renders it sexy and believable.Chuck in some authentic contemporary pirates - I'm also a bit tickled by the fact that the Star Wars prequels' Boba Fett is chasing around after IV, V and VI's Han Solo! - and Reitman's smart decision to avoid excessive tie-ups (e.g. How does Heche get down the island white water Ford found so difficult? Will Schwimmer hook up with the Latino at the end? etc.) and you have highly enjoyable 6.5/10 matinée fare for a weekend date. Bravo "},{"Title":"Six Days Seven Nights","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Summer movie fluff has spunky and sexy New York pop culture magazine editor Anne Heche flying off with beau David Schwimmer to a resort island for a little week vacation. The pilot is played by Harrison Ford, a handsome yet aging bachelor whose closest relationship is with a stunning island sexpot known for her stage performances which wow the male tourists happening to guzzle cocktails at the hut bars. Because he is defiantly set in his ways (he voices his opinion even if it isn't exactly popular, can be a bit rough around the edges in the conversation department in his lack of mincing words, and has the tendency to offer less-than-polite remarks when antagonized) and argumentative when it comes to someone challenging his sense of liberated relationship purgatory (he's alone, isn't tied to someone who could throw a monkey wrench in his freedom to go wherever he wants and do whatever he wants), Ford and Heche have a bit of friction (his type doesn't often find his way into the orbit of her NYC social class). So Heche is soaking up the sun, drinking some fruity alcoholic drinks, and enjoying her time with Schwimmer (even agreeing to marry him after his proposal) at the resort, her magazine calls, requesting her to fly to Tahiti for a particular article, certain to make the lead of the week. So she offers $700 bucks to Ford if he will fly her to Tahiti, and he reluctantly agrees. When they encounter a major storm, a bolt of lightning strikes the plane, and Ford must land it on a deserted South Pacific island. Once there, Ford and Heche must find a beacon in the hopes of summoning a rescue crew, but they soon encounter pirates who kill the owner of a yacht and take his possessions! Stranded on lush, tropical environs, the two stars bicker a bit (it is all playful banter), try to avoid clear and present danger (totally intentional tie of Harrison to that movie), and find a means to get off the island. They fall in love, comment on each other's looks, try to keep from freaking out when troubles arise, and go into MacGuyver mode building a plan from old WWII plane parts found within the island. I have to say that Heche looks fantastic and Ford by 1998 had kept himself in impressively athletic shape. Ford has a natural movie star charisma a film so undemanding as this can depend upon. I enjoyed seeing him so relaxed and free of the usual intensity; sometimes an actor of his stature can get away with a film like this which just plucks from other better survival island movies. Heche seems perfectly comfortable in a film like this as the lead (she would rarely get another chance to be featured in such a Hollywood high profile fluff piece as this), and her skimpy bikini outfits certainly convey how much effort she put into getting into shape. Turn your brain off junk food this movie is.Schwimmer is a lot of fun as Heche's fiancé, conflicted about the island hottie who offers her body to him while he's concerned about his missing girlfriend's welfare. His nervy energy is amusing. The pirates subplot is a bit tacked on and truthfully unneeded...it seems like this was applied to provide a little peril for the leads. I felt that those who wrote the film were in dire need of padding to accompany Ford and Heche's arguing and eventual romance. "},{"Title":"Good Thing It Wasn't Longer.","Date":"25 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ivan Reitman, the director, is usually able to pep things up but you can't breathe life into a corpse.It wasn't possible to watch this thing all the way through but it wasn't necessary either because it's all so familiar from previous versions of the bourgeois lady stranded with the handsome roughneck on the island of Sarcastica. Or is it Moribunda? The formula was an enormous success with It Happened One Night in 1934, a commercial and critical success, and a lot of fun. There were imitations of course but the pattern seemed exhausted by 1941's The Bride Came C.O.D., which had Bette Davis sitting on a cactus. But periodically since then the coffin creaks open and another attempt to use a tried and true formula emerges. Well, what the hell. All the originals were in black and white, and nobody watches old movies anymore.I really don't mind an occasional visit to the graveyard if the zombies turn out to be entertaining, but this is not. The anger and snottiness turn to love, sure, but it's not very funny. The jokes are the kind you might find in Laurel and Hardy. The dialog is bromidic. The performances are over pitched as if in an attempt to compensate for the uninspired plot.The writers haven't bothered with credibility much, but that's okay because this is supposed to be a romantic fantasy. Still, it's momentarily painful when you realize that they didn't care whether the setting was supposed to be Polynesia or the Caribbean. Everyone speaks English, some with a French accent, others with a Spanish accent. It doesn't matter to the writers, for whom a foreign accent is a foreign accent, just like the 1940s when the heroes spoke American and the Nazis spoke British.You have to be undemanding to enjoy this but the kids should get a kick out of it. "},{"Title":"Funny but suffers from too many details","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Filmgoers and critics alike are split on what to think on Ivan Reitman's films. Most would probably say that his earliest productions were the most original and fun. The best example being Ghost Busters (1984). But as time went on, Reitman started making some oddballs like Twins (1988), Kindergarten Cop (1990) and Junior (1994). Then he started reverting back to more realistic normal comedies. This particular film is in this group and has things going for it. The problem is that it gets too bogged down with other details that it forgets what its main purpose was in the first place. The plot focuses on a couple that heads out on vacation when one of them is called back. While returning the partner is stranded on an island with the pilot and must learn to survive together. The plot isn't all that special but the way it's executed is. Anne Heche and David Schwimmer play the couple on vacation as Robin and Frank. There they meet their pilots Quinn (Harrison Ford) and Angelica (Jacqueline Obradors). The two that become stranded on a remote island is Robin and Quinn. There they learn how to survive on their own. Yet, the casting of Schwimmer and Obradors wasn't necessary. It could've just been Robin going on vacation and being stranded with Quinn. It's not that Schwimmer or Obradors aren't funny or can't act, but their character arcs are predictable from the start and it doesn't end clearly either. If a couple is heading to vacation and the first thing your boyfriend does is stare at curvaceous women, I think viewers will have a clear idea where he's headed. It's not new material.First time writer Michael Browning did an OK job defining each character, but they are either clichéd or oddly paired. The other strange casting decision belongs to having Anne Hiche and Harrison Ford being together. Over time after learning how to get along, Robin and Quinn form a relationship. During this time, Ford wasn't the strapping youth he once was. Of course some people still find him attractive but most people's viewpoints would be that Ford is too old to be having any kind of a relationship with what looks to be a late 20s / early 30s woman. It's not uncommon (in real life), but for the movie's sake since age isn't the focus, it feels a bit weird. Also cast in the film is Temuera Morrison (known for Jango Fett), Cliff Curtis and Danny Trejo. They are hard to spot at times, but if you see them it's cool to see.The comedy also helps relieve audiences of the either familiar story line or characters. Either when it comes to Frank being goofy or Quinn reacting to Robin's actions, it is genuinely funny. Ford has the best quips. Some of it even reminisces to that of something Indiana Jones would say. Besides it's not all fun and games, Quinn and Robin even run into some modern day pirates. Yikes. The cinematography by Michael Chapman looks great. The view of the islands out to sea looks mesmerizing. Even Randy Edelman's score is nice. It has a theme to represent Quinn and Robin and it sounds memorable. The tune involves piano keys, which isn't the most frequent of an instrument included in a score. It works as a comedy but isn't anything new. The elements of comedy are funny and will have people laughing thanks to its cast. Yet, the casting on a direct basis is questionable and the writing is a bit formulaic. "},{"Title":"Good Romance Comedy!","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Harrison Ford, Anne Heche, David Schwimmer, Jacqueline Obradors and Temeura Morrison star in Ivan Reitman's 1998 romance comedy. Heche plays Robin, a New York magazine editor who goes on vacation to Tahiti with her fiancée, Frank (Schwimmer). After their arrival, Robin is called in to work for a very important business deal. She tries to take a quick flight with help from cargo pilot, Quinn (Ford). They travel during a storm and crash on a remote island somewhere outside Tahiti. Soon, they find themselves on an adventure and fall for each other while trying to get back. Obradors plays Quinn's assistant, Angelica and Morrison (Star Wars Prequels) plays Jager, a pirate. I've always enjoyed this film, Ford is great as usual, he & Heche have good chemistry and Randy Edelman's score is also good. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"So it's predictable...who cares it's fun and that's what counts!","Date":"15 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've seen this movie quit a few times before but it's still got charm and I still really enjoy watching it. Ford and Heche show real chemistry and they also show good comedic ability in their roles. Schwimmer pretty much renews his ole role of friends Ross but it works here and Obradors adds a certain Je ne sais quoi if ya get my drift. Overall this movie has a lot going for it, I guess you would call it a romantic comedy but it's got good action, good humor, Danny Trejo as a no lines saying pirate (not one line, really people? Sorry Danny) and a good story that works well for what it is...a fun movie. This is a great film to watch with a date as it really caters to both sexes and should be entertaining to most who watch, so sit back and kick yer feet up and just enjoy the ride people. "},{"Title":"Some Good Adventure!","Date":"27 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'Six Days Seven Nights' is unabashed fun. Its a genuine fun-ride, that doesn't underwhelm. 'Six Days Seven Nights' Synopsis Robin Monroe, a New York magazine editor & the gruff pilot Quinn Harris must put aside their mutual dislike if they are to survive after crash landing on a deserted South Seas island.'Six Days Seven Nights' begins well & successfully manages to maintain its momentum pretty much till the end. The only glitch lies in its second-hour, which tends to drag a bit. Michael Browning's Screenplay has more of pluses, than minuses. Ivan Reitman's Direction is photographic. Cinematography captures the wilderness nicely. Editing is ably done. Performance-Wise Harrison Ford & Anne Heche share a crackling chemistry on-screen & deliver most efficiently. Jacqueline Obradors is lively, while David Schwimmer is reduced into a caricature. On the whole, 'Six Days Seven Nights' balances well between romance, adventure & humor! "}{"Title":"Too predictable","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I like Harrison Ford generally - he's got lots of good scripts in his career. This isn't one of them. Obviously designed to attract people who want to see fireworks between him and Ann Heche, it telegraphs each plot twist and the ending. The plot, such as it is - Ms. Heche plays Robin - a career woman who takes a trip to the Pacific with her fiancé. She meets Mr. Fords character - Quinn, a pilot. Quinn is then hired to take her to Tahiti. Downed on an unknown island following a storm, they experience the inevitable run-ins with wildlife, pirates and feelings brought on by their close contact. They return to the original island and try but fail to return to their old lives. You can guess the ending. "},{"Title":"Stranded With Robin","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ivan Reitman directed this romantic comedy-adventure that stars Harrison Ford as Quinn Harris, a boozing and grumpy pilot hired by beautiful New York executive Robin Monroe(played by Anne Heche) to fly her to Tahiti for business reasons, but unfortunately are forced down on a seemingly deserted island by a storm. While trying to repair the plane, and gather supplies to survive their stay, they find themselves(you guessed it!) falling for each other, even as an unexpected danger arises... Well cast at least, with two most appealing performances by Ford & Heche, and the location is also quite beautiful, and while it is certainly innocuous, it is also utterly predictable, though it's about as amiable as can be under the circumstances. Not bad for what it is. "},{"Title":"Misadventure in the beautiful pacific","Date":"28 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Two yuppie couples from New York decides to go on a romantic vacation in a French Polynesian island of Makatea. They charter a plane piloted by Harrison Ford. That was the beginning of trouble for all three of them.The attraction of the movie is the beautiful scenery of Tahiti where this movie was shot. Cinematography is one of the most gorgeous I've seen. The movie makes you feel that you're vacationing at the islands. Harrison Ford put in the comedic side of the story as only he could. Yuppies of the '90s and the rich set culture is so obvious in this movie. How society slid down hill since then in such a short time is just amazing.The movie has irony, comedy, and lot of beautiful scenery, and is worth while watching especially for the beautiful scenery of the Society Islands (Ending shots taken at Kauai). "},{"Title":"Six Days Seven Nights","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" From director Ivan Reitman (Twins, Evolution) this is quite a good desert island that could have been slightly better and funnier, but worth watching none the less. Basically Robin Monroe (Anne Heche) and her long time boyfriend Frank Martin (David Schwimmer) take a vacation to the tropical paradise of Makatea in the South Pacific. They arrive and are taken to their hotel by plane by middle-aged American pilot Quinn Harris (Harrison Ford), and the vacation seems to be going well, for one day anyway. Robin can't escape her work when she is needed urgently, so she pays Quinn to take her to Tahiti, but a storm stops them, and they are struck, crash landing on a deserted island. They are now fighting for their survival, constantly bickering, and eventually slowly falling for each other. Frank meanwhile is trying to get people to search for them, while at the same time being tempted by the seduction of Quinn's friend Angelica (Jacqueline Obradors). Quinn and Robin have become more close to each other, and pirates threaten them, so they have to work fast to try and get the plane to fly again. In the end, injured Quinn and Robin get back to Makatea after defeating the pirates, and Robin and Frank admit their feeling for other people, and break up, and Robin and Quinn get their happy ending. Good! "},{"Title":"Excellent picture - title bothers me a little","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I liked this movie very much - Harrison Ford proved to be as adept at comedy as in his many more dramatic roles - and Ann Heche is always a pleasure to watch for me. The remainder of the cast were all excellent, and the locales interesting.You can pretty much tell where the story is going and how it will end - from very early in the picture, but that doesn't lessen its enjoyment.Just a good all-round piece of pleasant entertainment.However, the title still bugs me a bit every time I look at it. I have friends who took a 3-day/2-night junket to Atlantic City. They weren't able to get settled into their hotel until later on Friday evening, and then left early on Sunday morning. They were actually on the hotel/casino's premises for about 40 hours, only a little more than 1-1/2 days in time - a third of this sleeping. While there on three different days, there were only a few hours left on Friday, and nearly all of Sunday consisted of sleeping and checking-out. If the film's resort actually advertised their offerings as Six Days Seven Nights, this would indicate, say, checking-in on Monday, and leaving following Monday, with the seven nights of Monday thru Sunday. Vegas or Atlantic City, and most other venues, would label this 'EIGHT DAYS, seven nights. No big deal, but just wonder every time I see it how studio came up with the title. If this were to indicate that the arrival and departure dates didn't count as days of the stay - the facility would be more forthright than any I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"lacks energy somehow","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Growing up, Han Solo seemed the height of manliness, and I have always seen Harrison Ford in that light... but even so, that doesn't mean I want to see him in the lamest, most persistent movie cliché going (old grizzled guy meets young slim blond hottie, and they mysteriously gravitate together at the lips). This cliché is tolerable to me only if the pair have a good, witty, energetic script (because this situation has to be humorous or it is just overdone and lame) and are playing off each other with almost visible sparks. None of that is happening here. If the woman had been less strident and stiff in the role, I could perhaps have semi-ignored her and pretended I was stuck on a desert island with Harrison Ford instead of her... but at least she has real presence, if not a lot of talent, so ignoring her was not an option. "},{"Title":"David Schwimmer at his best!","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Schwimmer doesn't get any better than this. He puts everything he has into this role, and there is only one reason he didn't get an Oscar nomination for his acting in this movie. That reason is HE SUCKS! Why would anyone ever cast Schwimmer in a movie? He is not funny, he is not good looking, and most importantly, HE IS A VERY VERY BAD ACTOR!OK, enough of him. I might have given this movie a 7/10 if he had not been in it. Harrison Ford does his best, and he has a lot of funny lines; he is not the fault in this movie. And Anne Heche is a pretty fair actress and delivers some funny lines as well.BUT!...I really didn't care about seeing Heche's body, her cleavage or the ever-present nipple shots. Those types of shots are usually reserved for very nice looking women, and she is very average in face and body.And what is with the pirates?? It was OK to bring them into the play once, but why would they risk their lives tracking down Harrison and Heche? I mean, what did they have to gain? Pirates (by definition) are usually out for gain, not revenge, so it just didn't make sense.Back to Schwimmer, did I mention that he SUCKS? I am really really offended by having to watch Schwimmer in this movie, he is a REALLY REALLY BAD ACTOR!OK, enough of him (again). In the end there is some good chemistry between Heche and Ford. And they were cute together. So there, I have said enough, not a bad movie all in all...BUTSchwimmer really sucks! (sorry) "},{"Title":"If the people behind this movie believed that it equalled the original Swept Away, they must be stupider than we realize.","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In one of Harrison Ford's real low points, he plays a gruff pilot who gets stranded on an uncharted island with stuffy reporter Anne Heche. While Lina Wertmuller's Swept Away did a really good job with this sort of situation (and Gilligan's Island made it really funny), Six Days Seven Nights totally bungles it. It's got to be one of the most predictable movies ever.Overall, the movie brings up two questions why can't Harrison Ford just stick with what he's good at, and why was Anne Heche getting so many roles in the late '90s? I assume that Ford probably wants to downplay his role in this movie (although his recent roles haven't been much better K-19, Hollywood Homicide and Firewall). Ditto Heche. Also starring - and embarrassing themselves - are David Schwimmer, Allison Janney, Cliff Curtis and Danny Trejo. And above all, it showed that director Ivan Reitman was truly declining, to the point that he most recently backed Arnold Schwarzenegger for California governor.All in all, avoid this one. "},{"Title":"Dreaming of  Quinn Harris' life","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't consider this movie to be anything near relevant to the History of Cinema, but the fact is that it has shown me the life I would like to live. I could well picture myself as Quinn Harris, on a Pacific island, providing air taxi services. Maybe with a little less drinking, but definitely that kind of life would appeal to me. If only...This movie is an extremely pleasant experience, with it's competent photography work, good acting, a little bit of everything, as in romance, humor, hints of sex, adventure, bad guys, city life vs life in an island, you name it (and under certain limitations), you got it. I'll probably end up buying this one. "},{"Title":"Lacks the Wit and the Psychological Insight that Mark the Best Romantic Comedies","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Robin Munro, an employee of a New York-based fashion magazine, is enjoying a short holiday on a remote South Sea island when she receives a telephone call from her editor, asking her to go to Tahiti for an urgent assignment. The only way to get there is by a small single-engined plane, and halfway through the trip the pilot is forced by bad weather to make an emergency landing on a small uninhabited island. The plane's landing gear is damaged, meaning that they are unable to take off again, and the radio equipment was put out of action by the storm, making their chances of rescue unlikely. Fortunately, however, Robin and the pilot, Quinn Harris, find themselves falling in love.This being a romantic comedy, there have to be some obstacles to their love. Robin and Quinn are complete opposites, he being a tough man of action and a lover of the great outdoors, whereas she is a suave, metropolitan New Yorker. Initially, they take a dislike to each other. Most importantly, Robin has a fiancé, Frank- indeed, they have come on holiday together to celebrate their engagement. Quinn also has a mistress, a local girl named Angelica, although this relationship does not seem to involve a great deal of emotional commitment, at least not on his part.In real life, matters like this might prove insuperable obstacles. In a rom-com, however, they are less obstacles than standard plot clichés. (See, for example, You've Got Mail, in which the same three obstacles were overcome equally easily). The three basic rules of love and marriage in rom-coms can be summarised as i) opposites attract, ii) lovers always start off by hating one another, iii) the big-name star always gets the girl, so you needn't worry about other boyfriends on the horizon.Harrison Ford is normally associated either with action adventures, like the Star Wars and Indiana Jones series, or political or legal thrillers such as Patriot Games or The Fugitive. He is not, therefore, perhaps the first actor one would think of when casting the hero of a romantic comedy. He was, however, surprisingly good in Working Girl (even if Sabrina was something of a disappointment) and here, as Quinn, he is able to draw upon his normal gruff and laconic but steady and dependable screen persona in order to emphasise the contrast with the more voluble and emotional Robin. It is clear that he is, underneath his tough exterior, a man of strong emotions, even if he has difficulty in expressing them- he left America to live in the islands after a painful divorce when his wife left him for his best friend. There are, in fact, brief attempts to turn this into an adventure film, when Quinn and Robin have to battle a gang of pirates, although even these turn into comedy when the pirates manage to sink their own ship, making them seem more like inept buffoons than ruthless cutthroats.Anne Heche presumably took this role to bolster her image as Hollywood's first born-again heterosexual, although her Robin struck me as being a bit too abrasive- not the girl I would choose to be marooned on a desert island with. Her treatment of the hapless Frank, whom David Schwimmer played as goofy but likable, also struck me as rather heartless. (I can foresee that Schwimmer is going to have a real problem with typecasting- every character he plays reminds me of his Ross from Friends). The scriptwriters seem to have shared my view about Robin's heartlessness, as they included a rather improbable scene where Frank beds Angelica while both are fretting over their missing partners. The idea was presumably to undermine the audience's sympathy for Frank by insisting that he is as guilty of infidelity as Robin is. We never actually find out how Frank's romance with Angelica progresses, but as she is a very underdeveloped character, we never really care.The film that I was most reminded of was that great eighties rom-com Crocodile Dundee, which also featured a young female New York journalist who falls to an exotic location where she falls for an older man of action. Crocodile Dundee, however, is a far better film, treating this theme with a great deal more style and humour. Harrison's Quinn is not in the same league as Paul Hogan's Mick Dundee, one of the great comic characters of all time. Six Days, Seven Nights makes for enjoyable if undemanding watching, but it lacks both the wit and the psychological insight that mark the best romantic comedies. 6/10 "}{"Title":"A disjointed but amiable romantic comedy","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've written reviews for some of Ivan Reitman's other films in the past. When he wants to, he can make a comedy that fires on all cylinders such as Ghostbusters. That film has a daft plot, but matched it with the right actors that elevated it considerably above a very flimsy premise.But then there have been other films Reitman has made that can have good actors but fall short in other areas. Six Days Seven Nights is such a film. In fact, if it weren't for the likable pairing of Harrison Ford and Anne Heche this would have been a very flaccid affair.Beginning in New York, we're given a brief glimpse into the life of Robin Monroe (Heche). A fast talking Manhattan editor, she's about to go on holiday with her fiancée Frank (the eternally drippy David Schwimmer). What she would see in someone like him is anyone's guess.Before they can reach the island of Macatea, they have to be flown there by Quinn Harris (Ford), a grizzled, burned out drunken excuse for a pilot. Quinn and Robin don't exactly hit it off. It's at this point we know this is going to be an Opposites Attract story, something the film dutifully delivers.Robin is contacted by her boss to handle an assignment while she's at Macatea, but she needs Quinn to fly her to another island to do it. Their plane gets caught in a storm, and they're forced down onto a desert island.Now trapped in each others company, Quinn and Robin have to fight for survival until they can find a way to get off the island. Plot-wise that's about it. If the film sounds pedestrian to you up until this point, that's because it more or less is.The different chain of events that lead Quinn and Robin to be stranded on an island are nicely directed and set up in an efficient way. But once they're on the island, it's as if Ivan Reitman began to run out of ideas. He's not sure whether or not to have them bickering or looking for ways to escape.But regardless of all that, Ford and Heche make a cracking couple. Despite the obvious age difference (something they both acknowledge which I thought was a nice touch) they make a good fit. Robin is a typical brash New Yorker, and Quinn matches her sardonic wit at every turn with his wry observations. Some of their exchanges are terrific fun, and even make senseQuinn You know how a woman gets a man worked up? She shows up. Men are easy in that way.Harrison Ford shows quite a talent for comedy with this film. Quinn has some of the self-deprecating attitude of Indiana Jones and the rugged, brash ego of Han Solo. Ford should concentrate on more comical roles now that his action man days are behind him.Anne Heche is typically hyper throughout, but watching her spark off Ford is great fun to watch. I like the scene where she's taken too many uppers when the plane's going down, and when they're discussing their prospective love lives.But as I was saying before, SDSN is a muddled affair. In desperation to give them something to do, Reitman manufactures a subplot about pirates on the island. Although exciting, it shows the fragile nature of the plot. But it does provide an atmosphere of tension towards the end, especially when it looks like Quinn and Robin might get killed now that they've admitted their love for each other.I won't beat around the bush. They do make it off the island, but the way they do it is quite clever, and that I won't spoil for you. Once they're back on the mainland, they now have to deal with the consequences, and how their experience has brought them together. Robin fills a void that's been missing from Quinn's life since his wife left him, and Quinn makes Robin realise she has no future with Frank (I could have told her that in the first five minutes).Quinn and Robin are not exactly Tracy and Hepburn, but they're not far behind. And I was genuinely happy when they finally got together. Six Days Seven Nights is an amiable film, but I feel it could have been so much more. Ford and Heche make such an engaging couple, that in an entirely different setting, this could have been a truly magical experience. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it, a fun movie.","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big-screen favorite Harrison Ford stars in this adventure about a dream vacation that turns into a tropical nightmare! Also starring Anne Heche (Donnie Brasco) and David Schwimmer (TV's Friends). Ivan Reitman directs after doing a great job on Ghost Busters! The plot isn't that deep, but the characters are funny and there is allot of fun to be had.Robin Monroe (Heche), a New York magazine editor and her fiancé Frank Martin (Schwimmer) are on a South Seas vacation when she's called away on business. She buys a flight from Quinn Harris (Ford), a rough-around-the-edges pilot, but they crash on a deserted island they must put aside their mutual dislike if they are to survive, and thats just the beginning.This movie, is under-rated. It has allot of comedy and good action. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Nothing special.","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is average. Ok. Mediocre. There's absolutely no reason to go out out and buy it (Well maybe only the fact that Harrison Ford's in it!) If you want to watch something easy on a lazy Sunday afternoon, or you need a film to watch whilst ironing, here it is. David Schwimmer plays his usual stupid, unlikable character, and it's definitely not Ford's best performance. However, there are some funny moments, and good scenery on the beaches and the island, but otherwise fairly predictable and bla. "},{"Title":"Creditability gap","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Anne Heche and Harrison Ford are trapped on a deserted island. Ahh, romance must be in the air. Well, actually it's not. The happy couple bickers and argues and hilarity does not ensue. Some pirates get thrown into the mix in a desperate attempt to inject some action into the proceedings. No plot device can save this film from mediocrity.There is a bright, shining lie in this flick which strains creditability to the breaking point There is not a man alive who would give up a life with Jacqueline Obradors for one with uptight Anne Heche. No amount of time spent on an island prison is going to change his mind. So I'm sitting there watching Ford and Heche go through the motions of falling in love and all I could think about was how lucky Schwimmer was back on the island with Obradors. Ford should have slapped together a bamboo raft and paddled as hard as he could to get back to his mamacita.  Heche is attractive in her own way but comparing a life with her to one with Obradors is a no-brainer. Obradors all the way. Ford must have had no brain or else it was fried from the jungle heat.  "},{"Title":"8 scriptwriters?","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Holy cliche Batman, is this bad or what?  Delighted to find a handful of reviewers here who saw the same film I did - sheesh what an embarrassing mess!  Now before you all start emailing me as usual, I like Harrison Ford, romantic comedies (this was neither), fantasy feel-good yarns but this my friends, made me feel real bad!I have to admit the flick offered a barely credible premise to start with - that ANYONE could get a case of the hots for Anne Heche, last woman on earth or what! That being so, the remainder of the film is rendered without meaning. I won't re-hash the plot again (a) it is impossibly stupid and (b) You all know it! (if you don't, go read some other review)I acquiesce with those who nominate the film as degenerating into needless ultra-violence towards the conclusion but hey, it was the ONLY brief period that I woke up - hoping Ms Heche would cop a bullet in some vital spot of her disarmingly unappealing anatomy.How could ANY perceptive and aware person watch this flick and say in all honesty as the credits roll, Gee that was a stunner! "},{"Title":"Life's a beach. Take it easy!","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I watched this movie twice, having taped it off of some cable channel the other day. Liked it so much I watched it twice. Oh, did I repeat myself? Just wanted to make sure you got my point...I like the leads Harrison Ford is excellent as the older ex-pat male (Quinn Harris) who has his little slice of ex-pat heaven turned on its ear by the arrival of New York careerist-yuppiette Anne Heche (Robin Monroe) - who is surprisingly appealing, notwithstanding the fact that Robin clearly displays all those negative qualities that Quinn so glibly enumerates. I find that Harrison Ford and Anne Heche both possess very enigmatic and alluring facial qualities, and as such I like many of the scenes where their facial expressions and body language convey as much emotive force as their dialogue, if not more. (The part where Robin proceeds to get loosened up on Xanax tablets, before they crash land, is worth the ticket price alone. As is the part where Quinn, slightly drunk in the resort bar, starts hitting on Robin.)In spite of seeing it in terrible pan-and-scan format, I was still struck by the excellent cinematography (wish I could see this beautiful movie in wide-screen or big-screen format pan-and-scan is totally geschnichtenfuergen). I like the flight scenes, and just the overall dream-vacation filming location of the movie (it's supposed to be near Tahiti, but apparently was filmed on the island of Kauai, Hawaii. Although, after they crash landed on that lush but deserted island, I couldn't help but visualize them being picked up in a jeep driven by Val Kilmer, and then whisked away to Dr. Moreau's compound of horrifying animal experimentations... the Island of Dr. Moreau! (demonic cackle..))There was a previous commenter who said the movie is gratuitously violent, to which another commenter responded that it isn't very violent. Well, I think it does have a violent streak in it, but, plot-wise, it all seems to work for me. Basically, Quinn and Robin get jumped by pirates (modern day pirates, that is... not the one-legged, black eyepatch-wearing swashbuckler variety of yore). Though a bit of a stretch in the movie, there is an historical precedent for modern-day pirate activity in various parts of the South Seas. In any case, yes - there is some brief but intense violence, but I only see it as serving to cement the bonding process going on between the mutually incompatible Quinn and Robin, which is essentially what the movie is all about anyway. Overall a nicely done film - truly a good, fun, relaxing romp in the sand. Life's a beach. Take it easy!   "},{"Title":"Not long enough!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is much better at the beginning than at the end. Anne Heche is very funny as a sarcastic New Yorker who's assistant editor of a popular women's magazine. Harrison Ford fits perfectly into the role of ex-pat dreamer who lives on a gorgeous island with an equally gorgeous woman. During an impromptu trip back to Papeete for business, a storm forces Quinn (Ford) and Robin (Heche) to land on a deserted island. There they try to survive and get off of the island. It was here, I thought, that the film had its main theme. But out of nowhere pop some pirates who try to kill Quinn & Robin. I thought the ending was rather short-cut. It would have been a better movie if they had stayed on the island without the pirates for a bit longer.    "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford's best film","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Harrison Ford is truly one of the great actor's of our time. People have often compared him to Gary Cooper in the sense that he brings an everyman quality to the fims he is in.  I think that this is the best work that he ever did and its ironic because this is one of the few films he has made that was not a success and I can't understand why. He and Anne Heche make movie magic, the chemistry between them is amazing. You root for Robin and Quinn all the way as they meet, crash on a deserted island, bicker, fight to survive and finally find true love and happiness. It is a joy to watch these two professionals at work playing such likeable characters. They make you care about Robin and Quinn and that is what makes the film. I think Ford must have had a ball spoofing his macho image. The man has a definite comedic flair. Anne Heche is a truly underated performer who can do both comedy and drama. People would realize this if they just left her personal life out of it. People criticized David Schwimmer's performance, but I thought he was hilarious as Heche's dopey boyfriend. Ivan Reitman's direction is impeccable. I don't know where this film was made but its simply beautiful. People compared Ford and Heche in this film to Bogart and Bacall in The African Queen and I certainly agree. "},{"Title":"Stylish easy viewing cinema; pity about the age gap","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ivan Reitman's comedy-drama is as entertaining as it is undemanding. Harrison Ford and Anne Heche are convincing and funny as crabby airline pilot Quinn Harris and jet-setting fashion magazine editor Robin Monroe, contending with being lost on a Pacific island, and battling with some modern-day pirates. Though their course from mutual dislike, through respect and friendship, to the finishing line of love, is familiar, they run it with style.  There are the added pleasures of spectacular scenery, realistic flying sequences, and some nifty cutting between a hula dance performance and a crash landing. (Even David Schwimmer, as Robin's waiting boyfriend with a roving eye, is for once reasonably cast.) In some respects this is a remake of the 1951 classic The African Queen - both involve a snooty woman and a tough guy thrown together in adversity. But a big difference is that, whereas Bogart and Hepburn were aged 52 and 44 when their movie was made, Ford and Heche were 56 and 29. It seems ironic that in those far off pre-feminist-movement days both movie-makers and audiences could accept older leading ladies; while now female stars over 40 can't find roles, and have to watch older male counterparts romancing women young enough to be their daughters.But most viewers will ignore such considerations, relax, and simply enjoy this cinematic equivalent of  easy listening music.  "},{"Title":"I was a little disappointed with 6 Days/7 Nights. I'm not sure what I was expecting, but there really wasn't a whole lot of substance to this movie.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Robin (Anne Heche) and Frank (David Schwimmer) are on vacation together when he proposes to her. She accepts, but then the next day gets called into work, and has to fly off the island for about 15 hours. The only way off the island, is the same way they got on, by flying in a small prop plane piloted by (Quinn) Harrison Ford. So as Robin and Quinn head back to Tahiti, they encounter a storm and a crash land on a deserted island. Then the rest of the movie is about the two of them surviving and falling for each other, and watching Frank and Quinn's girlfriend cope and have sex.There were no surprises anywhere in this film, except maybe to find out that pirates still exist. From the beginning of the movie, you knew exactly what was going to happen. Frank was going to do something stupid. Robin and Quinn were going to fall in love with each other. Quinn's girlfriend was going to get naked. The engagement gets called off. Robin leaves her life in NYC to stay with Quinn. So since you know the story, the only thing left is whether or not the movie overcame the lame story. Well, it didn't.While visually the movie was stunning, the acting didn't live up to the advance billing.  Quinn's girlfriend was a token bimbo type with a great body, just there to add a little flavor to the film. Harrison Ford was not his usual macho self, but his character seemed to be going through the motions. I didn't get a real feel for how he felt. My favorite character then had to be Frank. Schwimmer played him almost exactly like Ross on his hit TV show Friends, and here it worked. But mostly, the characters were cut out of other movies, and didn't bring anything extra to the table. "}{"Title":"violence? comedy? what?","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK to begin with this movie is not really a comedy. That would explain why there is not a lot of comedy. Secondly, I'm not entirely sure what the Jason guy was talking about when he mentioned a surprisingly fair amount of violence because shooting guns and throwing bombs is pretty mild. Nobody gets hurt. Nobody gets shot. Violence factor almost nil. What kind of movies is this guy comparing this one to? Disney cartoons? The A-Team was more violent then that. Do us a favor in the future Jason. Please don't give us reviews of anything above a PG rating. Thanks. "},{"Title":"'Six Days Seven Nights' of fun, action and romance...","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  'Six Days Seven Nights' took a lot of flack upon it's release mainly due to the fact that Anne Heche (Psycho, Return to Paradise) had just outed herself as a lesbian and audiences thought it to be inappropriate and unbelievable for Heche to be paired up with Harrison Ford. Looking at the film now, one must wonder what all the fuss was about as Heche puts in a very convincing performance.Directed by Ivan Reitman (Ghostbusters, Kindergarten Cop), the film tells the story of Robin Moore, a successful magazine editor (Heche) who is going on a dream vacation with her fiance, Frank (David Schwimmer - TV's Freinds). The holiday becomes a nightmare when she has to return to the mainland for a photo shoot and her plane crashes on a remote island leaving her stranded with pilot Quinn Harris (Harrison Ford).From there on, the two battle to survive not only each other but a band of pirates led by Temura Morrison (Once Were Warriors, Speed 2). Robin and Quinn's love / hate relationship soon blossoms into a lot more over their time in this remote paradise.This is such a great film that is not only entertaining but also genuinely funny as well. Among the funniest scene's is when the plane is crashing, we see Heche take a large amount of Zanex to help her relax as well as a some great one liners from Harrison Ford. The only thing that really holds the film back is David Schwimmer who becomes quite annoying by the end of the film. The two leads are both great in their roles despite the fact that Harrison Ford looked a little old for Heche. There is also some superb photography as well as a great score from Randy Elderman (Toy Story).'Six Days Seven Nights' is a nice piece of light entertainment for those who enjoy something with a bit of everything like action, adventure, comedy and romance. SCORE 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Anne Unappreciated","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When `Six Days Seven Nights' was released in 1998, it was during the time of co-star Anne Heche's celebrated relationship with Ellen DeGeneres.  The question was not so much how good the film was, but would the public accept a lesbian playing a romantic interest of Harrison Ford's.  The answer was, `no.'    The film underperformed at the box office.And that's a shame, because Heche is terrific.  She takes a stereotypical role, that of a New York magazine editor stranded on an island with pilot Ford, and instead of giving us a typical pampered/complaining/fearful woman, gives us  someone who is alive,  brave and resourceful.The rest of the film is a throwaway.  Ford has played this type of character many times before.  A subplot of murderous pirates attacking Ford and Heche belongs in another film, and the mutual attraction of Heche's fiance (played by David Schwimmer with his worst `Friends' mannerisms) and Ford's girlfriend (Jacqueline Obradors) is a waste of time.  "},{"Title":"A half-cast film","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  So Harrison Ford drops Jaqueline Obradors for Anne Heche? Right!!!!!!!!Half of the casting in this film is excellent. And what was all that ultra-violence about? How do you have a romantic comedy with modern day pirates butchering a ship full of people?  I guess they were extras.  That makes them expendable. "},{"Title":"Good idea.","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really liked this film. While the casting was a little off, I still enjoyed the main characters. Especially Anne Heche's role. The shooting was nicely done and it was a film that isn't the ordinary Hollywood kind where it takes place in a studio. This movie is good because it is funny, semi-dramatic, has action, and it's not a movie that was made to change something. Here you have a nice little film that is good to watch when you want a taste of the different genres. I don't think that it was given too much publicity when it was released in the theatres, and that's mainly why I never saw it until a couple of weeks ago when it was on TV. It's cute!I enjoyed that the main female role was given to Anne Heche. She was perfect for the role because she is terribly underrated and I hope that this opened some career options for her. In my opinion, Heche can deliver comedy and drama. Some of the writing that was meant to be funny couldn't be pulled off (by Ford), but Anne did a good job. Another thing that I liked about her is that she must have been in excellent shape to pull the role off. Every film has stunt men/women, but it was pretty obvious that the two main actors did some running, swimming, etc. Casting Harrison Ford as the lead male seemed to be a mistake. I'll admit that this was the second movie that I have seem him in. I know he's supposed to be like the greatest actor now days, but I wasn't too impressed. Anyway, he really didn't fit the description as a tough pilot who gets stranded on an island. Another thing that I found odd was why the part of Monroe's fiance was played by David Schwimmer. Other than the complete failure of on screen chemistry between the two, I also frowned on the stupidity that was given to his character. The writing for him was dull and poorly written out, as well as the whole thing with him and Angelica. Boring. Sure, his character was needed and the movie wouldn't have made a whole lot of sense without him, but the crew should have casted someone else. Such as a lesser known actor. I'm not even going to comment on the role and actress of Angelica. Just that it/she was bad.The plot was creative but somewhat original. It's like Gilligan's Island without the S.S. Minnow, but like something else that I have seen before. I can't quite remember but I know that I've seen the whole 'I can't stand you but we're going to have to get along one way or another' idea before. The shooting locations (scenery) was really well put together. This film had a good atmosphere all around. I also liked the different stunts that the movie called for. Monroe and Harris were fit and looked good while trying to survive on an island. Three things I had a problem with. One - the story circling around the pirates was kind of bland not to mention un-necessary. This idea that took up a total of five minutes could have been left out and wouldn't have made a difference. Two - after everything Heche went through, specifically towards the end, she still continued to have her makeup on when the going got tough. I know, not a big deal but everything else was well thought out, I was just disappointed to see that a mistake like this was left in. And third - I found it very unbelievable that a pilot and a woman that was new to the outdoors managed to fix a plane and actually got it to fly again. The pilot could have done this but I still didn't buy it. Those were the things I had some troubles with but everything else was pleasing.Watch this movie if you want a cute, funny, little movie with a partially good cast. Despite what most people thought, I found that this was one of the better films that has a simple plot but turned into something that was very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Good if not great romance/comedy","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ivan Reitman's Six Days, Seven Nights has Anne Heche as a career woman who goes ion a tropical vacation with her boyfriend, but then a problem sidetracks her to go to another island.  But then the plane crashes she's on and her pilot (Harrison Ford) and her are stuck on the island with distaste towards each other.  Ford gets a pretty good change of pace here by going to the comedy timing and there is good comic direction by veteran Reitman, but Heche brings the film down with her annoying performance.  Still, it's watchable.  B "},{"Title":"Harrison needs some Geritol","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Towards the end of his career, Carry Grant realized how ridiculous it was for him to play the love interest to women who could very well be his daughter (or granddaughter). Watch Run, Don't Walk (1966), Grant's last film, to see how he makes fun of this.   How long will it take for Harrison Ford to realize how silly he looks romping around with these youngsters?    I would find this film of interest if I only watched three films a year. Perhaps unfortunately, I watch far more than this.......yawn............. "},{"Title":"Worth your time","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A light comedy with some action thrills thrown in.  Harrison Ford always makes a movie worth viewing.  Beautiful South Pacific island scenery and an interesting, if not to original story line.  Harrison and Heche make an acceptable couple and play well together, despite the age difference.  "},{"Title":"right good movie","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was an entertaining movie in the sense that you could just sit back, enjoy your popcorn and visually entertained.  The best of the picture was Jacqueline Obradors as Angelica.  Wow!  She stole the show.  When she did the dance she was about the cutest woman I'd ever seen.  I hope to see more of her.  Check this movie out.  Pay attention to Obradors. "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This didn't seem like usual Ford fare at all. And while it's good to get away from a normal sort of portrayal, it helps if the nonstandard part is in a good movie. The premise was okay, the secondary parts non-existent, the special effects cheap, and Anne Heche whiny and annoying.  There could have been good chemistry if her character hadn't been so cliche'd and irritable. As it stands, Ford is this film's only saving grace. "}{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone says it is.","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Why does everyone loathe this film so much? Seriously, it isn't that bad - it is funny, romantic and adventurous and has lots of cool twists. So it may be a little predictable in parts, but still it is enjoyable and funny.Anne Heche is Robin Monroe, a news editor who has just won tickets for a get away with her new hubby. Everything is going fine until Robin's plane crashes and her only company is a gruffy old pilot played by Harrison Ford. The 2 people hate each other - but they will just have to get along because soon their lovely 'vacation' is turning into mayhem!Six Days Seven Nights isn't exactly a film I would add to my top 250 - but it is definitely worth a look.My rating  7 and a half/10. "},{"Title":"Ford's worst effort yet","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Cliche riddled, flimsy Gilligan's Island rip-off wannabe. The dialogue alone turned me to concrete, but the so-called excitement really hardened the mixture. This dull mess was a total waste of good talent; so predictable that at times I could almost say the lines ahead of the players. Both thumbs down. "},{"Title":"Nice scenery, good script, an all around good movie","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  	'Six Days, Seven Nights' starts out very promising, and by the time the movie is half done, it looks like Touchstone has created the best comedy in years. Then the pirates appear.	Without the pirates, the movie could be considered one of the most enjoyable movies of the year. With them, it's just an above average, but never excellent, comedy. They appear out of nowhere (how did they get to the island through the storm that downed the airplane anyway?), and they seem to drag the movie down with them.	Even so, 'Six Days, Seven Nights' is still a lot of fun. The jokes, though at times few and far between, get across and can be extremely funny. Harrison Ford and Anne Heche, despite the twenty three year age difference, have great chemistry and inject a lot of life into their characters- and the movie. David Schwimmer and Allison Janney (TV's The West Wing) do well with their supporting characters, and the Hawaiian scenery is absolutely breathtaking.	Reitman did a very good job crafting a superior comedy compared to most recent films- a must for fans of the two leads, never making the pirates the center of the story, and (without giving the story away) keeping the syrupy romance at the ending to a minimum. The musical score captures the flavor of the setting perfectly, greatly improving the enjoyability of the movie.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Six Days Seemed Like an Eternity","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie wasn't all it was cracked up to be. If you saw the commercials, you saw the good parts. The funniest parts of the movie happened at the beginning, and the rest were few and far between. AVOID Six Days Seven Nights, rent Office Space instead! "},{"Title":"Not Romancing The Stone but a fun and cute movie.","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I do agree with many critics when they compare Harrison Ford to Cary Grant. A good leading man with a sense of humor to the entire situation.  He filled his shoes more than adequately in the film and delivered a different style of humor than we are used to seeing from him.  Anne Heche is a bit over-done in her comedy but is definitely not painful to watch.  The story is good and the scenery is AMAZING.  I think Ivan Riteman needed to spend a few more weeks on the script but overall I found the movie romantic and funny.  2 1/2 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"A movie that should not have been made","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This could have been an interesting romantic comedy if the writers had any imagination at all. I would pay to see Harrison Ford in a romance with intelligent things to say, like in Working Girl and Sabrina. There would be no need for the stupidity of the whole pirates idea.I'd never seen Anne Heche before, and I think this movie was a bad introduction for her. I can see why she might be a good actress given another type of role - but in this movie she's just awful. I doubt it's her fault (except for taking the role in the first place). There's no personality or humor in the story, and it's not especially romantic. The previews want you to believe that this movie is Romancing the Stone. I suggest watching that movie instead. "},{"Title":"An Enjoyable Movie","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Six Days Seven Nights is an enjoyable movie nothing great but for 2 hours it is entertainment. Harrison Ford as usual is perfect in this role. This film has bits of action and comedy and even romance, I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Very Average","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I watched this on video last night mainly because I'm a fan of most Harrison Ford movies. This however is probably one of the worst he's been in. Theres no spark between the leads and the secondary characters are just there to annoy. If its on TV and nothing else is on watch it, if you've anything else to do avoid.   "},{"Title":"Awful, awful, awful","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was trapped into watching this while on a long flight on an airplane.  It is one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  Simply a disaster, in every respect.  Predictable, dull, boring, cliche-packed... not an ounce of cleverness.  If you liked this movie, I don't want to know you. "},{"Title":"Great light comedy!  Few F words.","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Great light action/comedy (if there is such a genre).  Better each time we watch it, which is the true measure of a good film.  Heche is a wonderful comedienne and Schwimmer almost (but not quite) steals the show with his remorse.  Ford? -- Always good.  Much was made of the difference in his and Heche' ages.  So what? But a minor goof you may want to enter  In returning, they are flying a Japanese Float Plane and the airspeed indicator is in English.  "}{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I never would know myself like Romance movie this much.  7D6N have all the right stuff, I watch it 6 times for the first time on Starz and rent a tape from Blockbuster.  The characters, play by Ford and Heche have great conflict and relatedness. The scenery is magnificence, may be I will revisit the Hawaii area soon.  I like the music, it is relaxing and moody at the same time.  It is one of my favorite movie for all time. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable movie","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't expect much from this movie. I have never much liked the usual Hollywood feel-good romantic/comedy/action movies. They are usually filled with long and pathetic overly prolonged scenes, where people supposedly express their feelings, in a totally unrealistic way. In a way only american can think of.Not this one however. I totally enjoyed the way this one was put together. The feelings of actors, who mattered, were expressed realistically, not dragging them on gleefully in a way that usually makes me bang my head against the wall when watching Hollywood movies. The characters felt much deeper this way.Of other characters, we had a total looser, playing a total looser, and a sexy bimbo playing a sexy bimbo. So I even liked the casting, although that looser indeed was a looser.Anyway. It was my first hollywood romantic/comedy/action that I thoroughly enjoyed without any reservations. "},{"Title":"Funny Movie","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  At first when I rented this movie, I thought it was going to be an action. But then I found out it was a comedy. Which was better, because I love comedies!! Comedies are so much fun to watch! Anne Heche did an excellent job with her facial expressions and sarcasm. Harrison Ford, with no doubt, did a tremendously super job at acting, once again. Harrison Ford rules!! David Schwimmer, by the way, was really annoying througout the movie. He was really getting on my nerves with his puppy eyed looks and sad face, when it turns out he cheats on her!Well, if you're into comedy, then you should definitely see this movie. Just keep in mind that it isn't an action. "},{"Title":"With previews like these ...","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Harrison Ford (who should have known better) and Anne Heche are flying from (a) to (b) and crash. They run in to some pirates who they must obviously evade and equally obviously fall for each other along the way after initially hating each other. Meanwhile, back at (a) or (b), their respective girlfriend/boyfriend are cheating on them with each other. You can get all this from the preview, so why bother watching the film? There really is no point as everything you need to know is there as well as a very good impression of what to expect - which is not very much. The best thing to do is rent another film with a preview for this one. That's all you'll ever need to see of this one. Probably too much actually.As for all the drama over the casting of Anne Heche, well the whole point about acting is continually being something you're not in real life. The whole motion picture industry is all supposed to be make believe, isn't it? "},{"Title":"I'd watch it again; and have!","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Like other stupid but compelling love stories, this one consists mostly (and unfortunately)of implausibility. Most such stories appeal to the compartments of us which long for the unity we seem to be destined to aim for and miss. This movie follows the formula...simple, predictable, and therefore rewarding in a way that life seldom is.6D7N is about the fantasy of every failed middle-aged man - another chance at the love he's wished he could be worthy of for the last 30 years of his life. The approach is lightweight; the issue is deep and serious.Harrison Ford is convincing as a 50-something has-been, who's life is changed by the need to be vital enough for a new and unexpected love.Anne Heche is captivating...energy unbounded, facial expressions rivalling those of the redoubtable Annette Benning.This is a wonderful viewing experience for all those whose love affair with life is not quite finished.  "},{"Title":"Go Harrison, boo Schwimmer","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was better than i expected.  All the scenes with Harrison Ford and Anne Heche are well acted, exciting, and sexy.  All the scenes with David Schwimmer (playing Ross with money) are painful.  I hope for his sake that he doesn't get typecast in that role, because he will be the person everyone loves to hate.  If you can handle that 1/3 of this movie is really painful to watch, rent it for a fun movie night! "},{"Title":"Great Movie-Top 10","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This Movie just made my Top 10 list by Knocking out Long time runner Starship Troopers-Funny,adventurous,romantic-although I think it shows the kind of people (swhimmer) or whatever his name is that we dont need to see-He cheats on his girlfriend. all in all I would buy it when I can and it's a good movie to watch... "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford and Anne Heche are the next Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan!","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan may have been perfect for each other in Sleepless in Seattle, and then scored big once again in You've Got Mail, but Harrison Ford and Anne Heche have proven that Hanks and Ryan aren't the only actors with chemistry. In Six Days, Seven Nights Anne Heche plays a business woman who is engaged to an overbearing guy named Frank, played by David Shwimmer. When they go away to a romantic island, they meet the laid back, drunken pilot, Harrison Ford. His character Quinn is not as Anne Heche quotes, one of those guys who you send out into the wilderness with a cutip and a pocket knife and they build you a shopping mall. His character is actually realistic unlike Indiana Jones or his president at kombat in Air Force One. The movie is also rather life like itself which you will see as they prepare to leave the island. Instead of a miracle appearing out of nowhere in the middle of the film, you actually see them building and working as you would have to if you were stranded on an island.From the moment Ford and Heche meet you feel the connection they have to each other. Rather than taking a liking to each other from the beginning of the film, they constantly bicker and argue over the funniest topics, one of them being Anne Heche's t**s! When it gets towards the end of the movie they obviously start falling for each other (just like every other typical romantic comedy), but this one I enjoyed imparticularly. Other than it starring two of my favorite actors, it was unpredictable. When they get off the island it looks as if they are going to go their own separate ways, which you would never suspect in a romantic comedy. Besides this, it also throws in some great action sequences including a chase scene with pirates. This is why this film is a perfect date movie, it has the romance for the woman and the action for the men!The acting is also superb. If you had never heard of Anne Heche you would mistake her as a heterosexual. She shows no signs of homosexuality the entire movie. And in my own opinion, it shouldn't matter if she is gay. It is a great film and she is a talented actress. Harrison Ford is also terrific in his first romantic comedy since Sabrina. I only hope that I can see Ford and Heche appear in another movie together sometime soon.  "},{"Title":"Ease up, folks, it's just a movie","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay.  It was a little predictable, but there was enough I haven't seen before to keep ME in suspense, and it was worth it for the chemistry between Ford and Heche.  I also like Harrison Ford, and think this was a good role for him.  I loved the sniping between them-funniest parts of the movie. Oh, and by the way, there are really criminals who use the ocean and will kill you without hesitation, for you guys who thought the pirate bit was unrealistic...  "},{"Title":"Shoot the editor","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Someone shot a half decent movie somewhere along the line but whoever edited it turned it into a meaningless series of unrelated episodes. The actors seemed to think they were in something quite decent and the director seemed to know what he was doing; this is a whoruinedit? I assume whoever cut it together didn't have a copy of the script and disliked the actors. What a waste!  "}{"Title":"Mindless but pleasant.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Most of the movie's modest pleasures are derived from watching Harrison Ford reprise his Star Wars character in a tropical setting.  He and Heche have nice chemistry, and the whole thing passes mindlessly and pleasantly. Except for a couple of crashes, this has all the makings of a swell transcontinental plane ride film.   "},{"Title":"Mindless but pleasant.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Most of the movie's modest pleasures are derived from watching Harrison Ford reprise his Star Wars character in a tropical setting.  He and Heche have nice chemistry, and the whole thing passes mindlessly and pleasantly. Except for a couple of crashes, this has all the makings of a swell transcontinental plane ride film.   "},{"Title":"OK no-brainer rental","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For the actors, you'd expect more.  However, it was just a fun, no-thinking mostly comedic movie.  It's weird seeing Ford in such a 'basic' role, but also sort of refreshing.Nothing to write home about though. "},{"Title":"Great story, great acting, great entertainment.","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie did what I expect from movies Great entertainment. Ms. Heche was the BIG surprise. Her wit, mimics and interaction with Mr. Ford was wonderful, hilarious, and very believable. The  aviation issue was very well done unlike most Hollywood attempts, although the reason for having to land in the first place was not explained. A smoked radio won't do it. And last but not least, Mr. Ford finally did not look like Indiana Jones, he now is an actor. My hat off to him for mastering the Beaver himself. I am really looking forward to this type of production, it gives me a chance to get my sensitivity back. Nobody used the F-word. How creative. It is remarkable what one can do with the rest of the English language. Excellent. "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There was nothing great about Six Days Seven Nights.  The movie follows two characters on their journey to tolerate each other. In doing so, they encounter many obstacles a plane crash, an attack by sea pirates, being stranded on an island, shortage of food, no communication, no flares, and most of all each other.  There are many laughs in this movie, but nothing really hilarious.  There is some chemistry between Ford's and Heche's character but nothing pleasingly romantic.  Definitely a rental.  6/10 "},{"Title":"predictable, plotless, no character development","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The threadbare plot of this movie is completely predictable; and the character development is non-existent.  Neither love story (and I use the term loosely) is at all believable.  The movie trailer shows everything you need to know about the movie, and includes all of the parts that are even remotely humurous. "},{"Title":"How cliche can you get?","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A formula scene was hardly missed the plane crash, the pirates, the high dive off the cliff, if they could have figured a way to get a railroad on a desert island, Anne Heche would have been tied to the tracks.  Every scene in this movie was written like an order in a Chinese restaurant. Ome from column A, one from column B, etc. If this premise (couple trapped on desert island) actually happened, could a twenty-something Anne Heche develope a relationship with a 60-something Harrison Ford?  Of course, in the movie, Ford is supposed to be 50-something, but believe me, he never looked worse.Back to the screenwriting, Anne Heche is so terrified of a domestic pig that appears from nowhere, she falls into a lake. However, when a snake gets in her pants while in the lake, she's cool enough to crack wise at Ford when he extricates the reptile from her undies.Please, please let this be the last time we have to endure the sniveling David Schwimmer.  Apparently he is only capable of playing  his Friends character and that's all.  If you like to hear him whining on that sitcom ( or any anything else he's ever been in) you'll like him here. It's the exact same one dimensional character.Leave this on the rental rack, unless you think movie plots peaked in the 1920's. "},{"Title":"Disappointing.","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was a big disappointment, The setting had so much possibility and with Harrison Ford, the potential was great.  However, the plot was just a string of predictable cheap movie moments.  A good screen writer could have made this into a really good movie.  As it was, it was mildly entertaining, Ford was good as usual and probably the only thing that saved this movie from being a dog.  It was obviously made in a hurry with not much thought going into a real plot nor in making the action scenes very interesting.  "},{"Title":"Good star chemistry","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Schwimmer was weak, but the chemistry between Heche and Ford was magical, despite the difference in age between them.  Heche was especially surprising in the comic development of her character. "},{"Title":"not bad - better than I thought it would be","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was skeptical going in.  But the love scenes worked better than I thought they would.  I thought it would have ended better if the other couple had also ended up together.  She was hot.The solution that gets them out of danger at the end was not realistic.  50+ year old metal in the tropics likely does not survive intact.Also - earth to Hollywood - Aloha airlines is a Hawaiian airline, not a Tahitian airline.  Jeez - you'd think they'd at least get that right.  As soon as I saw that I knew where it was filmed. "}{"Title":"Two People. One Island. Insanity Abounds.","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Taking a much needed break from her job in New York, tenacious Robin Munroe (Anne Heche) and her flighty boyfriend (David Schwimmer) take a romantic journey to the beautiful tropical island of Macatea. En route, they discover that their pilot, Quinn Harris (Harrison Ford), is a rough-and-tumble man whose charming pursuit of Robin fails horribly. Quinn is still determined to prove that he's the best pilot that anyone could ever meet. Halfway through her vacation, Robin is needed in Tahiti and flies with Quinn into an oncoming storm. The plane crashes and Robin and Quinn are shipwrecked on a deserted island, while Robin's boyfriend takes an interest in Quinn's co-pilot Angelica (Jacqueline Obradors). Comedic sarcasm, quick wit, and danger soon follow... not to mention the pirates. Pirates?! As in argh?! What more could you ask for in a film?  "},{"Title":"Predictable.","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is much too predictable and not very entertaining. The casting of Heche and Ford is great but the screenplay and direction let them down. I liked looking at the island photography, but this film is just plain empty. "},{"Title":"This movie rules!","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I have ever seen.  It's really funny and even suspensful in some parts.  Anne Heche is really good in this movie as well as Harrison Ford and David Schwimmer.  I think it's one of the best movies of 1998. "},{"Title":"Another bio-degradable movie","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is the perfect summer movie, that does not require any part of your brain to work. You just have to sit and watch two hours of perfectly forgettable adventures. Of course, you won't get so bored, but you won't be able to remember the plot next summer. This is very convenient for the producers of the movie, who will surely have another bio-degradable movie looking just the same to show you at the time. But who chooses Harrisons movies since a few years ? Why must fans of Blade Runner or Witness see him in such things as 6 days, 7 nights and other Air Force one ? "},{"Title":"A total waste of time and money","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have to wonder why Harrison Ford allowed himself to be dragged into this disgraceful flop. No chemistry with his counterpart and a dull and predictable plot. Everybody acted poorly, and there was almost no character development. And, of course, there was nothing funny, and a lot of wrong things, with Angelica's reasoning to Frank. The only good thing in the movie was the photography. "},{"Title":"Great disappointment","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is not entertainment. It is not fun. It is predictable.  "},{"Title":"great movie... excellent director","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Six days seven nights is a very entertaining film.  Good plot, cast, and an excellent director.  Ivan Reitman's contributions to the film industry over the last 20+ years are wonderful.  I look forward to viewing his future work! "},{"Title":"A nice summer comedy with Ford finally playing a believable character again","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It was a delight to Harrison Ford playing in an actually entertaining film after the Devil's Own and Air Force one. The only reason I did not leave the movie during those two playing was because of Mr. Ford's reliable performance. Air Force One was really a pity, because it started out quite well, but from about the half of it it flopped. As for the Devil's Own it was a real disappointment since Alan J. Pakula and Ford had done a great job in Presumed Innocent. 6D7N did not want to be anything else but a light summer comedy-romance-adventure and with all its shortcomings in the story it served this purpose very well. It had a good rhythm and music, the photography was impressive and both the supporting actors and leading characters delivered a very funny performance. Even though Ford did not look like 45 at all, more like 55, his masculinity and the character he played were convincing enough for him to be the right choice for woman who could have been his daughter. We may be old, but sturdy. Ford is great in comedies and would be fun to see him in some more. However, once he said that he wanted to fall out of his leading hero role and become a character actor. Well, I cannot wait to see him playing such interesting personalities again as Allie Fox, Henry or Dr. Kimble. "},{"Title":"Six Days, Seven Nights, A Thousand Movies","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Six Days, Seven Nights isn't a good movie. It's a kind of movie that you saw a thousand times, but you came to the theater to saw another. The chemistry between Heche and Ford is good. Schwimmer is cool. But the screenplay and the direction isn't creative. Six Days, Seven nights is a great movie to see in a saturday afternoon. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and entertaining","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The actor performances were above par, the scenery was magnificent and the plot was, well, very similar to African Queen.  Except, of course, they didn't ask the pirate captain to perform a wedding ceremony.  I liked African Queen a lot, and I liked this one, too. "}{"Title":"Simply, an enjoyable movie","Date":"6 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Six Days Seven Nights, has nothing real memorable, but it's just a nice movie to sit back and enjoy.  The chemistry between Harrison Ford and Anne Heche is good, and the film is overall very entertaining.  It's worth viewing.* * * "},{"Title":"Nice little movie, with nice big stars ...","Date":"13 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i saw the film twice and i find it is fascinating.Harrison Ford - 56 years and still sexy like ever. Anne Heche - more beautiful than i thought (Ellen has a very good taste ). David Schwimmer - sweet like in Friends.actually the best movie, for enjoying a nice cinema-evening. "},{"Title":"Not great, but entertaining.","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  An entertaining comedy, nothing irritating and nothing particularly  memorable, if you just want to sit back and enjoy a film this one is  alright. "},{"Title":"Enjoying to watch.","Date":"10 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Robin Monroe an ambitious New York girl is on a South Seas vacation with her Boyfriend, when she's called away on business. The only plane available is piloted by Quinn Harris with whom she shares a mutual dislike. They crash on a deserted island. There, this mismatched pair finds themselves facing danger, while they endure the elements and each other's company&#x85;..The movie on itself is not that bad. OK the movie is predictable, and it contains a lot of clichés. But this movies does what it was designed to do. It don't require a lot of brain power, but is enjoying to watch. A well mixture of competent shooting at a marvelous location and great acting from the two leads.The two leading actors Heche and Ford building up a unique romantic chemistry throughout the film. The normally wooden Harrison Ford is funny and convincing as Quin Harris. He is very comfortable on the screen thanks to Anne Heche. She is the real star of the movie. This movie shows that she is one of the most underrated actresses in the business.The movie would have been much better and more enjoyable without David Schwimmer. He almost ruins the movie entirely on his own with his horrible acting. He was incredibly annoying and whiney with his Ross-alike performance in this movie.All by all, a predictable but tasty meal. "},{"Title":"Departure for Reitman","Date":"19 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A slight departure from director Ivan Reitman is this romance-adventure-comedy from the Romancing the Stone school.The story of two mismatched people stranded on an uncharted Pacific island is good fun, if very light. The humour is effective, and the predictable nature of the movie does not detract from its enjoyment. Anne Heche, who is a bit of a Hollywood darling at the moment, plays the damsel in distress, while Harrison Ford, a true Hollywood star (and talent), plays the broken down pilot who must figure out how to get the pair out of this mess.Saturday, May 15, 1999 - Video "},{"Title":"I had fun","Date":"21 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" six days seven nights is a film about true love , and what one has to go through to truly find true love , the film isn't exactly fantastic , but it does do what it sets out to do , and that's to convince you about the relationships within the film. A lot of people in reality shield there true feelings from there lovers for many reasons , dying alone , being alone , there's 100s of reasons , and it portrays just that , you never know for sure who that special someone is , it could be who you least expect , and that's what this film bases all its elements on , true love is in the last place you will ever possibly look.Overall the action sequences of the film are fun , but i think that's more than likely the weaker side of the movie , although watching pirates chasing them through the island was OK , i think we needed to see more of that , to see how much Quinn (Harris) would have gone through to save Robin (Anne), with that being said , i found that to be the only real bore to the film , the scenes of romance lasted just long enough for you to get the idea , and just short enough so you wouldn't get bored.6/10 "},{"Title":"a missed blooper","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When they found the water and she goes in, something swims in her shorts. After Harrison Ford pulls out a snake he sniffs his finger and smiles. That was funny. The movie overall was a great movie and fun to watch. It had enough action to keep action movie goers interested and had enough romance to keep my wife teary eyed. I think the funniest part in the whole movie was when Anne Hesch was caught in the plane from the life raft blowing up and was pushed up against the window of the plane. I was surprised to see David Schwimmer cheat on his fiancé so early in their relationship but it was good to see Harrison Ford and Anne Hesch get together in the end. "},{"Title":"Surprisnlgy good movie.","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The movie has all the trappings of mediocrity but is surprisingly a good movie. In terms of quality, this movie is on the same level as Joe vs. The Vulcano. The main reason why this movie is watchable is the performance of Harrison Ford. He proves once again what a great actor he is. Even in relative lightweight fare he is a dominating presence on the screen. David Schwimmer and Ann Heche also provide excellent performances. There is a part of the movie where it could have become another Swept Away but thankfully the story takes a more original turn. One remake of Swept Away was enough. The movie contains nice scenery but underscores that looks can be deceiving and that what looks like a paradise can also be a prison from which there is no escape. "},{"Title":"Not bad, old fashioned-Reitman stuff.","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Six Days Seven Nights is another one of the many movies out there that makes no pretensions as to containing anything special or different from the others. Ivan Reitman has created a niche in telling the Hollywood story, he knows the deal. You get attractive leads. You make a situation where they are put on an island and through urgency, they have to work together. It's all very standard stuff. But Reitman fills in whatever void he can with comedy and it's purely hit-and-miss from how you feel about it.Robin, recently engaged and on vacation, seeks the help of Quinn, who seeks solitude and the simple life after a world of hurt. Quinn flew her to their vacation spot, but for several hundred more dollars, she enlists his help to fly her to Tahiti for a quick assignment her job asks of her. A storm downs them on a remote island and they're stuck with each other.How Ford and Heche work on screen is so important for a film that commands it, but the story is so by-the-numbers, you may find yourself wondering when the couple will just cut to the chase and get off the island. The more interesting side-story, with Angelica and Frank, is played pleasantly well. But the whole story is just too cheesy sometimes. That fickle moral of love and doing what's best, once again, is played so unrealistically, yet so obvious. "},{"Title":"Ford Was Competent, But This Rom/Com Can't Float.","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Anne Heche had just come out into the public eye with her relationship with Ellen DeGeneres, so it was a hard sell to convince movie goers of her on-screen relationship with Ford's character. I think that element and the heavy-handed direction of this film are the principal reasons for its failure to wow audiences at the box offices.Beyond that, Ford was more believable herein than in Hollywood Homicide, and delivered a class action performance. Audiences believed him as the hero. What they couldn't believe was Heche in a heterosexual role, at that time, regardless of her later choice of a male mate. She was much more believable in Volcano. This was mildly entertaining, but just didn't float.It earns a 5.4/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"Don't expect much from Reitman.","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Reitman comedies have been mediocre/bad for years, and this one is just one in a series. Ford and Heche are likable, the scenery is very nice, but the script is rather thin, and ultra-formulaic clichés infest the movie heavily in the second half. The pirates are totally unnecessary and were introduced for lack of real comedic ideas. Schwimmer is f***ing awful, as usual, and the sub-plot with him was needless. The movie is watchable, but the laughs aren't there - and this is meant to be a comedy, after all. The somewhat schmaltzy, totally predictable, cliché ending is as standard as it gets. If you want to see my biographies of Hollywood stars, contact me by e-mail. "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Thought this was a lovely movie, specially an old guy getting the younger woman, liked the theme of good but old winning out over young and stupid.Anne heche looked adorable in this movie, she should do more roles like this one instead of most of the crappy roles she does.She is a very gifted actress and should be given better roles, granted she has had a difficult past and childhood but she can really nail it when she wants to.Wonder if she really likes over 50 guy in real life if so i would gladly offer my services. "},{"Title":"one of the most romantic movies!!!!","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" this movie is really wonderful, from the beginning to the end. I really love funny love stories, and this is a perfect example of it!!! It's about a Jung female who lives in New York and about here fiancée, actually her fiancée when there on the island, but when she has to go back for her job, she asks her pilot who flew them there to bring her, what also happens, but there's a big Storm and they crash on an island!! and in the beginning it's very funny, but when they see pirates it's getting serious. The scenes I liked the most where the one where they kissed for the first time after they jumped of a rock, and the one where Quinn says that he wanna kiss her again, and of course the end was also beautiful !!!! "},{"Title":"What I disliked about an otherwise great adventure.","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If there is any film that when I hear about it, I can't wait to see it, it is about survival after a ship wreak, or better, survival after a plane crash!!It is the sinking ship, or the aircraft crash landing, or as Dish Network stupidly calls it in their dumb listing of Six Days Seven Nights, the emergency landing; that is usually the most looked for highlight.Before going on, I want to also mention that I can think of three films that the cross-cutting makes them really great, and one that makes that film less than great .. and that is sad.The best Two gangs; the two in love; and a gang leaders sister.. coming together while singing, in the classic, Westside Story. Second best, the many assassinations cross-cut with the baptism, in (I think) Godfather two.  The third, maybe the military funeral of the bum's brother, cross-cut with little children Xmas singing to President Bartlett in a recent West Wing.The worst example THAT DOES NOT WORK AT ALL, is the cross-cutting of all things during the crash landing mixed with David Schwimmer's dancing in an island night club in SIX DAYS AND SEVEN NIGHTS.Once I saw that, I started viewing Schwimmer's performance as the most overdone 'fop' performance in decades.  I was hoping that the great director, William Wiler could come back to life saying, Ok, once more David; BUT A LITTLE LESS!!!!!!  And I did not have it in for David prior! I had never watched him or heard of him before that performance.Next time you get the chance, watch that crash landing on the beach again and see if the cross cutting attempt is not all wrong!Had I been the director, standing behind the editor, I would have said, Forget it; that does not work.Other than that cross-cutting failure and David Schwimmer's overdone performance, I loved SIX DAYS AND SEVEN NIGHTS.  "},{"Title":"The best Romantic comedy ever!!","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You could cut the sexual tension in this movie with a knife. The actors worked well together and build up this love-hate thing till the climax! Well worth viewing!! Did not see this film till it was recomended by a friend, glad i took his advice! Watch it, you'll love it!! "},{"Title":"A lame movie that can't decide what it wants to be","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Six Days Seven Nights goes through all of the usual cardboard characters and clichés you would expect. It might not be so bad if the film wasn't so 90s. The dated presentation and production design really is quite distracting in the present day.Anne Heche and the wooden David Schwimmer play a couple in love who take a quick vacation to the South Pacific. Harrison Ford plays the grouchy pilot who flies them to their island resort. But a mishap leads to a plane crash leaving Ford and Heche stranded while Schwimmer has to mourn his lost love, leading to the not-so-shocking revelation that he the experience has revealed no character to him whatsoever. A fact that the writer tries to cover-up by not-so-cleverly working it into the dialogue.The dialogue and humor is cheap, simple, and easy. The music generic and dated. All this film really has going for it is some pretty scenery. They try to liven things up by introducing pirates 30 minutes from the end, but they seem unnaturally shoehorned in. None of them are given names, have barely 5 minutes screen time, and hardly any dialogue.The trailers promised an old-fashioned island adventure movie. What they actually gave us was more of a romantic comedy. There were action scenes featured in the trailer that are not in the movie. The running time of 101 minutes and the very abrupt resolution gives the impression that there was more action and plot before someone ordered it to be cut out.What's left is just an okay movie. It is neither original nor clever and has no spark, no edge, and no bite. David Schwimmer once more proves he can only do one character (Ross Geller) and can't even do it very well.Six Days, Seven Nights is hardly groundbreaking but is an enjoyable time-waster. Don't go out of your way for it. "},{"Title":"the stupidest, worst-written, worst-directed disaster of harrison ford's career","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I know this might sound slutty, but I'm feeling bad, and you're feeling bad, and I would really like you to stay tonight.WHAT? WHO WROTE THIS?What do we do now? -- a line of dialog delivered unstunningly by Anne Heche ... came from the most common phrase uttered by the director on location ... you remember him ... a guy in a monkey suit scratching his armpits with drool rolling out of his mouth, going duhhhh, what do we do now?Wrong. This is wrong. This is all wrong! -- yes, that would be the audience, after watching about 10 minutes of this movie.Totally predictable. Plot development that will leave you saying, that doesn't make any sense. why did they do it that way? Characters who forget they can't stand each other at the sight of a little bare skin from the other person.David Schwimmer's role and Jacqueline Obradors' role could each have been deleted and nobody would have noticed.The only reason that I rated this movie a 2 instead of a 1 is because Harrison Ford is in it. But he must have been as drunk as his lame character in this movie when he accepted this job.A lousy waste of an hour and half, but probably good fodder for MAD magazine. "},{"Title":"Dull predicatable pap","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is bland with a capital B. The plot is utterly predictable and the jokes are poor.Temuera Morrison must be desperate for a break in Hollywood to play the head pirate who chases the characters played by Harrison Ford and Anne Heche.Ford and Heche are pretty unremarkable, but the real dud actor is David Schwimmer. He performance is guaranteed to have you looking furtively at your watch hoping it will end soon. Stick to bad TV Dave, you make even worse films. "},{"Title":"Only the cast keeps this film above water","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Six Days Seven Nights is a nice movie to watch when it is raining out or nothing is on TV. The plot is nothing above the standard action-adventure plot but the acting does help move this movie above average.From time to time Harrison Ford, who plays Quinn, has to remind us that he is a great actor, not just an action-adventure star. He has had non-action films over the years from Regarding Henry to Sabrina to Working Girl. He turns in the usual gruff Indiana Jones role he is known for here. Yes, the movie has some action parts to it but it is not the focus and seems to be just filler. Anne Heche, who plays Robin, turns in what has to be the best acting ever in film. At the time this film came out she came out and had a relationship with Ellen DeGeneres for several years. Never in the film do you get the sense that she is not into Harrison as their fighting turns into love. If that isn't the best acting I don't know what is. You really can't fake screen chemistry and she and Harrison actually have it. It is a shame that her career took a nose dive after this movie when she had issues with substance abuse and the tabloids.David Schwimmer, plays Robin's fiance Frank Martin. In a sub plot he thinks Robin is dead and he ends up sleeping with Quinn's girl friend Angelica. His acting is really not that much different than his character on the TV show Friends.Angelica, played by Jacqueline Obradors is a treat as the oversexed dancer who thinks everyone has sex after a funeral (that was the best line in my view).As I said the plot was pretty much by the numbers which is a shame because with it being Directed by Ivan Reitman I thought there might be some extremely goofy moments he has been known for in other films. It is a shame the script wasn't better. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable romp in the Pacific","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movies exotic locations and solid performance from Harrison Ford carried the film. I liked the interactions between Ford and Heche. I'm not claiming that the film contained non-stop laughs, but it provided enough to have me rate it a 7. "}{"Title":"enjoyable but not surprising","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Heche is a New York magazine editor who travels to the tropics with her rich boyfriend for what is supposed to be an ideal vacation. She hitches a ride with gruff pilot Ford and they get stranded on an uncharted island. They're total opposites so once there they have to learn how to put aside their disdain for each other, then work together to make it back to civilization when they become targeted by a gang of ruthless pirates. Not bad romantic comedy makes good use of the opposites attract scenario with funny lines, a pleasant feel, two charming leads, and some impressive scenery, but it's far too predictable to succeed overall. **½ "},{"Title":"Ford not the rom-com type","Date":"12 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Robin Monroe (Anne Heche) is an assistant editor of a fashion magazine in NYC. She goes on a tropical vacation with boyfriend Frank Martin (David Schwimmer). After accepting Frank's proposal, Robin has a quick job to supervise a photo shoot. She hops on Quinn Harris (Harrison Ford)'s plane to make the short trip but a storm forces them to crash.I've never bought Harrison Ford as a rom-com lead and this is a prime example. Although he has more chemistry with Anne Heche than David Schwimmer has with her. This is pretty standard rom-com fare. If it had better actors for this type of movie, I think this could have worked. Anne Heche also has a bit of problem with light rom-coms. There is a specific type that these two actors don't necessarily fit.Then there is the switch in tone midway through. If that's the tone, then the first half is ill-fitting. I hate that the movie keeps going back to Schwimmer. His character really doesn't work for many reasons. This movie struggles to find the right tone. "},{"Title":"One Day to Trash It.","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Six Days, Seven Nights (1998) Dir Ivan Reitman / Cast Harrison Ford, Anne Heche, David Schwimmer, Jacqueline Obradors, Temuera Morrison An action centred Swiss Family Robinson catering to romantic thrills and dumb subplots. A long stretch of time between two people whose initial personalities are in conflict while their inner emotions are in total denial. Harrison Ford plays a pilot who spirits David Schwimmer and Anne Heche off to the tropical. In order to match Ford and Heche together the screenwriter concocts a sudden business trip where he must pilot her away but the plane goes down in the heat of a storm. They crash land on an island and bicker back and forth and are chased by pirates. Lame plot doubles back and forth between Ford and Heche and the lame guilt ridden affair David Schwimmer indulges in that nobody cares about. Director Ivan Reitman doesn't clash romance, humour and adventure very successfully, and that is unfortunate since he has directed such superior films as Ghostbusters and Stripes. Ford and Heche are able actors stranded within lame situations that are beneath them. Schwimmer is horrible as the guilt ridden beau who needs another drink after being associated with this junk. Supporting actors fares little better and more or less await for anything to happen. Beautiful photography within a lackluster screenplay that crash lands. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"There are worse ways to spend 90 minutes, but not much to see here","Date":"22 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Robin Monroe, (Anne Heche) a New York magazine editor, and pilot Quinn Harris (Harrison Ford) must put aside their mutual dislike if they are to survive after crash landing on a deserted Island in Ivan Reitman's 'Six Days Seven Nights'What's interesting here is Harrison Ford personally picked out Anne Heche to be his co- star over stars like Julia Roberts. You'd have thought he'd have picked someone he had decent chemistry with, as (at least for me) they make an awkward on screen couple to say the least.David Schwimmer (Ross Gellar from TV's 'Friends') turns up as Ross Gellar from TV's 'Friends' but with a different name, one that now escapes me. He was that interesting. Danny Trejo had a minor role as a pirate,Interesting side note is Ford did his own flying in the movie, and had to be specifically insured to fly the cast in the plane. Heche was Annoying, Ford was gruff. Neither was likable. "},{"Title":"Textbook mediocrity","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A charmless romantic comedy in which Harrison Ford and Anne Heche are stranded on a desert island, don't like each other, then do. Lacking any of the magic a cobwebbed premise like that needs, the movie also neglects to include any funny jokes, and gets so desperate for something to happen later on that Ford and Heche are chased by pirates.Our mismatched duo have zero chemistry; Heche is annoying, Ford can't do comedy. Back on the mainland, David Schwimmer mugs his way through another Ross-like performance, and Jacqueline Obradors as Ford's sort-of-girlfriend provides the film's real highlight her cleavage. To be fair, the first half hour's all right, and the plane crash is quite exciting. That's your lot, though. "},{"Title":"Feels a lot longer than seven nights -and not in a good way","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The premise for this movie is so old its worn down to the metal - that doesn't mean this film is automatically going to be bad.However it is.All the elements for success were there; great - well known actors, a beautiful setting and a wedge of money.Unfortunately there is zero chemistry between any of the main players, in fact they seemed positively awkward around each other. So when their relationships and lives slipped I was neither surprised nor interested.Although this is a rom-com I feel the actors didn't really put the effort in. It felt like they were only hanging around for their pay cheque.The camera work and production are very average not even taking advantage of the beautiful surroundings.You know what is going to happen ten minutes before the characters so you have to stifle yawns and nod politely as a story you have heard countless times before is retold - badly. "},{"Title":"lost at sea","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Harrisson Ford and Anne Heche play the main characters in the movie,, they both did a wonderful job,, you almost forget that Anne Heche is lesbian,, but David Schwimmer's performance to me was awful. A man proposes to his girlfriend, and she get's called away briefly to do some business for her boss.. a photo shoot on an island,, but trouble lurks when there is a storm brewing, and she hires a crazy pilot, played by Harrisson ford,, the plane crashes, and they are stranded on an island for several days,, at first they blame each other,, as they try to survive on the island,, finding food,, and making a fire and the like,, then something happens and they are drawn to each other and sparks fly,, they fall in love with each other. not a bad little movie , you have some decent action,, some hot women, lot's of laughs,, just forget Schwimmer's performance and you will be just fine. "},{"Title":"Something missing","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is largely remembered somewhat controversially as it was made when Ellen Degenerate came out of the closet and beat us over the head with her gayness. This is relevant because Anne Heche was revealed to be Ellen's Lover and was filming this movie at the time. Weather or not this helped or hindered the movie's popularity, we will never know for sure. As the movie itself is amusing at best, and forgettable at worst.This movie has plenty of comedic moments that are genuinely funny. Harrison Ford has great chemistry with Anne Heche and is clearly enjoying himself on set. Even the dude from Friends wasn't horrible as long as you keep in mind he's essentially playing his character from the show, Friends.The problems with this movie is the pacing and lack of character development. It moves oddly fast. It's called 6 days and 7 nights but they are only stranded for 2 days one one night. Also their romantic motivations are never clearly defined. I won't spoil it for you but I am left wondering why Harrison Ford's character made the decision that he did.In the end it's a mediocre comedy. It's not bad but neither is it good. But largely it's a harmless comedy, reserved for fans of Harrison Ford who just want to see Han Solo Fart around like Captain Ron "},{"Title":"So bad that it becomes good! Silly but good entertainment","Date":"6 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one of those movies, that are so bad that they become good! I mean, as soon as you hear what it is going to be about, you realize how it is going to end (they will fall in love and end up together). You will also guess, roughly, what is going to happen on the island the man and woman are going to go through some mishaps and adventures, that force them to cooperate and save each others lives. And in the process, they are going to get their eyes open as to each other's good qualities. True you can just tick the mishaps and adventures off there is the earthquake, and there are the pirates that give Mr Ford an opportunity to show the girl what a master fighter he is, and there is the old crashed plane that gives Mr Ford an opportunity to show what a master engineer he is, and there is the snake in Miss Heche's panties (wherever else..?), that gives Mr Ford a chance to get into her panties quite literally, and there... Well, you get the idea! -)The fact that the man and woman should be from entirely different worlds and have - up to then - quite the opposite goals and life-styles is also a prerequisite, that you guess at before the movie has even begun.To sum it up this movie is VERY predictable, and it contains ALL the clichés... But is it a bad movie..? NO! The movie-makers know how to push your buttons, because all those clichés are exactly what push your buttons whether you want to admit it or not! ...and the thought of spending a week on a desert island with Harrison Ford makes a woman's imagination working overtime..! -) It is very good as pure entertainment goes! "},{"Title":"What Are People Thinking?.......","Date":"17 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Usually when I make a comment like that on this site, I'm complaining about how good movies can receive low scores. However this time its the opposite; how can such a bad movie like this receive such a high score plus outstanding reviews to boot? Were those people watching the same movie? I saw this movie quite a while ago and the only reason why I am even talking about it is because I recently saw a story on cinema blender that suggested this would be a great idea for a remake. The problem is that the movie barely registered in my memory (never a good sign when measuring the entertainment value of a film) and then I remembered how boring it was. This was supposed to be a romance, comedy, and action all in one where Harrison Ford and Anne Heche are stranded on a desert island, they hate each other, are forced to band together, and then fall in love. One basic problem of the plot is how is that a sophisticated New York woman like Anne Heche, can fall for a man over half her age? I mean, Harrison Ford is not exactly a young chicken here. All this might be forgiven if the movie wasn't so darn boring. The comedy falls flat, much of the movie is nothing but Ford and Heche arguing, and even when some pirates show up, there just doesn't seem to be any thrill at all. Some people here have said the movie failed at the box office because of the fact that Anne Hache was dating Ellen DeGeneres at the time and people simply discriminated against the movie for that reason. Please folks, lets not use excuses like that to cover up a bad movie. To sum it up, Six Days Seven Nights is something that should stay in the past. Period. "}{"Title":"Movie with a tinge of everything!!!","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If u r a person looking for a way to relax and blow off ur stress and don't mind to laugh every now and then,then i would say that this movie is exactly wat u r looking for.The plot in the movie is really simple.There is no big story to tell but yet the way the director has fabricated it using the characters r really excellent!!This movie has little bit adventure,little bit romance(Old guy's romance ) anyway),little bit of laughter and a full load of entertainment.The lead roles Anne heche and Harrison Ford has performed well in every part of the movie.Especially the acting of Anne heche is really funny.If u watch this movie ,u will surely say that God!, this is not a bad movie after all. "},{"Title":"It's not bad, but so predictable it's boring","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's an average romantic comedy, augmented by Ford, destroyed by Heche and made silly by Schwimmer. I guess at his 50+ (as he himself confesses in the movie) Harrison Ford's character couldn't afford to be picky, but still. Why does annoying blonde with no tits mean romance in the US?Anyway, there isn't much to be said. Exotic scenery plus a bit of danger and a suave Ford makes any girl lose her mind, heart and panties. The plot is ridiculous and the directing itself, except for the island scenes, seems to be completely uninterested in the result.If they would have made sex all movie, without any real plot, it would have been called a porn film and it's bad (worse than even violent movies about murders and such), but if they fall in love the whole movie, within the same lack of story, it is called a romance and it's OK. I will just call it a romantic crap and be done with it.Conclusion even my wife got bored. "},{"Title":"Worst H.Ford movie ever made","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I can't tell you how much I disliked this movie, in this short epistle.If I lived another 100 years and was forced to watch this movie again, I would commit seppuku and all my family, friends and relatives would understand.Suffice to say, Ann Heche can't arise above her lesbian inclinations to play a heterosexual and sexual-tension partner to Harrison, and Harrison looked like he got a million bucks to play the part and no box office reciepts and just walked through the job. He's a marginal actor at best and this was horrible.I gave this 2 stars because at least the photography was OK, the color saturation was fine and the audio was passable. It was technically an OK movie. "},{"Title":"Avoid this one - it IS NOT Friends but David Schwimmer is in it!","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The summary says it all.Although Anne Heche and Ford are giving good performances(they could have done it better if their payroll was better)this fine romantic comedy is ruined by this guy Schwimmer.    I was wondering who was that person who lied him that he can act. Really.He is a loser. Don't waste your precious time unless you rent it on DVD.This way you can avoid Schwimmer scenes ) There's nothing else that can and will be said for this movie.  "},{"Title":"Not too violent...","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...yes, the violence comes as a bit of a shock but it's not gratuitous and doesn't last very long, it also ends with a beautiful hand-of-God act. This is basically a feel-good film, we've watched it 10 times in the last month or so in VERY SENSITIVE STATES OF MIND and think it's in the same class as Casablanca.  Everything is perfect script, actors, setting, photography, soundtrack.  Like Casablanca, both the morality and the spirituality  are of the highest standard. "},{"Title":"Interesting.","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie isn't your normal in the city movie. It does start off that way however. This movie basically takes place on a colorful and exciting island unlike the one on survivor. Harrisond Ford and Anne Heche are great in this movie and do lots of wild wild things that are amusing to watch. I liked it.  "},{"Title":"Expected more from a movie with Harrison Ford","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Based on the other movies with Harrison Ford, I expected something serious from him and not this movie that is not more than a comedy/drama/action movie. And not some much action. But you can watch it if you don't have a better one to watch. Although her real life, Anne Heche is good as the romantic partner for Ford. The scenario is beautiful. "},{"Title":"Anne Heche is no Meg Ryan!","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  While Anne Heche is an okay actress, she IS NOT Meg Ryan. I have heard people compare her facial expressions to that of Ryan's, but to me they seem fake and contrived. (I know what you're thinking, I am not some middle-aged woman who's obsessed with Meg Ryan, the comparison simply aggravates me.) In both this and Volcano, Heche simply manages to annoy me. The rest of this movie is alright I guess. Yes it's VERY predictable and the writing is not particularly good, but one must remember that this is the case in almost every romcom-action movie. Rent this movie if you're just looking for a night of lighthearted fun, but don't expect anything too deep. "},{"Title":"Kinda Wished They'd Both Died In the Crash","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Other than the fascinating face and physicality of Anne Heche, there is absolutely nothing to recommend about Ivan Reitman's perfectly dull Six Days, Seven Nights. And if you aren't interested in Heche, you are going to have to sit through 100 minutes of bland, phony, and utterly chemistry-less comedy-thriller non-action.The worst part of SD,SN is that it showcases how shallow Harrison Ford has become. His laziness is appalling. He mouths the lines and whines about Heche's lack of common sense and B-cup dimensions. I haven't liked any of his work since Return of the Jedi, and that's not much praise.This movie was a callous, formulaic piece of cynical dreck, designed to sell tickets, disappoint anyone with a shred of taste, and condemn grumpy pseudo-critics like me to two hours of hell (because I try to be a good sport and not walk out on the movie while my wife is watching it). "},{"Title":"disappointing...","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After I watched this movie I couldn't help but wonder why would  Ford take part in such a miserable work. The least I can say is that the story is  silly , the humor  pathetic  , and the way the movie comes to an end ridiculous. This movie should have been made with cartoon characters , or better yet , not made at all. "}{"Title":"Old goats run amok","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Has anyone happened to notice that Harrison Ford is getting rather old? (and showing it too)? Anne Heche is nearly young enough to be his grand-daughter. I refuse to believe that they could not find an attractive older woman Harrison Ford's age to play the role. What about that creature he began the film with? She looks like she might be 16, 18 maybe? Harrison Ford=child molester, hmmmmmm. "},{"Title":"I decided my life is too simple, I wanna complicate the hell out of it.","Date":"30 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You know, this really should have been gold. A great and trusty premise of male and female polar opposites stranded on a desert island-plenty of star wattage with the leads (Harrison Ford & Anne Heche)-and a stunning Hawaii location. Yeah, it should have been aces, however, it's not. What it is is a practically laugh-free script driven movie further bogged down by a lack of chemistry from the leads and unadventurous direction from Ivan Reitman. Unadventerous is of course not a word one expects to see bandied around for a romantic action comedy film. But Reitman is unable to rise above predictable scene after predictable scene, and more criminal is the complete waste of his two leads, with Ford amazingly underwritten in a practically two person picture!It starts off OK, nicely paced and characters are given some ground from which to launch from, with even David Schwimmer doing an extension of his Ross from Friends act not hindering proceedings. But once Ford and Heche crash on the island the film begs to be kicked on. Instead it gets mired in a one joke premise as our two stranded protagonists traverse the island and annoy the hell out of each other. Even the sudden appearance of pirates lacks zip and in fact feels rather shoehorned in. And with each frame the outcome of the piece is telegraphed and written in the sand for us, but really, will you care come the inevitable finale? Not likely. For although Ford entertains well enough with his grizzly character, and Heche is sexy and gorgeous, we just haven't been engaged enough in the set-up to summon up much feeling as the credits thankfully roll. 4/10 "},{"Title":"did Heche go straight after this movie?","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Does anyone know if this movie with Harrison Ford was somewhat responsible for Anne Heche having a change of heart, dropping Ellen Degeneres and going straight?? I think I heard that somewhere.When you watch the movie you notice that the two got along famously and appeared to REALLY enjoy one another. I just know that it was about the time that this movie was being shot and released that Heche left her girl pal.I'd appreciate any serious commentary on this... Thanks!A reel movie buff... "},{"Title":"Why Harrison? Why?","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of Harrison Ford's worst movies ever. I don't understand why he'd make it. There are no good jokes, I never laughed...Stick to Indy 4, Ford. That should be good if they don't put Calista Flockhart in it. Here's to the success of K-19 The Widowmaker. That film looks good. "},{"Title":"Numbers Don't Save This One.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  New York magazine editor Anne Heche is involved in a plane crash on a deserted tropical island with pilot Harrison Ford in this somewhat silly film that lacks a suitable screenplay. The two performers try hard, but the unsteady direction does not help out their cause. Ford is likeable and Heche does good work with him. However, the film just never does end up being anything more than a movie that lacks intensity and intrigue. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Good concept-poorly cast, thin plot","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The concept of having two people marooned in a modern day 'Gilligan's Island' was appealing. Harrison Ford is still my favorite actor despite making this movie. However, Anne Heche was poorly cast as his island mate. This is not a gay bashing comment as that issue does not matter to me. She is just not a good actor and looks even worse when paired with the powerhouse Ford. Also thought that the plot could have been a little more exciting rather than focusing on their relationship. Many of my colleagues pick this a the worst of the year. "},{"Title":"six days, seven nights","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is on the tube tonight. I am watching it just to make sure it is the worst movie I ever saw. Anne Hache is terrible. Harrison Ford, great as he is hates making it. Harrison has this really hot babe back at the island and is trying to pick up Anne Hache. Give me a break. The Friend's guy is especially bad. I see this getting like 5 stars on reviews. Are you crazy? Anne Hache is such an unlikeable character you want he killed off back at the island. And what about that stupid agent she has. They crash and Anne says get me a cup of coffee and trips. This is after a plane crash. The ending is especially terrible. They really could have made this interesting. I really wanted to see a good movie. They butchered it worse than Tin Cup and that is saying something. What a waste of talent. "},{"Title":"If you haven't got anything nice to say....","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm not one to trash movies. I respect that a lot of people worked hard to make a feature come to the silver screen. I don't like to harp on about the various flaws a production might have. BUT. Six Days and Seven Nights took me by surprise. Harrison Ford. Ivan Reitman. Anne Heche. I like their work. This movie, however, is the first and only experience i've had in a theatre that actually made me feel insulted. Not a  so bad it's good flick, but an actual piece of trash. Please avoid to prevent anything like this ever happening again. Please.  "},{"Title":"Sooooo Bad","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'd never left a movie theatre before, until I saw this film. When the pirates showed up, I could no longer take it. One of the best decisions of my life.  "},{"Title":"Wasted $1.25","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's not often that I stop a movie half way through and rewind it.  Bad acting, like in Six Days Seven Nights, usually won't make me do it.  A highly predictable plot, like this movie has, usually won't make me do it either.  What I can't tolerate is bad writing.  About halfway through, I just wanted the torture to stop.  I should have stopped after the first half hour.What makes an incredibly wealthy actor like Harrison Ford take a role like this and prove, once again, that he is incapable of acting out strong emotions?  Perhaps Anne Heche's terrible job can be blamed on the director. Or maybe she's just the next Sean Young.  I guess we'll find out soon enough.There's one good thing about this movie.  In 10 years it will make great fodder for MST3000.  "}{"Title":"Love story?","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  An incredibly dull cocktail of all the worst trivialities seen in the last decades of love movies.  "},{"Title":"One of the most predictable adventures you will ever see","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Robin (Heche) is called back to work from her vacation but she and pilot Quinn (Ford) have to land due to horrendous thunderstorms and land on a deserted island with no means to get back.Stuck on a deserted island, no food, and no means of survival and stuck with someone you can't stand. Six days and Seven Nights is described as an hilarious adventure but feels more like the holiday from hell with its predictable script, a choice of poor settings and one of the most awful and predictable romances to ever emerge on screen. From a man who has starred in the legendary Star Wars and Indian Jones quadrilogy, you would have expected Harrison Ford to be in more intelligent and sophisticated films than this, what can only be described, as a promising prospect gone completely wrong. Ford's talents are wasted against the tiresome script that gives no interest or excitement as it is based on a feeble against all odds morality test. Dull and with no sense of what to focus on, this 1998 picture is an abomination of an adventure. Cast Away, though emerging on screens a few years after this release, tells the story of a man lost with no means of getting home. Tom Hanks gave an Oscar nominated performance as the man desperate to survive and keep himself sane. Now that 2000 Zemeckis film was what the human spirit and survival should be like, a tear jerking journey that puts you inside the character's mind and makes you truly wonder.This plot doesn't know what to cover. The obvious mismatched couple crashing is as predictable as falling rain and the idea that they will hit it off is as clear as day. But trying to balance that against styling artistic setting and the concept of survival couldn't have been more inaccurate and distracting. First survival against the elements, then lust then exploration. And it seems the inaccurate concept of adventure needed an even dafter reason to entertain so some stereotypical pirates were encoded, just for extra eyebrow raising.There is not enough dialogue to justify the 'hilarious adventure' description. When trying to be funny, it's the typical pit pocking appearance regime or how funny it is to see how predictable the situations can be. Unsurprising, mismatched and so unadventurous you keep looking at your watch wondering when the inevitable will finally arrive. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable movie getaway that becomes surprisingly violent.","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of the more entertaining comedy movies for the husband-and-wife crowd, SIX DAYS, SEVEN NIGHTS offers the peculiar feeling of a vacation getaway that runs amuck. Harrison Ford, a guy we know from many action thrillers this day, is far from being offbeat, and Anne Heche proves to be very reasonable. The adventure is otherwise an enjoyable amount of fun with perils and obstacles abound, all with a sense of humor. But the film loses a precious point for a surprisingly fair amount of violence that goes off the deep end when smugglers spot our two castaways and begin to attack using guns and explosives. Not true for a delightfully romantic evening in the living room. As comedies go, this one could use a bit more of the funny, however this cinematic getaway of mishaps is worth the pleasure. This would've deserved a 7 without the unnecesary violence, but you'll either have to take the 6, or find another nice movie to keep your wife happy.  "}]