[{"Title":"One of the best films in years","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"47 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I absolutely love this film.  Christina Ricci is perfectly cast and gives a great performance as a 16 year old who tries to manipulate and bully all of the other characters into bowing to her sick and twisted view of the world. While Ricci's character is not immediately likable she is somehow compelling and is effecting in driving the film.  Ricci's character does and says hateful things throughout the movie but the film is successful in maintaining it's own view on these topics without squelching her characters voice. Hopefully what we see through her character is that despite the hateful things people do, there are real human beings behind these actions. I ended up liking the character for her survive at any cost mentality and her resolve.The movie is hilariously funny and at times touching.  Lisa Kudro turns in another great performance as a lonely single girl who is pining for the affections of Ricci's gay half brother.  The humor is not of the joke a minute or slapstick variety but grows out of the situations and relationships between compelling characters.The writing and directing are also superb.  I especially liked scenes where the director showed how easily we can be manipulated by mood and music as well as the points that we show in a character's life.  Ricci's narration is biting, wicked, clever, bitchy and witty.  I can see however, how one could be offended and turned off by it.  But the narration is not for shock effect but rather to frame the main character.I wouldn't change a frame or a line in this film.  It's funny, intelligent and warm in a strange sort of way.  A definite must see. "},{"Title":"Compelling","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"38 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Opposite Of Sex &#150; 1998The Opposite Of Sex stars two of my favourite actress' &#150; Lisa Kudrow and Christina Ricci. Needless to say, they were my main motivations for seeing this film. Expecting a fairly average film you might say I was a little shocked when this turned out to be a well scripted, well acted, suitably gritty and compelling drama. The Opposite of Sex is narrated by the appropriately cynical lead character, Dede Truitt (Christina Ricci). The narration is highly amusing and witty and provides the audience with a release during tense and heavily themed situations. Dede Truitt basically walks into her half brothers life (Martin Donovan) and causes a stir among his sister in-law (Lisa Kudrow) by stealing his boyfriend who was originally thought to be gay and now decides he is bisexual. The whole film is constantly asking questions about Sex and what it has done to humanity. It works on two levels, one being that it has heavy themes and can be coarse at times. However Lisa Kudrow offers comic relief playing a straight square teacher who disapproves of everything and everyone in life especially sex. That is until she finds Sex on her doorstep. The Opposite of Sex is a brilliant film, when Christina Ricci was in her prime. It deserved much more praise than it got which is such as shame. 9/10  "},{"Title":"Ground Breaking? Well... yeah.","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Opposite of Sex does what Don Roos set it out to do. It brings the subject of homosexuality in all its forms to light in a hard hitting, funny in your face joy ride - but yet it's not a 'gay movie'. Ricci is wonderful as Dedee, our young 'tour guide' to this strange journey. Through her eyes we see her world of lies, deception and confusion. At times you might not like her, but thats what is great about the movie, it pulls you in. If your into witty one liners, a fast story line and terrific acting (two thumbs up to Lisa Kudrow!)than this movie is for you. After a movie that makes you think about other peoples lifestyles and situations? give it a try. As an eighteen year old, I recommend this movie for older teens and up and give it a 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Intelligent and thoughtful","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I avoided seeing this movie for a long time but finally gave in last week. It was very funny, touching and insightful.  It did occur to me that Lyle Lovett could use an acting lesson or two, and that Ivan Sergei is way too good looking; its borderline annoying.  Martin Donovan and Kudrow make the movie; their characters were completely believable.  Last but certainly not least is the best young American actress, Christina Ricci.  She really makes every part she plays her own.  I suggest the Christian Youth or whoever they are stay away; everyone in this movie has too many human qualities for you to tolerate. "},{"Title":"An Intelligent Black Comedy","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film has laughs, but they are not all clumped in together.  Which is good, because with a story like this, it is neccesary to have comedy in just the right spots.  The film shows us Deede (played to perfection by hot Christina Ricci), a 16 year old going on 17 who is having a baby soon, but the results of the next 9 months will surprise everyone (which includes a cast of Martin Donovan, Lisa Kudrow, Johnny Galecki, Lyle Lovett and Ivan Serguei).  A good idea becomes a close to very good film by vhaving a good lay out of a story and good sarcastic humor to match.  One of the better films of 1998.  A- "},{"Title":"Loved every bit of this movie","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I selected this movie on an impulse and ended up loving every bit of it. It isn't as black a comedy as most people profess, you laugh at some very witty scenes and a few conversations are very poignant and insightful. Note these bits Lucia and Bill at the hotel in LA when they have a conversation about relationships, Matt and Bill at the log cabin in Canada and lastly, when Dedee delivers the last voice-over. I will remember this movie for quite some time. We have a trash-talking southerner Christina Ricci (in one of her better roles) who takes some pretty illogical decisions in life and affects so many lives around her. Martin Donovan shines as her half-brother, seemingly very pacified and unnerved about things in life (a doormat personality, perhaps?). Watch out for Lisa Kudrow she steals the show with her expressions and acting. "},{"Title":"Well written","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There's something so off-kilter about this film. Something that makes it stand apart from others of its kind. The structure is pretty complex, if one takes into accounts all of the turns in the story the film makes. The performances are aces, but Kudrow really stands far and away at the top. One of the finest TV actresses ever, if not the finest (her work in TV is masterful) she has the perfect blend of comedy and drama here. Her work is effective on a dramatic level, even though it's also a pretty hilarious turn. This is a fantastic performance, hitting all of the right notes and pitch-perfect keys that one can hit. This is highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Terrific Little Indie from 1998","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Christina Ricci plays a brunette Lolita in this charming indie comedy from 1998. She visits her brother, straight-laced Martin Donovan, and then proceeds to seduce and confuse his hunky boy-toy, played by Ivan Sergei.The film is no big deal, but it made a fairly large impression on me back in 1998. Ricci gives a terrific performance, successfully navigating the transition from childhood to adult actor. But the highest praise must go to Lisa Kudrow, who broke out of her Friends character and actually generated a little bit of deserved Oscar buzz for her performance as an uptight prude.Grade A "},{"Title":"A tired and time consuming miss-match of a movie.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A cast of talented actors and actresses does not make up for a what a tired and time consuming miss-match of a movie this is.One liners may be all the rage in 'Will & Grace' but this particular 'flick' left with a funny taste in my mouth (no pun).Character development is hidden away amongst the over-the-top narration. The story lacks emotion and depth and is very contrived - even for a Hollywood picture. It is a movie where the stars look quite simply out of place in their surroundings.High expectations of a wholesome quality film were suddenly tail-spinning just 30 minutes through. At the end of the movie we had crash landed and I wanted my money back. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is about a disturbed teenage girl wrecking up everyone's lives around her.The plot portrays Dedee's antisocial and unstable behaviour well. Dedee's character is developed so well that it is easy for people to dislike her. Christina Ricci's performance is great as usual. Lisa Kudrow is also good in her role as Bill's supportive best friend. There are indeed laughs as well, there are many jokes that work in the film. The Mr I will pull out joke really got me laughing! The hospital scene towards the is touching and affecting. That scene is the only time Dedee means what she says, and she says it with much sincerity and emotion. Great film, I recommend it! "}{"Title":"Had some good moments but overall not worth watching","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What is it about scriptwriters these days that they think that to create an ideal movie you have to (1) Make the main character in the story a spoilt, stuck up, obnoxious, conniving little brat (2) Inject lots of sex and outrageously sick humor and substitute it for a good storyline.I will concede that this movie had its good points. But all in all it was disjointed, confusing and totally annoying. Christina Ricci and Lisa Kudrow do provide some good performances -as does Lyle Lovett-but it is not enough to save the movie from an uninspiring script and total lack of plot. I wonder if Hollywood scriptwriters think that they need to dumb down storylines because today's teenagers are too stupid to comprehend reality or appreciate good value. Well I was a teenager when this movie came out and I -and a considerable number of my friends-would recognize this movie as the annoying and totally unappealing palate that it is "},{"Title":"The Opposite of Audience's Expectations","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK, now I understand the reason why many people will dislike this movie. It deals with many taboo issues, such as underage sex/pregnancy, homosexuality in a unfavourable light, murder, profanity, mischief and illegality. Writer/director Don Roos gambled the movie's entire ideologies in order to get the important message across. Lets face it, it's not as if Roos is an inexperienced scriptwriter of this ilk. After all, he penned the screenplay to another Anti-women's liberation movie, 'Single White Female'. He seemed the perfect guy to translate the honesty of lower/middle class America to the screen; and the style he chose to produce the movie in needn't be mentioned at this stage. Now, onto the film itself...Didi Truitt (Christina Ricci) is the most cynical and sarcastic of all teenage girls. She believes the world owes her favours and should pay dividends. Her step-father passes away and so she leaves her mother and goes to find her long-lost step-brother Bill Truitt (Martin Donovan) in hope that he will take her in and give her the life of Riley, which she never had at home. She takes a gun with her...She knocks at his front door - his boyfriend answers; this shakes Didi up, but nevertheless she is in desperation, although she never lets it transcend. Her step-bother is an English teacher at the local high school He is a pushover of a man who has no discernible masculinity whatsoever. He lost a very close ex-boyfriend to AIDS a year before which is obvious to the viewers that this wrecked his life, but to his handsome airhead of a boyfriend, Matt Mateo (Ivan Sergei), it is not.Due to the close relationship he held with his ex, he has since adopted a possessive and maniacal sister-in-law figure, Lucia (Lisa Kudrow), who wholeheartedly disapproves of Didi right away. Lucia is a dominant presence in Bill's life and she takes the helm whenever any crisis is imminent. Many people hate Lucia - she doesn't care.Didi and Matt have a crush on each other and basically, they end up in bed together. After months of sneaking around behind Bill's back, Didi announces that she is pregnant, and that Matt is the father. They steal Bill's $10,000 stashed in his safety deposit box and elope to Los Angeles where Matt takes up a minimum wage job to support Didi and the unborn child. Matt quits his job after running into Bill and comes home early one day to find Didi in bed with Randy (the guy with one ball). She announces to Matt that the baby is in fact Randy's. The latter has a terrible temper and he and Matt begin to rumble. Didi and Randy leave together and set up home elsewhere. He and Didi have a confrontation in which she ends up killing him.Matt visits and they leave together to escape the law. Didi has the baby and the audience's expectations are toyed with again here. The narrator (a monotonous and cynical Didi) tries to convince the viewers that she dies during childbirth. This is held for about 15 seconds, then the truth is revealed.At the end of the movie, Didi goes back to school - more bad-tempered than ever - and Bill is left with the child, while he becomes involved with Didi's parole officer. The final shot is where Didi shouts Go! to the audience. A sign of anxiety and depression, or just plain swings-and-roundabouts for a troubled teen? Anyway, I've missed out a bit involving a character called Jason and the media circus that he erupts on Bill's already sucky life. But just in case you read this before watching the movie, at least there's a couple of surprises in there for ya.All in all, an excellent, if complicated, movie (of course, in my opinion). There are not enough honest movies like this one. In a time when the only teenagers Hollywood churned out were those from 'American Pie' and 'Cruel Intentions', it was a breath of fresh air. I am a firm believer in that people should be taught the importance of self-discipline when growing up. Knowing how to deal with certain situations, etc. I also believe that Hollywood perhaps shouldn't gloss over things as much as they do. It is really important that some people have access to a film that deals with adolescence frankly; and as far as the message goes - It leaves a deep mark that you won't soon forget.Great Movie - **** "},{"Title":"Funny Stuff","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a great comedy which at first seems very non-PC with Ricci's character making various comments about gay people, or 'mos as she calls them, but in reality it is the opposite; the most decent and sensible character is her gay half-brother played by Martin Donovan. All the acting was of a high standard, Lisa Kudrow shows that she is not just a television actress and Christina Ricci is great as Dedee.Dedee Truitt is a sixteen year old who leaves her home in Louisiana and turns up at the door of the Bill, gay half brother in Indiana who she has only met once before many years ago. She hasn't been there long when she seduces his boy friend Matt and claims to be pregnant by him. Soon after the two of them leave taking some of Bill's money with them.The attention of the film now switches to Bill, although Dedee continues to narrate. Bill's problems mount after Matt and Dedee leave when somebody claiming to be Matt's other boyfriend tries to blackmail Bill into saying where he is by telling the police that Bill molested him when he was a student at the school Bill teaches at. When Matt phones trying to get more money Bill and Lucia (Bill's dead former boyfriend's sister, played by Lisa Kudrow) set off to LA to confront Matt and Dedee... things don't get any simpler after they meet up, I would say more but don't want to spoiler the whole film.The relationships between the characters is fairly convoluted but not confusing and most are likable, even Dedee who in real life would probably be be a nightmare to know is shown in a reasonable light. If you want a grown up comedy about sexual relationships that doesn't descend into smuttiness or need to actually show the sex then this is the film for you... well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Clever, funny and worthwhile","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Christina Ricci was always a bit overrated in my book, until I saw the funny, clever The Opposite of Sex. This film has its flaws, but Ricci owns the movie from the beginning, and as a mean, wizened, wisecracking 16-year-old, she's a joy to watch. Though the pacing lags at times, as the viewer you jump on for the ride and careen all around her crazy world.And, ultimately, Dee Dee (Ricci) learns something in the film, even though you may doubt all along that she will.It's so refreshing to watch a movie that deals with teenage angst, sex, gay men, pregnancy, and so many other issues in a reasonably intelligent way. You may not like all the characters, but they are all real.Lisa Kudrow is also a joy, shedding her Phoebe role for something much meatier. Lyle Lovett surprises with his understated small role.The script has some classic lines.I almost watched this movie twice in a row, but then decided to save the 2nd viewing to enjoy later. For once, a movie about all the above (teenagers, sex, gay men, etc) that doesn't dumb itself down for the audience, or assume we're too dumb to follow along. "},{"Title":"For those who like dark humor and R-rated movies","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The narrator of this movie is a rebellious and obnoxious sixteen-year-old hellion named Dedee (Christina Ricci) whose basic nature is to leave chaos and destruction in her wake no matter where she goes or who she is with. As the movie opens Dedee is running away from a dysfunctional relationship with her mother in Louisiana to surprise her half-brother Bill (Martin Donovan) in Indiana. Dedee's narration is not quite like any we have seen - she comments on what's happening and what's going to happen. For example, she says right off that, I don't have a heart of gold and I don't grow one later, and she lives up to that. When we see a gun in the foreground she tells us to pay close attention to that, it will play a role later. And so on. Bill, a high-school teacher, is gay and has recently taken up with a new partner (Ivan Sergei) after his previous lover has died of AIDS. Complications come fast and furious as Bill tries to deal with Dedee and with being (falsely) accused of molesting one of his male students. What brings this movie to life is its mordant repartee - it's up to the standards of the old Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn comedies, but with dark and sometimes politically incorrect humor. Things lose steam toward the end with more conventional resolutions than we expect or hope for, but the story holds up pretty well.This is not entirely a comedy as it deals with topics like how easy it is for a teacher's career to be ruined just by his having been accused of a sexual misadventure. The vagaries of love and sex are lampooned, but are not trivialized. Some original takes are given on these subjects (if that is still possible) like when Carl (Lyle Lovett) speculates that maybe sex isn't for recreation or procreation, but for concentration.Donovan plays the earnest and thoughtful Bill with a presence that commands attention; Bill is similar to Donovan's character in the more serious Hollow Reed. As the sister of Bill's ex-lover, Lisa Kudow shows a great sense of comedic timing. The entire cast is hitting on all cylinders, given that Lyle Lovett perhaps does not have as many cylinders to hit on as the others.If you like black humor and are not offended by a movie that deserves its R rating for explicit sexual language and situations, I think you will like this. "},{"Title":"Happy Beginnings from the director of Happy Endings.","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Opposite of Sex, if viewed as a drama, may indeed be 'overwrought and curiously weightless,' (as one Boston movie critic, Wesley Morris, labeled it); however, if it is perceived as an innovative comedy with some profound dramatic moments and some astonishing, revelatory unprecedented performances (especially Lisa Kudrow, as the sexually wound-tight-as-a-coil Lucia), I believe the film may be considered one of the better offbeat indies of the late 90's.The dialogue in The Opposite of Sex, is crisp and rife with witty barbs and insights into repression, relationships and sex. The movie also depicts Christina Ricci at her least annoying, which is a miraculous feat in itself; Lyle Lovett's flat yet deadpan delivery of Sheriff Carl's lines bring a novel type of levity and naïve sincerity uncharacteristic of such a peripheral role. For example, consider this piece of dialogueSay the point of sex isn't recreation or procreation or any of that stuff. Say it's concentration. Say it's supposed to focus your attention on the person you're sleeping with, like biological highlighter. Otherwise, there's just too many people in the world. These lines, in my opinion, deliver an imaginative viewpoint on the benefits of intimate monogamy.And what about Martin Donovan? Does he purposefully will himself into Hollywood obscurity? I have been following his understated and quite honest performances since his appearances in Hal Hartley's early work (for his true comic appeal, watch Simple Men); how he manages to fly under the radar of prominent screenwriters and directors still eludes me. Nonetheless, Donovan's Bill Truitt undergoes a subtle transformation from 'Victim of Love,' to a man cognizant of how grief over a dead lover (Lucia's brother), has manifested itself in both refusal to acknowledge his current relationship's failure and an inability to walk through his own sorrow.Ivan Sergei and Johnny Galecki manage to turn in witty portrayals of youthful folly and provide some of the film's most truly droll moments. Kudrow's portrayal of Lucia's unraveling (in addition to some deeply sardonic moments), provide a prophetic glimpse into her current role as Valerie Cherish in HBO's The Comeback. Moreover, Lucia's embracing of her sexuality as a way of gaining ownership of her life after her brother's death is simultaneously heartbreaking and heartwarming. Kudos to Kudrow!I have seen The Opposite of Sex, about four times now, and discover something new upon each viewing; I look forward to Roos' Happy Endings (2005) for further adventurous, humane storytelling. "},{"Title":"The opposite of cr*p","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Intelligent, thought-provoking, Funny, Brilliantly acted*, Cracking screenplay and fast paced direction/editing, make this one of my favourite indie flicks of recent years. Get something new with each watch and improves upon multiple viewings. DVD extras also very good. Storyline full of twists and surprises. Issues dealt with in innovative and compelling way. I urge you to see this film if you haven't already and if you have already watch it again as first time I just thought it was average I now adore it. Lisa Kudrow is so underestimated. Jonny Galecki needs to be in more films, he was always brilliant even when Roseanne became unbearable. Christina Ricci gives her best performance ever (Well maybe since Addams Family Values!)  "},{"Title":"The opposite of good behaviour?","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Liza Kudrow (Lucia) is spitting out her dialogues by Don Roos in a way that you say What a bitch! but at the end her character becomes more nice. You can guess why...  The script keeps it pace which is full of surprises.  You feel compassion with the protagonists. There is time in this movie to develop the personalities of the characters which makes of this movie a wonderful comedy. "},{"Title":"A Hilarious Dark Comedy","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Opposite Of Sex, is about a trashy, bitchy and heartless sixteen year old girl Dedee Truitt(Christina Ricci). Dedee's stepfather died and she can't stand her mother anymore so she decides to go live with her brother Bill (Martin Donovan) and his lover Matt( Ivan Sergei). During all this, Dedee is the narrator and tells her point of view in the story. Anyways, Dedee begins to have a thing with matt, and eventually they have sex. Which of course, leads to Dedee's pregnancy. When Matt and Dedee tell Bill the bad news, he throws them both out. But matt and dedee have stolen a big amount of money and along with Lucia (Lisa Kudrow), the sister from bill's ex boyfriend, and bill, they go to look for Matt and Dedee. This a hilarious movie and both Christina Ricci and Lisa Kudrow give excellent performances. I would give the Opposite Of Sex 8/10 "},{"Title":"Pomo before Pomo was cool","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Opposite of Sex was the first Pomo (post-homosexual) comedy and possibly the first major Pomo film.   The world of the film admits those with monosexual polarity as well as those with bisexual polarity and it admits that sometimes people will position themselves in a monosexual role where they really have a bisexual urge.  This is contradictory to standard queer theory and hugely contradictory to standard queer cinema, where the role of the bi is that of the fence-sitter, not a real position but a temporary role.Lisa Kudrow gives a brilliant performance here in a supporting role, and Christina Ricci gives a decent performance in her starring role.  Ivan Sergei is pretty and adequate as an actor and Martin gives a decent if slightly flawed (by his inability to really release and show romantic love for Ivan - his love for Ivan's character plays more as brotherly than romantic) performance.  Overall, this is possibly the best comedy of 1998 and definately one of the best movies of the '90s.  Go, rent it now.  You will not be disappointed unless you are hopelessly mired in the morality of someone dead these past 1950 years (I mean Paul, not Jesus - Paul would've burned Roos, I don't think Jesus would've). "}{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is awesome and very funny, I loved watching it! It's a naughty little movie which should p*** some hypocrites off but that makes it even more enjoyable... I love the dialog and especially Christina Ricci's voiceover. Totally hilarious! Chr. Ricci is fantastic as a little selfish bitch(SPOILER?) who does have a heart after all. Lisa Kudrow is also very very good in this movie and she has some really funny dialog, too. It was very clever of Ms. Kudrow to choose this part back in 1998 since Lucia is like the opposite of her Friends character Phoebe. She plays a very strenuous, nerve-wrecking woman who doesn't have too much fun in life. Even tough her character is somewhat conservative she has some real kick-ass lines. lol The other actors do a great job as well even tough Kudrow and Ricci deserve special praise. I guess Kudrow even more than Ricci since she easily steals every scene that she's in. This movie is a gem, 9/10! "},{"Title":"The BEST film I've seen in a long time...","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Funny, touching, sharp, insightful -- The Opposite of Sex is fantastic! Don Roos, the writer/director, is a genius! The dialogue is fast, brilliant and FUNNY!  I hate myself for having missed The Opposite Of Sex when it was in theaters but I'm so grateful for the wonderful evening the DVD gave me last night!  Buy it!  Rent it! See it!  If you like funny, hip and smart... you'll adore this film!    "},{"Title":"Despite pointless nitpicking, this is one of the very best films of 1998.","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There has been a lot of ridiculous nitpicking from IMDb users aimed at The Opposite of Sex.  For example, one user complains that we never get to see Christina Ricci's breasts when she takes her top off.  What this user doesn't realize is that the nudity is not the point of that scene, nor is it necessary for that scene to occur.  We can tell she took her top off.  The director doesn't need to show us her breasts to prove it.  Not that showing Christina Ricci's breasts would put a minus on the film.  I really would have enjoyed seeing them, to be perfectly honest.  But there's no reason to nitpick this film just because we don't see Christina Ricci's breasts.  The Opposite of Sex is a wonderful film.  One of the best of its year, along with American History X and Pleasantville.  If you can say that this is a bad film just because director Don Roos doesn't show Christina Ricci's tits, than why not call Tombstone a bad film simply because we don't see Wyatt Earp pull the trigger when he has his gun in Indian Charlie's mouth (at least I think its Indian Charlie. . .who cares).  This constant nitpicking is senseless and pointless.  This is a great film, in obvious spite of the lack of tits. "},{"Title":"Not the opposite of anything really","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I first saw this film, I was in a very bad mood.  Deedee's character and the failure of just about everyone in this film to come to terms with her just made me feel worse.  I just saw it again whilst in a much better mood, and now I'm confused.  Narratives are supposed to have beginnings, middles and ends.  I can't get over the feeling that this film was all middle with neither introduction nor coda.I spent most of the first half of the film trying to get a grip on who these people were and why I was being shown them.  I didn't help that it is nigh on impossible to sympathize or identify with any of them. Then there's the narrative device.  Deedee narrates the story and uses this to play with audience in the same way as she toys with those around her.  It makes her the all-knowing tornado at the centre of the movie and you're afraid that she's going to come out of the screen and mess with you.  All very clever and, I must admit, slightly terrifying.  However the sheer omniscience of the narration jars with the story as laid out.  You get the impression that Deedee's manipulations of others are successful because of her god-like knowledge of exactly what other people are thinking or are doing when she's out of the room.  If the director really thinks people like this exist in the world I would refer him to a specialist in borderline paranoid disorders.So we're left with a load of people with a lot of baggage sent spinning by a central character with very opaque motives that aren't adequately explored.  Very, very unsatisfying.The acting in this film is class, although I really hope Christina Ricci doesn't make a habit of playing this type of character - she could get a reputation...To sum up, for Lyle Lovett purists only. "},{"Title":"Christina Ricci's best performance","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film shows that we have so far only seen the tip of the iceberg of Christina Ricci's full talent. This is not an easy role, and she pulls it off perfectly. She plays the cynical, caniving, two-faced, pregnant teenager perfectly. One line she acts like a saint, the next she has a mouth that cuts like a dagger.Truly great performance from her...put her on another level. "},{"Title":"Oh wow,","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is excellent, i thought that it has everything that makes a good movie a bloody good movie, for example REALLY good looking guys and bitter torn up women with their sexual organs removed with sharp words and a lack of life. I loved Christina Ricci in this movie, she was everything that a waster girl can aspire to and also do it with flying colours... also Lisa Kudrow (the afore mentioned women) is incredible in this, she has some of the best lines in the entire movie. The other characters such as Ivan Sergei are great as the simple yet loving gay character who decides that his bi, now i don't generally agree with that but... what the hell, he's str8 neway and there's not a thing i can do about it (well, not when i'm here at least)I loved this movie and the way it progresses, its funny and also somehow manages to end on a light note which if u watch the movie beginning to end, you find it hard to see coming! Just a shame Ricci has that blonde hair with the roots ( Well, if she was mean to look like a slapper then she's achieved, with FLYING colours... "},{"Title":"Clever and witty, yet you will groan.","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A completely offbeat dark comedy, THE OPPOSITE OF SEX suffers from some extremely goofy characters (Lyle Lovett as a humble sheriff?) and a long stretch that comes after we get to know the main characters. OPPOSITE does have some great acting, and the direction pulls in very subtle humor. The story gets off track for a bit but stays consistent throughout.We get to know Dedee Truitt, a pregnant 16yr. old who ditches her Louisiana life to stay at her half-brother, Bill 's home in Indiana. When she steals his boyfriend Matt and his life savings, Bill and sister Lucia avoid a false scandal by Matt 's ex to find Dedee and learn what she is up to.Every man in life has once known a Dedee Truitt. I have dated quite a few. Everything is well put together and Christina Ricci has a fine performance. Lisa Kudrow does the impossible making Lyle Lovett look good and Martin Donovan has the best character growth once everything gets to Bill. Once Dedee and Matt disappear we are forced to endure a long and uninteresting character study of Bill. Lyle Lovett is annoying. So is the multiple ending. Overall, THE OPPOSITE OF SEX is tolerable with good acting and direction. "},{"Title":"An attempt at honesty leaves a taste of self-righteousness...","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, it wasn't a BAD movie, I've certainly seen much worse.  And the story was very original, I'll give it that.  But Christina Ricci's attempt at brutal and presumably endearing honesty left me with the impression of self-righteousness; like the director is saying well, I can be honest, so I'm better than all of  you that lie to yourselves.  Perhaps I'm being to harsh on Roos' directorial debut...or perhaps he should look around and see that people aren't all that bad, and being evil and completely lacking in morals like Deedee Truitt doesn't make someone better.  Still, I would recommend it so that you can make your own assessment.  "},{"Title":"it's all about the narration.","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  see this movie if the phrase metacinematic device makes you smile.  i don't have any strong opinions about christina ricci or lisa kudrow, but i thought the movie was a brilliant exploration of cinematic realism and narrative structure. "},{"Title":"Far and away the best movie of 1998, and am I the only one who noticed?","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A riotous and poignant modern comedy of manners, with one of the most unforgettable characters of recent screenwriting, the monumentally self-centered Dedee. She's a destructive monster, but you can't hate her, because she's so funny and observant. So's the movie, with some of the most hilarious one-liners this side of Wilde and a fantastically assured cast. Kudrow certainly deserved at least an Oscar nomination for her riotously sour, self-pitying characterization, as did Roos for perhaps the wittiest screenplay of the '90s. Donovan's also excellent, in a less showy role. Too bad little movies like this so seldom reach Oscar's radar. Roos followed up with the starry, big-budget Bounce; it's good of its mushy kind, but it hasn't half the snap of this. "}{"Title":"Kudrow shines","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Lisa Kudrow is probably twice as good as the rest of the cast in this movie, and reinforces my opinion of her ability (I don't watch 'Friends' so I've only seen her in big screen productions). In spite of that, I didn't like her character - or for that matter, anyone else in the the story. I wonder how many takes they did with Lyle Lovett's scenes before they just gave up! The acidic script had it's moments, but the humour just didn't appeal. Just too little of everything. "},{"Title":"A Superbly Hysterical Film","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you like Christina Ricci, you'll love The Opposite of Sex. Don Roos creates an excellent dialog which never stops being funny. The issues are pertinent, and the movie tackles many homosexual stereotypes. Ms. Ricci was amazing, as usual, but the film benefits from outstanding performances from all, especially Lisa Kudrow in a very un-Friendsly role. This movie remains Mr. Roos' best work to date, and this is a far better film than Bounce. If only we all could go back to the year 1998 when indie film was in its pre-adolescent stage... This film receives my vote for Best Screwball Comedy of All-Time, and simply of the best films I've ever seen. (Buffalo '66 is number 1). "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Entertaining & funny.  Smart & honest.  Christina Ricci was wonderful as the 16 yr. old bitch manipulating every aspect of the world around her in order to make her life colorful.  These people are sad, but likeable.  Lisa Kudrow was refreshingly non-Phoebe and Lyle Lovette was cute and sweet.  I loved being part of their lives for an hour and a half, but I'm very happy that I don't actually know them.  That would be too much for me to handle. "},{"Title":"Good film-GREAT actress","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  (SPOILER).This has to be the funniest movie in a long time that I have seen. And the thing that makes it so funny is the one and only Lisa Kudrow. She get's all the best lines and uses them like dynamite. She and her character manage to keep the balance in a film that is very orientated towards Ricci's character.Also, Lisa's performance really struck a note with me and managed to make her character endearing, wise and funny. Some would say annoying but I cant since Lisa's acting got to me so much. The line 'how does anyone get so bitter'- 'observation' is a complete knockout and I know this because I totally related to her character.How anyone can watch this movie and not be amazed by her versatility is beyond me. I also loved this movie because the great dialogue and subtle acting (especially from Lucia and Bill) kept me up to date. There was a real interaction between all the characters. (SPOILER) The overtly sentimental ending and irony was the icing on the cake. "},{"Title":"Different and interesting at times","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christina Ricci is fantastic in this film. She just gets better and better. She steals the film.The film's narrative wasn't strong, it didn't work for me. It didn't seem to be directed too well. It's certainly interesting to see how it all comes together. Because the film is a little different, but it was missing something. I think the word is sparkle.Lisa Kudrow seems to be playing her Friends role here, she's not a very good actress. The supporting cast pretty much works well.The direction is a little lazy, some shots required better composition.Overall, I recommend this picture, because it's different, bold and at times, very interesting. "},{"Title":"Ricci as the supreme b****","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christina Ricci is b**** supremo in this movie. Not only does she screw up her own life, she screws up practically everyone else's as well. Her route to destruction is fun and macabre at times to watch, but makes for great viewing as we get to see a side of Ricci's acting that is seldom shown. Although the story gets immature at times, Ricci shows herself to be a mature actress in tackling this movie role. Kudos to her and the movie in general. "},{"Title":"Why I Despise Ricci","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Offensive?  Perhaps.  If, by the term, you mean that you will sour on the future of the human race and be saddened by the myriad ways an opportunistic sociopath can wreck the lives of those around her without stooping to serial murder, then yes, the film's offensive.  To her credit, Christina Ricci plays the vicious little hussy so well that I have been unable to see another of her films I can't stop seeing her as this character and hating her on that account.  Which is both praise and criticism.  Praise in that Ricci nails this role; criticism in that her performance is so painfully branded on my psyche that I seem to have permanently type-cast her--and the mark of a great actor is her ability to convince us she is a different person in each new role. That said, any film that can so affect a viewer will not leave you absent an opinion.  This is no humdrum piece of celluloid.  A great film?  No.  One I wish I could forget, yes--but not in the same way I wish I could forget innumerable stinkers. "},{"Title":"the opposite of normal","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  funny funny funny...i am the biggest christina fan since she grew out and got cool roles and i must admit that this is one of my favorite movies...a great cast pulls off one of the strangest and morally wrong plots i have ever seen and the voice over by christina makes you pay attention with it's wit and sarcasm.  a true look into the mind of a tramp. "},{"Title":"Killer Komedy","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was not expecting much from writer/director Don Roos when I went to go see this flick.  Needless to say, I was completely blown away by it.  If you enjoy weird, dark little comedies as much as I do you will definitely dig this, baby.  One of my fave actors, Martin Donovan, makes an appearance so that alone was worth the price of admission fer me, ya see?  Christina Ricci also became a fave of mine after seeing this as well.  You'll dig it, all of it, trust me.  Bye. "},{"Title":"Christina Ricci's coming out,and it is great!!!!","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The indie film The Opposite of Sex is a modern day love story about those people you love and can't live without,no matter what their sexual orientation.Christina Ricci totally steals the show in her coming out performance as the bitter,pregnant,chain smoking teen.Though it is a huge change from her normal Little Girl roles she proves she can play more than the innocent baby doll.Along with her award winning supporting cast,such as Lisa Kudrow and Johnny Galucki,it is one of the best off beat love storys I have ever seen.All I have to say is awesome film!!!!! "}{"Title":"Ricci Romps","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christina Ricci plays the film's main antagonist and voice-over narrator, Dedee, a white trash, runaway teen slut from the Deep South. In this oddball black comedy, Dedee shows up unannounced and broke on her half-brother's suburban doorstep one fine day. Her half-brother, a gay, thirty-something teacher takes her in, and soon she's making a hash of his well-ordered life. It gets pretty grim, pretty quick, but that's the movie's plot.The Opposite of Sex steers clear of most, (but certainly not all), of the clichés and stereotypes so popular in movies of this type. It has enough originality, good scripting, and acting to move itself along and deliver the goods. Lisa Kudrow is good in a role as the half-brother's stressed-out friend that seems like a warm-up for a similar role in Analyze This. I'd give The Opposite of Sex a B-.    "},{"Title":"An interesting idea tries to mask a slick soap opera","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I find Lisa Kudrow tremendously annoying. Watching her is like watching the worst of Hugh Grant. She does her shtick no matter what story she's in, no matter what the part calls for. Fortunately for the movie, her part calls for her to be annoying. Unfortunately, she takes up more space than is necessary.And while I enjoyed Christina Ricci's performance, and some of the metafiction in her narration, some of it was just a little bit too precious, too pretentious, too slick. Not that I mind the odd film-school trick every once in a while, but the cynicism of the narration only serves to cover up the syrupy sentimentality of the rest of the story, exactly what it is trying to avoid. Adding Ricci's voice, telling us that what we're watching is not a sentimental soap opera doesn't fly. That's not enough. "},{"Title":"***** Freshest comedy of the year","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The freshest comedy of the year is screenwriter Don Roos' excellent directorial debut, a healthy mix of searing comedy, strong drama and even some genuinely touching moments. Christina Ricci rips into her role of DeeDee, a Lolita-like teenager hell-bent on causing a lot of trouble when she steals her half brother Bill's boyfriend Matt (Ivan Sergei) and runs away with him. Bill (Martin Donovan) teams up with bitter ex-sister-in-law Lucia (pronounced Lusha, played with marked brilliance by Lisa Kudrow) to track DeeDee and Matt across the country, doing their best not to get themselves thrown into jail too fast. The story moves at a rapid-fire pace and is always entertaining you one way or another, but you'll find that when it's all over it was Kudrow whose performance you remember the most (and she gets all the best lines too!).  "},{"Title":"a remarkable film","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Opposite of Sex can boast good acting, a great script, and no shame. Dedee Truitt ,a pregnant tart from LO who attempts to cover up any emotion she holds for people by being mean and sarcastic in her narrative, runs away to her homosexual half-brother's(Phil) house. She seduces his live in boyfriend(Matt) and claims he is the father of her baby. And thats just the beginning of her escapades. I have to give this film credit,it does not attempt to be PC or daring. It is brutal,touching,honest, and pretty damn funny. I definite  must see.  "},{"Title":"Vicious & witty","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you are one of those people that has the old fashioned idea of love where you see someone across a crowded room and know that they are the one for you- then this is not the film you should be watching. Its very modern its its approach to sex and relationships, as well as being incredibly nasty. Its one of those films that you really want to hate, because it totally destroys all your ideas and beliefs of what sex and love should be like, but on the other hand it has this biting realism to it that can really grab you. Some of the dialogue is absolutely incredible - and its delivered with a lot of compassion and zest. The actors do a fantastic job of psychoanalysing their characters, they are all fairly believable- not to mention very scary. Certainly not a film for all tastes, but if you want to see something thats a bit twisted- then you'll probably like it. "},{"Title":"The Opposite of Losing","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don Roos writes some of the best voice-over  narration in a movie since Kind Hearts and  Coronets.  There's rage in the lines that he  provides his wised-up juvenile-delinquent creation  Dee Dee Truitt that is so acid that it sizzles when  it hits your ear.  She's not nice; she doesn't trust  anyone; she considers it useless to care about  anything; and she doesn't care who knows it.  This  is usually the sort of girl any wised-up adult would  know better than to pity, but Roos creates something  I cannot remember seeing in a movie since Paul  Winfield in Mike's Murder--a gay man dazed with  grief over the death of his lover--who takes Dee Dee  in.  She's pregnant and his half-sister, and he's a  high-school teacher living with someone who is not  sure about himself and whom she soon seduces.  They  run away, and, between a whole slough of dead-on verbal slapstick, the movie involves following them and deciding who's to care for her baby.  When you reach the end of the last wisecrack, you can't  help but laugh at yourself for being taken in by Dee Dee's bold blankness when it turns out to be the  catalyst by which all the people she meets find the  very things she says she despises--friendship,  commitment, family, love.  This is a movie that wears its heart under its  sleeve.  Roos is sly, but the laughs he offers don't catch in your throat.  He makes you want to follow  Dee Dee like the rest of the cast and see what ride  she's taking you on.  I can't say what Christina  Ricci does is acting, exactly, but with a role like  this, how can you not be captivated--even when  you're repelled at the same time?  And Martin  Donovan does act--he wears the pain of loss on his  face like a shroud.  You can understand why his dead lover's sister is so taken by him.  Donovan molds  this man of substance and makes of him a wonderful  comic mess.I very much enjoyed the brash gaudiness of Romy and Michelle's High-School Reunion, and Lisa Kudrow's  Michelle turned out to be the most with-it person  in the movie.  Yet as Lucia Delury, Kudrow shows a  different side--a serious rendering of a smart,  educated woman who's balled herself up over an  attraction to a man who doesn't love her.  Not since Kate Jackson in Making Love do I recall a  change in an actress of this magnitude.  I agree with the New York Film Critics Circle; this was the best supporting actress performance of 1998.Even the lesser roles are fetching from Lyle Lovett  who has probably the best line in the movie to Ivan  Sergei as Bill's bee-stung-lipped bedpartner Matt to William Lee Scott as the birthfather.  Randy may be  a hypocrite--the butt of Roos' joke about Christians--but Scott plays him with such feeling  that he transcends the joke.  "},{"Title":"Nasty, sentimental and a lot of fun","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don Roos' fast-moving script presents the viewer with a truly memorable character DeDe Truitt, a cynical, manipulative, trash-talking 16-year old, who says of herself I don't have a heart of gold and I don't grow one later on, okay? Christina Ricci's performance is simply perfect.DeDe leaves her home in Louisiana after her stepfather's funeral to live with her gay half-brother in Indiana. I don't want to bust the plot, but DeDe's manipulations leave a string of broken hearts, upturned lives and (surprise!) healing and resolution. This film can stop on a dime between nasty and sentimental and give you 5 cents change. The supporting performances are solid, with Lisa Kudrow showing surprising versatility as the bitter school-marm. Her character's transformation literally changes her face. Sometimes the shoestring budget shows, and some of Roos' setups show the marks of a first-time director, but these are minor complaints. Any comparisons to Heathers are Clueless. This film is a gem, one of my favorite comedies of the 90's.   "},{"Title":"Razor sharp","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is definitely one of the best of its year. With great acting, sparkling dialogue and a devilishly clever plot this movie is a refreshing piece of entertainment. Its sheer orneryness is enough to produce some chuckles, the rest are won with very intelligent writing. My vote 8/10 "},{"Title":"Simply hilarious","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Opposite of Sex starts with Dedee Truitt (Christina Ricci) in an off narration, saying absurd things and complaining about everything, while she is shown at her stepfather's funeral throwing things on the grave. This marking characteristic of hers and the narration will continue till the end of the film, while the story is shown. So you'll hear many strong words and absurd sentences and see Dedee and the other characters doing absurds. Well... This is The Opposite of Sex. And guess what... I loved it!One of the reasons for explaining why I liked it so much is its cinynicism. There are some hilarious lines- specially in the beginning of the film, when Dedee talks about her mother and her stepfather, and when Lucia tells that she seems like the villain of The Sound of Music. The movie is a satire about people in unusual situations, doing the same that Election did this year of 1999. In some moments it is even a road-movie, and in others there is a dramatic side. It's a very unusual film, and independent movies should follow this one and Kevin Smith's movies.Many people complained about Dedee's narration, but I think it is one of the best points of The Opposite of Sex. She is able to manipulate everyone, including the audience. In some moments she cheats us, telling lies to show the truth after.Christina Ricci, in a very, very inspiring performance, show that she is a great actress, besides her age. As Dedee she deserved to be nominated to the Oscar, and Lisa Kudrow also did as the annoying Lucia. Some characters of the film are not to be taken very seriously. The gay men are the most normal ones, believe.I highly recommend The Opposite of Sex if you want some fun. It is funny, it is dark, it is wicked. Have yourself a great moment with Dedee Truitt, Lucia Darlury, Bill Truitt, Carl, Matt and Jason. "},{"Title":"Witty (possible spoilers)","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film. Christina Ricci does a great job as the little Lolita. Martin Donovan, Lisa Kudrow and Lyle Lovett give great support. The script is very good, very witty and Don Roos give Ricci some laugh out loud lines. I liked Ricci's voice over throughout the film. The only thing that ruined this film for me was the sickly sweet ending. I felt like the main characters suddenly went OK lets forget everything this devil child has done to us and help her. "}{"Title":"JEEZ ~ Some People Just Don't Get It","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is an intentionally politically-incorrect, wickedly evil sex satire, with a knowing sardonic wit.More happens in the tightly-wrapped first 20 minutes of this than occurs in the full 140 of most flicks these days.Ricci's narration is, in turns, offensive, funny, sarcastic and always bitchy.  What a relief from all of the Hollywood films being made today.Right ~ it's no Heathers or Chasing Amy.IT ISN'T TRYING TO BE!This is a quirky, cool look at real life relationships, straight and gay.And Ms. Ricci?  Daddy Gomez Addams' little girl is all grown up.Donovan, Kudrow and the always wacky Lovett all stand out as well.I loved it.~Niro "},{"Title":"A showcase of Christina Ricci","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Anyone who is into Christina Ricci should not miss this film. She is a gem, and the supporting cast helps to showcase her exquisite talent. This movie seems like it was written especially for her. Lisa Kudrow also does a great job spreading her wings as uptight Lucia. "},{"Title":"Together with Wild Things, the worst film I ever saw","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you were planning to watch this movie, I strongly recommend that you look out for something else. Don't believe the average rating at IMdB. This film has a bad plot, worse dialogues and very superficial characters, too. "},{"Title":"Christina Ricci rules!","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Smart film with a great cast. I am not usually a fan of Lisa Kudrow (except for Romy and Michelle) but she was very good and very funny. Christina Ricci steals the show though as Deedee, the smart-mouth, smart-ass, tough talking street wise 16 year old who wrecks havoc on her half-brother and the lives around her. The humor is different, but still plenty funny and amusing. I have been a fan of Christina's since The Addams Family and she deserved every award she was nominated for in this one. Some of the funniest parts are with her and Randy, her so-called boyfriend with only one ball.!*@ Watch for the humor, and the strong performances by all. Christina, you're awesome! "},{"Title":"Roos' Humor/Drama cocktail works, and works well","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Any movie that can combine wit and drama as well as 'The Opposite of Sex' has, deserves to be known as something special. The excellent writing, bringing us side-splitting lines such as; This is how we do things on the planet 'Maturia', we have much to teach you.; and the superb performances, go together to create what truly is an outstanding film.  "},{"Title":"Not that bad, but not that good","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The funniest thing about this film was Lisa Kudrow's character Lucia.  She was hilarious I thought.  If your a fan of Kudrow then this is a definite watch, but otherwise, you might not want to bother.Don't get me wrong though, it's not all that bad.  The other characters tend to get on your nerves after a while, and then you just don't really care about them enough to keep watching.  But Lisa Kudrow's character is enough reason to keep watching.  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The reviews weren't fair; it was a refreshing and new format , Christina Ricci was fun! The movie made us laugh  and had truly memorable lines Vagina, vagina, vagina .... does that word do anything for you ....  I don't think  it the word does anything for anyone, homosexual or heterosexual!. We fell over! "},{"Title":"Christina Ricci is surprising","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought Ricci's performance disturbing, yet perfect for the part. I can't think of another actress able to play her character so bitterly. This movie is a terrific dark comedy. I do think the supporting actors are the best things about the film. Christina Ricci is good, but they are better. Lisa Kudrow is perfect as the sister of Bill's dead lover, and Lyle Lovett is wonderful as the unexpected love interest for her character. I think these two make the film as great as it is. Definitely worth renting if you are into black comedies. Not recommended to anyone with a fear of vulgar language, however.  "},{"Title":"See this film for Christina Ricci!","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Overlong, and at times dull and confusing, 'The Opposite of Sex' appears to be one of those films which tries too hard to impress the viewer, perhaps due to its independent nature, making the director want to scream, Look what I did with so little money!. Although designed to be a comedy, the story was too unbelievable which really causes it to lose its indie appeal, as the draw of these movies tends to be its true to life nature. This said, Ricci's portrayal of the bitchy Dedee Truit is a joy to watch as once again she puts in a first rate performance. This movie shows how much she has matured and developed her ability since her early days in 'The Addams Family' and 'Mermaids' to name a few. Her narration of the film is unique and extremely humorous, and this actually makes this a film worth renting for those lonely days of Winter. "},{"Title":"Best movie of 1998","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't have a heart of gold and I don't grow one later on. But relax. There are lots of nicer people coming up--we call them losers, begins Christina Ricci's opening monologue in this wonderful film written and directed by Don Roos. Ricci plays Deedee Truitt, a white trash 16 year old from Crevecoure, Louisiana (which is, like, French for f**k tart). After her stepfather dies, Deedee runs away from home and the fun really begins.The Opposite of Sex takes a lot of twists and turns as Deedee moves in with her older half-brother and goes about ruining the lives of him and his friends. First, Deedee seduces her brother's lover and convinces him that he's the father of her child (Is it mine? he asks. See, only straight boys ask that, is her reply). Seeing this as his chance at a normal life, Matt (Ivan Sergei) leaves Bill (Martin Donovan) and travels with Deedee to Los Angeles.Once they leave, Bill discovers they stole $5,000 from his safety deposit box. And to add salt to Bill's wounds, Matt's other lover Jason (Johnny Galecki) demands to know where Matt is or he will tell the police that we was molested by Bill when he was a student at Bill's school.This set-up is the start of a wonderful comedy, sort of There's Something About Mary for adults. It's smartly written, it has some of the best dialogue since Tarantino's early work. The characters are all three dimensional and are portrayed terrifically.In her first grown-up role, Ricci really shines, but Martin Donovan is equally good. Lisa Kudrow, however, quietly walks away with the movie. She has the best lines and the best comic timing. Playing Lucia, a bitter spinster schoolteacher is light years away from her character on Friends, but just as hysterical. Ivan Sergei plays dumb and cute rather well but he delivers the movie's most important speech.The Opposite of Sex is a truly wonderful movie. It's like a tawdry melodrama from the 1950's that's actually about something. The Opposite of Sex shows that we are all looking for love in one form or another and tries to make sense of how sex fits into the equation. What's the point of sleeping with you, Lucia, if it doesn't get your attention? Say the purpose of sex isn't procreation or recreation. Say it's concentration. Say it makes you focus on the person you're sleeping with, 'cause there's just too many other people in the world. It's like a biological highlighter, Lyle Lovett's character says to Kudrow. A smart, adult, incisive look at love and relationships in the 1990's, The Opposite of Sex gets my vote for the best film of 1998 so far.Grade A+ "}{"Title":"Look out, Jodie Foster...","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Look out, Jodie Foster... there's a new child actress emerging into an excellent adult actress, and her name is Christina Ricci. In a role far from her sweet-tart roles in Casper, Now and Then, and That Darn Cat!, Ricci absolutely OWNS this film as Dedee Truitt - the foul-mouthed 16-year old nymphet who doesn't have a heart of gold and doesn't grow one later.Though the screenplay is a bit far-fetched (the story takes place all over the country, and characters always seem to find each other anyway), it has some of the sharpest dialogue to come out in years.Ivan Sergei is hilarious as the oh-so-dumb boyfriend, and Lisa Kudrow takes a respectable dramatic turn (though she still can't shake the Phoebe mannerisms, even with the tied back hair and matured look). But it's Ricci's show all the way.Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"A mixed bag, but good enough","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a fun film, and I'm certainly glad that I saw it, but I was still hoping for something a little better.  I especially liked the characters played by Donovan and Kudrow, but I didn't like the one played by Ricci, and so I felt that the movie was generally better when her voice was absent. That's not to say that she gave a weak performance, in fact, I would say that the whole cast was great.  But I would say that her narration really wasn't all that funny, and I only liked her when she was introducing new characters or summarizing the basic story.  This wasn't the gem that I was hoping for, but thanks to a brisk pace, some intelligent writing, and a few likable characters, I can still marginally recommend this one. "},{"Title":"Ricci as a Female Anti-Hero?","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a very smart script. Ricci plays the character you love to hate. She's very manipulative and indifferent to the feelings of others. The idea of her doing a voice-over narration is perverse, but very compelling. DeeDee (Ricci) is very egocentric and reads people better than they know themselves. She's an intelligent young woman and her cynicism holds the movie together.   A mean, but stupid DeeDee would have ruined the film.There is plenty of venomous, derisive banter in the script which produces unexpected laughs. This is an excellent serio-comedic film. The entire cast is good. Lisa Kudrow is memorable as she responds to DeeDee's withering observations with wry comments of her own. One of Don Roos' many gags in the film is that Lisa's character overcomes her frigidity by falling for a sheriff played improbably by Lyle Lovett. Lyle's craggy visage isn't likely to inspire lust in most women, but he happens to be in the right place at the right time.Ricci as DeeDee steals the show and, by the end, I started to sympathize with this very American anti-hero. I've met people who are outwardly like her and this script is an excellent exploration of what makes her tick on the inside. This film is an in-depth character study with a very droll sense of humor. DeeDee defies political correctness at every turn and the fun is deciding whether to love or hate her for such audacity. The Opposite of Sex is brimming with a freshness missing from most American films.  "},{"Title":"see it for lisa kudrow","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie has the best intentions and is clever in a way, but the constant narration is making it tiresome most of the time and only the brilliant performance of Lisa Kudrow playing against type saves the film from being too self consious and smart for its own good. "},{"Title":"Not as good as it thinks it is","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is sassy, cool and witty as well as being rather too reliant on Ricci.  Her narrator job becomes teeth-grittingly annoying by the end, as does Kudrow's attempt to be the Anti-Pheeb.Kudrow simply sounds and looks too much like Pheobe.  Her performance here is light.  When Lucia swears, Pheobe is swearing.I laughed, I cringed and I enjoyed.  But this film thinks it is clever. And it is not.  "},{"Title":"Awww, She's all grown up!","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The hype surrounding Christina Ricci couldn't be more deserved.  She's proving the days of Disney Movies and the Adamms Family are waaay behind her, and a more grown up actress is here.As the hellstorm Deedee Truitt, Ricci is absolutely hilarious.  From throwing chairs in her stepdad's coffin, to deliberately seducing her brother's boyfriend, she shows no guilt for what she does.  Not only that, she teases the audience through voice overs about how her behavior may be wrong, but people still like her and changing is not an option.The plot gets a little muddled throughout, and the 'love scenes' between Loosha Lucia (Lisa Kudrow) and Carl (lyle lovett) are sickening. However, the acting is top notch and really keeps the viewer interested in what's going to happen.Hey, on top of all that it has a quote that I will forever honor as being classic My mother always said she's the type who's her daughter's best friend. Great, not only do I have a s***ty mom, but my best friend's a loser b****. "},{"Title":"Not the classic everyone made out, but good all the same","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I must admit, I didn't think this film was the masterpiece that the reviews made it out to be. However, I respected Don Roos for having the guts to make a film that most other filmmakers/studios would not dare to touch. At its core, it is fuelled by an outstanding and hysterical performance by the sublime Lisa Kudrow, as the grouchy and sexually repressed Lucia (pronounced Loosha!). It's hard to understand why she didn't receive an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actress, but at least The New York Film Critics' Circle got it right! This film also establishes Christina Ricci as an actress who is going to go far. "},{"Title":"Very endearing characters, and FUNNY!","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented this film because I enjoyed Christina Ricci in the Ice Storm and wanted to see if she would be as entertaining.  As it turned out, I actually liked everybody except Christina Ricci.  I really got involved with the supporting characters and didn't care much for the parts when she was in it. Her character is almost a villain in this film, and since I cared more for the other characters I couldn't sympathize with her.  The dialogue is quite witty and even Lisa Kudrow is fun to watch.  You'll likely feel happy after seeing this, even if Ricci's mean spirited character isn't up your alley. "},{"Title":"A slice of life for the sociopathic set","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie could have been subtitled, Or, Wednesday Grows Up and Gets Serious.  Sadly, Christina Ricci's gleeful, viciously amoral jezebel didn't earn her an Oscar nomination, and I will feel personally cheated, as I did when Meg Ryan wasn't nominated for When a Man Loves a Woman and when Kathy Bates was overlooked for Dolores Claiborne.  Ricci's Deedee Truitt warns you right up front that you won't like her, that she doesn't grow a heart of gold by the end of the movie, and she ain't kiddin', Jack.  This movie gleefully overturns every social taboo, skewers every sacred cow, and is vastly entertaining in the process.  Lisa Kudrow is a delight as the uncharacteristically centered (or is she?) sister of Ricci's brother's deceased boyfriend--did you get all that?  The Opposite of Sex is a slice of life for the sociopathic set. "},{"Title":"She may not be particularly attractive, but she sure is a package full a bad-taste","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you're on the floor, and rolling around in fits of laughter after the first 30 mins of a film, you know it's something special. Well, I didn't go quite that far, but I came pretty close. And this was before the movie had really got into its swing. The icy cold narrative from Ricci is perhaps the wittiest non PC dialogue I've heard yet. Anyone comparing it with the loathsomely unfunny Chasing Amy, really has missed the point of the humour; it isn't dirty jokes and toilet humour, it is a snide attack on the aforementioned Politically Correct affront to self respecting icy cold bitches. It does drop off a bit during the middle of the film, the laughs don't come quite so thick and fast, but it finishes strongly, leaving you with a pleasantly bitter aftertaste. Friends' star Kudrow, although excruciatingly annoying in that bland, pathetic sitcom, delivers an amusing and telling performance, but everyone in this film plays second fiddle to a sterling performance from Ricci. To some the film up in one word, it would have to be witty. That sure is giving any film a wrap, but this one whole heartedly deserves it; it's a fair dinkum corker! "}{"Title":"Good But Not Great","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Opposite Of  Sex stars the promising Christina Ricci who was superb in The Ice Storm and  also had a decent size role in Buffalo 66.Ricci first gained noticed in The Addams Family in which she played Wednesday a stone faced,mean spirited member of The Addams Family.This was a role which she played out with perfection and since then she has landed roles in several independent productions.In The Opposite Of Sex Ricci stars as Deedee a 16 year old seen it all,trashy,mean and manipulative tramp who runs away from her mother and crashes in on her gay half brother and single handily turns his life upside down.The film also stars Lisa Kudrow another member of the Friends cast starring in a movie.Kudrow who I find extremely annoying and dislike her style of humour is suprisingly quite good in this film as she plays a serious role but manages to inject some of her kooky humour into the film which actually is quite funny,perhaps she is best if used in moderation.Lisa plays the gay half brother's (Martin Donovan) best friend and constant advisor on his relationships and life.The Opposite Of Sex suprised me in the fact that it has quite a good storyline for a black comedy as there are many interesting twists and events in the film which always keep it at least entertaining.But it did disappoint me in its comedy as much of the humour seems overly self concious and not particularly funny though there is the odd good joke it has nothing on better black comedies like Freeway or To Die For.Most of the humour comes from Ricci  who not only stars in the film but she also narrates it and in the narration she attempts to be funny by being smug and cynical by explaining all the films downfalls and clichés some of this is funny but as I said before it is pretty self conscious and it seems more forced than free flowing and natural like Freeway.Ricci's performance in the film however is pretty good. She plays her trampy character very good but I was disappointed by the fact that her character was carrying on how she was supposed to really mean but in actual fact her good deeds and occasional niceness shines right through her badness. I believe the film would have worked better if it had made her character a lot meaner as I really like those evil never get nice characters who don't carry on how mean they are as they are oblivious to it.But this is not fault of Ricci but the fault of Don Roos the director and script writer of the film.The Opposite Of Sex is still a pretty decent film. It has a good storyline and good acting but it never is as funny or as offbeat as you'd like it to be.3/5 "},{"Title":"I laughed my a** off","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don Roos has made a true gem of a movie with the Opposite of Sex.  How great is it to go to a movie and actually be able to laugh your a** off - one of the few times a voice over throughout worked.  And it worked throughout. Lisa Kudrow, Martin Donovan, Christina Ricci and Johnny Galecki all were great - I had seen these 4 performers before - but had not seen IVAN SERGEI in anything before - the guy was fantastic - funny as hell - a great looking guy - correct me if I'm wrong, but is this guy a future movie star or am I nuts?  "},{"Title":"Ricci all the way!!!","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If there ever was a film in which one character not only stole all of the limelight, but was rather all of the limelight - this is the one. Christina Ricci gives one of her best performances to date as DeDee Truitt, the 16-year-old who is full of herself and thinks of all others as losers (only those who are nice).Don Roos, who both wrote and directed this film gave a valiant effort only to see his film lose its focus (everyone eventually skipping off to Canada for no apparent reason) after having a powerful and interesting first half hour. This film is unabashed in its truthful display of people and how others can step in and ruin everything for them. It just happens that the catalyst for all events to come is when DeDee decides she no longer feels right living with her mother in Louisiana, so she decides to go move in with much older half-brother (Martin Donovan) who just happens to be gay. DeDee eventually steals his boyfriend and takes his whole livelihood with her, also taking the film downward from here.Some of the most interesting casting choices were made for this film, all dull in their own manner and each having nothing to take anything away from Ricci. Many have complimented Lisa Kudrow on a wonderful performance - I think this comes after so many have seen her so often as a simple blond, the likes of Friends. She really offers no more to this film than simple one-liners that had me groaning at each mention. Ivan Sergei (Matt) could use a little more experience before trying to step into a role such as this, he seemed lost throughout the film. Johnny Galecki (Jason) made me think of Roseanne each time he was on screen and Lyle Lovett (Sheriff Carl Tippett) should most definitely stick to singing.If only this film could have stayed on the course of its first half-hour, then we would have had something special here. Unfortunately, it swayed too much and took its focus off the true center of the film DeDee.6/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Very funny movie - recommended highly","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a very funny, almost flawless movie.  It's brilliantly written and acted.I would definitely recommend you go out of your way to see it.I had only some minor criticisms.  I thought Lyle Lovett's acting was very weak, particularly in comparison to the rest of the excellent cast.  I also thought some of the plot developments were a bit victorian, i.e. some critical information is learned on several occasions by people evesdropping outside windows.  But these are small flaws in what otherwise is an excellent film.  I can't wait to see writer/director Roos' next flick! "},{"Title":"Great performances","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ricci is dead on as the wicked little sister...Kudrow truly should have been nominated for an Oscar.  Clever writing and solid performances make this a surprisingly good film. "},{"Title":"Moderately Amusing, Refreshingly Candid Observations","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In movie reviews and commentary much has been made of the scathing commentary provided by Christina Ricci's character throughout Opposite of Sex.  This aspect is one of the more memorable and interesting parts of the film's construction.  While somewhat overdone to make the point, most of Deedee's observations are rather humorous, and (certainly to the dismay of some viewers) quite accurate.The story itself is rather engaging, but slows down considerably towards the end.  A sexually precocious (i.e. slutty) 16 year old leaves her pathetic and newly widowed Mother in Louisiana to invite herself to her half-brother's fine house in Indiana.  Her half-brother is a homosexual, but of the regular guy mode now popular in such entertainment venues as television shows and the movies.  The half-brother's live-in boyfriend is a bit more goofy, and soon succumbs to the feminine wiles of Deedee, whom we learn has motives other than sexual companionship sparking this sudden interest in his conversion. Conveniently for the storyline, the half-brother has been left financially well-off by the death of his previous boyfriend, a successful stockbroker; (one guess as to the nature of the fatal malady).The now pregnant Deedee and the half-brother's former companion vanish, setting into motion a plot which introduces various other characters, and a frantic and often confusing search for the runaways.  Other love interests and potential love interests of varying sexual preference enter the tale (as it were).Suffice to say that everything is neatly tied up by the end of the story, which seems about 15 minutes too long.  The movie is moderately amusing, but the reprehensible nature of Christina Ricci's Deedee becomes somewhat overpowering by the midpoint of the film, and all the rest involved seem more like losers than anything else, despite any politically correct posturing which starts to become a bit thick towards the end.It is interesting to watch Miss Ricci's career continue to blossom, however, and for that reason alone the movie is worth a look. "},{"Title":"Witty screenwriting at its best","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An evil, witty comedy full of genuine laughs.  Ricci is a 16 year old bombshell who moves in with her gay half-brother.Excellent writing, a story that never gets too caught up in itself, and a whole array of interesting characters make Roos' directorial debut quite a spectacle.Granted, the self-effacing narration can be guilty of indulging in the very things it derides, but these indulgences work. Especially given the character of the narrator, who can easily claim one thing , but feel or do another. "},{"Title":"Christina Ricci triumphs again!","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's nice to see how Christina Ricci has been able to break through media stereotypes of feminine beauty, and make her own mark on the cinema map. The Opposite of Sex is a hilarious, and, to my surprise, quite touching film about how sex can both tear people apart and bring them closer together. Perhaps the biggest surprise about the film was Lisa Kudrow's performance, which simply blew me away in its intensity and authenticity.  Lisa Kudrow's character is wonderfully multi-layered and touching.  Oh, and yes, Christina Ricci does another wonderful job.  Cheers for all involved! "},{"Title":"FAILURE","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This well-made picture presents itself as politically incorrect and a feast of bad taste. However, it does this with such exaggerated obviousness, that in the end it just confirms a situation where watching political incorrectness is okay (get the steam of), but that in real life everybody should be real nice to his fellow man. If ever the objective was to let people rethink all that ridiculous political correctness, the makers failed completely; which is a shame.There is one main feature in this picture my hero Christina Ricci should be heard (and seen! how beautiful she has become) to be believed.I saw this picture at The International Filmfestival in Rotterdam (The Netherlands), where it received a far above average audience vote. "},{"Title":"Cynicism masks unexpectedly touching movie","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although I laughed at some of Ricci's opening narration, for the first fifteen minutes or so, I thought this was going to be yet another indie movie that used cynicism to masquerade as insight.  Then we started to get to know the other characters, and I realized the cynicism was just a shell, covering up some real heart and truth, especially in the relationships between Kudrow, Donovan, and Lovett.  Ricci was good as always, but those three were at the heart of the movie.  Kudrow I was particularly impressed with, since I've only seen her play ditzes.Writer-director Roos does allow himself to occasionally fall back on stereotypes and campiness, especially in the character played by Johnny Galecki.  I'm surprised that Roos, a gay man, would allow such a caricature on screen, unless there was a satirical point I missed.  However, that's not enough to damage the movie, which surprised me in how honest and touching it was.  "}{"Title":"Dark comedy features sharp and funny writing","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Opposite of Sex brims with the kind of sharp and vicious dialogue that actors dream about, and gleefully wears its cynical heart on its sleeve. Writer/director Don Roos proves adept at the careful balancing act needed to keep the story from becoming too clever for its own good -- no mean feat considering how thorny and unlikable he has made the main character. Christina Ricci plays Dedee Truitt, the scheming, manipulative dynamo at the heart of the film as if she knows it's her chance to leave the memories of her childhood roles far behind.  Ricci is surrounded by other excellent performers like Martin Donovan, Lyle Lovett, Johnny Galecki, and Ivan Sergei, but it is Lisa Kudrow as Donovan's bitter, acid-tongued confidante who almost steals the whole movie.  The Opposite of Sex doesn't always work, but it is to Roos' credit that issues of homosexuality and heterosexuality can share time without becoming (as is so often the case) mutually exclusive.    "},{"Title":"short and pithy","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You'll laugh, you'll cry. If you're offended, you're too uptight to watch this movie. You should know better by now. "},{"Title":"Different and Interesting","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You never like DeeDee Truitt (Ricci), but you can't tear yourself away from this movie.  What sleazy thing will DeeDee do next?  The amazing thing about this movie, however, is that it isn't really about DeeDee.  It is about love, forgiveness and acceptance.  Ricci's gen-X voice overs are amusing, the movie is quirky, and it is ultimately about redemption.  Go see it. "},{"Title":"Ricci was superb - one brilliant piece of writing","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one brilliantly written script. Despite what others have said, Christina Ricci's narrative over the film was fresh, humorous and intelligent.The casting had some dubious points - Kudrow was definitely the right choice for the role, so many small points suited her to a  tee, but overall she didn't seem concrete enough for the audience to really become attached to the character. This I thought was a shame; she can be a fabulous actress. Lovett's character could have been played by anyone really, and in someways that's not such a bad idea. Perhaps the director just forgot about him.After having seen so many big budget films recently I was left feeling very satisfied with the film as a whole - for once the ending was gradual and didn't leave you hanging out with so many things unfinished. This has put me right in Christina Ricci's fan club - a worthy treat for any film lover. "},{"Title":"PC Views Take A Back Seat","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For many films the boundaries of political correctness are, like the streams in Ghostbusters, never crossed.  But The Opposite of Sex not only crosses the line, but stomps all over them.  Christina Ricci plays Deedee a vicious hybrid cross between Alicia Silverstone in Clueless, and all bitchy female leads from the dawn of cinema.  She makes no illusion on who she is - I don't have a heart of gold; and I don't grow one later okay and is the narrator of her own story.  After leaving home following the funeral of her step-father, Deedee visits her gay half brother Bill (Martin Donovan), and his live-in boyfriend.  Deedee subsequently seduces the lover, and steals $10,000 from Bill and the ashes of a past love.  He then purses Deedee across the country with the dead man's sister (a neurotic Lisa Kudrow), with the local Sheriff Carl (Lyle Lovett) in hot pursuit to woo Kudrow. The combination of characters with their own flaws and trates is held perfectly by Don Roos tightly weaved direction and writing.  Ricci is a star in the making, with caustic one liners and a sexy image to boot, making her character disturbing, yet likable.  Donovan and Kudrow both add great touches to the piece, but this is definitly Ricci's show.  A fantastically uncompromising comedy that pulls no punches and has several twists along the stories road.    "},{"Title":"Very very good","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was one of the funniest and most scorching movies I have seen for a long time.  All the characters were well played, especially Christina Ricci's, Martin Donovan's and Lisa Kudrow's.  While this is by no means a profound or even particularly thought provoking film, it doesn't set out to be.  What it is is an excellent comment on American 90s life with no attempts at political correctness on any fronts.  The dialogue is brilliant; in particular there are some sizzling one liners from various characters.Like another commenter said, this film was made for people who love films, and it that regard it works perfectly.I certainly wouldn't recommend it to anyone who has strong religious, political or sexual views but it is a soothing balm on the wound opened up on intelligent film goers who get fed tripe by the major production companies time and time again. "},{"Title":"Sex is important","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. It's a movie about sex that's not hypocritical about the subject. The moral of the movie is simple - sex is important. On the surface this movie doesn't seem to be very PC but it is under the surface since it treats *everyone* (straight, gay, old, young) in the same way - obsessed with sex! IMO this movie is really aimed at a more mature audience (30+) since the humour is very adult and I think you'll need a lot of experience of life to laugh at some of the jokes. Speaking of jokes, there are plenty and most of them are very funny. This movie is *very* crude but is quite a positive movie. Great performances from *all* the cast. I gave it 8/10. Leave your sexual hypocracy at home and go see it.  "},{"Title":"Didn't Like the Voice-Over, But Loved Lisa!","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wow!  What a great performance by Lisa Kudrow.  Who'd a-thunk she could make this prickly, difficult character so understandable, if not likeable?  As for the rest, I thought the self-conscious voice-over commentary sabotaged a very clever story and otherwise good writing. "},{"Title":"Not for the Faint of Heart, but a Must-See","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you could blend In the Company of Men and Thelma and Louise, you'd have something like this refreshingly jarring movie.  The writers pull no punches on every aspect of sex and sexuality, and the cast lives up to the challenge of keeping a roller-coaster plot and zippy script alive.  Lisa Kudrow does a fantastic job here; this is a far cry from Phoebe on Friends, and her bittersweet performance adds a great deal to the end result.  I thought this movie was gutsy for breaking several Hollywood commandments; there aren't any heroes, catharsis only comes in dribs and drabs, and political correctness is thrown out the window.  It's like life, except with more deception and backstabbing than Melrose Place. Absolutely, this movie isn't for everyone.  You would be better served with another flick if you're uncomfortable with explicit sex talk, risque gay wordplay, or Lyle Lovett in general -- who isn't half bad, incidentally.  So go and give it a shot be sure to catch the dentifrice scene.  You may be shocked at how much you identify with the characters. "},{"Title":"good dark humor, a bit tedious","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ricci saves this movie from being really annoying. There are some funny lines and some good scenes... Kudrow and Galecki (he looked like he was joking) didn't really fit their roles. I like the character of DeDee even though she seems to have no redeeming qualities... we never see exactly WHY she is this way, or if she really IS heartless, maybe that's the point. The narration is good; she talks like a real person. If anyone else played her I probably wouldn't have liked it at all. "}{"Title":"What a movie","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, I admit it.  I'm a sucker for movies that were made for movie fans.  I loved the Screams, I loved Airplane, I loved the Naked Gun series.  This movie starts out in the very beginning with something to the extent of Don't you hate movies with someone you can't see talking the whole time... It gets even better.  Christina Ricci makes an amazing narrator as she interprets things, summarizes events that don't need to be shown, and puts in scenes as gifts to the viewers.  I love the fact that she's just not lovable, and I think the whole cast (with the exception of Lyle Lovett and that guy from Roseanne and I Know What You Did Last Summer) does a great job.  Anyone who doesn't see this movie will definitely regret it. "},{"Title":"I liked it to pieces","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OKay, so Lyle Lovett is not the greatest actor in the world. Maybe it's just me, I just enjoy seeing him in things.  He has that funny hair, he's been everywhere, and he is just plain cool.  Yes, I was one of those people that said he was too good for Julia Roberts (or at least agreed when they said that on the radio.) Anyway, He does give a somewhat stiff performance in this character, but it doesn't hurt this movie much at all because it is so well acted and written.  His character remains intact, you can figure out what's going on without the huge emotions you might get from other actors. Anyway, this movie was great, especially for anyone who is tired of seeing characters that are just plain evil. These evil people depicted in other movies don't exsist outside of Hollywood.  On the other hand, this movie was great because no one is evil, they all have things that happened to them and stuff that shaped who they are.  It's really cool that this movie could pull that off. I have much much more I could say, but it would just take too long. I liked it a lot, you should see it. "},{"Title":"Bitter-sweet commedy of the year.","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've never thought sarcasm and bitter comments could be so funny. Christina Ricci is excellent here and makes this film a great comedy.   The cast is also fine, although Lyle Lovetts' performance is as good as a wall waving bye-bye.  Good dialogues and scenes that are both touching and hilarious.  One of the best movies of the year. "},{"Title":"Little Devil","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is like a little devil from an afternoon cartoon Smartly moody but harmless. You need to be in a very bad day to say it's offensive, although it may seem a little politically incorrect (sic).Don't be mistaken, it's not exactally a gay film, it's about all the kinds of sex So you get to know Deede with her offensive thoughts about gays and everybody else but, you know, some may like chocolate, some may like marshmallow, some may like both and others like nothing at all, but aren't we just living and hoping for the same things in life? Believe me, it's simple that way and the history is very lucky to deal so well with this matter.Now, the ladies. They are the real point here. Christina Ricci and Lisa Kudrow are nothing less than terrific and I really hope this is the beginning of a great career for both. By the way, the others are great too.So, come on, enjoy yourself, watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Omniscient Narrator","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In eschewing conventional auterist constructs through thoughtful use of Christina Ricci's Dedee character; Don Roos transforms what may just have been an entertaining, yet unsubstantial film, into one that may just have enough power at the box-office to transform traditional, dull standard cinema technique. That is not to say that this is any more or less important than the rest of the film. In fact, the whole thing seems to effortlessly hang together as a whole, even though, on closer inspection, the plot is linked by a particularly thin thread. Performances in the film are mostly excellent, though whether Lyle Lovett's sheriff is simply bad, or is excellent emotionally tight-arsed method acting is difficult to say. Apart from Ricci, Kudrow's performance is a revelation, giving us an funny, yet oddly touching film, that may yet be seen as a minor classic that is much, much more than the sum of its many parts. "},{"Title":"Humorous and Touching","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie lacked the great acting, directing, and big name stars of most great movies. What it DID have was an excellent (and funny) script, important and intriguing subjects, and a feeling of true caring by those involved (actors and director/writer). A truly 90's movie that should be approached with open mind and an open heart. A round of applause for Roos. "},{"Title":"Original, imaginative and entertaining","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OPPOSITE OF SEX is a daring sex comedy that penetrates deep into the heart of the subject matter.  The presentation was original and effective.  The movie punctures everyone's balloons and show little respect for typical Hollywood political correctness.  But it has a lot to say and says it loud. The performances were all excellent and the writing was highly imaginative and smoothly delivered.  One of the best movies of the year. "},{"Title":"My vote for the best film of the year.","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm totally crazy about this movie.  There's so much to like.  First, the performances are great especially by Christina Ricci, Martin Donovan, and the wonderful Lisa Kudrow.  Kudrow walks away with the movie, if you ask me. Second,  the dialogue is hysterical and truthful, Ricci's narration is priceless as are Kudrow's throwaway cynicisms.  Third, the movie is actually ABOUT something sex, love, and the way they relate.  this is a sweet touching movie that says a lot about us as human beings and makes us able to laugh at ourselves.  How many films can you say that about?  "},{"Title":"Clever comedy of sexual manners and mores","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is an odd film, but ultimately its wacky comic look at relationships (straight, gay and bi)is very satisfying.  There are some wonderful lines - the sort that have you laughing out loud.  Lisa Kudrow, acting like a cross between Helen Hunt and Jane Alexander, does a wonderful job as a repressed heterosexual, drawn to her late brother's lover despite his gay sexuality, and interfering in his love life to the point of domination.  Martin Donovan again plays a middle aged homosexual (as he did in HOLLOW REED).  Ricci is fine as the tough, manipulative center of the film, using people with a callousness that makes the Spider Lady look like Heidi.  Eventually the all around genuine caring the characters feel for each other wear down her defenses.  People change in this film and there is much insight in the cleverly conceived script.  The direction is brisk and full of nuances (as when Donovan holds his dead lover's pillow to his face so that he can breathe in his scent)that tug at the heart.   I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Liked it very much","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rarely take the time to comment on a movie unless it was particularly good or particularly bad.  Happily, this movie was the former, in my opinion.  I liked the whole meta-film thing, especially when it exploited trite Hollywood conventions.  Done many times before, but never with quite as much bite.  I liked Christina Ricci, as many others among us have stated.But what really stood out to me, in contrast to the opinion posed right up front on the info page, was Lisa Kudrow's performance.  I have always enjoyed her schtick on Friends and Mad About You, but never thought I would actually respect her as an actress.  I am glad to be wrong.  This role was perfect for her because it allowed her to use some of her idiosyncrasies, but also allowed her to be more expressive with them.  Honestly I found myself nearly moved to tears by her performance in the scene with Bill in the motel room.Overall, I really liked this movie.  Truly, I laughed, nearly cried, and would see it again (at least once more). "}{"Title":"Very Interesting","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had read a lot about this movie, and I have just seen it. I thought that the movie was excellent because it kept having something new happening all of the time. Ricci did a very good job playing a seductive teenager in this film. The cast was good. It's interesting seeing a movie about a 16 year old girl who falls in love with her gay brother's partner and seduces him and manages to take him away from her brother. I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone under 14. "},{"Title":"well written and acted, funny, at times outrageous, touching","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The film was well directed, written, and acted.  The idea of Ms. Ricci narrating was very good as  her character was a mixture of good and evil, flighty and cal- culating so to see it thru this sixteen year-old's eyes was always interesting. Mr. Donovan, the stable gay half brother, was also convincing in his part as the caring unflappable stalwart thru his many problems.  The supporting cast of Mr. Ser- gei, his lover, Mr. Lovett, the sheriff, and Mr. Galecki, the flaky accuser, were excellent as well.  The dialogue was fast, funny, well written and delivered.  Three and half stars.  A very good afternoon en- tertainment.   "},{"Title":"An exciting, energetic performance by Christina Ricci","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  She really left behind The Addams Family with this hilarious turnabout of biting, social commentary through the eyes of a troublesome 16-year-old girl.  I applaud her for her virtuoso performance, one of my personal favorites of the year. "},{"Title":"Wow... This movie left me wanting more, Christina Ricci was perfect for the role of Dedee, this is a seriously under-rated movie, it's great to see how comedy can be mixed with such a dark movie, dark only b","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a movie! What impressed me most is the strength in all the characters. It was sooooo easy to forget that it was a movie. The movie was so intoxicating that at moments you did almost shed a tear, but couldn't as you didn't have time to. Well done to the actors. It has certainly changed my viewpoint of life.Thank you Miss Ricci "},{"Title":"Bag Lovett and the narration!","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Opposite of Sex begs the question  why on earth do people keep casting Lyle Lovett in films?  The man is a lump with sleeves!Christina Ricci has really come into her own as a character actress, and despite the negative review of another IMDB user, I found Lisa Kudrow's performance to be the BEST thing about the film.I am always irritated with narration in film.  95% of the time it means that the director couldn't tell the story visually.  This was definitely the case.  While Ricci had some funny narrative, it took away from the overall direction and ended up creating a bit of a mess.   When the narration stopped and scenes were carried out the film became much more involving. The scenes with Ricci and Kudrow were especially powerful.  "},{"Title":"Kids, Disease or, Worst of All, Relationships","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dedee Truitt, a wild, rebellious Louisiana teenager, runs away from home after her stepfather's funeral and moves in with her half-brother Bill. Bill, who is much older than his sister, is a gay teacher living in an affluent suburban community in Indiana with his young lover, Matt. Dedee takes a fancy to the good-looking Matt who, unknown to Bill, is actually bisexual, and seduces him, then elopes with him, after tricking him into believing that he has got her pregnant. (She is pregnant, but by another man). To make matters worse for Bill, he is falsely accused of sexually assaulting Jason, one of his former students.The plot gets a lot more complicated than that, but I won't set out all its twists and turns. Three other characters who play an important part are Randy, Dedee's ex-boyfriend and the real father of her child, Lucia, the sister of Bill's deceased partner Tom, and Carl, a policeman who is romantically interested in Lucia. (Lucia is always apologising for the fact that her name is not pronounced in the Italian way, which she seems to think was an error on the part of her parents, but in fact the pronunciation she uses, Loosha, was the traditional English form of the name, and is still preserved in the name of the Caribbean island of St Lucia). The film was both written and directed by Don Roos. It was the first film to be directed by him, although he had previously written a few scripts. These included Diabolique, that dreadful remake of Clouzot's Les Diaboliques, and Single White Female, an enjoyable if not particularly original thriller, but The Opposite of Sex is far more imaginative than either of those.(It perhaps has some similarities with Roos's quirky script for Love Field). The film has been described as politically incorrect for its view of gay life, and was even marketed under the slogan You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll be offended. I did not, however, find anything about the film particularly offensive. Certainly, Jason is a fairly unpleasant character, and Matt a bit of an airhead, but the idea that no gay or bisexual character can ever be shown in anything other than a positive light is a patronising one, like the idea that no film can ever have a black villain. In any case, Jason is treated in a much less negative way in this black comedy than a character making false allegations against a teacher would have been treated in a serious drama, and the film has one positive gay character in the shape of the decent, kindly and likable Bill. Bill is also portrayed as quiet, sober and conservative, something unusual in Hollywood which generally prefers gay characters to be camp, witty and flamboyant. There is a quite remarkable performance from the eighteen-year-old Christina Ricci as Dedee. Ricci had already made her name as a child star in films like The Addams Family and its sequel and Casper, and had made the transition to more adult roles in The Ice Storm the previous year. Dedee is a wonderful character- rude, cynical and with no respect for anyone, but possessed of a certain intelligence and a ready wit. She says that she will not turn out to have a heart of gold, and means it, but we sense that her crude, rebellious nature is the result of an unhappy childhood, the details of which we never precisely learn. The title of the film derives from one of her sarcastic observations about life, that sex is precisely the opposite of what people should want, as it leads to kids, disease or, worst of all, relationships. Ricci received a Golden Globe nomination for Best Actress in a Comedy; watching this film reminded me of how surprised I was to learn that she has never won, or even been nominated for, an Oscar. But then, The Opposite of Sex is the sort of clear-eyed, unsentimental film that the Academy has never much cared for. Of the other actors the one who most impressed me was Martin Donovan as Bill. Johnny Galecki as Jason was a bit annoying and Lisa Kudrow as Lucia occasionally reminded me too much of her Phoebe from Friends, even though the characters are supposed to be quite different. The American cinema- and this was as true in the nineties as it is today- is often criticised for its conservatism- not in the political sense but in the sense that it can become excessively reliant on the familiar and the tried and tested. Occasionally, however, Hollywood can come up with something brilliantly new, and there were a number of such films in the late nineties, Peter Weir's The Truman Show and Sam Mendes's American Beauty being two particularly outstanding examples. The Opposite of Sex is perhaps not in the same class as those masterpieces, but it is nevertheless a refreshingly cynical black comedy with an original take on human relationships. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A witty dramedy about family, sex, and surviving both of them.","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A teenager (Christina Ricci) runs off with, and becomes pregnant by, her gay brother's lover (Ivan Sergei). The film marked departures for both Ricci and Lisa Kudrow, cast against type for the roles they were known for at the time.The Opposite Of Sex is a savagely funny attack on modern American mores and viewer preconceptions alike that provides a field day for actors who delight in spitting out barbed, adult dialogue; though the whole is drenched in irony, everybody works hard to ensure the emotional and (briefly) physical violence hurts, and indeed that we care how this unlikely scenario unfolds. "},{"Title":"Ricci the vixen-rock on","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Christina Ricci showed audiences that she had indeed arrived into adulthood. In this inspired performance of a spoiled brat who is hell-bent on ruining the lives of everyone in her wake, Ricci tears up the screen.The hugely underrated Martin Donovan plays her half brother, who finds himself alone after she seduces his young lover (Ivan Sergei doing a great job as the clueless Matt). Lisa Kudrow and Lyle Lovett give solid supporting performances, and Johnny Galecki-so sweet on Roseanne-gives an excellent against-type performance.Dede's not bad-she's just misunderstood, or else that what she tries to convince the audience. She's a total witch, but Ricci is so likable and actress, it's hard to get mad at Dede. She's sympathetic because she's so young and confused. She's an angry young woman, and she is selfish to boot-but she's not evil.The script is well-written, the direction right-on, and the film moves between comedy and drama with ease. It's a real joy, and deserves to find a bigger audience. "},{"Title":"my favourite movie","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" People ask what's your favourite movie. I say the opposite of sex. Most of them have never heard of it. And they ask what's it about.Well, I don't really have an answer. Not a good one anyway, not an answer that will do the movie justice. If I try to outline the plot, it comes out sounding quite ordinary, quite unremarkable.But it's not about the story, it's about the way it's told and, most of all, the characters. There are no stereotypes, no rules, lots of insecurities, lots of facades put up, that have to be knocked down. They're a refreshing ensemble. Some will never grow a heart of gold, some will, and some already have - we call them losers. "},{"Title":"Too bad about the ending...","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Because this movie was broad-casted by a TV station that claims to aim for quality, rather than for commercial success, I must say that I had some very high expectations about this movie. And these expectations certainly didn't decrease when I heard their regular movie critic (who's taste for movies I normally share) say that this definitely wasn't an unintelligent (read dumb) comedy like we get to see so often these days.Immediately after the burial of her stepfather who she really hated, Dedee, a cynical and sexy 16 year old girl from Louisiana, moves in with Bill, her homosexual half-brother who works as a school teacher. She meets her brother's sexual partner Matt and it doesn't take long before she seduces him and starts an affair with him. Shortly after she announces that she's pregnant and disappears with her lover, some money from her half-brother and the ashes of his deceased lover. In the meanwhile Bill is falsely accused of past sexual misconduct at school by one of Matt's ex-lovers, which causes a big media frenzy. While the whole situation explodes, it's getting obvious that Dedee might have not told the entire truth...If you ask me, than I would say that this was probably one of the best roles I've ever seen Christina Ricci play in. She was really excellent and all the biting sarcasm of her role certainly came out the way it was intended. If another actress had played this role, I would probably not have liked it all that much, but Christina Ricci is excellent to play and to get away with the role of the super bitch. But I must also say that Lisa Kudrow was probably the biggest surprise of the entire cast. For once she didn't play the role of a not very smart blonde, but had a great role as one of the most normal characters in this movie.I really liked the story and the acting was very good, but the ending spoiled some of my fun. Despite the fact that this movie pretended not to be like all those other mushy romantic comedies, in the end it all started very much to look like one. When Dedee says that sex is only good to cause diseases, kids or even worse ... relationships, I really had a good laugh. But then she started to have doubts about her own statement and I really wonder why. It just didn't fit in with her personality that we had seen so far and it somehow it made her less interesting. Suddenly she started to become the bitch from hell with a golden heart. They really shouldn't have done that.Anyway, this is certainly one of the better comedies that I've seen lately and I'm already very glad that for once it isn't full of farting, vomiting or other toilet humor. Just too bad about the ending, otherwise I might have liked it even more. Now I give this movie a rating in between 7/10 and 7.5/10. "}{"Title":"Opposite of Actors","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Did anyone ever comment on the totally miscasting of Martin Donovan?This movie works, it is hilarious and has great one liners BUT something went totally wrong with Martin Donovan. When he grins he's pretending to be a shadow of Mr. Bundy and when he's sad he's trying to look like a dead Mr. Bean. Now if you like the overacting of these two fellows you will probably not like this movie at all.Michael Donovan does not overact or underact or interact. Actually I don't know what he's doing there. Toothache? Hemorrhoids? This actor can do a whole lot better (Insomnia), so let's blame it on direction.Apart from that, this is a must see movie. The simple plot with nice twists works extremely well and Lisa Kudrow and Christina Ricci are at their best. Rent it, see it buy it.So maybe, the opposite of genders works best for director Don Roos...  "},{"Title":"Twisted and outrageous","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christina Ricci as a sexy vixen? Who would  have guessed life imitates art? In a role that  seemed meant for a plump sexpot as herself  (who isn't so plump anymore), Ricci fully  embodies the conniving attitude of Deedee.  Told in a rather unusual manner, this film  featured some deadpan performances by  Johnny Galecki, Lyle Lovett and Lisa Kudrow.  While the film needed some help in regards  to the pacing and structure, it was still a fun  movie to watch, especially in regards to  Deedee's voice overs.  "},{"Title":"Promises a lot, but fails to deliver","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For a start we have a bitchy 16 y.o. tart; her gay stepbrother; his boyfriend; a hysterical spinster and  a shy policeman. Not bad!Problem is, this is America, not Europe; the director is Roos, not Almodòvar. This film does have its merits, first of all, to familiarise America with gay issues. But the result is not quite what I expected. It promises a lot, but fails to deliver for fear to dare more. As other reviewers pointed out, the first 30 minutes and the last 10 are really good. Unfortunately, what could have been a good black comedy turns into a lame soap opera and the story becomes pretty dull and boring. Lisa Kudrow is simply annoying and involuntarily funny. She delivers one of the most ridiculous monologues in the story of cinema (sex vs. shampoo and neck massage). And who could ever believe the affair between sophisticated Lucia and the policeman? Christina Ricci and John Galecki (Jason) are very good, and Dedee's narration is hilarious. I also liked the parody of the Christian girl on the telly. The rest of the cast is forgettable. With more rhythm and the courage to be more outrageous, this could have been a little gem (just think that when evil Dedee seduces the dumb gay, we don't ever see her breasts!)   "},{"Title":"not recommended","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really wanted to like this film, but...  Not recommended, except possibly for several shots early-on of a half-naked Ivan Sergei in his prime. Extremely contrived and tiresome plot (including a sure-fire bad sign, A Gun), plus grating voice-over narration.  Story attempts to make profound-but-lighthearted points on sex, love, homophobia, friendship, loss, and compassion; all pretty much miss the mark.  No interesting performances; Lisa Kudrow seems to be the only one doing any acting.  Unfortunately the energy-levels of the various performances are wildly uneven, from Christina Ricci (Dedee) like annoying fireworks in your face, to Martin Donovan (Bill) who's like a black hole on the screen.   The entire movie is about Bad Girl/Jerry Springer candidate Dedee, who leads the cast around North America on a not-particularly-merry chase; the dumb-but-beautiful bi-guy who keeps persuing her, two more gay guys who keep following the dumb guy, a woman who follows one of those guys, and a straight guy who follows the woman.  I can usually watch pretty much anything, but I got so bored with this that I ejected the disc about 2/3 of the way through, and really had to force myself to finish it.  The experience is of slickly-made 90's quasi-indie product with nothing much to say. "},{"Title":"Begins well, but falls flat","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first fifteen minutes or so of this film are interesting and amusing, but then two things happen.  First, one begins to tire of the main character's constant grinding sarcasm.  Then, the characters become far more interested in each other's sexual orientation and relationships than we are. At one point, for some unexplained reason, they all dash off to Canada, and continue their agonizing there.  I finally ended up looking at the clock, wondering when the wretched thing would ever end.  "},{"Title":"Lisa Kudrow Good, Movie Kinda Lame","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Lisa Kudrow is very good! Her lines lose zip as the movie jags along, but she's a master of delivery and there's plenty of yucks for a while. Movie is not very good, since character development is hot & cold. We do learn quite a bit about the gay characters, which is nice, but there's plenty of straights in there, too, and we really don't learn much at all about them. An unexpected meteor about an hour into the movie would have made for a crisper viewing experience and I'd be sleeping right now.Unfortunately, the last half hour just sucked along trying to tie a bunch of useless sub-plots together. Christina Ricci's the narrator and main character, but what makes her tick, beyond screwing everyone over and just plain screwing? Apparently it's being a mommy. Uh, okay, but it plays 100% banal. Martin Donovan does a nice job breathing some depth into a nearly comatose character. And I suppose you've gotta love Lyle Lovett, cardboard acting and all, but this ain't no Short Cuts or The Player. But Lisa Kudrow gooooood! "},{"Title":"Funny Dialogue But Can't Root For Characters","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You can't send up a send up - the first 15 mins is really funny and moves at great pace. Then complications upon complications arise and the whole thing becomes implausible and I couldn't care anymore. Lisa Kudrow is really good.  "},{"Title":"The only interesting thing about this movie was seeing Lisa Kudrow play a non-Friend.","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I bet any snotty, cooler-than-thou 15 year olds who saw The Opposite of Sex were quoting DeDee's snitty little one-liners for weeks afterward; I, personally, thought the movie SUCKED.  Dedee's running monologue was annoying and completely lacking in insight and her character had no depth at all.The movie's creators either take themselves way too seriously or think the audience is made up of drooling idiots Ricci's voiceover begins with her explaining the plot because it's complicated (it isn't).  Snide little asides throughout the film help us to figure out what's going on in case we're too damned stupid to stick with the program (we're not.  Or *I'm* not...).  The plot is this there's this chick named DeDee who's a giant bitch.  DeDee screws over her family in various ways, goes on the lam, and the folks she betrayed pursue her across the country.  Since the film stays at a completely superficial level, never showing us any of DeDee's motivations or even allowing her to seem remotely human, we don't care WHAT happens to her.  Thus the movie becomes very tedious, very fast.The capper commercials for the movie promised that DeDee didn't have a heart of gold and wouldn't grow one by the end of the movie.  Good, I thought, no sappy ending.  Wrong.  They put in a sappy ending after all. In my eyes, this movie was a failure on every possible level--it even failed to be hip and cynical, which I thought was its whole point.  I really like Christina Ricci but it'll be awhile before I can forgive her for this.  "},{"Title":"Promising screenplay poorly executed","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Smartly written and observed, but undermined by poor acting (except for a terrific Christina Ricci) and pedestrian directing. "},{"Title":"Ricci is a goddess, but....","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I didn't find this movie paticularly controversial OR ground breaking as the reviews had suggested. It tried to be a cross between an irreverent teenage cool social commentary (clueless) and a neo-noir flick with a scary bitchy lead (Last Seduction). It failed in both. And the clean happy ending which neatly tied all the loose ends was all too typical. Exactly what was I supposed to find controversial?   "}{"Title":"Promising to offend, indeed doing so","Date":"8 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The movie promises to offend you, and I promise you that it fulfills it's promise. The problem is, in the end it retracts most of what it said and makes most of the feelings of offense go away, except for a group of people who don't even largely play in the movie (but Don Roos apparently wished to alienate).From the start of the movie, we are introduced to Dede Truitt, who is the narrator but not, surprisingly, the lead character. A white trash brat from Louisiana, she promises us that she doesn't have a heart of gold and doesn't grow one later.Dede hates her stepfather for reasons we're never told, and hates her mother for being the one that killed her father. Although I was told by others her family life was suggestive of abuse, to me, it came off as her being shallow and angry at the loss of her birth father and taking it out on the people around her. She ruins a funeral for her step father and runs away to live with her half-brother (a real live homo) across the nation.Bill, her brother and the real main character of this movie, and his live-in lover Matt have hit a rough patch in their lives. Bill is a sweet, sensitive guy mourning the death of his, for all intents and purposes, husband. Tom the dead guy left Bill with quite a bit of money, but no direction. Because of this, Bill is cruising through life, allowing the slander from his students and typical bumps of life to not phase him in the least.Things for these two characters began to circle around the next plot point Dede seduces kind hearted Matt and makes him believe he's the father of her baby.Dede lies and manipulates her way through big hearts and little minds, finding a rival only in the intellectual but bitter Lucia (played convincingly by Lisa Kudrow). Matt shows no true character development nor weight as the movie carries on. In fact, when his lover-on-the-side Jason enters the picture, Matt becomes nothing more than a shallow husk of what could have been a good character.Johnny Galecki fails at Jason's first big scene, not quite hitting the emotional depth he needed to convey a hopeless lover at a loss. However, by the end of the film, he picks up some steam and manages to make Jason come across a lovable guy who just wants to find his little piece of happiness. Unfortunately, though, Jason never learns a lesson. He enters the movie lying about Bill molesting him as a student, and leaves the movie lying about the Christian Coalition paying him to do so. Bill and Lucia are the true redeeming characters of this film, as they grow to finally allow emotions back into their lives and receive the happy ending they suffered to get.What interests me is that the movie appears to be teaching about the good in all people, and tries to put a positive spin on even the most horrible of characters. An interestingly hypocritical pivot for a cynical satire of real life. Not a very satisfying experience, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"It's just so good.","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You may think I'm some hysterical fan who just saw the movie and picked 10/10 since I couldn't be bothered evaluating the film first but that is not the case. I have tried to find fault with this film but they're really isn't much to go on. All in all the film is perfect; the elevator music-type score is perfect, the acting unnaturally good and the plot, though at times complicated, very smart and always interesting.16 year old Dedee Truit (Christina Ricci) leaves her her hometown of Louisina after her step-father dies to live with her gay half-brother, Bill (Martin Donavan). Whilst there, she convinces his live-in boyfriend Matt (Ivan Sergei) that he's straight. The two run away together along with 10,000 and in turn set of a chain of events that Bill could certainly do without.Don't get me wrong, this is only stage one of the plot and it all develops hilariously thanks to Don Roo's brilliant script. Of course that wouldn't mean much if the acting wasn't worth it's material, but as mentioned before, it most certainly is. Considered by many as Ricci's adult breakout role, it's here that the then 19 year old shows us what she's made of. Her monotone voice is perfect for the characters dead-pan narration whilst the scene in which she's giving birth is, though a bit hard to watch, always rewarding during every sitting.Kudrow as a stick-up-her-ass spoilsport scores some serious points too. After Romy and Michelle and Friends it's nice to know that she can reach a little deeper and when she gets a genuinely happy ending, you can't help but feel touched. The rest of the cast are excellent too and all deserve praises.So if you look at a trailer for this or something and think it's just some slick, sleazy sex-fest, I urge you to reconsider. Chances are, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"The Opposite of Schmaltz","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I had no expectations when I sat down to watch this movie. I knew none of the actors. I had not read any reviews. My partner brought it home from the rental shop. That simple.And so it was the pleasantest of surprises to be totally engaged and engrossed from the opening scene. So many films are just plain dumb, what a refreshing change to find such an intelligent, witty and emotionally-charged comedy-drama.ALL the actors rise to the challenge of a superior script. Ricci is, of course, fantastic but really everyone performs admirably and with integrity.And I LOVED the ending. It was truly satisfying. For once in a Hollywood movie - albeit independent - heartfelt sentiment triumphed over schmaltz. Terrific film. Just terrific. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While the 1990s may well be remembered as a decade of relative peace and prosperity -and as a time when life and culture seemed to flourish-it will also be remembered for shockingly awful movies as `The Opposite of Sex'. The acting in this movie -with the exception of Lisa Kudrow-is appalling, the plot is weak, the script is absolutely devoid of any appeal and the whole movie is totally unnecessary and pointless.Christina Ricci is, not for the first time, totally annoying in this movie and the whole supporting cast is not much of an improvement (although Lisa Kudrow makes a valiant effort). The script is weak, the dialogue strained and the plot hard to follow. I would recommend giving this movie a miss -it is one of those movies that Hollywood produces to supposedly prove that they are in `tune' with the youth of today. And, as usual, this perception is totally misleading "},{"Title":"Unwatchable","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is easily the worst film I've ever seen.  Worse than But I'm A Cheerleader.  Worse than The Mummy Returns.  Worse even than The Phantom Menace.  The VO is utterly ridiculous.  Even such underrated performers  as Lyle Lovett and Lisa Kudrow are completely unconvincing. I've seen a lot of bad movies to be sure.  But none compare with this "},{"Title":"A crass movie","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Every movie I have seen Christina Ricci in was a stinker and this is no exception. She is a very spoiled teen ager in life and so it is very easy for her to play a spoiled brat in this movie and in the process destroy any redeeming value that the movie may have had, which she does in all her movies.  "},{"Title":"Uninspired, predictable, and seriously lacking humor","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie had nothing good going for it.  It fails to make you feel sympathy for the characters, with the exception of Ben.  What's worse is that the plot is pure formula, from the beginning right down to the happy ending.  It is just a series of things happening that would never happen in reality,  in a boring ho-hum kind of way.  I wish I had done something else with my time, rather than watch this video.  4/10 "},{"Title":"Trash in - trash out!","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christina Ricci is a scary person.  I guess I feel that way about all uppity children.  But with The Opposite of Sex she luxuriates into something as human as an actress can be.  Such a shame about the dullards who complete the cast here.  A slightly off balance Lisa Kudrow?   Wow - that's new! Somebody Donovan playing, ..er.., someone?  And snatches of screenplay that seem to come from nowhere.  Where are my sympathies supposed to find a place to call home?  OK.  If you're Lyle Lovett you can be dull.  It's your job. Besides, it's Julia bait.  But all-in-all my concerns barely strayed from my own seat/bottom discomfort.Hey!  Didn't we laugh in Now And Then when Rosie O'Donnell and not Demi Moore was cast as a later life Christina Ricci?Tee hee!   "},{"Title":"Vicious wit gone limp...","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Brazen teenage girl leaves an unhappy home to live with her gay half-brother, but she ends up seducing her brother's chiseled-but-naive lover--convincing him that she's carrying his child. Over-stuffed, acid-tongued comedy-of-ills is chockful of unlikable people. Credit director Don Roos for going full-throttle with such chancy material, yet the edges of this brittle script are rather limp; the movie is either amusingly bitchy or offensively boring, with joke-gimmicks that don't work and a strident narrative pitched way too high. Lisa Kudrow is the sole bright spot playing a friend of the family. In the lead, unremarkable Christina Ricci turns up her urchin chin at the camera and squints her eyes in seductive thought, but she's trying too hard to be sexy--she's pouty, but hardly a Lolita. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Bags of attitude, but precious little charm...","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a movie that delights in shocking, but there seems no emotional core to hang the acidity onto, and thus encourage the audience to stick with certain characters throughout their bouts of misanthropy.  The tagline as well as Christina Ricci's narrator heralds the nastiness contained within, but it rarely rings true except to gain a cheap laugh.  It's transparently affected.With such a smugly knowing film, it's incredibly hard to care.  The talented cast do what they can with the mere 'mouthpieces' they are given as characters, but even some interesting observations present themselves in almost wholly unappealing ways.  Ricci and Kudrow get the best lines, but that's all they are - one-liners - a crippling lack of investment behind them from either the writers, performers, or most crucially, the watcher themselves.Too 'frothy' a subject to be truly dark, yet simply too unpleasantly acerbic to engender even a smidgen of good feeling toward any of its characters.  If its aim was to be sharp, it's a shame to report that it's mostly just painful.(**/*****, or 'fair' on the Empire ratings scale.  See 'Boards' profile.) "}{"Title":"Great black comedy","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  *WARNING* Spoilers ... 16 year old trailer trash DeeDee stubs a cigarette out on her stepfather's grave and sets off to find her half brother Bill, who she calls a real life homo. When she finds him, his boyfriend has just died of AIDS and left Bill a large sum of money. She seduces Bill's stupid new boyfriend Matt, steals the money and the boy and takes off to LA.Ricci looks like she is having a lot of fun playing this character and it makes the movie great fun to watch. You can tell when watching this movie that everyone involved loved making it. All the performances are superb and the director Don Roos seems to know how much fun everyone is having. He makes the perfect black comedy. Such relentless vicious bitchiness can be hard to take when you have to sit through 2 hours of it. At times this movie is difficult, but all that proves is how good the performance and the direction is. (8/10) "},{"Title":"A sheep in wolf's clothing!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christina Ricci is beautiful, talented and charismatic, but even she can't salvage this overrated movie, which dresses itself as something wicked and daring, but turns out to be your typical Hollywood paean to romance and family values. Ricci (who impressed me in 'The Ice Storm' and 'Buffalo 66') spits out the politically incorrect put downs and gay-baiting one liners with great panache, but the problem is that they really aren't all that witty in the first place. Check out writer/director Don Roos' C.V. and it screams hack. Look past the surface of this movie and it's obvious that his talent is paper thin.  Ricci is supported by an odd cast of TV faces, Hal Hartley regular Martin Donovan (who is usually superb but has too much of an under written role here to make any impression), and a truly awful and unconvincing performance by Lyle Lovett. (Don't give up the day job, Lyle!) 'The Opposite Of Sex' is ultimately a shallow and forgettable experience. Don't bother unless you are an obsessive Ricci fan. "},{"Title":"the opposite of good","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A completely horrendous movie. The characters are all weak. You never once care about the Christina Ricci's character and are completely annoyed by her voice-over explanation of what's going on. Lisa Kudrow is just plain whiny, I kept hoping that Bill would tell her to shut the hell up and get out of his life. Ivan Sergei is just eye candy. The plot is even weaker. Who would have really put up with any of that?I was more amazed when I found this categorized under comedy. There wasn't one laugh in the whole thing. The only joke is on the cover of the video box, Scathingly Funny. Yeah, right. "},{"Title":"The 1st 20 and last 10 minutes are great, but the middle stinks!","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is precisely what happens when you get a wild conglomeration of ideas and characters and throw them all together if only to see what happens.  In all actuality, this isn't as much of a movie as it is a science project caught on camera.  Christina Ricci plays Dedee Truitt, a young girl who leaves home to go live with her step brother in Indiana.  She's not exactly a kind hearted person, and the first 20 minutes of the movie serve only to describe her thoughts and attitudes on life and other people.  After only a minute or two, it doesn't take any intuitive powers of perception to realize that she's a bitch; the enjoyment comes at watching her say everything you wish you were creative enough to think of yourself.  As though that weren't entertaining enough, she leaves town and the movie takes a turn for the worse.  She moves to Indiana with her gay step brother and decides she's ready for sex, so she converts his boyfriend back into being straight!  That doesn't go over too well when Dedee announces that she's pregnant and the boyfriend is the father.  The movie takes another turn when they run off to California to have the baby.  There is quite a bit more of scenery changing that occurs, but the basic plot of the movie is how several different people think about sex and relationships, how they interact with each other, and how Dedee's exploits serve to change some of their thought patterns.Trust me on this one, it sounds a whole lot better than it actually is.  The first 20 minutes border on the hysterical and you could fall off your chair from laughing so hard if the mood was right.  The last 10 minutes were pretty good as well, when Dedee finally figures everything out and order is finally restored to everyone's lives.  The problem is really the hour in between the beginning and ending.  It sucks.  I'd say that it progresses like a soap opera, but I don't want to give any soap operas a bad name.  It runs pretty much like everyone is just going through the motions with their roles, nobody is very interesting anymore, and it's pretty boring to sit through. By the way, if you are planning to watch this for one of the actors or actresses involved, don't bother because nobody is very good here.  The story dominates the actors, and nobody is going to be so emotionally compelling that it is a must see performance.  Every once in awhile, there is a nice conversation where a couple of the characters have something really important to say about life, sex, or relationships, but the tidbits are so small that to wade through that whole hour for them is going to be a big waste of your time.In actuality, the perfect scenario to view this would be while suffering from a severe case of diarrhea.  You could start the movie at your leisure, get through the first few minutes, and then go clean up shop.  By the time you got back, you could see one of the nice tidbits scattered intermittently through the middle of the movie, and just in time to go worship the porcelain idol once again.  When worship services were over, you could make it back for the last 10 minutes, someone could explain to you what you missed, and you would have beaten the system by diarrhea!  You could see all of the great stuff this movie had to offer, and there is some good stuff, your friends would have to sit through the whole thing to keep explaining it to you when you were there, and you would miss out on all of the boredom this has to offer while you were taking care of bigger and better things!  How great is that!  I guess if that doesn't appeal to you or if circumstances don't allow it, you could just do something else while the movie is playing.  It's an excellent movie to clean house to, or make cookies or what have you, but don't give this your undivided attention.  I'd recommend watching it, but have a backup plan to keep you busy, because the movie won't. "},{"Title":"Lots of Bark, Little Bite","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As hard-boiled as our under-age heroine tries to be, both as voice-over narrator and lead character, her sassy attitude is mostly strutting and posing.  There's not a lot of bite to her rhetoric--cynical and sarcastic as it is.Bearing a tagline, You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll be offended, The Opposite of Sex drew little audible response from the audience at the showing I attended.  Yet one did feel audience interest throughout.A comedy without audible laughs is somewhat a new kind of humor, rather in the mold of In the Company of Men.  With a heroine who seems to dislike everything and everyone--including herself--there's not much to identify with here. One just sits there, savoring the cool dialogue and hip attitudes.That said, the film is not without it's points some nifty characterizations, crafty lines, unexpected plot turns, and a few sharp observations on contemporary relationships.  Even if there wasn't really all that much to make us laugh, cry--or be offended--we were most certainly engaged. "},{"Title":"A Black Comedy?  Really?","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Look, it's well filmed, well directed and - to a certain extent - well acted (Christina Ricci is a great talent).  But the story is just plain irritating.  There's nothing to like.  I wonder why it was even written - what is the point here?  Dedee (Ricci) is indecent, immoral and just plain nasty.  I know we aren't supposed to like her, but the story doesn't really give us anyone to follow.  There's no-one to care for.  And sadly, there's no material that qualifies this as a black comedy. "},{"Title":"Anybody really paid to see this???","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ricci was really good.  Has talent & will be seen again.  The movie was so thoroughly unbelievable.  Rented it on video when my local store had a two for one night.  Big mistake. When will hollywood wake up???? "},{"Title":"","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In the first 5 minutes I'd decided I was gonna love this film, Ricci seemed on top form giving a cool monologue and coming across as the Drew Barrymore for the (late) 90's... but 20 minutes in and everything goes to pot... she becomes a pain in the ass, Kudrow can't take such a heavy role  (not that it's a *heavy* role, just that she's *so* lightweight.) and you just end up not really giving a toss about any of them. Galecki (David from Roseanne) is over the top camp and looks more like he's starring in a Carry On movie than anything else. Ricci does show real promise though.. she could be *excellent* if just cast in the right thing by a decent director.Best bit has to be the line Ricci delivers to the audience just after the Bill & Matt kiss. "},{"Title":"My god...","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sorry if my english is bad. I speak french.I'm a fan of Christina Ricci and I didn't like this movie. Deddee (or something like that) was so easy to hate... I don't know if it was suppose to be a drama or a comedy but I didn't laugh a single time. "},{"Title":"Delivered on its promise to be offensive...","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ... but not for the reasons the film-makers obviously intended. My reaction to this so-called comedy is the true opposite of sex.The primary problem is in the writing. While there is a scattering of tee-hee funny lines, the script reads like a first draft in need of revision. There is hardly an event, character, or situation that Joe Moviegoer would find relatable. The actors find themselves struggling to convincingly deliver contrived, unnatural dialogue. The writer has the characters reacting to each increasingly absurd situation by doing whatever it takes to lead to the next scene, instead of remaining true to their character. To reiterate the compliant of another user, no one would ever put up with the things that these characters put up with.The secondary problem is the direction. As mentioned before, the actors had quite a challenge before them, given the script. Unfortunately, it seems that directer Roo only gave them one crack at each take. On top of that, there are moments when it seems that the editor has left the building (long, flat monologues). It's like the film-makers couldn't decide if this was a drama or a comedy.I can only think of two reasons why this movie got the reviews it did. First of all, it overflows with homosexuality. Take that however you want. But I think critics are afraid to do their job when watching movies that tackle minority issues. Despite your politics, a bad movie is a bad movie. Secondly, I think a lot of critics and movie-goers actually bought into the cheesy one-liners. Quips are great and all. But no amount of good lines can make up for a very bad film. "}{"Title":"Cynicism masquerading as intelligence","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ricci, a wonderful actress, is an intolerable (and  all-too-common, especially in indie films) bitch  throughout--and she's narrating. If that doesn't drive youaway, Lisa Kudrow's constant whining and the usually  solid (but lackluster here) Martin Donovan's masochisticsimp should finish you off. The script is loaded with the lazyyoung Turk's approach to clever observations about  modern life--namely, two-bit cynicism, which was mildlyfresh about 10 years ago. Potshots aplenty at Christiansand gays--wow, how revolutionary! Oh, and Lyle Lovettdoes Lyle Lovett to a T. Still, this movie had potential; toobad it was utterly squandered by unimaginative direction,bad writing, and insufferable characters. What could'vebeen a wry, dark comedy falls apart under the weight of allthe post-modern pretense, nasty attitude, and Ricci's  grating narration, a vapid effort at a clever conceit. Thankheavens she redeemed herself completely in later  projects! "},{"Title":"a movie as annoying as its lead","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Right off the bat, Christina Ricci's character is 100% annoying and she even lets us know she will not get any better as the movie progresses. Does it progress? Or does it just go deeper into worse? I love Ricci and Kudrow and, yes, the bi boyfriend is total eye candy. Everything seems filmed pretty decently -except for the fact that for every location there seems to be only one shot available and everyone shares the exact same hotel room set- but the story. Dios mio. Ricci's character talks us through the story as though we were demented -and blind- viewers, who must not forget she has gun. She will use it later. Uh-huh.Probably the most pathetic example of this over-talking is when apparently she/the movie is trying to tell us how to feel about some of the characters. Could you just let us feel whatever we like, please? Have you EVER heard of showing instead of telling? Looks like not. The crassest jokes I've ever heard. Eye-rolling, throw-something-at-the-screen baseless plot twists. A-N-N-O-Y-I-N-G. Do NOT pay more than a buck to watch this movie, even if it's just out of curiosity. "},{"Title":"May be good for some, but not for me","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Evry movie has to have a fan. Who is the fan for this movie? No one I know, or would want to knowPlot A slutty brat tells a story about how slutty and bratty she is. Then mixed lovers happens.The acting in this movie was at the same level of a high school play production. You really don't relate or feel for any of the characters except for her brother who gets screwed numerous times (you kind of wish he just goes postal on everyone). Lyle Lovett is a great singer/songwriter, but he can not act. On a positive note it addresses and deals with some very deep issues concerning sexual societies and homosexuality.Bottom Line I wouldn't recommend it, yet I feel that there has to be a certain audience that would like this movie, maybe bratty slutty teenagers.  "},{"Title":"A Trojan Horse","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The producers of THE OPPOSITE OF SEX have gone through great pains to advertise their film as politically incorrect.  But it doesn't take very long to see right through their charade.This is your standard politically correct Hollywood fable.  While the film is narrated by Deedee, she is not the protagonist, she is in fact the foil. The true protagonist of the story is her homosexual half-brother Bill.  It is him that we sympathize with, not her.The film takes its standard politically correct potshots at gun owners, the religious right, Christians, Republicans, etc.  They even dredge up that evil boogeywoman Anita Bryant to lob a rhetorical tomato at.The movie is very well made, well acted, very funny, and highly entertaining.  The problem is the preaching of liberal propaganda.  If this does not bother you, or you are able to overlook it, you will find this movie very much worth a rent.  "},{"Title":"Poof!","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie starts out feeling a bit like Ghost World. And then, poof! While Ghost World is one of the best movies that I've seen in the past five years, this is one of the worst!The so-called pomo material is fresh and beckons for a heckuva good treatment, but poof! Don Roos, he of the Diabolique debacle, lays a pretentious egg! The movie feels episodic and disorganized, which some people might call an indie movie feel. I call it crap. Nothing is really said or accomplished, and there is no attempt to scrap the surface of any of the characters.All of sudden, after good performances in Casper, The Addams Family, and particularly Buffalo 66, poof! Christina Ricci can't act! Her one-note whine is insipid and dull. The rest of the acting is quite bad, as a matter of fact, it may be one of the worst ensemble acting performances I've ever seen! Lyle Lovett is miscast, if that is possible. Lisa Kudrow has the most potentially juicy part, but poof! She is too weak to pull it off!This reminds me of the excellent director Henry Jaglom's most indulgently bad movies. I had to struggle to make it to the exceptionally unsatisfying ending.And poof! It rates 2/10!  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I ever saw.","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was compared to Clueless. What a mistake. After the first 20 minutes the story doesn't go anywhere new, it's just more of the same. The strong language and gay-theme may be funny and shocking to U.S. audiences, European viewers are probably less easily shocked into laughter.There's no emotional theme that I could see, or it would have to be the AIDS related death of a main characters partner that gets dragged into the story kicking and screaming.I'd have walked out of the movie if it weren't for my companion who wanted to see it through to the end. "},{"Title":"the opposite of a good movie","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  sorry, this is the biggest spoiler i´ll ever write, but this definetly is one of the most boring movies i´ve ever seen.the story-line is ridiculous dumb, the characters are unironical white-trash-squareheads and there´s not one character in the movie, that would be performed in an inspired way of acting this is a square head soap opera. christina ricci plays as if she got a brain damage, martin donovan as if he had an overdose of valium and lisa kudrow is just a pain in the a**. the best actor in this movie is William Lee Scott (no joke! he´s definetly not one of the best actors ever, but hes the best one in here, hes even smart!) and maybe Lyle Lovett, but just because he´s got such a funny face. there´s definetly no reason to make such a boring movie, just because the subject (homosexuality) may offend someone. it seems as if the moviemakers tried to do a mainstream film about homosexuality to provocate, but just a little. just because one of the main characters says vagina! vagina! vagina! and another one talks about two men sucking each other´s d**** doesn´t make a good movie out of it. it´s like watching the wonder years with some obscene expressions in it.this movie is a waste of time!2 out of 10 (and the two are for WL Scott and L Lovett) recommendations (just to proove that i´m not homophobic) ich bin meine eigene frau, boys dont cry, der bewegte mann. "},{"Title":"Some outrageous laughs from Christina Ricci and Lisa Kudrow","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dedee Truitt (Christina Ricci) is a 16 year old from Creve Coeur, Louisiana. She runs away to her gay half-brother high school teacher Bill Truitt (Martin Donovan). He's living with his foolish boyfriend Matt Mateo (Ivan Sergei). She has everyone wrapped around her little finger except Bill's stuck-up friend Lucia DeLury (Lisa Kudrow) who is the sister of Bill's dead ex-lover Tom. Dedee is manipulative and outrageously inappropriate. She seduces Matt, claims Matt is the father of her unborn child, steal $10k from Bill, and runs away to L.A. Matt's other boyfriend Jason Bock (Johnny Galecki) wants Matt back and maliciously lies to Sheriff Carl Tippett (Lyle Lovett) about being molested when he was Bill's student. That's when things start to turn crazy.Dedee is selfish and morally corrupt. And she's played with biting wit by Ricci. She gives a running inner monologue and that is even worst than her inappropriate comments. Everybody is running around orbiting this little tart. The only reasonable person seems to be Lucia but she may be the most troubled of all. She's been hopelessly pining for a gay guy while ignoring an admirer. Lisa Kudrow is just as effective performing the polar opposite personality. She is just as funny in her frustration with Bill. "},{"Title":"Me myself and I","Date":"23 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Opposite of Sex tells a metalinguistic story in which a half-sister comes to a man's life and turns everything upside down. That happens because the girl is completely insane, with all the bad adjectives you can imagine, so she does lots of mean stuff that make you frizz your hair. The story is, for what it matters, a little confusing and implausible, since sexuality is dealt with a little incongruence-- for some point, I believed the movie was trying to show there would be an ex-gay person. What I liked about it is that the movie doesn't have a main character; they're all important to the story-telling and each one with its own singularity. Jason and Lucia are two great characters portrayed by two great actors, and sometimes Lucia appears to be the most reasonable one, given that all the others are dumb most of the time. I just don't give it a better rating because the story is too crazy for my taste, but it entertains for some while, with an original subject, for sure. "},{"Title":"Explores the nature of sex","Date":"18 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie because a friend of mine said that it was pretty good. I generally listen to suggestions from people, unless of course it is one particular person and I don't really want to see the movie, as this person has an uncanny ability to become incredibly annoying when trying to convince somebody to do something they really do not want to do. But he's a good bloke anyway.This movie is about a woman who runs away from home after her step-dad dies. She goes and stays with her half-brother, seduces his boyfriend and then leaves for Los Angeles. This begins numerous problems as he is blackmailed by a rather suspicious kid who claims to be this guy's boyfriend as well. It might also be noted to state that the half-brother's former boyfriend, Tom, has died of aids and left him with a lot of money. Tom's sister also hangs around him, and is infatuated with him, but the guy never really takes on. He is gay and he doesn't change, no matter how much we want him to.This movie explores sex, what it is, why people do it, and whether it is bad. The end of the movie sums it all up when she says, I don't want sex, it brings to many bad things such as babies, relationships, commitments and lots of other annoying things. Images of relationships then flash before you, both hetro and homo sexual, and one comes to see the beauty in relationships. It is then that she sits down and says, I guess there are some good things about it.That is the conclusion of this movie - sex is about relationships, though relationships are not always about sex. As is pointed out to the homosexual, he doesn't want his boyfriend for some intellectual type relationship, he wants him for sex, pure and simple. This is something that he does not want to admit, he would rather see it is a side thing for something deeper, but he is kidding himself. What we see is that he doesn't want the intellectual type of thing, he wants sex and he wants it with a man.The girl is different though. She wants the sex without all of the problems, but realises that these problems are not everything. It is the relationships that count. She looks at the relationships and realises that it is a beautiful thing that we have, and sex is just an added bonus.The question of procreation is raised in conjunction with relationships in another clever quote. 'It is interesting how whoever created us made sex so good, and as a means of procreation, because we want sex we will procreate. If it was something like talking on the telephone then nobody would want it and we would die out in a few short years.' I guess this really attacks the heart of humanity - we want sex but we don't want the burdens that come with it burdens such as babies, relationships, commitments, and even reputation. Just as the gay guy argued that he wanted the intellectual side of the relationship to protect his reputation, it was only a dream. It was only when the woman confronted him with it that he came to accept that it was the sex he was after.I feel that this is a very intelligent film with deep character development and a running commentary on what is going on. My only criticism is when the two guys kiss and the narrator says, now girls, if your boyfriend groaned at what just happened then he is definitely a closet. She then proceeded to run off a number of redneck attributes, indicating that if you are anti-homosexual the you must be gay. This is only supported by the fact that some of the most powerful men in America were very anti-homosexual and also closet homosexuals. Just because you don't agree with it does not mean you are a closet homosexual. "}{"Title":"The Opposite of Worth Watching","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Roughly the first half of this movie was OK. Ivan Sergei was lovable and Christina Ricci was amusingly cynical.Eventually both Ivan and his character seemed overwhelmed by Lisa Kudrow's irritating and grating personality and Martin Donovan's total absence of personality. It was somewhere near the midpoint in the film that Lisa delivered what seemed like an endless sermon to the listless Martin. It was like listening to someone drag her finger nails across a chalkboard but less interesting. And it was about at this point where Christina's cynicism ceased being amusing and became depressing.I never got on board with the idea that Ivan/Matt could find Martin/Bill sexually attractive or that anyone at Bill's school or the larger community could feel anything, much less sympathy, for the slug-like Bill. I gather that Lyle Lovett is a successful singer. It's nice to know he can do something well. Towards the end of the film it seemed everyone was winging it, just trying to tie up loose ends with whatever came to mind in the hope that it might distract the audience from the realization that more than 1 1/2 hours of their lives had just evaporated. "},{"Title":"The Opposite of Sex (1998)","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Opposite of Sex works as both a wonderful, if cruel, character study, and a parody of audience expectations. Christina Ricci plays an absolute bitch in this movie. Her life revolves around ruining the lives of others. She doesn't even seem to get that much out of it, her reward is to cause people pain. Whether that be acting out at a funeral, inviting herself to stay, getting pregnant, or stealing her half- brother's boyfriend. Ricci narrates in a self knowing tone, explaining why we feel sorry for certain characters and not others. This often works comically, especially when building sympathy for her brother, she then shows the clips where he doesn't sit around brooding. On the opposite end of the spectrum we have Martin Donovan. He is so painfully nice you just want him to lash out. He's an absolute joy of a character, bringing a chilled and relaxing counterpart to Ricci's hobag. We also have Kudrow as a woman so scared of her own life she interferes with others. She tells everyone how to live their life, and her journey is one of the sweetest as the film reaches a satisfactory and moving conclusion.This is a film about the power of sex, but also how there are other things out there. The only downsides were that it was sometimes too smart for its own good, and the homophobic and lack of knowledge concerning aids seemed very dated. "},{"Title":"Half of a good movie","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I really wanted to like this movie, but I didn't. It just didn't work -too long basically to carry the annoying personalities.Christina Ricci's DeeDee is a case in point. First they make the 18 year old Christina look 20 and cast her as a 16 year old. Yes the character is pretentious but it didn't work.Second you just don't like the characters after a while. Lisa Kudrow quirky but after a while, get a life Lucia. Bill the patient lover, get over it your love is dead and your lover is an idiot. Strangely the only character that didn't get old or stale was the over the top Jason. That I suspect was because he got just little enough screen time.10 minutes in I would have given it an 8 as it was it got a 5 and only because it started so well. "},{"Title":"An Acquired Taste","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Opposite of Sex is a black comedy. Black comedy is an acquired taste; you either hate it or love it, there's no in between. With that said, I love this movie. Granted that I can see why many people don't like this movie, I would still recommend The Opposite of Sex as well worth taking a look.The Opposite of Sex is about Dedee Truitt (an exquisite performance by the ever-talented Christina Ricci) a precocious, cynical, sharp-tongued, foul-mouthed and manipulative teen temptress who, after flicking her cigarette and smashing her chair onto her stepfather's coffin at his funeral, runs away from home to move in with her gay half-brother, Bill (Martin Donovan) and his sexy young lover, Matt (Ivan Sergei). Dedee seduces Matt and only after she has sex with him does Dedee reveal that she is pregnant. Things get very complicated very quickly as Dedee convinces Matt to run away with her yet again along with Bill's money and the ashes of his dead lover, only to dump Matt for Randy Cates (William Lee Scott), Dedee's psychotic ex-boyfriend, all the while Jason Bock (Johnny Galecki), a former high school student and Matt's other boyfriend, accuses Bill of a crime he didn't do after Bill doesn't tell him where Matt has gone to.There's are reasons why I would recommend this movie to others and reasons why I wouldn't. The reasons why I would recommend The Opposite of Sex is the following a fresh, cliché-free plot, the clever dialogue and, most of all, the performance by Christina Ricci. The little girl who started out in Mermaids, the two Addams Family movies and Casper truly has gone far in her career. The Ice Storm may have been her first non-kid friendly adult role, but I would honestly have to say that The Opposite of Sex is what firmly cemented her as a mature actress all the while saying that the little girl who played Wednesday Addams in The Addams Family, The Addams Family Values and Kat Harvey in Casper has grown up is moving on with her career, something that many other child stars (here's looking at you, Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen and Lindsay Lohan!) can't seem to do. In addition with that, her performance as Dedee Truitt is something that has to be seen to be believed; Christina makes us, the audience hate and love Dedee at the same time. How she never got that Golden Globe she was nominated for or an Oscar for that matter is beyond me.Now the reasons why I wouldn't recommend this movie. As I said in my title black comedy isn't something for everyone. Combined with the fact that this movie is also VERY unpolitcally correct as well as that half the characters in this movie are gay (yes, I know it's a stupid reason to hate a movie because it has gay characters, but a lot of idiots on IMDb practically throw a fit over this movie for that reason). The tagline of the movie You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll be offended! isn't lying. If you love black comedy you'll laugh, if you don't you'll just end up crying and being offended. I personally think that's why there's so many negative comments about this movie both in other reviews and on the message boards people sat down watching this movie thinking that it going to be harmless entertainment, only go get a slap in face from darkness and the context of the movie.So to conclude, I'll just say again that I love The Opposite of Sex and again say who will enjoy this movie and who won't.People who will like/love The Opposite of Sex fans of dark/black comedy, fans of Christina Ricci and people who want to watch a movie that is bold, daring and original.People who will dislike/hate The Opposite of Sex the easily offended, Politcaly Correct Nazis, homophobes and people who don't like and/or don't understand dark/black comedy.Personal rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Don't believe the trailer","Date":"8 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Personally, it annoys me when a film is marketed as something it's not. For the most part, these films disappoint because of unrealized expectations. There's no reason for studios to do this; they're marketing their movies to people who wouldn't like them (which leads to bad word of mouth), and alienates the audience that would actually like the film. The trailer for The Opposite of Sex promises a gleefully wicked and twisted comedy, but what the film offers is anything but.DeeDee Truitt (Christina Ricci) is a sixteen-year-old who after the death of her step-dad, takes off from her Alabama home and heads to Indiana to with her gay half-brother, Bill (Martin Donovan). To avoid giving anything away, I'll stop at saying that this leads to a number of complications.As much as I griped about the film being horrifically mismarketed, I still liked the film. I'd give it a weak recommendation, but I wouldn't hesitate in doing so. It's well acted, and I actually felt for a lot of the characters.Christina Ricci has completely rejected Hollywood, and instead concentrated on perfecting her craft instead of becoming a tabloid queen. Her hard work has paid off; few performances are different from DeeDee Truitt and any of the wholesome characters she's played in Disney movies. DeeDee is the ultimate problem child foul-mouthed, slutty, and completely amoral. Yet Ricci allows us really feel for DeeDee on some level. As Bill, DeeDee's half-brother, Martin Donovan is like Ned Flanders, only not as obnoxious (and gay instead of evangelical Christian). He's too nice for his own good, but he's not a complete doormat either. He's still pining over the death of his lover, Tom (Colin Ferguson), which is affecting his relationship with Matt (Ivan Sergei). Speaking of, Matt is a self-acknowledged dim bulb, but he's not as dumb as he first seems. Small, but over the top, performances by Johnny Galecki and William Lee Scott are also effective.Many people have been raving about Lisa Kudrow's performance as Tom's sister, Lucia. It's effective, but for the most part not much different than her usual characters. She's just more cynical and less ditzy than her other characters. But the differences aren't all that noticeable. Kudrow is effective, but Sheriff Carl Tippett, played by Lyle Lovett, is the one I felt for the most. He's earnest and really cares for Lucia, although she is too busy looking after Bill to realize it.The film, written and directed by Don Roos, is effective, but a little too twisted and convoluted for its own good. It's all a little much, and it's possible to become lost at some point. Still, I liked it. Just don't expect the blistering comedy that the trailer promises. "},{"Title":"Contains much wisdom, cleverly disguised as black comedy","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I originally paid special attention to this film because I am a fan of Christina Ricci and black comedy... today, when I finally got to see it, and I was very surprised by how direct and clever it was. The film has a distinct feeling of You know how so-and-so is cute? Well, there's nothing even remotely like that here(it's mentioned on several occasions throughout the film), and it's really refreshing to see a film that makes such an effort not to take itself seriously. All through the film it tries to be gutsy and offensive, and it will have even the most open-minded individuals frowning once or twice. Do what I did, laugh. That's what it's there for, and you can't change it no matter what. However, near the end it grows a conscience, and dwells on the nice pictures it started out mocking. It's as if the film grows up as Dede does it, taking the audience with it. I can't see anyone watching this and not being even slightly enriched by the experience. I would guess that such people just don't look past the offensive and provocative nature of most of the film. The plot is interesting and, as far as I know, original. The pace is great, you're never bored and it takes off right away. The acting is pretty good all-round, with Lyle Lovett as a possible exception. The characters are all well-written, credible and interesting. Not one single character feels clichéd. The dialog is well-written and well-delivered. The humor is black as coal, with just a hint of immaturity here and there. The film is very good, but the ideas in it are even better, and are hurt a little by the execution. Letting a bratty 16 year old girl narrate the story was a gamble that paid off, but the film loses some credibility due to it. It also limits the audience a bit, due to the fact that most people will disagree with our lead character's actions and opinions, and this is the kind of film that should really try to get out to as many people as possibly. It holds a lot of wisdom about sexuality and relationships, nicely covered in black comedy and a provocative, offensive attitude... and this attitude will deter many viewers. A shame, really. I recommend this film to fans of the actors and/or black comedy. Actually, I think just about everyone who considers them-self to be open-minded should see it... but be prepared for a very direct and uncompromising film that you may not like, even a little. But please give it a chance. It may challenge your views, and for that, it should be respected. 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all time","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is grossly underrated. The story line, is bold, funny, disturbing and very memorable. It begins with a teenage girl named Dede(Ricci)and her messed up little life. She runs away to live with her half brother who is gay and comedy ensues. The plot gets very complicated very quick. Dede becomes pregnant and someone dies.I'll admit the acting isn't as good as it could have been, but I think it just seems to fit the kind of film it is. Christina Ricci's plays the kind of character that audiences love to hate. This movie has a lot of great one liners. Their are many shockers through out. I highly recommend giving this movie a chance, you could be surprised! "},{"Title":"Keep Talking Christina","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Opposite of Sex is a lot of fun and very original, what would happen if a standard romantic comedy met The Big Lebowski andFreeway. The best part is Christina Ricci's voice-over narration. She sounds like an Arkansas version of Orsen Welles. If you think I'm just plucky and scrappy and all I need is love, you're in over your heads. I don't have a heart of gold and I *don't* grow one later, OK? But relax. There's other people a lot nicer coming up--we call them losers. Much of the credit for this little gem should go to the writers. Roger Ebert had a great observation about the narration provided by Ricci's character in The Opposite of Sex. I hate people who talk during movies, but if she were sitting behind me in the theater, saying all of this stuff, I'd want her to keep right on talking.On the surface, The Opposite of Sex has the standard love story movie elements with characters engaged in the process of discovery and revelation. But below the surface the voice-over is providing a sort of sexual teasing to the audience (and it is not the opposite of sex). There is an ongoing shifting out of the movie each time Ricci shifts out of her character to discuss the film and its elements; doing this from a detached perspective, a technique that she is especially effective at. This bonds us to her character more completely than a simple narration or point-of-view. After a little of this, when her character interacts with characters inside the film our identification process as viewers intensifies.Hopefully Ricci will permanently ditch the blonde look, it does not suit her, although it was OK in Sleepy Hollow. So much of her acting is with her eyes and dark hair accentuates them. I classify her as a young version of Jennifer Jason Leigh. Both are height-challenged and at times appear dumpy on the screen. Meaning they will never be considered really hot, but Leigh has turned this into an advantage and Ricci should be able to do the same.Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"This is a sleeper that is funnier than hell!!!","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I had heard of this movie, but I thought the title sounded kind of stupid, so it never really caught my attention as something to watch. But the other night, I stumbled upon it on IFC or Sundance, I don't remember which, and laughed my ^#%$^&@ head off. A very sarcastic cynical black comedy which will appeal to those of us who are sarcastic and cynical. Christina Ricci's narration is hilarious! The script is clever and insightful (sadly) and the editing keeps everything a surprise. Just when you think the narration can't be more hilariously mean-spirited, you find out it can. The acting is right-on for this type of movie and the script is very obviously the work of someone who has been in as many childish, selfish relationships as I have. It's an excellent commentary on brutally self-centered, shallow people, but you kind of like the characters anyway. Really. This movie is definitely recommended! Popcorn, a few drinks, this movie and a living room brimming with intelligent, albeit whacked-out, people would make for the ideal evening. "},{"Title":"Ha! An American comedy with bite - this is a good thing.","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dedee Truitt (the always good Christina Ricci) cannot stand her normal suburban life. So, one day, she ups and leaves to live with her half-brother, Bill (Martin Donovan)  who has a huge house, courtesy of his ex-now-dead boyfriend.  Well Dedee isn't the best of behaved girls and ends up sleeping with Bill's current boyfriend, Matt, and running off with him, pregnant with his child. Bill must try and track her down, aided by Lucia (Bill's dead lover's sister, played by Lisa Kudrow) and . events ensue. However, thankfully, they're not as we'd expect.All the acting here is decent. Kudrow shows, again, that she's the one versatile cast member of `Friends'. Ricci is great as the sardonic young brat. She's unapologetic for her actions and, along with Kudrow, gets the best lines of the movie as they make biting satirical comments about society and themselves. Donovan is refreshingly non-caricature of gay men and everyone else plays their role with polish. No complaints here.Main test in any comedy is the script. Fortunately `The Opposite of Sex' is refreshing and different. If you like `Ghost World', you'd be sure to enjoy this. The characters make pithy remarks and yet remain characters - they're not underdeveloped, or there as a one line joke (as you get in the teen-movie series).  The plot does have some nice twists and turns with an absolutely perfect ending. It's all accompanied by Ricci's dry narrator role, which is hilarious at times in subverting the clichés of the genre. I didn't know how the movie ended and I guessed wrongly - that's very good. There's one hilarious `false ending' which had me going - only until Ricci scolded me for being an idiot through her voice over. There're loads of great little touches (such as a split scene panning), which just add little touches throughout and many great one liners (such as, offhand, `She's a living tabloid'). All is good here.It's not a perfect movie but it is very good. There's little to complain about and the movie progresses along throughout nicely with enjoyable characters, good acting, and some fine lines. It probably isn't a repeated-see movie, due to the genre that it's in, but certainly worthy of a rental. I nearly always seem to score below the average IMDB mark, but here the movie deserves more - 8/10. Go see it. "}{"Title":"DON ROOS = WOMAN HATER","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After seeing this nasty, depressing little waste of time that wallows in the absolute worst of human nature, I looked up Roos' resume and  I now see that he obviously has severe, deep-seated Mommy Issues or somesuch because virtually every female in everything he writes is either evil, crazy or utterly pathetic. What a shame. All these brilliant actors in a story so unpleasant, playing characters (the women anyway) so hard to like or understand. There is no silver lining in this dark cloud of a movie. It is obvious that women are scary and confusing to Mr. Roos. If he ever develops a close relationship with a real live female, he'll probably be able to write them better. I'm not going to hold my breath. I'm just going to avoid his projects. Hey Don Suck my left one you bitter, spiteful misogynist bitch. "},{"Title":"Christina Ricci in my personal favorite role.","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love, love, love this movie! Granted, you have to be able to appreciate an independent film and all that goes with it (some bad acting, strange random actors and a left-of-center plot line), but quite frankly this is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. You don't sympathize with the main character, but you're not supposed to. It's not a feel good movie and it's pretty much going to make you want to kill her, but Christina Ricci is great at pulling off the bad girl. But it is easy to sympathize with her brother and it offers a lot of laughs about completely inappropriate topics. If you like indie films, Christina Ricci or movies that appeal to the gay community, then I would highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Interesting hip version of a gay black comedy...","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" MARTIN DONOVAN gives an understated performance as a gay English teacher with a bratty half-sister, Christina Ricci, who puffs cigarettes and tosses off sarcastic one-liners like she thinks she's a teen-aged Bette Davis. As a matter of fact, she plays the sort of teen bitch that Bette specialized in on an adult level.When Christina falls for Martin's gay lover (IVAN SERGEI), the plot thickens and takes a twisted and unpredictable curve of events that never really spin out of control, thanks to a witty script by Don Loos, who also directed. Not being a Ricci fan, I can only say that her voice-over narration failed to amuse me, as intended. She sounds bored and detached (which is probably in character with the sort she plays here), but her monotone delivery gets more than monotonous before the film is over. This is something the director should have curbed.LISA KUDROW is the lucky one in the cast who gets all the best one-liners and delivers them with eye-rolling sarcasm, as the sister of Martin's gay lover. But for my money, it is MARTIN DONOVAN who has the most complex and most interesting role, playing all his scenes with dignity and quiet authority that commands attention.The witty script is a revelation, with commentary on so many gay themes and relationships that it seems even more sophisticated than it actually is. Only disappointment is the unresolved ending which fails to ring true regarding the Ricci character. But then, for my money, she's too obvious in her portrayal of the mindless, cigarette puffing bitch in the first place. "},{"Title":"Different but confusing film for me.","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsIt seems to me that since being a sickly sweet urchin in The Addams Family ,Christina Ricci has become intent on turning herself into a doped up slapper tart of sorts.Mind you,she was kind of eerie in TAF,with her sadistic lines and constantly black look.Maybe this is the kind of role she's been dreaming of since birth.Anyway,in this very confused farrago,she plays Deedee Truitt,a thouroughly unpleasant member of humanity who steals a dead persons beloved ashes and steals a gay mans lover off him (her half brother.)She manages to lead all the charecters in this movie round the bend,in one scenario or the other.Though Ricci should be applauded for her portrayal as a thouroughly evil girl,ultimately this movie seems to drag on for too long and dabble with confused charecters too much to be the different film it was for me.*** "},{"Title":"The Opposite of a good film.","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I suppose if Barbara Stanwyk's character of Phyllis in Double Indemnity had a daughter, they might be either Sharon Stone's Catherine Trammell from Basic Instinct or Linda Fiorentino's Bridget Gregory in The Last Seduction &#150; this begs the question what would Phyllis' granddaughter have looked like or acted like &#150; you could search for another example but Christina Ricci's Dede Truitt isn't too far away. But this is only the beginning since The Opposite of Sex is a muddled and un-entertaining film that combines the genres of noir, comedy, road and romance and hopes that all the usual stereotypes or clichéd images of gay people, stroppy female teens and strong, silent middle aged types who are, of course, well respected teachers will make you feel at home.The Opposite of Sex is also a film that changes its mind a couple of times about what sort of a film it's going to be. For the first third, it's very reminiscent to that of The Last Seduction given the fact a female has run off (with another man in this film, lots of money in The Last Seduction); leaves behind two members of the same sex Bill and Lucia (Kudrow) (Bill Truitt is gay so he's already embodied traits of the female) and just leaves them with the task of finding them. What follows is a series of events that has Bill and Lucia hopping and skipping all around the place attempting to track down Dede in an attempt to either clear Bill's name (after he was wrongly accused of molesting children) or get back the urn of ashes Dede stole. The problem is, all of the characters get so close to one another that it could've all been solved on numerous occasions. Along the way, Dede is literally on the other side of a motel door, other times they are in a restaurant together, then they're staking out where they live instead of getting amongst the action asking questions &#150; the final nail in this particular coffin is when Lucia is sneaking up on a log cabin in the Canadian wilderness after following them (what else) and decides to listen in on a monologue that was, I'm sure, supposed to leave me in tears. To be honest, I didn't listen to a word of it as I was so uninterested and couldn't care less about the characters by that point.I felt that this film was supposed to revolve around the character of Dede. The idea is good A girl who could perhaps embody the femme fatale tag Stanwyk, Stone and Fiorentino did so well at in their respective films manages to seduce a gay or bisexual man out of his money, before going on the run with the hook being that the femme fatale is a 16 year old. I'm no professional screenwriter but events can happen, characters can come and go; some dying with violence and sex providing support where needed. That's what I thought the film would be only I get a load of clap-trap from the rest of the characters, Lucia goes on her own little journey of self discovery in the form on having sex for the first time in ages and the entire sub-plot of Bill's name being cleared for paedophilia was so tiresome and unnecessary that taking a brief nap during any scene involving it wouldn't go unpunished.Dede narrates the film as if Ricci herself is the director; telling us what to like and what not to like, manipulating us with scenes of childbirth to get us to feel sorry for her and having the other characters, who are miles away, get up to whatever they're doing &#150; how is she supposed to know what the hell they're up to? Did Walter tell us what Pyllis was up to when he wasn't with her in Double Indemnity? I don't think so but here, we're led to believe Dede 'sees all'. The Opposite of Sex is a film that tries to be clever when it's just being silly; it tries to be engaging when really, it's just dragging things out. I find it remarkable how Dede has to go through all of what she does just so she can deliver her closing monologue about the point of active sex lives &#150; she went looking for trouble and she found it whilst knowing the what the consequences might be. Not clever, not particularly funny and as for 'making me cry', well &#150; give me some characters to get involved with next time and maybe, just maybe I'll watch your film with some tissues. "},{"Title":"so boring, what was the hype about?","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Seven years is a long time in film history, especially when the appeal of a film is based about shocking the audience with a theme that was taboo until recently, but becomes mainstream soon after. This is the case with this movie, that made a lot of noise in 1998, but aged badly since.Back in 1998 the theme of gay relationships was quite new, or at least presenting it in an explicit manner and with a sitcom tone was something new. Christina Ricci and Lisa Kudrow, coming from different genres (horror movies and TV sitcoms) were popular stars, and their meeting on the screen was expected to be explosive at the time. Seven years later all these are gone, and we are left with a rather long and routine story, I would almost say romantic comedy if there really was any character on the screen to care romantically about, or any memorable gags to laugh at. And then, it's the off-screen commentary - I found it verbose and annoying. I can usually take off-screen talking only in small doses, here it is much too extensive, very rarely funny and never meaningful.Good acting cannot make it at all for the rest, and this film is going down and I suspect that it will go into complete oblivion as time passes. "},{"Title":"Another dishonest tag line","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  laugh?  Nope.  Cry?  Nope.  Offended?  Nope.Irritated?  Yes.A very silly and remarkably annoying film, Ricci is a young girl who will sleep with anything.  And that's about as deep as it got, stereotypical gay characters withstanding.Don't bother. "},{"Title":"A pathetic excuse for a movie","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've got to warn you right off; this movie is bad. No that's an understatement; it's really bad. This film thinks it's an intelligent study of sexuality, but really it's little more than an amateur effort at trying to create something hip and original. The plot follows Christina Ricci, a horrid excuse for a human being, who has an argument with her mother and goes to stay with her half brother. While there, she seduces her brother's boyfriend (yes, you heard that right) and gets pregnant, thus affecting the lives of everyone involved. Making the central character impossible to like was a very silly idea (this film has many of those) because it makes the film hard to like right from the word go as it's seen through her eyes. The movie also suffers from a terrible narration courtesy of said character. As we all know, narration is a sign of someone that doesn't know how to write a script good enough to function on it's own, which sums the writer of this film up. The narration is also really stupid, and the way it is presented is an obvious attempt to make the film different and cool, and needless to say; it didn't work.The tagline of this film clearly states that 'you will be offended'. This is very true, as this film continually insults the viewer's intelligence. Stating that 'you will be offended' is a ridiculous claim, and the only people that could possibly come of this film offended are gays, by way of how they're presented in the film; but really, anyone with anything about them would easily be able to laugh off the silly ideas put forward here. As an obvious attempt to mask the lameness of the movie and it's terrible script, Don Roos has put together a cast of TV actors from bad American TV shows. Lisa Kudrow, obviously from that 'Friends' rubbish, sticks out like a sore thumb and is obviously in the movie to try and draw the Friends fans in. Christina Ricci is a fantastically beautiful actress that I've liked in many of the films I've seen her in, but even she cant get past the awful lines she has to deliver, and the awful cast she's acting alongside. There isn't much else to say about this movie as I've nailed all of it's main flaws already, but I'll close by saying this is one of the most limp and pathetic movies ever to insult my television screen. I beg you not to bother with it, and if you don't take my sage advice; you'll be begging for your time back at the end. I don't care if you do love Christina Ricci; this is one to avoid like the plague. "},{"Title":"How did this crappy flick get a 7.0 IMDB user rating??","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Go figure. The Opposite of Sex is a bland, sophomoric, unfunny comedy with a bunch of second rate actors, a dumb storyline/script, a somewhat cynical and sardonic feel which shows us nothing new, is not compelling or poignant, tries to be hip and fails, and pretty much adds up to one big boring waste of time. I'm not sure who would enjoy this but someone must for it to score a 7.0 after 4153 votes cast and three stars from both Ebert and Maltin. I don't get it. This thing sucked. One man's opinion. "},{"Title":"I kept waiting for it to get good","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'll start off by saying I'm a big Christina Ricci fan, but this movie didn't go anywhere. I rented it because of the good rating it received on IMDB, but it was highly disappointing. Whoever compared this movie with Clueless, must not have seen either one. I really liked Clueless, but not this movie.  "}{"Title":"Dreadful insipid trite trash","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sorry dears, but this film does *not* live up to its press.If I could have voted it 0 stars, I would.  I'd rather see one of the Troma films than see this again.  Heck, I'd rather see a whole *festival* of bad films before seeing this again.No redeeming features whatsoever. "},{"Title":"Who liked this movie???","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't understand why this movie got great reviews.  The title should have been The opposite of Good, which is just what the movie was-bad.  On paper the movie reads well. However the way the movie was made, makes one want to run out of the theater.  The last scene tries to put the whole movie together. However it didn't make up for the hour and some minutes of non-sense. "},{"Title":"Opposite of a Movie","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I admit, I readily get caught in movies, even the most incompetent ones. I laugh and more importantly I cry when I'm supposed to. I am a sucker. In fact, I have laughed and cried with Roos' other projects, swept along as per design.But this movie is different, and it pushed past the ordinary barriers I establish for movie life, barriers I didn't even know were there.Here's the setup we have a movie, with love and events and discovery just like any other movie. There actually are characters and some pithy engagement among them and with us. But thats only the excuse for the filmmaker to have a completely separate dialog with us. The movie is the excuse for that dialog, though sometimes the higher level of engagement between us and Roos will borrow from the story.He is, in fact, having a sort of sex with us at the same time he tells us its the opposite, a different sort of attraction and seduction.Roos' surrogate is Ricci in voice-over narration. It is the very best she has been, except for that bowling alley scene in Buffalo. Since she isn't a great acting talent, what this means is that the role is a perfect fit for her sort of sexual detachment.The narration starts out commenting on the movie, telling us what kind of movie this is not, and how we cannot expect her to behave as if she were in a movie. She leaves home and steals a gun. While doing so, she tells us to pay attention, that the gun will prove significant. Then, she deliciously shifts back into character and says that's foreshadowing and we studied that in school.This is pretty shocking stuff, this shift out of the movie, using moviedom's most intimate trick, the internal noir narrative that starts such films. We immediately have a bond with this girl, but in her role outside the movie. As the movie rolls on, she bonds intimately with many characters, and each is an opportunity for us to readjust the relationship we have with her outside. It is sex, no it is the opposite of sex, at least movie sex. But it is attraction as strong. And when it goes wrong, as it must, it is devastating. We know how to have movie sex, but few of us seem to have any dexterity with these things outside of movies.And that's the point. I guess we can thank Hal Hartley from paving the way for this.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"About Last night rip off","Date":"16 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am only about half way though this movie, I don't think I'll last the rest. I have a weakness for those movies like St Elmo's Fire, Breakfast Club, Pretty in Pink and About Last Night. I have only scanned the first page of reviews but has anyone else noticed this is a complete rip off of About Last Night except the leading man is NO Rob Lowe. It's pretty bad really. Courtney Cox is pretty woeful too but I guess no worse than Cougar Town. She is in her Bruce Springsteen/Family Ties kind of look. I'm assuming they get married in the end and the two friends get together too. This is not a spoiler as I haven't seen the end yet and perhaps won't. Yawn.. "},{"Title":"Hot diggity!","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In 1998, with the conjunction of The Opposite of Sex and Buffalo 66, Christina Ricci cemented her reputation as America's indie queen. In the former, she plays foul-mouthed teenager Dede Truitt, who moves in with her gay uncle Bill (Martin Donovan). Then, one of Bill's students outs him (without any actual proof). This sends the town into an uproar, with people ranting and raving against homosexuality.Look, I can't describe this movie and do it justice. The Opposite of Sex is a movie that you HAVE TO SEE TO BELIEVE. The truth is, nothing that you've seen in any other movie could prepare you for what this one offers. Mind-blowing to the nth degree, it's the sort of flick that will probably offend many people. But in a good way. "},{"Title":"It tries a little too hard...","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The opposite of Sex is good amusement and a nice change from what we usually get. But they should have kept it to that. Instead, the script constantly tries to spoof itself and the entire industry of cinema. That's a bit much and it often ends into painlessly unfunny sequences and twists. The opposite of sex can be described best as a R-rated version of Clueless. You'll only see conceited and egocentric people walking through the screen. Led by the bitch-queen of all teenagers, namely Christina Ricci. She's terrific in this film!! Personally, I think she always is, but the character she's portraying here seems to be written for her exclusively. Almost like a teenage version of Wednesday Addams, except more greedy and with a lot more sex appeal. Her character constantly makes sadistic, offensive and morbid remarks while her facial expression remains neutral. I love that!!! She's cruel, senseless and she refers to deceased people like him, the dead guy... In short, she's a girl with a lot of attitude. And, in fact, this entire movie has attitude but it runs out of ideas after the first hour. The charm and creativity shown in the first hour fades away and the twists become more abrupt, far-fetched and uninspired. Lisa Kudrow's character has too many screentime. Most intrigues concerning her personality could easily have been cut. Nonetheless, I recommend The Opposite of Sex to those who're tired of seeing predictable love stories, filled with needless moral...and to those who have a more wicked sense of humor. And - from a more personal point of view - any movie that contains a lot of Christina Ricci-cleavage is warmly recommended!  "},{"Title":"Not as grown up or as clever as it thinks it is","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  16 year old Dedee leaves home when her stepdad finally dies and goes to stay with Bill, her gay half brother.  She seduces his lover Matt and runs off with him and Bill's savings &#150; much to the `I told you so' attitude of Bill's ex-lover's sister Lucia.  However out of Dedee's selfish actions come a range of scandals, deceit and exploitation.This is basically an 18 rated teen comedy that tries to be all dark and grown up in place of the usual crude jokes etc.  For most of the plot it plays like a teen femme fatale film that sees Dedee do whatever she wants with men to get what she wants.  This works quite well and is amusing in a dark way.  However much of this is fused with an element of crude teen comedy that doesn't quite work as a comedy.The film is amusing and quite good as a dark comedy but really doesn't quite cut the mustard.  For starters the drama and comedy is mainly about Dedee but yet we spend way too much time with Bill and Lucia.  While she still narrates the film dips when she vanishes for what seems like 30 minutes.  The plot also gets a bit daft in the final third and takes away some of the dark energy that it had before.Ricci is excellent as the teenage temptress and has plenty of good lines.  Donovan is good but is very lifeless as a character &#150; as is Lovett.  Kudrow is a lot better than I expected but she does get a little irritating when she is left to carry the middle section of the film with Donovan.Overall this is amusing and reasonably dark, however it's teen comedy values shine through a bit too often and expose it.  This is dark and quite funny but it's nowhere near as clever or as grown up as it thinks it is. "},{"Title":"Dedee, 16 years of age going on 70, is pregnant and vicious with it.","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Writer-director Don Roos' film has a gnarled wisdom about modern romance, straight and gay, that makes it a road-movie Chasing Amy, a Heathers for the whole post-nuclear family. (Time magazine).Mighty praise indeed. Deserved? Well, it's no Heathers and its script isn't nearly as fine as Chasing Amy's. Our narrator and peroxide 'heroine' is teen tart Dedee Truitt (Christina Ricci). Dedee promptly warns us, I don't have a heart of gold and I don't grow one later on. But relax. There are lots of nicer people coming up - we call them losers.Dedee, 16 years of age going on 70, is pregnant and vicious with it. She ditches her dismal family life in Sucktart, Louisiana (My mom was one of those mothers who's always telling her friends she's her daughter's best friend. Oh great, I used to think, not only do I have a shitty mom, but my best friend's a loser bitch.) to throw herself on the tender mercies of her gay half-brother (Martin Donovan), a small-town high school teacher. Once there, she seduces brother Bill's hunky lover Matt (Ivan Sergei) and takes off for California with the befuddled Matt in tow. Hot on their heels are Bill; Lucia (Lisa Kudrow), a fellow teacher with a yen for Bill; the earnest father of Dedee's baby (William Scott Lee); and local sheriff Carl Tippett (Lyle Lovett).Dennis Price's narrator in Kind Hearts and Coronets was wicked, dastardly and captivating. Ricci, an actress who is usually sensational (had a recent barnstorming performance in The Ice Storm), is by contrast nasty, evil and tiresome. Throughout she informs us at which points to feel emotion. An interesting, but not engaging technique. However, her turn of phrase is even less appealing If you don't breathe in, you can do anything for ten minutes or A blow job is a blow job.With Ricci laying it on far too thick, the pleasure in this confused, slightly inconsequential film lies with Donovan, the king of American indie cinema, and Friends' Kudrow. Donovan's careful, studied performance never hints at schmaltz and counterbalances the film's more crass characters. Kudrow also equips herself extremely well, playing an uptight, sexually repressed school madam. She gets the best lines On The Sound of Music I just want to stuff that guitar up that nun's arse and Matt, that is not your baby. It's some other idiot's, who probably has an eighth grade education and a trunk full of Waco pamphlets.Minus Ricci, the main character, this may have made an engaging one-hour TV special. As it is, The Opposite of Sex, is a mess with the odd funny line and two fine performances.Ben Walsh  "}]