[{"Title":"If you're not Australian, you may not get it.","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw Welcome to Woop Woop a couple of weeks ago on HBO, on the recommendation of my American neighbour. He loved it! And he's right. I watched this film grinning from ear to ear, and if it were not for my neighbour's enjoying it so much, I'd have thought that only Australians would get the drift of this film.Welcome to Woop Woop is resplendent with Australian iconography, and if you don't know the space you may have a hard time understanding the references. As an Australian, I can tell you those references are spot on! The language, being out in the bush, the actors Rod Taylor and Barry Humphries (Dame Edna) and so many others, the stereotypical Aborigine. Cockatoos, dunnies(outhouses), the VW van, the backyard tip (dump), the brand of beer (it's real), Rogers and Hammerstein films, kangaroos as Aboriginal spirits, kangaroos as dog meat (true, not good, but true), even the main character's dog ( a Blue Heeler, Australian Cattle Dog), and the reference to the beach. They have nailed this film. 10 stars!  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Black Comedy","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Welcome to Woop Woop amounts to a farce with a very unique (and appalling) storyline. The town Woop Woop is literally 'off the map' and its inhabitants interact in a surreal and disturbing fashion.Fleeing from danger in New York, the lead character (Johnathon Schaech) makes it to Australia, only to walk into a much bleaker situation &#150; a kind of time-warp - where Daddy-O is the law, the judge, and the executioner. Rule number one no-one escapes from Woop Woop.Unfairly criticized as vulgar and offensive, many have missed what this film is all about. Properly understood, however, this makes for highly entertaining (if somewhat foreboding) viewing. Great stuff!  "},{"Title":"Brilliant use of Bad Taste and dysphemism for the sex act","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a film classic, in the mode of 'There's something about Mary'. Rod Taylor gives the performance of a lifetime. The ethereal counterpoint provided by the Rogers and Hammerstein scores is strange and wonderful at the same time. It's a comedy, a very dark comedy. It's a love story ... F#*($K me blue, F*@#(K me raw, to the strains of The Sound of Music. It's great entertainment. It's Deliverance meets Rogers and Hammerstein. It's Sex and Drugs, and Broadway show tunes in the Australian outback. A combination your not likely to have sampled before, but one you will wish there was a sequel for. If TV sitcoms are your thing, you just won't get this film. It's bizarre, shocking (if you shock easily), wildly funny, and atmospheric. Is there something about this film that is uniquely Australian? Probably not, this had to have been a bizarre and disturbing dream, or a psychotic episode scripted. It's great entertainment, and certainly an escape from reality. It's a 10  "},{"Title":"This is a fun film!","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  How can you give a bad rating to this film? This movie rocks. It is so unique and different. Just imagine that you are a grifter that a mobster is trying to kill. Oh yeah, you catch and sell cocateaus (I think that is how you spell it). So you decide to run off to Australia (you can catch some of those birds there). However, while you are in Australia you end up having sex with a lovely lady, who drugs you and marries you while you are passed out. Then she takes you to live on a compound deep in the outback that is run by her charismatic and psychotic father. Played incredibly by Rod Taylor. OK that is enough, you have to watch the rest and you will be happy that you did. This movie is eye and ear candy!  "},{"Title":"One of a kind","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Director Stephan Elliott had a big hit with Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert back in 1994.  This is his 1997 followup which was a huge bomb.  I like it, but it's easy to see why it failed.A con man (Jonathan Schaech) travels to Australia to kidnap some rare exotic birds (don't ask).  He is unexpectedly sexually attacked by a VERY aggressive young woman, and she knocks him out, drugs him and takes him to her hometown, Woop Woop, and proclaims he's her husband.  Woop Woop is in the middle of nowhere, has a population of 50 and is definetely a strange place--Rodgers + Hammerstein songs are blasting from speakers all day (!!!), they kill kangaroos and make them into dog food and no one is ever allowed to leave the town.  Schaech wants out...but can he make it?To say this movie is bizarre is an understatement--it's VERY weird!  Everyone overacts to the extreme (especially Schaech) and wear very weird, colorful costumes (I mean that in a good way).  The script goes rambling all over the place, most lines make no sense and then there's the non-stop R&H songs!  Still, it is very funny (if a little sick at times) and you can't take your eyes away from it.The acting is, as I said, over the top but great.  Schaech gets right in the mood of things from the beginning--he's very lighthearted, grinning continuously and gives his all to his lines.  He's also handsome and hunky and has a few nude scenes.  Also Rod Taylor chews the scenery again, and again, and again, and AGAIN as Daddy-O--the leader of the town. It does lag a little at the end and it's definetely not for all tastes but totally off-beat and fun--particularly the opening in NYC and the last scene with...well, you'll know!  A must-see for R&H fans. "},{"Title":"Dutch opinion","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I just saw the movie (between 1.40 and 3.10 a.m.) as it was broad casted on Dutch television (SBS6). Weird, entertaining, funny and quite philosophic; especially at this hour of the night ;-). I was very surprised to find only really BAD reviews of Woop Woop at the internet. It seems my choice in movies/books etc is not the mass-opinion.This Monday I'm buying it, it's at least number 6 in my 'all time favourites' list -) 'The usual suspects' & 'Lost boys' are some other examples of great movies (I think) and those are (in average) really well reviewed, so it's not that I only like weird ones. Go see Woop Woop! It's fun ;-)  "},{"Title":"'Scuze The Breezers!","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I tell you folks, that was THE FUNNIEST line of irreverent dialogue I've ever heard! Seriously, I can somewhat understand why Aussies who have reviewed this very smart, funny and VERY whacky film are besides themselves over the stereotypes and how some of their brethren are depicted here. Now, yet another group of people understands and feels what minorities everywhere feel when the same type of satire is done to them, but to an extreme! But, hey! Loosen up a bit-just let that Breezer rip! It's all good! I exchange emails with several Aussie folks Down There regularly, and they seem to talk and act very much as I do. So I can watch this film knowing that what I see is over the top in it's characterization, and NOT indicative of all Australians. Every ethnic group has it's lower elements for sure. But, I'm sorry, this was some hilarious stuff! All these characters were two sandwiches shy of a picnic! I've always been a Rod Taylor fan, and he steals this flick wholeheartedly. That guy is still one of the finest actors still working, and I know he's up there in age now. These folks live in a world far removed from reality. The remarks (beef curtains, etc) are fresh (most of us here in the US have NEVER heard these expressions) and the whole town gathering nightly for 'Rogers & Hammerstein' movies (and a LOT of beer guzzeling) as the high point of another dreary day reminded me of the Wizard Of Oz's munchkins singing. Yup, sure enough, the plot had some holes for sure, but otherwise, the performances were great, from Johnathan Saaech on down.I flat out loved this film. It was quite a pleasant surprise and yes, I agree it has cult status written ALL over it! See it for a monster laugh! I'll be willing to bet it caused quite an uproar when released! "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining and Wildly Original","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is hard to describe. It starts in New York City and then finds itself in the Australian Outback. This guy who sells illegal exotic birds is on the run. He heads to Australia to hide and get more birds. He is then lured by a vixen into a community of Aussie dog-food makers that live alone in the outback. They watch old musicals and are as dirty as garbage. Oh yeah, nobody is allowed to leave the community, known as Woop Woop. To be honest, this is one of the freshest and most enjoyable movies I can ever remember seeing. Loved it! And yes, that is Rod Taylor!! *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Bizarre, funny, definitely worth a watch!","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a fun little peculiar film!  A dime-store hood named Teddy (Johnathon Schaech) from NYC, flees the mob and a psychotic, gun-toting, stripper girlfriend for Austrailia; while crossing the Outback, he meets and seduced by Angie, who knocks him out, drugs him, and brings him to her Outback hometown (Woop-Woop) of 50 strange friends and relatives.Woop-Woop is a town filled with crazies, hippies, and grandparents (folks long forgotten by society when their asbestos mine is closed).  The locals never leave they package dog-food made from Kangaroos for a living, and entertain themselves with Rodgers & Hammerstein soundtracks, and a nightly viewings of classic Hollywood musicals.The King of Woop-Woop is Angie's Dad (Rod Taylor... Yes, THAT Rod Taylor).  Teddy isn't ready to settle down in Woop-Woop, and quickly begins to challenge Daddio (Rod Taylor).  It's a peculiar film, full of colorful characters, full of subtle detail.  I've seen this film over and over and always find something new with each viewing.  Three special bonuses (1) a cameo by TV's Tina Louise, (2) ultra-handsome Johnathon Schaech in various stages of dress & undress (!!), and (3) an innocent film-clip and line of dialogue from the classic film, The Sound Of Music, that will never sound innocent to you again...  It isn't really dirty, but when a Nun says it, I promise you'll giggle like a 4th grader!!  You'll never look at Julie Andrews the same way again! Welcome to Woop-Woop...  You'll be glad you came!  "},{"Title":"over the top fun","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie isn't for everybody. But as weird as it is, it is fun, and acted with gusto, especially by Susie Porter. "}{"Title":"Laugh me dead, Mate!","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the wonderful aspects of cinema is that all the various originality of a culture can be presented, in any combination, with their indigenous visual and aural realities.  The arid outback, the aussie dialect, and the Down Under idea of Wacky combine in this oh-so-funny film to bring you to tears from laughing so hard.  You'll find yourself rewinding to see a great slapstick scene again, or to hear exactly what someone said.  A quick take will clarify a confusing one several scenes earlier causing renewed laughter yet again.  When the credits began rolling I began laughing again at remembered shots still teasing my memory.  And laughter isn't all this film has to offer - bits of poignance, ire, and mystery are added to the recipe to round out its flavor.  The story could only have been told in Australia by Australians to acheive so great result. So, Laugh me dead, Mate, if this wasn't a gem of a film!   "},{"Title":"Wonderful Moments","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  While this film was not perfect, it is a perfect example of what's right about Australian cinema.  I was rolling with laughter at some of the absurd characters and off the wall plot turns.  Even the opening scene starts off with a comic bang that I still laugh about when I think about it.  This movie is a must for people who want something out of the ordinary.  "},{"Title":"Not Priscilla","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Set in the Australian outback you might have thought this movie would have had more in common to the directors previous movie Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert, The (1994).  At the London Film Festical screening director Stephan Elliot started off before the screening that this definitely wasn't the case, and telling us it was about the more obnoxious of his country folk.This shows a side of Australia that is being rather swept under the carpet. Although raucous and rude in the first half of the movie the mood turns darker towards the end.And don't forget to wait till after the credits end for an amusing extra.There are some very funny scenes including Barry Humphries as a blind petrol pump attendant - which so outraged the US lead that he had to spend time recovering in his trailer - it was done fortunately in one take with Humphries ad libbing the scene.  And an excellent performance by Rod Taylor as the leader of the community.Shot in the height of the summer, due to Stephan Elliot becoming ill just before the original start date, the crew needed 36,000 gallons of water per day to survive and in one scene they had to fit the dogs in the scene with shoes to allow them to run across the set. "},{"Title":"This might be a great movie","Date":"18 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie late one recent evening on MGMHD. While I was watching it in bed my wife woke up and asked me what was this crap I was watching. And much of the time I was watching it, I thought it might be crap too. It's disconcerting to watch and completely unconventional as a movie and quite off-putting in many ways other reviewers address. But after it was over, the atmospherics, mood, and offbeat nature of this film's virtually subconscious themes literally haunted me. I want to see it again. It literally haunts my dreams. It might be a great work of art because it moved me even though it also disgusted me.I'm no scholar or art historian so I make no claims other than this film jolted me in a way few others have. The closest thing we have in America are some of the films of Harmony Korine and I can't make up my mind if he's a great artist or disgusting fraud either. Maybe both. But I felt many of the same feelings after watching Gummo and Kidz. "},{"Title":"Unpredictable, sexy, and unique.  A hidden gem!","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Welcome to Woop Woop is a unique comedy, so refreshingly different when the typical film comedy nowadays is so vulgar and predictable. This film is by no means wholesome, as it is sexy as all get out. There are many bizarre characters and plot twists mostly set in a small isolated town in Australia. Its attributes include a frankly remarkable use of Rogers and Hammerstein music as its background score the songs are remade, very hip yet respectful to their source. If this movie is similar to anything, perhaps it is the musical Li'l Abner since there is a sexy blonde (a very appealing Susie Porter, unknown to American audiences) a handsome, dark-haired man (Jonathon Schaech in a vastly entertaining performance that should have made him a big star. He is extraordinarily good-looking and his comedic delivery is quite good. Think of a male supermodel with a great sense of humor) as well as oddly raggedy dressed townsfolk with weird Dogpatch-like hairstyles. Rod Taylor is both scary and touching as the tyrannical leader and there are small roles placed by Miss Edna's Barry Humphries and a young, muscular bodybuilder , Con Demetriou, who was briefly Princess Di's personal trainer, and an almost unrecognizable Rachel Griffiths. There is also a cameo by Gilligan's Island's Tina Louise. This movie is a little gem and should be seen for a special, funny, weirdly good time. "},{"Title":"Warts and All","Date":"15 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Revisited this one after 13 years. Everything you never wanted to know about the white Australian aesthetic, in a Fellini type package. (Director) Elliot's exaggerated vision of us as a cultural backwater is spot on, entertaining, and funny as hell. Rod Taylor as Daddyo gives a performance that cements his legend as an Aussie superstar. Susie Porter is outrageously good as the frecklefaced, redhead bimbo. The only thing missing in an equally good supporting cast was a role for David Argue. His inclusion would have been the gravy on the chips, the mushy peas on the pie. Woop Woop won't appeal to those who are still looking the other way. But Elliot never intended it would. "},{"Title":"Unapolagetically absurd, disturbing and hilarious!","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I've been a fan of this film since 1999 and have enjoyed watching it again and again in the company of many Woop Woop virgins. While the response to the film even among my friends runs the gamut, appreciation for the film's originality, grittiness and dark humor finds us on common ground.I most recently shared it with a friend who asked twenty minutes into the film, So where is this going? A little annoyed as he pressed for my explanation, I replied Let it show you - the surprises in store are the fun of it! To best sum up why this is one of my all-time favorite films of the off-the-wall variety It just makes me laugh every time I see it. These days, that's saying something. "},{"Title":"Hysterical!","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  All you Aussies stop grouching about this picture! It's hillarious. I love Australia. Been there twice and fell in love with the country, the people...the whole works. I've been a huge fan of Australian films for years. Especially We of the Nevernever (watched it 4 times in two days...Gallipoli...The Last Wave...Walkabout...Picnic at Hanging Rock, Muriel's Wedding, Heavenly Creatures and at least a dozen more. Australians are incredible people and shouldn't be offended by this waaaaaaaaaaay over the top stereotype movie. It's just plain funny, and Rod Taylor is incredible as is the rest of the cast. Don't try to understand all the Aussie sayings...you won't. But just watch the movie and laugh your head off. Wait'll you get to the funeral! "},{"Title":"Hilarious, if-flawed, Australian comedy!","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Welcome to Woop Woop takes Australian cliches to the extreme. When con-artist Teddy escapes to the Australian outback, he finds himself drugged, unconsciously married and trapped in Woop Woop an outback town inhabited by zany hooligans.I enjoyed it. Initially, I didn't want to rent it after reading several negative reviews, but I'm glad I finally did proving that critics are often wrong.There's one scene which I won't spoil that hit the film's high-point, and let's just say I will never look at the Sound of Music again, or at least Mother Abbess.The soundtrack was fantastic (especially the Climb Every Mountain remix) and the cast were great. Johnathon Schaech and Dee Smart gave nice performances, but the show stealers were arguably Rod Taylor and Susie Porter. Both reigned with charisma and succeeded in entertaining and disgusting audiences with their amazingly repulsive father/daughter performance . Paul Mercurio also makes a humorous cameo reiterating one of the stricter rules of Woop Woop ~ Nobody leaves.Although some scenes caused me to wince, such as the Woop Woop abbatoir scenes and a funny, yet disturbing incestual relationship, I suggest you check it out.Welcome to Woop Woop is a brilliant satire of Australian culture.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Woop Woop about dangers of totalitarianism","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Woop Woop was a refreshing movie about one character's realization that everything should not be taken for granted.  Just because the people think something is right, does not make it so (recall the hairdresser trying to escape scene).  It takes the extreme for the con man to realize what human rights mean. It also shows that Daddy-O (Castro?) may believe they are doing the right thing, but deep down they have nothing to stand on.Why does no one see this as the dominant aspect of the movie?  No reviews mention this. "}{"Title":"Oh dear...","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, I've read the responses to this little Aussie accident, and so far everyone's been slagging it off as a drivel, as offensive, as failing in its goal to be politically incorrect...etc etc etc. I have to admit that Aussie humour is an acquired taste (even though I am now a more complete man for knowing the phrase, Part me beef-curtains!)but all I have to say is this why are we getting hot under the collar about something called Welcome to Woop Woop? As I suspect Big Daddy would say, If it don't make yer crack a fat, then it don't. Crack open a frosty and wait for the next picture. It's South Pacific tonight, ain't it? "},{"Title":"Possible cult classic","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film has definite cult classic possibilities.  The first time I saw it, I was thrown a bit because it wasn't what I expected.  But I watched it again...loved it.  Watched it a third time...really loved it.  Each time I see it I find more things I missed, and it is terribly clever.  Don't miss the final little scene that runs AFTER the credits!  "},{"Title":"A most pleasant surprise!","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I stumbled across this outrageous movie early one morning during a free weekend of HBO, and couldn't take my eyes off it. It was light and fluffy, but had a very subtle edge to it, thanks to a nuanced performance by the legendary Rod Taylor (who I did not recognize, at first). With some great pieces featuring classic showtunes, it had me guessing the entire time. I was should have known it was directed by the same person who did Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert.Shot in the Australian Outback, it has the trademark humor of most movies from Down Under. Plus, you'll likely catch some notable cameos. I don't know why this doesn't get more airplay on some cable stations, and it seems largely forgotten, but hopefully that will change.Definitely catch this, if you can! "},{"Title":"Well f-ck me dead!  This movie is a rare gem.","Date":"20 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is a movie that celebrates the bizarre. It has a decent main story to hold a few sub plots and a whole lot of strange together. This movie is not for the prudish or faint of heart as crude jokes about or references to incest, masturbation, sex organs, and coitus abound.But if you like me revel in the crude, Welcome this film takes you to fantastical place, and introduces you to a community of what can best be described as Aussie white trash, surviving in an outback village unlike anything you've ever imagined.If I had to compare this movie to other existing works Id say its kinda like Lost meets the Road Warrior if Trey Parker and Matt Stone had written it. "},{"Title":"Trainwreck you can't look away from.","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was the terrible love child of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert and The Hills have Eyes II. There is only one way to prove that you have watched it all the way to the end, if you watched it, you know what I mean. The acting was believable, the characters are so bizarre that it had to be an act, although there possibly are people who are that strange. Unfortunately, this movie has given me a stereotype of Australia that I won't be able to get out of my head any time soon. I will probably watch again in the future, if only to prove to myself that I have an peculiar and unusual view of entertainment and to see how many people I can get to watch it. Everyone should watch it at least once. "},{"Title":"Welcome!","Date":"7 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Among the fans of Rodgers and Hammerstein, and professionals and admirers of musical theater, Welcome to Woop Woop must be anathema. For those indifferent to musicals and who have never heard a song by R&H, or watched The Sound of Music (perhaps a rare breed), this must be a strange sexual comedy because they miss half of the jokes. It can be quite enjoyable for people who have had a minimum of exposure to musical plays, and songs like Shall We Dance or Chop Suey. But for those who can sing along Do-Re-Mi or have seen The King and I at least twice, this is great fun. There is surely a gay touch behind all the proceedings that may not appeal to everyone (no wonder coming from the man who directed The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert, and with a leading actor who had an early career in Gregg Araki's films), but that is one of the best aspects about it. Schaech plays a young American lost in Australia, trapped by a sexy girl into Woop Woop, a closed community ruled by her father, a tough ex miner who loves R&H and runs a company of dog food, the only industry in hot, dry, dusty Woop Woop. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"A refreshing change of pace in black comedy.","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" To really appreciate 'Welcome to Woop Woop', one has to relinquish two things A traditional view of comedy, and any preference for politically correct representations of countries and their inhabitants. If you can do that, you are going to love this movie. Teddy is a good-looking swindler who seems to have New York conned and wired. When he loses the many expensive Australian birds (that he sells illegally) during a transaction, he takes off for Australia to follow them. All of this takes place during the credits, setting the story up to take place in Australia, where Teddy gives a ride to a gorgeous blonde. After a few days of a mini-romance, Teddy plans to drop her off and go about his business, but agrees to take her to the ocean first. It is at the beach that his companion lures Teddy into saying he loves her, and from there the plot develops into a hilarious, albeit kind of twisted, view of a tiny Australian community and their bizarre inhabitants. Welcome to Woop Woop has its funny moments, but a few dramatic ones, too. These are just dramatic enough to push the plot along but not so much as to overwhelm the comedic element. It eventually *does* become a love story, just not the unrequited one where the movie started. This aspect of the movie is incredibly well done, and isn't at all forced as love stories in black comedies often are. Welcome to Woop Woop doesn't take itself too seriously, and neither should the viewers. Its a fun, twisted comedy with unique characters and convincing actors to play them - not an Academy Award winning masterpiece. But it is definitely worth the hour and a half, and several more views, as well. "},{"Title":"This movie is a lot of fun!","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Welcome to woop woop is great fun, provided you leave your morals at the door kick back and enjoy it, like great sex. It is at times silly, the music from some of the greatest Broadway shows is also great and a nice touch. One of the best scenes is at the end of the credits which is a must see and you will have final laugh. I don't want to divulge any of the plot or story except to put it in a nut shell, a con man escapes to Australia, meets and marries a nymphomaniac who takes him home to a town called Woop Woop deep in the Australian outback, run by a mad man, his father-in-law. If you like bad movies that are so bad they are good, great in this case. Do yourself a favor and see this, it was just released on DVD this month. "},{"Title":"Odd, but great movie","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I caught this movie on cable channel at 3 AM when I could not sleep one night. I found it to be very entertaining in an odd sort of way. You need to realize that the Outback people in this movie have their own little world & they are all somewhat crazy. There is serious inbreeding thus many offspring of questionable genes. I laughed my ass off when I realized that & just enjoyed ever odd event that followed. Many people will not realize this & never will enjoy a movie like this. It took me a while to recogonize one of the main characters. It was Rod Taylor the Hollywood sex symbol of the 60's. He was very believable as an Australian(as far as I know he could have been born in Australia.) "},{"Title":"Great movie with a lot of musical emphasis","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" While it's not a musical, it's got a lot of music from Rogers and Hammerstein in it. It ranks up there with movies like Princess Bride and Office Space, that are classic films from the day they debut. There's a few interesting situations in this one, if you're easily offended, you might want to skip it, but for those who enjoy a little black comedy it's great. The summary doesn't do it justice.After leaving NY Teddy is on a trip across Australia to find himself. Instead, he finds love... Or love finds him, accosts him, and takes him back to Woop Woop, a town of odd balls in an anarchist society cut off from the real world. This movie of twists and turns will keep you laughing, crying (and maybe a little disgusted too.) "}{"Title":"Brilliant use of Bad Taste and dysphemism for the sex act","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a film classic, in the mode of 'There's something about Mary'. Rod Taylor gives the performance of a lifetime. The ethereal counterpoint provided by the Rogers and Hammerstein scores is strange and wonderful at the same time. It's a comedy, a very dark comedy. It's a love story ... F#*($K me blue, F*@#(K me raw, to the strains of The Sound of Music. It's great entertainment. It's Deliverance meets Rogers and Hammerstein. It's Sex and Drugs, and Broadway show tunes in the Australian outback. A combination your not likely to have sampled before, but one you will wish there was a sequel for. If TV sitcoms are your thing, you just won't get this film. It's bizarre, shocking (if you shock easily), wildly funny, and atmospheric. Is there something about this film that is uniquely Australian? Probably not, this had to have been a bizarre and disturbing dream, or a psychotic episode scripted. It's great entertainment, and certainly an escape from reality. It's a 10  "},{"Title":"Totally awesome!","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this movie was brilliant. I first saw it in the middle of the night when I was about to go to bed. Then this movie came on and I had to watch it. It has some parts where you are just like wtf? But, it's a very funny movie. It will probably go over better with potheads, but if you like movies like Dumb and Dumber, you will love it! It's just one of them dumb movies that you have to give a chance and wait to get into. Plus it has the best sex scene in a movie I think I have ever scene. I couldn't find this movie anywhere to buy, so I had to look it up on Ebay. It was definitely worth the time and money looking for it. Just watch it all the way through and you will be happy you did!  "},{"Title":"Very original, unbelievably corny.","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Having never watched any other films by this director, I had nothing to bias my opinion of this film. It was very original, which is a must because I hate typical Hollywood movies, it was also outrageous. I might even classify it as black (or dark) comedy. The story was so unbelievable that it almost became believable, for example using road-kill kangaroos for dog food (Woof Woof). The story lacks a little luster after it's 'outrageousness' is played out but I believe this movie deserves an above average rating based purely on it's attempt to be totally original, totally unbelievable and totally corny.If you like your movies original, and slightly 'off' this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"Hmpffff","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok i have to admit that the main reason of seeing this movie was because its been made by the same director as Priscilla Queen of the Desert ( Stephan Elliot ) And that was probably my mistake. The story appeared to me in a Flintstone kind of way ( negative way ) how a story originally fun, turns out to be mediocre. Australian backgrounds, the Northern Territory ( where communities like the WoopWoops would not even surprise me ) and a weird bunch of people. What lacks in this movie is that from the moment that the maincharacter is forced to be part of the community, it automatically becomes obvious how the story will continue... Besides a few very funny moments, i cant agree on saying this is a Must-see (  "},{"Title":"Mad Max meets Cathy Bates (Misery).","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed this film.  It had some good laughs.  Warning!!!   If you can't catch the British (Australian) language, e.g. Benny Hill, you won't enjoy it. The plot is of course full of holes, but Its worth a view.  Vote 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Silly, harmless, offbeat film.","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I am quite amused that Australians have some sort of issue with how this portrays them, which makes no sense to me whatsoever.  You don't hear Americans complaining when a film like Deliverance is made.  Give the rest of the world some credit.  Its as if every export must be somehow ennobling to the country of origin.  This is ridiculous.  I suppose a case could be made for this insofar as apparently Australian tax dollars went to support this film (why any country, which no doubt has problems with poverty and so forth as all countries do, would spend precious tax dollars on movies, is another issue altogether).  But come on folks.  Its not as if every Australian is some kind of brilliant, witty intellectual any more than that is true of any other country.  I wonder if people whined about the portrayal of rural Scots when The Wicker Man was released. Having the idea that somehow characters in film must be idealized ethnic, racial, or national archetypes dooms any movie to being insufferably boring.  No doubt Australia, just like the United States, has its own home-grown version of rednecks.  And if not, so what.  Does anyone really think that this is going to set some expectations of what Australians are like abroad?Welcome to Woop Woop is not a brilliant film, but I found it entertaining and offbeat enough.  From the beginning it is clear that the film doesn't take itself very seriously.  I enjoyed the performances in this film, and the ending with the giant kangaroo actually made me chuckle a bit because I never thought they would attempt to use something that silly.  I guess some people who were for some reason desiring realism or plausibility in this farce, were upset by this.  I, on the other hand, applaud the use of nonsense like this.  Were the rest of the film some kind of serious drama, this would have been idiotic, but given the film's tone, I thought it was an appropriate device.There's a time for serious fare and a time for silly movies, and this one is extremely silly, but good-naturedly so.  It is beyond my comprehension how someone could get angry over something so harmless. "},{"Title":"Dumb","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  It started well, so i really thought it will be a good comedy. But it ended in a very bad way.  This movie is really bad. It's about a guy, Jonathan Schaech, leavin USA to Australia, stopping to put gas in his car. He meets Angie, has sex with her a few times and then wakes up married and impossible to leave the small unknown town of Woop Woop. It's pretty irealistic and the characters are bad, the plot is not good at all, and the ending is so awfull i even laughed, although i was not supposed to. Vote 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Funny, Funny Stuff","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Definately not for every taste, WELCOME TO WOOP WOOP is an amusing (sometimes very dark) tale, of a shyster from New York on the lam in Australia. Along the way, he meets more than a few zany folks, and finds himself a virtual captive guest in a town called WOOP WOOP. The humor is at times perverse, and often hysterical. You'll also pick up more than a few rather colorful expressions, to entertain friends with at the next Book Of The Month club meeting. As stated earlier, certainly not for every taste, but if you enjoy off-the-wall, bombastic humor, WELCOME TO WOOP WOOP, is very much worthy of your consideration. "},{"Title":"Hysterical!","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I like Aussie movies anyway. This one was a laugh a minute. Very creative and well-written. When the characters seemed to  dissolve into caricatures of themselves, they were redeemed by excellent acting and creative costume.Or maybe they were supposed to be caricatures?And the authentic, outback script made it more fun than you can have with your shoes on!I caught it on cable TV quite by accident. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"An unusual yet oddly fascinating movie","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I had never heard of this unusually titled movie until I caught it on one of my HBO channels late one night.  Now, they've been playing it almost every other night this month.  With each viewing, I start to see how this movie is more and more appealing beyond the surface impressions the first time around.Some of the other comments I've read are interesting in that they viewed it as either hilarious or vile depending on their taste.  Not surprising that the ones who hated it most came from Down Under.  I found it appealing in that the dark humor was offset by the change in Teddy.  Through the odd twists and turns he encounters after meeting Angie and the rest of the Woop Woopers, his selfish motives that lead him to Australia in the first place change into one of actually caring for some of the people he finds exciled there Duffy, Ginger, and particularly, Krystal.  He could have easily left once he got the key to the truck, but he stayed because of Krystal.  She told him there was nothing in it for him, which is the theme throughout the movie regarding his selfish ways What's in it for me?  Teddy shows that his con artist ways hide a real person and a true romantic at heart.That underlying romance between Teddy and Krystal was at the very core of the movie, and I admit that I'm a sucker for that kind of stuff.  There was obvious chemistry between them beyond the pure sexual magnetism between Teddy and Angie.  And the little extra scene after the movie's credits underlines how deep that love between Teddy and Krystal really was.  It was a nice touch.I hated Daddy-O, but only until I realized that his rather bullish ways hides an obviously very tender and vulnerable heart that he showed at Ginger's funeral. Keeping people in Woop Woop against their will is very wrong but he tries to do right for the people that stay loyal to him.  Rod Taylor's performance was excellent in conveying the two-sided nature of the character.The music was what got me.  I loved the references to Sound of Music and South Pacific.  The music played in the background made the scenes even more powerful and every bit as emotionally poignant as any good drama would.As odd a life as the Woop Woopers lead, it doesn't seem to be detrimental to their overall happiness.  Isn't that what we all aspire to have? "}{"Title":"Bizarre, and a real hoot...","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the most bizarre and refreshing movies I've seen in a while. Kind of in the same category as The Gods Must Be Crazy crossed with Mad Max.  It is so strange, you just can't tell where the movie is going next, but it is pulled off pretty well.  Parts are great fun, and the vernacular is great -(as in Part my beef curtains again...)Make sure you watch all the way through the end credits as well...This movie is well worth renting.  "},{"Title":"Unusual, interesting, and bizarre - repulsive and cool","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Certainly not a film I would have thought to be entertaining, Welcome turned out to be darkly funny yet depressing. Showing a different side of the mentally inept and the what if scenario of an entire town made up of loonies, the film rather captivated me as I watched in a manner close to horrid fascination. A movie worth seeing twice. "},{"Title":"A Fair Dinkum Tale of a mob of Aussie Battlers","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Welcome to Woop Woop has just about every cultural reference and stellar mega star in disguise in this hilarious satire of a slice of life in outback Oz.Not for the faint of heart, it takes an whoppingly open mind and a good sense of humour to watch this little gem -- from the same director as Priscilla Queen of the Dessert. If you're careful, Seppos might also catch a few observations on the inalienable truths of American life.All the family and friends know about Welcome to Woop Woop it's an introduction to one aspect of the country --- bizarre though it is, we hold it dear. This film is what Ozzies would call A Little Beauty. Seppos would say Enjoy! "},{"Title":"I kinda liked it.","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Its a character study, to be sure... but I liked it. I also liked Muriel's Wedding (which is a tremendous flick , both of which are full of relatively no name actors). From big red roo to sockin' it to her this is a pretty hilarious movie, and worth seeing once. I see the Aussie takes offense in his review, but as an American I could name a few that upset me. The story is basic... but it can be. Whats interesting is the characters. It's like some twisted family from Road Warrior meets Twilight Zone. Its been on late night recently, and thats the perfect time to see it. I'm not expecting to buy or see this film again... but its definitely worth seeing once. Its fun.  "},{"Title":"Woop Woop So-So","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I was never a fan of Priscilla Queen of the Desert, finding it far too in love with itself to  enjoy as a whimsical comedy and not serious enough to generate empathy for the  characters. I moreover didn't know Woop Woop's common heritage with Priscilla  (though it takes all of about 10 minutes to guess it). So it was without any heightened  expectations that I sat down to watch the flick. It wasn't a waste of an hour and 45  minutes, but it wasn't exactly the most memorable afternoon I spent either. Frankly I  didn't think it compared unfavorably to Priscilla, but that's not a big compliment.Basically, all the same problems that plagued Priscilla infect Woop Woop too an  overlong, meandering plot; thinly drawn characters, the assertion of camp as both  aesthetic and anesthetic, and a general infantilism of vision. Apparently Cannes agrees  with the first assessment, because the director cut the film drastically after its screening.  As for the obsession with camp, maybe it's just a gay thing, but I don't think camp works  when it's a primary aesthetic mode. For example, Woop Woop shows us thedenizens camping it up to camp classics like The Sound of Music, which is fine; but the  thing that allows a film like SOM to play as camp is that it wasn't filmed that way. Woop Woop, by contrast, like Priscilla before it, puts the camp right into the film from  the outset. This leaves us nothing of our own to add. Instead, the characters largely  appear to be mugging for the camera. Over time, this grows wearying.This is not to say the movie is without its moments. The Australian outback is filmed  spectacularly, and the actors do a good job with th limited roles they are given. But if it's  outlandish Aussie antics you are after, check out any of the Mad Max films. You will  get a bona fide camp experience to boot. "},{"Title":"Horrible Film","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The only redeeming quality about this film is that John Boy shows off his bum often in this terribly written story about a hidden town in the Australian outback called WOOP WOOP.....a place that once you enter, you can never leave ( without permission ofcourse ).  It may gain a camp audience in time but only after Mr. Schaech finds that hit picture to catapult him to the Star ranks of Brad Pitt and Leonardo DiCaprio. Till then I wouldn't waste my time on the $4.00 rental fee folks!!!! "},{"Title":"Watch this one drunk. You'll have a blast!","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is the very epitome of  so bad, it's good.All the other reviews explain it far better than I could, but one thing that hasn't  been said is that YOU SIMPLY HAVE TO SEE THIS MOVIE.  -even if only toghasp in wonderment at how impossibly dumb and vile it is.Except, actually, it has it's moments, surreal as they may be, and at some point it  actually becomes hard to turn it off.  Even sober.If you've ever seen Greaser's Palace, then you have some idea of what I mean,   although G.P actually had a serious message (no, REALLY!) and this moviedefinitely does not, the style is very similar.I debated whether to give this one a one star or ten, no kidding. (I decided on one star.)See it if you get a chance, and yes, alcohol is recommended.-Also a box full of foam object to throw at the screen.You'll have a roaring good time. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Bartertown...I mean Woop Woop!","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Welcome to Woop Woop is like Mad Max Beyond Thuderdome meets After Hours. Rod, a con man from New York, high tails it to the Outback to dodge his captors, only to land himself in a new world of trouble. With one stop at a gas station, he picks up a hitchiker who, unbeknownst to him, becomes his new wife. And this lands him a one way ticket to the most backwards autocratic communal called Woop Woop, which was unofficially incorporated by the survivors of a an asbestos mill that fell and the town, ignored by it's corporate malfeasors. Rod is in a giant, hot hell hole filled with the weirdest residents who have called it home their entire lives. And now, he's got to figure out a way to get past Daddy, the self-appointed head of Woop Woop, and get beyond the walls alive. Woop Woop don't take kindly to deserters.You'll notice similarities to Bartertown--Rod, like Max, is inadvertently thrust into a very aggressive communal type of isolated existence. Daddy-O even resembles Aunty Entity (and the movie even contains a Mad-Max like chase scene). Likewise, the movie draws similarities to Scorcese's After Hours given the kind of weirdo's Rod meets up with, baffled by their audacity and just how absolutely twisted they are. More importantly, in that these are crazy people that he can never seem to get away from.The movie is pretty funny because you're forced to witness something of an isolated civilization built on seemingly modern technology, but used in a different fashion (you'll see what I mean when you watch it) and the story contains some political undertones, as well. It's well worth a try if you don't mind indy movies from the land down under. Bottoms up! "},{"Title":"There is a good reason why Australians hate this movie....","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" ....Because it takes everything modern Australians despise about this country's past (most specifically its rural past), expands upon it in a manner almost perfectly designed to make us feel humiliated by it, and then packages it neatly in widescreen.Well, maybe not. The fact is, WtWW is an oddball film, with a range of rather unpleasant characters in an equally unpleasant setting. Peter Weir's The Cars That Ate Paris took the same scenario and managed to turn it into a watchable, if not entirely likable film (best remembered for the spiky VW beetle).But director Stephan Elliot isn't known for his directorial subtlety, and as such, WtWW treats the subject with all the vulgar caricature we've come to expect. He'd wanted to capture the last vestiges of Old Australia he'd encountered when he'd filmed Priscilla, Queen of the Desert in various outback towns. \ But the majority of Australians are urbanites, many of whom seem to spend an inordinate amount of time trying to live down their past. As such, when this film was released in Australia, it reopened all those wounds of low cultural self-esteem and died the death of 1,000 bad reviews. Quite apart from being an intrinsically bad film, that is. ;) Elliot, in a TV special about the making of Eye of the Beholder, said he felt he'd been well-sufficiently punished for it....Over time, WtWW seems to have found itself a following, mostly amongst non-Australian viewers.... But considering it is an hour and a half of my life that I desperately want to take back, I'm certainly not amongst them. A pity really, for, as unpleasant as Daddy-O was, Rod Taylor's performance really is something to see.... "},{"Title":"Weird cheese served from Down Under","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I usually enjoy Australian movies, but this thing I could pass on if it ever turns up on cable again.Jonathan Schaech (who made his name with That Thing You Do!), as Teddy, gets stuck in a ramshackle, bizarro town after being suckered by Angie, a horny woman, to visit her family. Her home is the title place, a former company town near an asbestos factory.Woop Woop is a prison, ruled over by Daddy-O, Angie's father. It's also a pile of crap. It reminded me much of Nothing But Trouble, the Dan Aykroyd-Chevy Chase movie where the former is the insane mayor of Valkenvania and holds Chase, Demi Moore and their Brazilian friends hostage at his junky mansion over a burning coal mine. Also shades of Trapped in Paradise, a Nicolas Cage clunker where he and his fellow bank robbers are caught in a small town at Christmas and can't get out.The movie meanders, fueled by Daddy-O's malice. Potential fun from tension between the newcomer Yank and the oddball Aussies is never used effectively. Angie is an insane shrieker at times, which got on my nerves. Her movie sister Crystal, widowed when her hairdresser husband is shot trying to flee Woop Woop, is a lot nicer. Naturally Teddy falls in with her.Not all Australians like this movie, and I can see why. These people are wacked, and they might leave foreigners the impression that all Aussies are like this. Obviously they aren't, but this movie doesn't help.Here are some reasons this movie is lame (1) They spent about $5 (Australian) on the budget. (2) The digital effects with the giant kangaroo were awful. (3) The plot was nearly nonexistent (4) There were almost no likable characters, except Crystal, Duffy the Neil Diamond wannabe, and Reg the pothead.So, if you want to cure insomnia, watch this thing. But if you want some good slices of Australian cinema, try Gallipoli, Picnic at Hanging Rock or even Mad Max. "}{"Title":"Political Incorrectness it ain't","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Stephan Elliot constantly touted this film as one of the last movies to attack political correctness (whatever that is) before this virus consumes us all in perpetuity. The reality is this movie is vile, offensive and just plain awful.  By raising the strawman of political correctness, I presume that Elliot was hoping that the viewing audience would flock to see this movie.  Sorry Stephan, but the audience is more discerning than you suspect (and no, they aren't part of the political correctness brigade. "},{"Title":"Cornier than ever","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I was away on a beach holiday with nothing better to do in the evening. So it's probably no surprise that I took every opportunity to watch crappy little films like this one that aired on free to air television.  To describe it as corny may be an understatement.  I was not so much offended (as others suggest about us aussies) as I was irritated.  Angie was probably the most irritating of all characters, though in general the whole style to the town of Whoop Whoop was no better (with the exception of Krystal). It leaves you feeling sorry for teddy being stuck there.If the fakeness of all it wasn't already blatantly obvious already, the closing scene will certainly convince you.  The giant kangaroo was probably the biggest disappointment in the whole film.  Probably wouldn't bother watching it again.  Substance in this film certainly did seem to have taken a miss.  I s'pose if you're lucky you may get a few laughs out of it.It seems that most people ecstatic about it are foreigners excited about phrases like Part me beef-curtains!, which I google search fund no references to other than this movie.  Perhaps a few things may have seemed funnier and less irritating to these people as well, but I don't know how. "},{"Title":"Vile and idiotic carry on in Australia's outback","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  WELCOME TO WOOP WOOP ( rating, * out of 5 )From the Australian Film Finance Corporation comes another brain-dead cultural installment of yobbo Australians residing in inaccessible areas and living Godforsaken lives. Add backing by the New South Wales Film and Television Office, and from the South Australian Film Corporation, (both fine examples of film society flatulence) and you wonder how this lame duck ever got off the ground.If the shooting script is as good as it gets, at what stage did the visionaries at these defect factories decide that 'Welcome To Woop Woop' was deserving of such interstate tax-payer support? The mind boggles at so much collective ineptitude.Before I get really angry and spray a fast-food outlet with automatic gunfire, let's have a look at 'Welcome To Woop Woop'. From the dribbling pen of Michael Thomas and the visually-impaired imagination of Stephan Elliott, comes this miscarriage of intended mirth that is about as whimsical as having battery acid poured over your genitals.Thomas' cringing dialogue could have been written by root vegetables and Elliott's slipshod direction seemed to drift between comatose and cataleptic. For having to sit through this putrefied heap of rotting fecal matter, I now officially detest everyone who had any creative contribution or was responsible in any way in giving this phlegm gobbler life.The purported story goes something like this, (excuse any inaccuracies because after twelve minutes, my eyes began bleeding) - small-time New York hustler, (Johnathon Schaech) who must have agreed to do this effluvium while having a loaded and cocked 9mm held to his head, comes unstuck while trying to illegally sell Australian galahs. Bad guys show up, deranged girlfriend appears from out of thin air and shoots the bad guys while the birds scatter in a desperate bid to escape this loathsome movie. Our spineless hero decides to go to Australia (why? I have no idea) where he meets an idiot local-girl (Susie, there goes my career down the toilet, Porter). This dim-witted couple have sex, she drugs him, and while he's in a tripped out stupor they end up married and living in this bizarre community full of Rocky Horror rejects and slack-jawed throwbacks. That's it in a nutshell - grotesque, unimaginable, tasteless.The casting of support roles is about the only thing that can be interpreted as anywhere near interesting - Rod (I'd work for a piece of chicken) Taylor, Dee (I'm not so) Smart, Paul (I'll only be in this movie if I can do my Gorgeous George impersonation) Mercurio, Barry (I'm dying out here) Humphries, and believe it or not, recent Academy Award nominee, Rachel (I wish someone would drive 9 inch nails into my forehead for agreeing to do this movie) Griffiths.I candidly advocate that you avoid 'Welcome To Woop Woop' like you would a syphilis-spitting camel. It's colloquially referred to as a dead-set shocker - a film where the head and tail credits are way too far apart. The only reason I gave it one star was for Rod Taylor's tap-dance routine on the bar.So while I flush this video down the Royal Doulton, write a letter to the Arts Minister and demand why this rubble of inadequate artistry was the beneficiary of so much public money? Don't spare the expletives as you vent your anger. Unite Australians as we cast the demons from this pretentious industry that treats us like the morons they portray. Be offended by films like 'Woop Woop', be very offended. "},{"Title":"Could be the worst movie ever made","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I remember seen this horrific film in New York at a screening for the press. After about 30 minutes I was in pain, I had contortions all over my body, the garbage that was shown on the screen was making me puke, people around me were also in disgust. Now, this coming from the director of Priscilla Queen of the Desert, was really surprising. What's with the police shooting at birds? Is that supposed to be funny? What about all the trashing of Australian culture? Was the director on a bad trip? Oh man, I feel sorry for actors like Rod Taylor ending up in this awful mess, very embarrassing... Do yourself a favor, do not even think of watching this movie without first getting very drunk or stoned. Otherwise drink a lot of Pepto Bismol. "},{"Title":"Why oh why?","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Even out in the far reaches of country Australia only morons and half-wits talk anything like the characters in this film. These kinds of parochial insulting parodies of Australian life are what killed the Australian film industry. We are not a bunch of bushies or surf low lives we are, for the most part, well educated, intelligent urbane people who live on a giant dry island. Our culture is made up of British, Scottish and Irish immigrants mixed unhappily with the indigenous population and topped up with people from everywhere on earth. To try and capture the essence of Australians with these degrading, ill conceived attempts to pump the lowest common denominator (The Castle, Kenny, Razzle Dazzle etc) just shows how skewered the Arts are in Australia to w*nkers - it's truly f***king terrible. "},{"Title":"An embarrassment to the Australian Film Industry.","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I for once could not believe that Australia or ANY film company for that matter would finance this garbage that not only bruises Australia's reputation and appearance, but makes a mockery of everything labeled Australian, especially to the poor soul who makes the most unfortunate mistake of watching this trash.First of all, let's look at the non-existent plot. We have Johnathon Schaech portraying a drug runner who flees New York City from several thugs who would give anything to 'bust him up' a little. He makes a hasty escape to the Australian outback (of all places!) where he picks up a hitch-hiker wonderfully portrayed by Susie Porter who spends most of her screen time running around like a pig so that we can see her bare bum, her breasts in full exposure and having sex with Schaech's character every second she can, all for no reason at all.She now wants to introduce Schaech to her 'loving' father and his clan of loonies who reside in some coregated-iron tin town in the middle of nowhere (hence the title of WOOP WOOP) where they spend their spare time watching Rodgers and Hammerstein musicals such as SOUTH PACIFIC and THE SOUND OF MUSIC in between acting like a bunch of rednecks who may have breathed in too many toxic fumes from an 'off-screen' nuclear dump. Yes, all the residents here either have 'nuclear-burned' skin, missing teeth or incredibly ugly features that suggest imbreeding among the 'clan' or exposure to hazardous materials like toxic waste. Rod Taylor plays 'Big Daddy O', an overbearing, over-protective father of Susie Porter's character who refuses to let Schaech leave their nice little town because it seems that someone is now expecting a baby. In fact, he wants Schaech to do the right thing and marry Porter and raise their child in this delightful little neighborhood.The only problem here is that Schaech wants nothing to do with any of this and he spends the rest of his time in the movie attempting to escape the lunatics and crazies that populate this dump. Oh yeah, this is also supposed to be a 'comedy', so prepare yourself for unintentional laughter, such as the mutant kangaroo featured in the finale of the film that destroys a jeep driven by Rod Taylor in what could be one of the worst scenes to feature 'special effects' in all of cinematic history.Through all of this, I was quite embarrassed... not only as an Australian, but because I was the one who rented this junk and tried to present it to some friends who were from the U.S. and appeared quite lost throughout the excruciating 97 minutes that this horrific misrepresentation of Australiana ran for.I have no idea what the film company thought when they read the script for this film. This isn't even worthy of being premiered on late-night cable at 2am in the morning. I was astounded and flabbergasted at how awful this movie was and I have absolutely nothing positive to say about WELCOME TO WOOP WOOP. I actually felt a little embarrassed for Johnathon Schaech who found himself in the middle of this mess and probably wanted 'out' before filming was completed. And to follow this film up with 1998's cinematic dud, HUSH, this is definitely something he could afford to leave off his resume.If you want to see a film that portrays the once handsome Rod Taylor as a beer-guzzling, pot-bellied, red-faced, gin-soaked Aussie ocker, then WELCOME TO WOOP WOOP is definitely the movie to see him in.If you want to see a film that offers something meaningful to both your intelligence and your wallet, then steer clear of this rot. And trust me folks - this movie definitely does NOT represent ALL of Australia.0/10 "}]