[{"Title":"Lighten Up, Will Ya!","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"47 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" After reading several negative reviews analyzing this and other stoner movies as being stupid, mindless and lacking in plot. HELLO!!! This is a stoner movie about stoners getting stoned. Who cares about plot or social messages or that other deep crap. You want depth go see a Bergman or a Fellini film, lighten up and smoke a joint. I'm glad to see stoner comedies back in fashion after suffering through pretentious, preachy, boring 80s anti-drug dramas that are never truly grounded in reality and where the characters always either predictably OD or just simplistically kick their addiction. So rent this movie (or watch it currently on cable), fire up one and enjoy "},{"Title":"A great comedy, Chapelle is hilarious","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"47 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Half baked is hilarious movie to me. Its a pothead manifestation film that doesn't take it self seriously and is pretty hilarious throughout. Dave Chapelle is very funny in the lead and to me is a better lead comedy actor than the likes of Martin Lawrence and even Chris Rock. Guillermo Diaz is also very good as Scarface. Rachel True provides good eye candy and decent performance as the female lead. This is not an Oscar film, but hilarious to watch with buddies and after watching it 3 times it doesn't get old. Its a funny screenplay, decent comedic direction and good performances, worth a look for any fan of comedy, pot or cinema.. 9/10 "},{"Title":"THE 90's stoner flick","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"50 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Hilarious...or is it?...flick concerning an apartment full of pot-smokers who get themselves in trouble with the law and end up going on a series of the most funny adventures ever put to celluloid.  This is a gas for the in crowd.  Others probably won't get all the jokes, but it is still damn entertaining.  I know people who worship this movie...of course, they've more than smoked themselves retarded. If you're feelin it, then you'll laugh your @ss off, I guarantee. "},{"Title":"The Funniest Film on Marijuana since Up in Smoke","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"44 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Half Baked is funny for all the wrong reasons.  We laugh at the antics of pot smoking dumb asses because they are doing all the wrong things.  But, it is hilarious nevertheless.  Especially with the funny acting of Jim Breuer, Dave Chappelle and Harland Williams.  Even the cameos are humorous- including Jon Stewart, Snoop Doggy Dogg, Willie Nelson, and Tommy Chong (Chong is perfect as a small role in the movie).  The plot seems kind of basic, but its spiced up for laughs and for people who know what being a dope head is like.  Hilarious all around.  A+ "},{"Title":"You don't have to be under 25 nor a pothead to enjoy this movie.  Maybe having familiarity with drug culture would help though.","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I had never heard of this movie 'Half Baked' until I was channel surfing cable this afternoon and came across it. While I had heard the name Dave Chapelle because of the television show recently airing, I was not familiar with two of the other three main characters. The guy playing the character in jail I have seen before. In other words, I am not up on who these people are/were. I am of the Chech and Chong 'Up in Smoke' generation of drug themed flicks. Saw them all back in the day. However, I found this movie much funnier than those ever were. Much funnier. The Scarface character was hilarious, but I found the Brian and Thurgood parts funnier and quite believable in an over-abundant way. I have read here many stating the cameo parts were the film's highlight. Not in my opinion. The main characters owned this one. As an aside from a 40 something, it is nice to see that this country(USA)has come along the road far enough whereby having a couple white guys, a black dude and a Cuban sharing a habitat together doesn't come across as contrived. The stoner parts all looked familiar to me. Funny movie. "},{"Title":"You don't have to be stoned to enjoy it","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My friend, (a known pothead), lent me this film and said it was funny, i was sceptical, a. becasue he is always stoned and once had a laughing fit at a commercial, b. because he thinks WWF wrestling is the best thing on t.v, but i watched it anyway, i'm glad i did, it was hilarious, i'd highly recommend this film to anyone, unless they are specifically looking for a good plot or if they are dead against drugs, i've read some of the comments on here and they haven't been that good, maybe you have to know someone like the people in this movie to get it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Wasted comedy at its finest","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"27 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is hilarious.  Extremely stupid, but still hilarious. And even as unbelievable as it is, there are people actually like this, heck I know several of them.  The thing that makes it so funny is the fact that a bunch of funny parts in the film actually happen.  So if you want to see funny realism mixed with over the top fantasy, this is your film. "},{"Title":"Ya don't have to be a stoner to enjoy this film","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Very funny movie. Of the recent 'stoner' flicks, this is probably one of the best. (Probably second in my book to Dude Where's My car?) Ejoyable, entertaining, and weird characters. Dave Chappell is hilarious as always. There are a ton of cameos by great and well known comedians throughout the piece, all paying their homage to the great herb.I myself am not a pot smoker but laughed my rear off anyways, even if I didn't get all of the 'inside' stuff that others may refer too. Chappell is great playing several outlandish characters in the movie. The situations they get themselves into are great and even better how they get out of them.There is ample potty humor as well as pot humor to boot. Well worth the rental fee and your time. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you might think...","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"20 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The trailer for this movie looked really dumb, so I didn't see it in theaters. Then I heard about Bob Saget's cameo (and what he says), and just wanting to hear Saget say that made me rent the movie. Surprisingly, it's not a bad movie. Oh, it's dumb. It's sloppy. It's *obsessed* with marijuana. But I laughed several times in the movie, and the characters are very likable. Best watched with a group of friends who don't mind drug humor. "},{"Title":"stupified genius","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Only a true pothead could have thought up the script for HALF BAKED.  Tamra Davis is an underrated director, with other cool movies like BEST MEN and his other retarded comedy masterpiece, BILLY MADISON. Dave Chapelle, Jim Breuer, Guillermo Diaz, and Harland Williams all give incredible, insane performances. The spoofs on other films like JERRY MCGUIRE, DEAD PRESIDENTS, SUPERMAN, as well as the old Batman show, are perfectly weaved in. There are numerous cameos by tons of varied people Snoop Dogg, Jon Stewart, Janeane Garafalo, Willie Nelson, Stephen Baldwin, Clarence Williams 3, Tommy Chong, Bob Saget, and others, they're all funny in their own ways. The Guy on the Couch was the most interesting character, for mysterious reasons.  "}{"Title":"I don't even know nobody named Ol' James!","Date":"22 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Tamra Davis is a g*damned genius, i swear. She manages to get a pumping little message across while delivering the laughs by the bucketload. And Dave Chapelle, gangly, weird but extremely funny in that unpredictable, zany way, easily delivers the funniest line when he says Do I look like someone that would smoke...*whispers* mari-juana? Trust me, when u see him say that line the irony is nothing short of hilarious.The message is, quite simply, that weed's got a bad rap over the years for being a gateway drug and that it's not a soft drug or whatever, and nowhere in the film is this rammed home more than in the Rehab scene. No, I don't know anyone that's ever sucked d*ck for marijuana, either...haha. This is all despite the fact that many people use weed all the time and never become junkies or flip out and go nuts.This will especially strike a chord with smokers, but anyone can enjoy the zaniness of this movie, although i will say the target audience has been well catered for ) The last scene is particularly good in its appeal to smokers and non smokers. For everyone who thinks Thurgood gave up weed for good, go back and watch the end again. As he's ditchin the spliff she (the spliff) yells You'll be baaaaack! and does he contradict her? Nup.It's one of those endlessly quotable movies that you can stick on whenever and enjoy.Will u guys shutup about weed for one second? I don't want this girl to know I smoke! Yeah it's bad enough you're a janitor, yo! Custodian!Why u gotta make me feel inferior coz I'm on the grill, B?And a zillion other gems ) Whoops, forgot to actually include a plot summary...(*ding* Marijuana affects the memory *ding*) Roll a big fat one and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Quite Funny!","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is funny if you smoke weed otherwise you will find it a boring movie,Dave Chappelle is a funny comedian i've watched loads of his stand-ups on DVD but he wasn't really that funny in this film he was more of a serious stoned guy,All the other actors in this film i've never heard or seen of them,If you like silly fun films then you should see this,If you do like this film also watch Harold and Kumar go to white castle its also about stone heads but its way more funnier and it has better acting and a way better story line, Also try watching Chappelle's Stand ups they are Very Very Funny I'll give this film 8/10 because its funny in its category!! "},{"Title":"classic stoner flick","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Who hasn't seen this one....... This is definitely a classic in the stoner movie genre. There is no shortage of laughs in this one, for those who enjoy stoner humor this movie is a must see. The cast is strong, With a younger Dave Chapelle, a few new faces and a few old.Plently of marijuana, plenty of trouble, plenty of fun. I t almost has a comic book feel to it.... like your are in a wacky fantasy world. If you haven't't seen this rent it now, and get in the zone, because this is a really really good time on the first few views. And don't forget them munchies, this is classic9/10 "},{"Title":"a 5 joint movie!  =)","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Pot smokers represent! =) This film is *the* new definitive piece for the genre (yes, ladies and gentlemen, surpassing, even, Up In Smoke). =) Follow one pothead's (Dave Chappele as Thurgood Jenkins) journey from social miscreant to responsible citizen. Along the way, he learns to sacrifice for his friends, take charge of difficult situations and lead, and tap into that true American entrepreneurial spirit that lies dormant within us all! =) And all of this?&#133; for the nobility of true love. =) (Oh ya&#133; and did we mention that in the middle of all of this, he even finds time to support his local law enforcement officials?). =)Hat's off to the director, Tamra Davis. You did us proud. What absolutely makes this movie (besides Dave Chappele as Sir Smoke-A-Lot) is the cameos. The currently best rated comment mentions Snoop Dogg, Jon Stewart, Janeane Garafalo, Willie Nelson, Stephen Baldwin, Clarence Williams 3, Tommy Chong, Bob Saget, and *others*. This fails to mention two *others* a special guest appearance by the ghost of Jerry Garcia =), and&#133; Steven Wright, playing the quintessential guy on the couch. =) This movie is sooo good, that I suppose you could even watch it sober and *still* find it entertaining. =) I give this movie a 5 out 5 joints. =) "},{"Title":"Features the funniest cameos ever","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The highlight of Half Baked is clearly the hilarious cameos, in particular the cameo by Bob Saget. It was a while since Full House went off the air, and people started to wonder, 'where's Bob?' Well, we found him, and in the unlikeliest of places, too. His all-American, wholesome, great dad image is completely torn apart in just a matter of seconds. His line, I used to suck d**k for coke echoes in eternity for great moments in contemporary comedy.As for the movie itself, I thought it was awesome. Dave Chapelle, who co-wrote the script, obviously knows his subject very well. The details of the marijuana culture are rich and extremely humorous. We're shown different types of marijuana users (I'm 40 and still cool smoker, I can't be creative without pot smoker, enhancement smoker, scavenger smoker), the different ways of buying it, and surprisingly enough, it teaches that life can be good without it. Just listen to Thurgood's wise final words at the end of the movie when he gives up weed and gets the girl Now, I know what you're thinking old Thrugood sold out, right? Well, let me tell you something. I love weed, I LOVE it. But not as much as I love p***y. The End. Half Baked is a very good comedy which I've enjoyed over and over. It obviously won't rank up as one the greatest films of all time but it's a funny movie with memorable characters and lines. Dave Chappelle is more popular now than he was when this came out but I hope that people go back and revisit it (especially now with a new Fully Baked Edition DVD!). Half Baked is a gem of a comedy.My rating 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"First of all, to understand Killer, you gotta understand who Killer the Dog was.","Date":"18 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film is one of my all time favorites. It's a real stand out comedy with damn good performances for what it is. most comedy today is pathetically predictable and just un-funny. From dismal family comedy flicks to the terrible ill amusing escapades of the date comedy. For me, their just way too formulaic. Is this story whole-heartedly original,no, not by far, but it's treatment is gloriously funny and pure escapist fun. The performances are better than you'd expect, giving off the feeling these guys are real close. Dave Chappelle is a riot,a real comedic genius. Guillermo Díaz is Scarface, Harland Willaims was terrific but the the performance I enjoyed almost even more than Chappelle's was that of Jim Breuer as Brian. If you've seen this movie then you know why I say this. Rachel True does as well as needed, but I found the tragic story of Killer by far more memorable (lol).And before i forget there are some very memorable cameos from Jon Stewart, Snoop Dogg, and Tommy Chong naturally. Each is just funny as hell. I don't believe you have to be a stoner to get all the jokes, but being a user will make it all the more hilarious. Overall, my rain reason for loving this film is that it casually, repeatedly and openly points out that marijuana isn't really something to fear, disgust or be ridiculously conservative of. A 'pothead' myself, I really don't recall ever feeling the urge to suck a d*ck for some marijuana, so that's saying some thing right?Take a hit, and Live life. "},{"Title":"Makes you forget about the world around you for a while","Date":"21 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Viewed this movie on January 13, 2010 Half Baked is a movie that really entertains you. Of course it's a dumb movie, and I think that to enjoy it, you need to switch your brain to off for the time this movie lasts. I viewed this film during a time when I had many problems School-like and relationship problems, but let me tell you that one school night I watched this movie because my friend had lent it to me and I literally forgot all about these problems. Thankfully all those problems are solved now, but that is not the point. I read on an IMDb board that someone compared Half Baked to Pineapple Express, but that's something I don't understand because Half Baked is a much different movie than PE who has a bigger budget, thus better cinematography, leads, etc...The story is fairly original Talks about Thurgood (Dave Chappelle), Brian (Jim Breuer) and Scarface (Guillermo Diaz) who are trying to sell Marijuana to bail their friend Kenny (Harland Davis) out of jail after ''Killing a cop'' (those who have seen the movie will understand). What follows is of course exaggerated situations, but these situations are utterly hilarious. The leads are all very likable, Dave Chappelle is the friendly guy, Jim Breuer as the man who is always high and Guillermo Diaz, as the guy who has a much different personality. Personally, Scarface was my favourite but I felt that Brian inherited most of the best lines. Anyways in a nutshell, you won't see time pass as you laugh yourself retarded while watching this movie (PS That last part was inspired by a quote from the movie) -) "},{"Title":"One of the funniest 90s movies","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a movie about a group of friends whose lives revolve around smoking marijuana. One of the friends ends up in jail and they have to raise money to try to get him out. I don't remember if it's for a fine or for bail or court costs--It's been a year or two since I've seen it--and the guys end up dealing pot to make it happen.The main thing I do remember is that every time I see it on TV or at a friend's house, I always end up watching it all the way through and laughing like mad. There are never any dull moments with comedians like Dave Chappelle and Jim Breuer, two of funniest guys from the 90s. Harlan Williams also has a great but minor roll.I remember seeing this when i was about 18 and still being somewhat naive I was able to appreciate the whole thing. Years later it's still funny. To this day I've never smoked anything and that didn't effect my appreciation of this movie whatsoever. The jokes aren't all the same old people acting silly because they're high. The marijuana related humor is still funny for most people because the characters remind you of people you probably know and their idiosyncrasies.It's not a serious movie by any means, and obviously not for little kids. Still, I've watched this with my Dad and even he was cracking up. It's just good, juvenile fun. "},{"Title":"A Great Comedy!","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Plot Loaded with some of today's hottest young comedy stars, Half-Baked is the hilarious adventure of three lovable party buds trying to find cash to bail their friend out of jail. But just when the guys have mastered a plan, everything comes dangerously close to going up in smoke! with numerous cameo appearances.My Spiel Half-baked is a movie I remember back in the day and still watch to this day. A truly funny, funny movie, with Dave Chappelle as the main sure he brings his hilarious attributes to this movie. Granted this movie should not be taken serious in the lest. This movie is miles ahead of a lot of the stupid crap that has been coming to movies recently; for example all the movie parodies. This movie has a complete comedy edge to it with laughable characters and something you can get behind. Easily one of my top 10 favorite comedies of all time! Half-Baked (1998) Review 8/10 "},{"Title":"Good Stuff","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you love watching movies with a high count of drug use with a very stupid plot then this is for all of those people including myself. I found this movie to be a really hilarious stoner comedy starring the very hilarious Dave Chapelle. I desired to rent this awhile ago because I do enjoy the Cheech and Chong movies a lot personally. So I figured that this would be an interesting stoner flick just like all of those before. If you notice Tommy Chong does make a cameo in this movie and he had me dying laughing. So if you are into the drug movies that seem hilarious for the little and less important things. Check this out now because it is the right thing for a person that enjoys stoner flicks. "}{"Title":"Witty and silly -- a joy to behold","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I first watched this movie before i had ever even seen marijuana in person, and instantly this movie had become one of my favorites. Chappelle's comedic delivery is impeccable and really drives the spirit of the movie from start to finish. Years from now, people will see his impact on comedy as revolutionary, as many already have.The rest of the cast is filled with little-known actors (e.g., the Scarface character) to the iconic (e.g. Willie Nelson) and everybody contributes to the comedy in a unique way. Brian (played by Jim Breuer) serves as the stereotypical burnt-out stoner and does the job well. Scarface serves as an excellent foil to Bruer due to his extremely hyper nature, in spite of his marijuana use.The movie itself filled with absurdity anchored in truth and this complimentary relationship is what makes the movie so fulfilling. Yes, the movie involves marijuana but being acquainted with it is not necessary to appreciate the antics of the characters. Though the drivers of the plot are really the protagonists, there are elements of romance, action, and suspense as the crew makes their way in the drug scene in order to rescue their friend from an undeservedly cruel fate.Obviously, the most recurring theme of the film, namely marijuana, makes this appealing to those who either indulge or know about the topic; however, familiarity is hardly a requirement to appreciate the humor or characters. The movie speaks for itself and is one of my favorite movies ever. "},{"Title":"This Movie Is Da Bomb","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I saw this movie when it was on Comedy Central and thought it was the best movie of the 90's. I loved watching Dave Chappelle's role as Thurgood Jenkins and compared to when he did the comedian on The Nutty Professor in 1996. I was surprised to see Willie Nelson and Bob Saget and Snoop Dogg and Jon Stewart in this movie. Also I was curious about that guy on the couch. What was his name if he did have one? I think Tamra Davis did a wonderful job directing and writing the script. So if anyone hasn't seen this movie yet, I'd highly recommend it to those of you curious about it. Go out and buy it. Enjoy and thank you very much. I would again recommend this movie to any and everyone who hasn't seen it. "},{"Title":"Good to watch B++","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm gonna make this short and sweet like skunk.PRO's- really funny, has interesting characters, a movie about best buds, colorful, has dave chapelle, nice story, and makes you feel good.CON's- um... hm... what we're we talking about? OK. This movie is really funny. The first time i saw this movie i was laughing really hard and not under the influence.If you never saw this movie and need a good laugh.This is it.Get the DVD or rent it if you're not sure or borrow it from your friend or bother your neighbor whom you don't really know well enough to borrow sugar let alone a DVD. "},{"Title":"Are you a POTHEAD?","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie shows just what REAL potheads are about, work sorta lowlife jobs and stay high all the time and just non violent activity, what other addicts would say is the gateway drug, this movie proves it's just a drug of choice... The lines in this movie can even make those who are not on drugs laugh, and even though it's full of goofy offbeat humor, it wants to make ya watch it over again.. it's a hip-hop right-on comedy... Anyone watching this movie will either roll on the floor laughing or cry out loud laughing..... So kick back with Mary Jane, Billy Bongs, and Wesley Pipes and LOADS of Munchies and enjoy a movie that proves Mary Jane is the girl to have.. and who don't agree with the last line of the movie... "},{"Title":"True cult pot movie, right up there with Cheech&Chong!","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" man, this movie is absolutely HILARIOUS! to all you little pot smokers out there, this is a MUST SEE. the humor is right on target of someone completely high, there's a plot line thats interesting enough to not fall asleep to, not so complicated so that you get lost in it and forget what its about, and you know you'll enjoy it even if you're really stoned, its even entertaining to those who don't smoke. and if you're not stoned when you see this movie, you'll still feel as if you are. this movie is definitely one of the cult marijuana movies, right up there with Cheech&Chong and Dazed&Confuzed. seriously, you don't want to miss it, i laughed myself silly while watching this! hint if you're stoned when you watch it, don't forget to buy lots of food, you'll get mad munchies!!! "},{"Title":"Hil-freakin-larious!","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Abba Zabba, you're my only friend.  This movie started off strong and finished even better.  Its about friendship, love and weed.  The guest appearances are great and the story is tight.  Also, Rachel True is delicious as always!  Two huge thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Not just a stoner movie","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Never have 4 characters been so well cast in any comedy movie. As contradictive as it sounds, Thurgood, Scarface, Brian and Kenny are some of the least-believable yet believable characters I have seen.The only reason this movie isn't down as a classic is because a lot of people have a lot of hangups when it comes to the evil green stuff or anything or anyone who mentions it. In actual fact if these people were paying attention it neither promotes nor discourages weed smoking. If you believe pot can be that enticing to people (in this case, 4 losers)you are mistaken and missing the point of the movie.. it's just a comedy and a far, far fetched story. Lighten up!Hilarity from beginning to end, cool music, excellent/colourful photography, not a second of boredom from beginning to end.10/10 "},{"Title":"Dave Chappelle is more hilarious than ever!","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm surprised Dave Chappelle doesn't get more work.  His new show is funny, funny, funny, and this movie is funny to the tenth power.Dave's character, Thurgood, starts off as a loser stoner character who works as a custodian for a major medical lab.  But when his friend Kenny winds up in jail, Thurgood comes up with a plan to steal medicinal marijuana at the lab and sell it to raise bail money.  Thurgood's a genius!I do not smoke marijuana.  Still, this movie proves that stoners can still be Einsteins.  Not only did Thurgood come up with his fundraising plan, but he also came up with an unforgettable trick for what to do when you've got a date, but you're broke.  I will never forget Thurgood's cleverness.20/10 "},{"Title":"Dave Chappelle & Jim Breuer are too damn funny","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First, hats off to a very funny comedian for directing this funny s#&%, Bob Saget. Genius. Dave Chappelle, Harland Williams, & Jim Breuer are so freaking funny I just couldn't stop laughing. It makes me want to be a guy on the couch. Subtle drug references in this movie so BEWARE. "},{"Title":"How I felt...","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am know movie critic nor do I want to be cause they suck.... I will tell you what I thought of this movie...For one this movie, no doubt earned a place in my DVD collection...It's like the funniest movie ever. It keeps going. There is no time in this movie where I am bored. No point where I want to take a break from watching it. I never even done weed and I advise you don't. But this movie has some many funny characters that stand out. There are a ton of cameos that stand out as well. Jim Breuer grew annoying to me. He was ok but he seemed retarded instead of high. Qutie annoying. Everyone else turned in excellent performances. If you are looking to laugh I think this movie is the one for you.It's about 4 friends. One goes to jail for killin a diabetic cop. The other three break into the weed game to get him out of jail. Everything is fine until the established drug dealer wants a cut of money they don't have.Oh... Sir-Smoke-Alot needs a spin off movie... -) "}{"Title":"Truly a classic.","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  That hoser guy doesn't know what he's talking about. First of all, There ARE places where bodegas exist and there are weed delivery services.. like uh.. NEW YORK. and my hometown DC!Second of all, stoner movies are NEVER supposed to win any plot awards. Its just stupid comedy. Something to get high to and laugh your ass off. You honestly think Cheech and Chong movies had any good plots? I really wish people would stop over analyzing stoner movies and just get high and enjoy them. What I'm upset about is that I haven't heard any word of a sequel, like Fully Baked or something. There definitely should be. This movie.. totally a classic stoner movie!! "},{"Title":"Seriously one of the Funniest Movies You'll Ever See","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is by far one of the funniest movies you will ever see...that is if your a burnt out stoner who can relate to the motivationless potheads in this movie. Thankfully I can and that is why I love this movie so so much. I bought this movie previously viewed for 3 dollars and that was by far the best 3 dollars I've ever spent in my entire life. I have watched this movie about 10 times since I bought it and that was only about a month ago. It is really that funny. It has so many hilarious lines. I laugh and laugh when I hear Jon Stewart describing the back of a twenty dollar bill on weed...Theres a guy in the bushes, does he have a gun..I dont know? Whats that? Red team go, Red team go! Its fu**ing hilarious. Youll know what I mean once you see this movie. And No you dont have to be a stoner to love this movie it makes me laugh and I am far from one. So please take my advice and rent this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies I've ever seen!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The only negative part of this movie, is that it ends. I don't care who or what you are, if you can't enjoy something like this, there must be something wrong with you! It's no Oscar-material, just plain excellent entertainment that keeps you laughing on and on and on and... "},{"Title":"Stoner Comedies Get No Better Than This!!!","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"       WARNING Spoilers and/or politcal philosophy ahead.  I'm really surprised so many people hate this movie for it's pro-marijuana battle cry.  First of all, don't knock the stuff 'til you've tried it, Skeezicks!  Anyway, this movie is probably the best weed comedy since Up In Smoke twenty years previous.  Jim Bruer and Dave Chappelle are heroes of their medium, Harland Williams is outrageously funny, and the political and sociological statements this film makes are more than enough reason to watch it.  But besides that, it's so darn hilarious!!!  I loved this movie before I could even relate to it.  Now at seventeen, three years older, and three years wiser, I actually understand these guys, and I empathize with them.  They're disenfranchised stoners who resort to the risky business of marijuana distribution for the noble and altruistic cause of getting their friend freed from prison (with very funny results!)  This is in no way a drug comedy.  The characters don't do crank or heroin or anything, just pot.  So the D.A.R.E. campaign has nothing to complain about.  This is just a funny little film about the peaks and perils of being a pothead.  I felt that the ending was a cop-out, and any true weed advocate would have never arrived to the same decision as did the main character, but if you ignore this, the plot is solid, and the acting is brilliant!  10/10       "},{"Title":"I know if you like this movie you be blazin  )","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, this movie is one of the best stoner-comedies ever made. I like this more than the CHeech and CHong movies, for this reason It's modern. It's not set in the seventies, it's set in the nineties, and it follows the lives of four stoners and what happens to them when one of them gets put in jail. This film has so many memorable lines(Down by the beach....boooyyyyyyy!  ) ). You can sit around the house with your buddies and almost act out the entire movie. I give it an 8 out of ten. You will watch it again, I guarantee. Cuz Sk8Toker says so. "},{"Title":"Jokes flying out at you! Groin-Grabbingly good comedy!","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is definately NOT a 5.9 rating. Half Baked is easily one of the funniest movies out there. And not because lots of stupid slap-stick humor--but rather because of witty remarks and genius acting by four hilarious comedians. Dave Chappelle is genius. Everything he says is filled with hidden wit. A great example of this would be when we first see him meeting one of the scientists. The scientist he talks to calls him Janitor as opposed to his name Thurgood which is written on his badge (something a lot of people would uncounciously say) in response Chappelle wittyly says What is it Scientist? Even the most minute interactions between the 4 comedians and the outside world is filled with wit and humor. I'm sick of all these stupid reviewers who are hung up on the fact this movie is about cannabis and can't look past that to see how hilarious it is. Every moment in this movie has some kind of joke. You don't need to smoke weed to love this movie, you need to love comedy. How can anyone not love the antics of Sir Smoke-A-Lot? BITCH! YOU know what I want! ; (Lawyer)He had sex with my Mamma! Why? ; Doctor said I need a Back-i-atomy. ; God, If you're listening... HELP! ; I'm Impotent Man! Get away from me Biotch! If this acting did not make you laugh you should get your head examined.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is just downright hilarious. It's about three potheads that have to bail their 4th friend Kenny (Harland Williams) out of jail because he killed a diabetic police horse. Along the way, Thurgood (Dave Chappelle) meets this girl he really likes but she is totally against pot. Jim Breuer, Guillermo Diaz, Harland Williams, and Dave Chappelle are really great at playing stoners. Jim Breuer is totally funny in this movie. I recommended this movie to anyone with a good sense of humor, it will keep you laughing forever! After all, it is the ultimate feel-good movie. "},{"Title":"With Dave Chappelle involved, you will laugh...no matter how ludicrous the plot.","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" In a nutshell, Half Baked tells the story of three pot-smoking friends who go to incredible lengths to get their hapless friend, Kenny, out of prison. Their solution? Sell pot, of course! You don't watch something like this expecting to see a good movie. You look at the cover of the movie, you see who's in it, you read the plot summary, and you prepare to laugh. And with Half Baked, that's just what you'll do.This is certainly one of the most lighthearted movies about drug addiction that you'll ever see (please spare me the whole weed is just a plant argument). Despite it being a goofy comedy, the filmmakers do a decent job of making you care about the characters, making seeing the film through to the end an imperative. You won't see anything remarkable, but you will re-stock your supply of dumb movie quotes to throw around with your friends for years to come. I recommend a watch, with plenty of junk food to tide you over in the meantime. "},{"Title":"The Essential Stoner Comedy","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The story of three not so bright men who come up with a series of crazy schemes to get a friend out of jail.With all due respect to Cheech and Chong, this is probably the greatest marijuana-themed comedy ever made. I am not a smoker, but I still find the antics here funny and there are just so many clever and original lines that you cannot help but love it. Dave Chappelle is the perfect leading man, and it would be great if he had stayed in show business.You also have to love the cameos. This film more or less gave a second wind to Bob Saget's career. We get Jon Stewart before he was culturally relevant, and both Willie Nelson and Snoop Dogg, the two modern icons of marijuana culture. "},{"Title":"Half Baked is Correct.","Date":"28 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Half Baked (1998) Dir Tamra Davis / Cast Dave Chappelle, Harland Williams, Jim Breuer, Tommy Chong, Steven Wright Short on message and big on stupidity. Title refers to a scheme conjured by characters who are under the influence of dope. Three friends sell narcotics to raise bail money for a friend. These characters exist within colourful boundaries created by their doped out minds. Have you ever watched Scent of a Woman on weed? asked one individual. Uninspired directing by Tamra Davis. Dave Chappelle leads the cast as he sets out to score a payoff to free his friend. Harland Williams is no different than his regular persona. He is jailed for feeding sweets to a diabetic horse. Jim Breuer delivers the worst performance overacting his stoned out persona to annoying effect. Tommy Chong is featured as a prison inmate who probably received the sentence after making Still Smokin'. He knows martial arts, which adds nothing of appeal to this stupid film. Steven Wright appears as someone who sleeps on a coach a lot and hopefully dreaming of comic acts superior to this. There are a few amusing visual moments that represent the characters within their doped out state of mind but that is about as far as the creative team went. Pointless film with little to laugh at or be entertained by. It is not funny to watch people wreck their lives on drugs, but viewers may need some sort of substance after viewing this. Score 2 / 10 "}{"Title":"Best Movie about Marijuana since the Invention of Marijuana","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" OH, MAN! I freaked out with this movie! I laughed so hard with these 2 characters Brian (Jim Breuer) and Scarface (Guillermo Díaz). They did something great represented the true pothead like no other movie have done so far (the only one who did was Cheech and Chong, in my opinion). I connected with Brian immediately, look like I was looking in the mirror with his hungry, his red eye, fuzzy hair, slowly movement and stuff. And Scarface... wow! I didn't look like a stoner, but his acts and speeches were perfect, too much fun. A Latin guy who acts like a rapper with his attitude. These two actor just were amazing in this film. They shinned way more than Dave Chappelle. Its the third time I watch it, but I cant get enough. DANG "},{"Title":"Dope is For Dopes?","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I really wish Dave Chappelle still did comedy and did a few more movies. The man is talented but it's fair to say he did enough. At least he left a movie left a movie like Half Baked behind. Half-Baked is about a group of guys who never grew up from their marijuana smoking days. They live together with decent jobs and smoke pot on their free time. One of the group gets arrested in one of the strangest ways possible so the other three try to deal pot to raise enough money to pay bail. Hey, what did you expect?Despite the plot holes and silliness this is a decent comedy. Chappelle is a damn good comedian and he isn't over the top. The other two guys are extreme pot smokers and are extremely exaggerated. They are a bit annoying but they serve their purpose. Chappelle is a janitor in a science lab and the lab is doing tests of marijuana and naturally that is where Thurgood, Chappelle, gets the weed to sell. I guess you have to suspend your belief in reality. A janitor would never get away with stealing weed, but it's a movie about weed so I can let it pass.Let's take a second to talk about how the guy got arrested. He got one million dollar bail set because he accidentally killed a police horse. The sequence was very funny. A very high man feeding and interacting with a horse. It was funny but when the horse drops dead because it's a diabetic, I lost interest. I was personally not a fan of the reason because it was way to unrealistic. A comedy can be crazy and weird but it has to be believable, to a certain point. The scenes in prison were funny. I honestly did not expect the movie to show much time inside the prison. I expected it to resemble Doug from The Hangover where his character is completely forgotten but I'm glad he had some camera time. The standard prison stereotypes are there and it works well. The character himself was a little boring and dumb but I'm glad he was the one in prison. The other two are a bit obnoxious but they played their roles well. Thurgood is the obvious leader and at least he is relatable. He falls for a girl who is naturally against pot smoking. It creates a secondary story and its funny to a point. Predictable, but who cares. The big star of the movie was Killer. Killer was a dog one of them bought and this dog is a beast. I fell in love with this dog. Once I saw him I was afraid of the dog being a dumb addition, but I was wrong. The dog was hysterical and it even got high. Who wouldn't enjoy a high dog?Watching this movie high as a kite would probably be best, needless to say I did not but I should have. A movie like this is sure to have a sequence or three of them high as hell, and it did, and it was awesome. The movie opens with the four of them as kids being the first time they smoked. It was a great way to kick off the movie. High kids in a convenient store were funny, being they were 14. When they get the pot from the lab it's supposed to be the best weed ever and it sure looked like it. It made them fly. I didn't even care it was on the poorest green screen, it way hysterical.Overall, Half-Baked a movie about stoners and it made for stoners. I loved the humor and silly antics in this movie. Sure it was hard to believe and would never ever happen in real life but this is Hollywood. Even better, this is Dave Chappelle's movie. He is one of my favorite comedians of all time and he brought his A game to this movie. Was it a good movie? Not really but it was entertaining and I've seen worse comedies. I would call this a bad movie I liked so it's a guilty pleasure. I will give it an honest Sir Laughs A lot Award and a solid WillyT Recommendation. Watch this movie high. I can't because I would not in turn produce a quality review, but you can. "},{"Title":"stoner classic but not a good movie for the general public","Date":"29 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" So I watched 1998's stoner comedy half baked starring Dave Chapelle. Well was it good......well before I answer lets go over some things. Is this considered to be a good movie, no, is this an indy movie, well technically yes, is it a classic well lets wait to answer that one. So this movie is designed to appeal to a very specific demographic, that is young mostly white stoners. In that regard this movie both ranks as a cult classic and a great movie within the genre. However, in the general sense no its garbage. However, if you are a coming of age stoner in the year 3000 and you uncover this blog in doing research for a school report on how people lived before worm holes were used for space travel, well take out your nuclear powered vaporizer and enter the holochamber and ask your computer to play this stoner madcap romp. And if you are in this century check out a bit role for a then unknown Tracy Morgan. "},{"Title":"If you're a stoner this might all be hilarious, still more proof that smoking kills brain cells.","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Half Baked joins Cop Out as another especially accurate title, even if it was not deliberate. It's like writers Dave Chappelle and Neale Brennan thought How about we make a movie where we can give lots of our fellow comedians a job AND be able to tell stories for the next decade about how we weren't smoking prop dope onset? The other guy nodded in the smoky haze, they financed the film based upon a script outline and then realised sh*t we need jokes? Here's what they came up with Four guys live together with one common goal &#x96; to get as high as they can as often as they can using amusingly monikered smoking accessories. When one of them is imprisoned for inappropriate dealings with a horse &#x96; not that kind &#x96; the remaining trio decide to sell enough dope to cover the $100,000 required for bail before all sorts of hilarious jailsex acts can be perpetrated upon his person.Thurgood (Chappelle) sources the superstrong weed through scientists that have genetically engineered it at the building where he is a janitor, in a couple of scenes that only happen in look it's a dumb comedy, don't sweat the facts films like the one I'm reviewing here.After smoking the weed there are numerous easy near-chuckle inducing jokes and many moments designed to elicit yeah we were dicks when we were high too empathy. That being said if you weren't ever (or aren't now) high, it's merely a few boneheads sitting around talking sh*t, grinning inanely and doing very little. Even without the drugs I did several years of that in my 20s and while I loved it at the time I wouldn't pay to watch 90 minute snippets of it now.The painfully unfunny Harlan Williams is Kenny the imprisoned bonehead &#x96; a plus as it limits his screen time to a few minutes and his jokes to a few allusions to looming non-consensual sex. Jim Breuer mugs every single scene that he is in, in either an amazingly accurate or at least amazingly stereotypical portrayal of a perpetually stoned moron. This leaves Guillermo Diaz to say Yo and call people B a lot while Dave Chappelle himself does and says all the things resembling comedy for the remaining hour or so.The annoying thing is that while Chappelle was effortlessly funny &#x96; or appeared to be &#x96; for the 2 seasons of his own show he struggles mightily here. It's worth noting though that even if he doesn't make with the laff-laff too much he is already quite likable and his delivery is solid. It's just that likable is worth liking but hardly funny, and with most of the cast being unlikable and similarly unfunny, Half Baked comes across as somewhat &#x96; well &#x96; half baked.Final Rating &#x96; 4.5 / 10. Proof that even remowned comic geniuses have to work on their craft before becoming instant successes. A couple of chuckles amid 80 mostly unfunny minutes.(If you're a stoner this might all be hilarious, still more proof that smoking kills brain cells.) "},{"Title":"Good,  but not great stoner comedy","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" 'Half Baked' is certainly no 'Harold and Kumer Go to White Castle' or 'Harold and Kumar Escape From Guantamano Bay', and it's definitely no 'Knocked Up', but 'Half Baked' is actually a pretty decent stoner comedy with some funny and interesting moments.Dave Chappelle also does a good job as the main character.The movie is basically about a bunch of stoners who must try to get enough money to get their friend out of jail.You're probably wondering why their friend got in jail.He killed a police officer's horse by feeding it to death.Typical stoner comedy, right? But besides from some dumb moments, 'Half Baked' is a pretty good stoner comedy that actually teaches a valuable lesson if you see a horse and you want to feed it, don't feed it too much.Also make sure that it isn't a police officer's horse.You'll be thanking me when you don't end up in jail. "},{"Title":"Marijuana? more like MariFUNNAH","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A group of potheads (Thurgood, Scarface, and Brian) have to sell the chronic to get their friend, Kenny, out of jail when he accidentally kills a police horse while on a munchie run for the gang. Thurgood (Dave Chapelle, who also pulls double duty as Sir Smoke-a-lot) also has to hide his habit from his new pot-hating love interest. There hasn't been a comedy this fun centered around weed since the heyday of Cheech and Chong. And while this film isn't quite as funny those said movies, it's still enjoyable enough fluff, filled with many highly quotable lines, some cool cameos (including Bob Saget in his only funny thing he ever did in film or TV), and some hilarious moments.Eye Candy C.J. Fidler shows her fake left tit My Grade B+ Special Edition DVD Extras Commentary with director Tamra Davis; two different types of main menus; 8 Deleted Scenes (not in the best shape video-wise, and the DVD case lied saying there were 10 deleted scenes); Alternate Ending (which made more sense); and 3 Featurettes (that all suck equally) Five Minutes With The Guy On The Couch,Different Types Of Smokers, and Granny's Guide To Bakin'; Trailers for Ray, Seed of Chucky, Shaun of the Dead, and Friday Night Lights "},{"Title":"Quite the surprise!","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was expecting this movie to suck, but I ended up laughing quite a bit.  Dave Chappelle was funny, Jim Breuer was better than I expected, and Guillermo Diaz, a guy I never heard of until I saw this movie, had the best lines and seemed to be channeling Cheech in some scenes.  Funny cameos, especially Jon Stewart.  All of the scenes with the dog were hilarious!  A passibly funny guilty pleasure- either **1/2 or *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"I can think of 5 good reasons I SHOULD hate this movie","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  But I don't hate it.  This movie looked so stupid to me.  when i saw the trailers for it i thought it would be one of the worst movies ever. I avoided watching this movie till just the other day.  Some stupid kid told me i should rent it.  and knowing that he likes bad movies i should have just said no.  But he was right. it is a good movie.  well maybe this movie didnt make me a better person, or give me insite into an unknown realm. and I hate movies geared towards teens, and yes this movie makes smoking pot look cool to the young people of america.  knowing all that i really didnt want to like this movie, but i found it hard NOT to laugh at this movie. This movie should suck, but it doesnt.   "},{"Title":"Weed and the good trips you get from it!","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The movie Half baked is one of the movies you gotto see when you like movies as  Biodome, Bill and Ted's excellent adventure, Wayne's world, et cetera.It's about a couple of guys that started smoking dope when they were kids. 15 years later they're still smoking and low on cash. to refill their money pouches, they decide to start there own weed transport and delivery company. And that is going to be the feeding ground of lots and lots of good jokes and situations.A.J. "},{"Title":"Funny funny funny","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What can add to the comments here?  The cameos were great (especially Snoop Dogg's) and Dave Chapelle is one of my favorite stand-up comedians who actually bearable to watch as an actor.  The descriptions of the different kinds of smokers is classic!  The ending is disappointing -- but you know the every single comedy movie released in the last 20 years wasn't -- but you what?  You don't watch these kinds of movies for their dramatic unities! The stuff that happens a long the way is what's funny.  One of the best parts of the movie happens where Jim Breuer is explaining the real story why their pit bull Killer is dead.  Hilarious!  Rent it now! "}{"Title":"A new cult classic - whether you're straight or stoned...","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw Half Baked when it first opened in the theatre... I'm a big Dave Chappelle and Jon Stewart fan, plus I enjoy the old Cheech and Chong movies. I wasn't just delighted or pleasantly surprised by this Gen X drug comedy - I was enthralled! Half Baked is one of the funniest movies I've seen in the last 10 years. The main cast is solid and very funny, but the cameos are the best part of the movie. Not many people know that Bob Saget's stand-up routine is so filthy that it would melt their children's ears off! He gets to bring some of that to the screen as a recovering drug addict. (won't ruin the joke - it has to be heard to be believed). A far cry from that god-awful Full House! Jon Stewart is even funnier as the enhancement smoker... a running joke with me and my friends to this day. I'd love to go see the Daily Show and ask Jon if he ever did the show... ON WEED! Snoop Dogg, Stephen Baldwin, Willie Nelson, Janeane Garofalo (my goddess!), Tommy Chong, and Steven Wright all make appearences and are equally hillarious!Sure... a lot of the jokes are pretty juvenile and the movie's message I love weed, but I love pussy MORE! isn't exactly PC, but if you're ignorant enough to rent a movie like this thinking that it won't have jokes about weed, getting laid, gay jailhouse sex, more weed, overdosing a diabetic police horse, and weed, then you deserve to lose your $3.50 and should have rented something nice and pretentious. If you like Animal House, Cheech and Chong, and/or Dazed and Confused, give this movie a chance. I can pretty much guarantee you'll want to watch it over and over again.   "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen.  And it's not just because I love Jim Breur.  I usually don't like these movies but in this case, I have to make an exception.  This movie is hilarious.  Especially when Thurgood is shouting, I got some booty, I got some booty! "},{"Title":"See it just for Bob Saget's cameo!","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Half Baked is hilarious. Three stoned friends become fund-raisers when they decide to sell weed to get a friend out of jail. Every part of the movie will make you roll on the floor laughing, pounding your bleeding fists onto the carpet. See it just for Bob Saget's and Willie Nelson's cameos.  "},{"Title":"This movie was so funny my sides were hurting.","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Anyone who sees this film and thinks it's not funny has obviously had a personality bypass, either that or they just need to lighten up! This film was not supposed to have a plot really. The plot (that which there is) is just an excuse for some hilarious scenes which will have you rolling around on the floor with laughter. The guy on the sofa, the scene where the Cuban guy quits his fast food job, the eight doller date, the old hippie guy bangin' on about the old days, Sir Smoke-a-lot, it's all proper funny from start to finish. And as for the anti-cannabis evangalists saying this film is a bad influence? Get a grip on reality, like Thurgood says 'Yeah sure Cannabis is a gateway drug...........a gateway to more junk food mostly! Watch this with a few friends and I promise you'll be p***ing yourself with laughter. Up there in my top ten along with Withnail and I, Quadraphenia and Pulp Fulp Fiction. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I first heard of this movie I thought it would just be another stupid movie, but then I saw and it is the funniest movie. I thought I was gonna have a heart attack it was so funny. If you don't see this you don't know what your missing A MUST SEE  "},{"Title":"Laughed my butt off!!","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I read an anonymous posting that absolutely shredded this movie and couldn't believe it.  I personally thought Half Baked was hilarious, as have most all my friends.  I don't expect EVERYONE to like it, especially those looking for very cerebral/high humor, but most will.  If you just want to enjoy a good laugh and simply be entertained, I definitely suggest this movie.  I laughed pretty much non-stop from the beginning of the movie all the way to the end.  And you don't need to know someone who's smoked pot or want to smoke it yourself for it to be funny, as some have asserted...it's simply a funny movie.  I will say this though, if you've ever known anyone who HAS smoked pot, then the movie moves from hilarious into the realm of your stomach and jaw aching from laughing so much and so hard. "},{"Title":"Very funny movie that most will love!","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is very funny.  I laughed so hard when I saw this the first time. And it's one of those movies that gets funnier each time you see it.  If you are one of those uptight movie critic-type movie watchers, then you probably won't like this movie.  But if you are of the general public who judges movies on entertainment value and not how good the plot is, then you'll love it.  I would recommend this movie for ages 12 and up. "},{"Title":"Some great material and quotes here if you can appreciate it.","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Half-Baked isn't an intense drama that's meant to sweep the awards, out to win the hearts of young and old alike.  It's just plain fun.  The plot is on the side.  A common theme between jokes.  In a movie like this, it's OKAY.  The jokes and the parodies are the heart of it, and the main reason I derived great enjoyment from it.  (And is one of the few movies I'll watch again and again.)Who can forget The Guy on the Couch, the kids getting high for the first time, Jerry Garcia in a pouch, Sucks to be YOU man!, the diabetic horse, the Squirrel Master, Billy Bong Thorton, the flying Rottweiler (and the fantastic flashback sequence involving his life), among many other things I'm surely forgetting?Not everyone is cut out to enjoy movies like this that make light of drugs (like the Cheech and Chong movies, for example), and those who aren't shouldn't write reviews of them.  Just like if horror movies aren't your thing, you don't review Scream.  Whether our anonymous Canadian friend who also commented on this movie, here, falls into this category or not, I don't know, but it sure seemed like it.  I'd hate to see this movie slighted because someone just couldn't appreciate it. "},{"Title":"Awesome, Awesome Film!","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie reeks of greatness.  It is definitely a classic!  I give it 420 stars.  There are so many great parts and it touches on a subject that plain and simply is hilarious!  All 3 main characters (Thurgood, Brian and Scarface) are all quality, quality characters.  That scene where Scarface quits from his job and tells everyone off had me on the floor.  Other memorable scenes include any involving the guy, the one w/ Sir Smoke-a-lot and last but not least the one with John Stewart!  This is a must rent for those who have never seen it.  So chill back...  grab the munchies and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Hilarious!! This is a crack up!","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I expected absolutely nothing from this movie because I saw it by accident. However, it was absolutely hilarious, and I was laughing non-stop.  There isn't much of substance here, but the characters and their situations are so funny it doesn't even matter.  Like I said, it is a crack up and is really fun.  I recommend it to anyone looking for something to laugh at. In the words of 'Uncle Benny' from Lethal Weapon 4 Bloody marvellous! "}{"Title":"Watch it again and again!","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a super funny movie.  The more you watch it the funnier it gets. It speaks the truth about a lot (it's breakdown of different types of potheads is right on the money) and the main characters are hilarious!  But hey, don't watch it expecting to see academy award winning stuff.  Fully man! "},{"Title":"People who doesn't like this are chicken.","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  You have to have an open mind to watch this movie. If you do, nobody can keep from laughing, all the time! The actors performance is superb. It's a nice, friendly comedy that shouldn't be taken to serious. Although anybody with experience can benefit from the movie more, because it is very VERY accurate. "},{"Title":"A classic film for smokers and non-smokers alike","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I can't begin to understand why this movie has such a low rating by the users. Half Baked is an absolute classic movie even if your not a pot smoker, you may choose to laugh with these potheads or at them but either way it manages to be funny whichever way you look at it. This movie is perfect to just sit back and relax to without having to keep the brain working overtime. It's extremely colourful and generally entertaining throughout. An excellent soundtrack and a guest appearance by Snoop Doggy Dog add to a fun movie that everyone should watch at least once. "},{"Title":"A heartwarming coming of age story? nahh..","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't smoke marijuana, but this movie is just hilarious.  Dave Chappelle has turned in his finest performance since Robin Hood Men in Tights...Now some might say that this movie is just stupid and has no plot but it's funny.  Some highlights is when Kenny drops the soap in jail, and when Dave Chappelle finds an easy way to get marijuana.  It may not be the most intelligent movie, but watch it with a couple of friends, and you will be cracking up.  Rent it. "},{"Title":"If you enjoy silly humor, don't miss this gem","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Half Baked is a very funny movie.  Starring David Chapelle, a rising star on the comedic circuit, this movie is a ridiculous, silly story revolving around three stoners' attempts to get a friend out of jail.  However, the plot is secondary to the enjoyment of this movie. The real reason this movie is great is the sheer ridiculousness of it all.  If you can appreciate a great stupid movie, then make sure you catch this one. "},{"Title":"This is one of the funniest movies ever made","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am scared of this movie if it is funnier if you watch it stoned.  I have actually never smoked pot, but this movie is still screaming hilarious after about 80 viewings.  I watch it roughly 4 times a week. I got some booty, I got some booty!... "},{"Title":"Has to be a classic","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was hilarious, especially on W**D. But seriously, I wouldn't take this movie serious. It was extremely funny for a certain culture of our time. Those not of that culture might not find it to be entertaining.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"This comedy about weed rox!!","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Half Baked is one of the funniest movies ever made. If you are looking for a good laugh , you should definitely watch this excellent film. It's loaded with humorous scenes of people getting high and dumb pot-heads scheming ways to get their friend , Kenny , out of jail.If you are a fan of movies such as Dumb and Dumber and There's Something About Mary , this flick is in your best interest. "},{"Title":"F A B U L O U S (if you like Pot Humor)","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie keeps me laughing... imagine the fabulousness of Cheech and Chong's Up In Smoke or any Cheech and Chong movie for that matter, combined with the comedy stylings of Dave Chapelle and Jim Bruer... funny and insightful to the motivations behind the typical (if not cliched pothead) You have to realize that this is NOT a FILM...it's pure entertainment... So don't go expecting to learn a thing profound via this flick... watch only if you plan to get LIT... Jeananne Garafalo, John Stewart and others have notable cameo roles that any fan of these actors should see... just so they can quote them (Red Team,GO!)   "},{"Title":"This movie is so fn funny","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is one of the funniest pot smoking movies I have ever seen. When I first saw the trailers for this movie in 1998 it looked awful.  The company who released this film cut everything out of the trailer.  But when it was recommended to me buy a true stoner and loser but still a good guy I wanted to see why he and his friends were making such a big fuss about this movie.  I now know why.  It is a very funny over the top pro drug movie. Yes this is not an anti-drug movie.  it is a send up of drugs in the movies. I loved the part where they rationalize why the dog killer died and that huge bong was so freaking funny that I could not stop laughing throughout this movie.  If you want some low brow self mocking crack a person up type of movie then rent this.  But don't go into it with high expectations because like me I did not and it really paid off because i was treated to a very funny highly entertaining comedy. "}{"Title":"Great Movie, almost all praise","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First off i hate stoners, especially the ones who on these types of comments say i love seein the movie high and stuff like that makes me sick, get help, up with hope down with dope, anyway as for the movie, it rules, i am a future write/comedian so i appreciate alot(not that you dont) the great writing, this movies had a bad plot cause it was setting up such great jokes the whole movies, and the movies is weaved so well with Mary Jane being at the prison and thats her motive for hating weed and thats how they meet, beautiful stuff really, i could praise it but i dont wanna get blacklisted for giving away the movie so email me if you hated it we can talk "},{"Title":"Very, very good.  Quite astounding, really.","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Half Baked was one of the most pleasant surprises of 1998.  It's nice to see a return to comedies with actual jokes in them.  And yes, this movie does lend itself to viewing under the influence.  Perhaps not a work of art, but very funny.  If you didn't like this movie, you're either a puritan or you're just a bad sport. "},{"Title":"Best Stoner Movie to Date!!!","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you're pro-cannibas this movie is a must see! It doesn't condone pot smoking, but it doesn't down it either. I actually think this movie is the first movie scince Cheech and Chong did their movies to actually show an unbiased view on the effects of smoking marijuana. Anyway, I really found the moving both entertaining and educational in an odd kind of way.  "},{"Title":"I actually liked this movie!","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  At first I was reluctant to see this movie, because I was stupid enough to put this in the same category as the Wayans Brothers movies.  Then, after I heard praise from friends I decided to check it out for myself.  I was surprised.I was laughing in hysteria!  There is absolutely nothing ground breaking about this movie, but it has its high points, Especially when they go through the list of types of smokers, which provides a parade of celebrity cameos which include Janeane Garofalo, Jon Stewart, and Willie Nelson.Usually, I tend to agree with critics, but I'm baffled to why this movie got such a bad rap.  While this gets a little uneven toward the end, this is a funny movie, and it looks like there might have been some thought to put into it during the writing process.If you're looking for 'Easy Rider', forget it.  If you're looking for a fun way to waste 73 minutes, then by all means go for it! "},{"Title":"Misunderstood satire","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Half Baked has been constantly attacked by people both on this website and off for glorifying marijuana and having a nonexistant plot.  What these people don't realize is that it isn't their fault, it is simply that they aren't watching it in the proper context.  Anyone who has ever seen Dave Chapelle perform or in interviews knows that although he definitely smokes the stuff, he views the pot-smoking counter-culture with a cynical and satirical eye.  Each of the four main characters are portraits of certain types of smokers, as are all of the minor characters.  The movie uses many different angles and tangents (hence the lack of plot) to poke fun at things such as people who think marijuana unlocks their real genius, cannibis loving rappers, and the munchies while at the same time saying Hey, what's the big deal, pot isn't such a bad thing.  I guess you have to know a little about the marijuana culture to fully appreciate it, but if you aren't don't dismiss this movie right away.  It's a great satire about the pot scene, particularly in NYC, and it gives reefer conniseours a chance to laugh at themselves. "},{"Title":"See it with a bud","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Clearly you have to be a smoker to like this movie, so the summary is not a pun.  So long as you know about weed, smoke weed, and like comedys then you will like this movie.  I remember trekking an hour to see this movie, and it was worth it.  Now maybe it helped that I had something to do while driving, but regardless this movie has become a commonly veiwed movie at my house.Also if you know someone cuban this movie is a great way to get him to allow you to call him Cuban Bee, and its damn funny when it happens. "},{"Title":"Another Review","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I loved it. This is one of the only movies I can watch over and over again without tiring. I love the cameos, especially good ol' Bob Saget as the cocaine addict (I wonder how much coaxing it took to get him to play that part). I give it a 420 out of 420 for tons of laughs and a great cast, and I'm getting this on DVD because my VHS is about to snap. "},{"Title":"Funny.....Like Ha Ha Funny","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My brother made me watch this one after a night of drinking.  I didn't find it too funny at first, but then again I was tired from a night out.  The next day I watched it with a clear head......This is a really funny movie.  The characters are the culmination of people we all know.  Scarface is a total p**ser I think i'm gonna make a run for it be....They killed killer yo!.  I was pleasantly surprised to find Clarence Williams III as Sampson along with the Alter Ego David Chapelle as Sir Smoke A Lot.  Is this movie Citizen Kane??  NO!!! is it Saving Private Ryan??? NO!!!  (although one of Chapelle's next outings was opposite Tom Hanks in You've Got Mail).  If high intensity drama with multi-layered characters and a gripping story is what you're looking for in this film, then you were most likely smoking a lot of pot when you rented it. Its a light hearted comedy, with some great cameos and some funny bits that amuses and makes you laugh out loud at times.  I don't personally know anybody who saw it in the theater, but of those that I do know who have seen the movie, ALL of them enjoyed it.  Rent it on a rainy day or for some late night laughs after a night out.  If you have a sense of humor at all, its totally worthwhile.SSB - New York City "},{"Title":"Well worth it!","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, I for one think the movie was well worth the 73 minutes.  I have seen this movie several times.  The movie DOES have a plot.  Kenny is in jail and they have to get him out.  The movie isn't just about a bunch of guys smoking pot!  Kenny goes to jail, and his friends have to sell pot (and try not to get caught) to get him out.  I couldn't let the only comment on this movie be negative. "},{"Title":"I LOVE THIS MOVIE","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film was not only funny but it was funny too.....? All jokes aside I really enjoyed this film and it would have to be high on my list of recomendations. I find jokes about pot very funny and I'm sure if I was watching it stoned it would be even more hilarious. I gave it a ten. "}{"Title":"This movie is UNBELIEVABLY FUNNY!!!!","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Half Baked is one of this most quotable movies in history!! Mark my words -- I have never, and probably will never, smoked marijuana.How can you possibly think this movie is not funny??? The only way I can think of is if you are a wellness teacher or you have a brick up your a**. Chill people! THIS MOVIE IS FUNNY!Havent watched it? Go and rent it NOW!!! "},{"Title":"how could you","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  how could you not like this movie.  the eight dollar date and thurgood's zabba-dabba you're my only friend are classics.the narration was also a beautiful thing. "},{"Title":"Perfect for the target audience","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie easily became a cult favorite among smokers, for good reason.  The characters' personalities exactly reflect those of people under the influence, making it one big inside joke.  When high or sober, especially high, it's impossible for one in on the drug culture to not knowingly smirk at every line in the movie. "},{"Title":"The best pot movie EVER? Perhaps!","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Any pothead worth his herb will LOVE this movie, and I know a lot of non-potheads who do too.  My friends and I quote lines from this flick all the time... this is one of those seen it a hundred times, but let's watch it again flicks... and then after re-viewing, you'll spend the next week calling your friends B and singing Sir Smokealot songs.Dave Chappelle is a god. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As many have said before, this movie has no plot but that does not stop it from being hilarious. The script is extremely well written and includes a lot of subtle movie references (check out the movie connection section). The cast is well put together and you end up falling in love with each character.  The repeat value for this movie is the highest of any movie i've watched. You can watch this 100 times and still not get all the humor. Also this movie is extremely quotable... Watch for the cameo by Jon Stewart and the classic cameo from Bob Saget. The key factor on whether or not you will love or hate this movie is if you are open-minded or not. If you are anti-marijuana put that issue aside for this movie and just enjoy. There are a few jokes that reference subject matter that the non-smoker wouldn't get. I would love to hear your opinions on the movie.  "},{"Title":"Funny funny funny--unless you're Newt Gingrich","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a funny movie.  It's not Much Ado About Nothing--but it never intended to be.  You might not get it if you've never done weed, but I recommend it for nonstoners because it give some insights into the nonlinear world of weed. "},{"Title":"Gilbert Gott Fried.","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ok, first things first...this movie is NOT a 6.2 out of 10 movie. THIS IS A SMART, FUNNY film. The jokes are flyin' at you, and the script is clever and funny as hell. This is perhaps the Animal House of the 90's. The movie does a great job of showcasing the brilliant young comedians that put the flick together.  Namely, Dave Chapelle, Harland Williams and Jim Breur. Oh yeah, and the Scarface guy is funny too. The double role played by Chapelle is utterly hilarious. Good cameos by Jon Stewart, Janeane Garofalo and Steven Wright also make this movie not wack.  How can you guys not like this movie? What are you, totally baked? "},{"Title":"one of the funniest movies ever!!!!","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was hilarious!! How could anyone not find this funny! It's not a movie meant to be taken seriously at all. I loved the guy on the couch. And at the beginning when they remember when they first smoked weed!!! Comical!! One of the best movies ever!! "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Hilarious the one word that best sums up this movie.  I laughed almost hard enough to cry throughout the whole film.  Who can keep a straight face while Kenny is in prison using a marker to scratch out the private area of Mr. T on a poster while screeching in a panic NAUGHTY JUNGLE OF LOVE! "},{"Title":"One of the most memorable, quotable movies you didn't see!","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Because of it's controversial drug-laden content, everyone and their grandmother didn't exactly go to see this film. That's too bad! Half-baked is a wild ride through the lives of four New York city stoners and their zany adventures after one of quartet(the kindergarten teacher)is jailed for killing a police horse by feeding it too much junk food during a run for the munchies.  Overflowing with drug-related humor, and a character for every type of stoner to sympathize with, this is truly a movie to give a try, or a second go-round if you were too high to catch all the funny-stuff. "}{"Title":"A stoner movie that's even funny sober.","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Hilarious! 99% of all weed movies are idiotic unless you're in the uh, right frame of mind. This is the exception. It's tightly scripted, well-produced, and Dave Chapelle explodes off the screen. They cover the 420 lifestyle realistically and hilariously without once resorting to Oh, wow, man, the colors....HBO should grab Chapelle and Jim Breuer and make this into a series. It's too good to pass up. Bottom line Even my non-smoking parents and friends laughed out loud. Rent it, borrow it, or buy it, cuz it's NEVER gonna be on TV.  "},{"Title":"One of the most killer flicks out there for Gen-X-ers","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was awesome. The movie had a ton of cameo appearances from some famous actors, not to mention the hilarious comedy of Jim Bruer and Dave Chappelle. Any herbal-refreshment consumers out there will dig this movie, straight or at 420...The film has a ton of references to events and rituals that we can identify, as well as some cleverly named bongs (Billy Bong Thorton). Scarface is a hilarious character, with quotable lines that will keep you laughing (and tokin) for days...such as Yo! they killed killer, B! and Im gonna make a run for it, B!  You will understand when you see it.  Take the time to see this one, and do as I did, own it!!! It will bring many days of hilarious stoner fun... Rent it...I gotta go, its 416... "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people say","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie makes my sides split, Jim Breuer is a great pothead, and everyone deliver solid performances.  The story is ridiculous, and everyone knows this, the cast and viewing audience alike.  I have seen almost every movie to come out in the past five years, due largely to the fact that  I managed a theatre, and I didn't see this one at first cause all the people who did said it was aweful.  They are all stupid, this movie is great, it has comic genius and tons of quoteable lines.  I never rent movies, but this one I did, now I own a copy.  Trust me and give it a chance, it will entertain at the very least and perhaps you will fall in love with it as I have. "},{"Title":"Very funny, if you're not looking for the greatest movie ever made.","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Half Baked is a very funny movie.  Granted, the story is the greatest, but I didn't approach it as an Oscar winner.  If you look at it as a movie to have fun with, you will.  All in all, it's worth the money of a rental.  In fact, I think it may be worth the money to purchase.  It will make you laugh.  A lot. "},{"Title":"So stupid it's hilarious","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think in order to watch this movie you have to be a huge fan of silly comedies. You're favorites must include Caddyshack, Airplane, and any of the Naked Gun movies. You gotta understand, this movie was SUPPOSED to be stupid. This was not looking for Oscar nominations. I think it is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. You have to watch it a couple of times to catch all the hidden humor. All in all, a very funny movie.  "},{"Title":"Don't be so anal people come on...","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"   From what I see a lot of people saying here, people think humor has to be really sophisticated, like some Dudley Moore movie or something...well ummm no, this movie is funnier than any of Mr. Moore's movies or Woody Allen's movies...of course that's not saying much since NEITHER of them is funny...this movie does a BRILLIANT job of what it sets out to do...and that's just appeal to the part of our brain that doesn't wanna have to think out jokes, doesn't want to have to think at all...is the plot kinda scarce?? Well heck yeah it is, there hardly is one...BUT who can forget the part Jon Stewart (a small BUT funny one) has..who could forget Bob Saget in there...or the parts about Kenny almost getting it up the rear??  Come on people, those are funny...melodramas are made about drug addicts all the time...this is about druggies, only funny..which would you rather watch?? I'll take this. "},{"Title":"Best Movie, B!","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  dude! that person, above, is odviously an anti-marajuana activist. but for the non-narrow-minded people, this movie is awesome, and even that guy who said not worth the 73 minutes he would have to admit it was BEAUTIFULLY acted. I can't even imagine someone else playing the roles of a pothead even better.   "},{"Title":"hello? listen to me!","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Are u people(or some of u) even watching movies?!  This was a great movie! And to the people (I won't name names, but u know who u are) who said Jim Breuer is a bad actor.  I am his biggest fan in the entire world and if u think u can beat me i'd really like to see u try.  He was hilarious in this movie and if it was made just to pay tribute to Jim's stoned look, well you're wrong.  If that was true he would have had the main role.  So before u mess with such talented actors, why don't u look at the work first. "},{"Title":"Only for those in the know....","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought this movie was great - one laugh after another. It's not for the common masses - you have to have spent some time amidst the culture depicted in this film to truly appreciate it. Otherwise you will probably miss a lot of the references...  "},{"Title":"Funniest movie since Up In Smoke!","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"   From the reviews that I have seen so far, I wonder if you people actually watched this movie.  I can only think of a few reasons that someone could not see the humor in this movie.  I personally had to turn the video off so that I could catch my breath.  This is the funniest movie I've seen in a long time.  It's just a plain, old fashioned, slapstick comedy.  And I'll be the first to admit that there isn't much of a plot.  But this type of movie doesn't need one.  All you need is an open mind.   "}{"Title":"PURE IDIOTIC LAUGHS","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  THIS MOVIE DIDN'T SET OUT TO WIN AN ACADAMY AWARD- IT WAS MEANT TO MAKE YOU LAUGH. AND THAT'S WHAT I WAS DOING.IT ALSO REMINDS YOU OF SOME OF THE STUPID THINGS THAT PEOPLE DO WHEN THEY'RE HIGH.I'M GLAD I DIDN'T SPEND SEVEN BUCKS TO SEE IT IN A THEATER BUT I WAS ROLLING WHEN I GOT TO SEE IT AT HOME. "},{"Title":"ONE OF MY NEW FAVE MOVIES!!!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i would definitely suggest this movie! It's one of my favorites next to Wayne's world, Austin Powers, and Cant Hardly Wait. its really fun to watch with a group of friends, i must have seen this movie 20 times over the summer, and each time that i see it, it still cracks me up!  Even tho that i think that drugs are really stupid and everything, that movie was hilarious!! RENT it, watch it and you'll love it and HAVE to watch it a second time "},{"Title":"Give stoner movies a break!","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Over the past few hours, i've searched the database and found about 10 different stoner flicks and all of them were trashed by the commentators! Even dazed and confused and the stoned age were panned! how so? because they have no plot? this movie actually has plot, and they still arent satisfied. Its people who dont do marijuana or drink or whatever that dont get these movies...any way...4 guys who live together drink, smoke and be merry every day of their lives, till one day one of them accidentally kills a diabetic police horse (yes, diabetic). The other 3 are posed with a dilemma and try to figure out a way to spring their friend. Like most movies within the past 5-6 years of this magnatude, it has a lot of goofy things that only those of the stoner race or formers can really truly enjoy. That is not saying that everyone else cannot. The thing i found nice about this movie is that even if you werent associated at all with drugs, it made it nice and easy to understand the effects. (Even more blunt than Joe's Big Eyeball in the Stoned Age). All i can say is...lay off the stoner movies....they're goofy cuz theyre SUPPOSED TO BE! - Two Green Thumbs Up! Jay & Joe "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the funniest and enjoyable movies I have ever seen.  The plot is not there, but this is a satirical comedy about marijuana, and there is a lot of it (comedy and marijuana).  I recommend it to anyone who wants to spend a hour and a half watching a funny movie. "},{"Title":"Shiz-nittle-blam!","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Alright, alright. It's all been said before.  No, this is not a thinking person's movie.  Nor is it a paragon of modern cinematic technique, a glimpse into the hearts of actors, or a stunning technological achievement.What this movie IS is a nascent cult classic.  It will linger in the fuzzy memories of its adorers because it is the only movie the average contemporary pothead has to relish as a tale of his/her (my) own.Dave Chappelle is highly underrated, as is the rest of this pastiche of ultimately endearing gags aimed to the stoner.  This is a movie to celebrate your dirty little secret, and I am talking to YOU, not to analyze into the ground.This is a movie with quotable potential, repeat value, and ultimately, a kind heart. "},{"Title":"Abba Zabba - you my only friend","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I read a recent comment on this page that stated the filmmakers didn't let us get involved with the characters, or something to that extinct.  If they wanted us to care about the characters, they would have named the movie Half Baked in Madison County.  Saying we didn't get to know the characters is like saying, Chris Farley in Beverly Hills Ninja just didn't move me like he did in Tommy Boy.  We aren't supposed to take these movies so seriously - it's a stupid flick with no point.  But all that said, I'll still watch it 100 times and be laughing nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Cool no thought movie","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is just plain funny it is not going to win any awards and if you try to rate it by its story it will suck.  If you watch it just to have fun and not read anything into it though you can have a good time with it.  Best watched with a bunch of friends.  You do not need to be a dope head to like it either. I am not and I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"from worst to first","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  ok,  i'll admit the first time i saw this movie, i thought it was a waste of time (what there was of it) and money!however, after viewing it again on my campus movie station, i became hooked. this movie was made to be seen more than once.  it has the best catch phrases i've ever heard!!   with references to pop culture as well as other movies, how can it go wrong i ask you?  plus, it helps if your a little in touch with the subject personally...if you get my driftnowadays Half Baked ranks right up there with the best comedies i've ever seen.  definitely a must see on video with lots of friends.  i HIGHLY recommend you check it out.   and if you don't....well, you have smoked yourself retarded! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"5 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't know why people keep whining about this movie... At first, when i originally saw the trailer, i thought it was going to be another stupid slap stick comedy... But it wasn't, it wasn't the same jokes over an over, they were fresh, and even though it's rated R, it isn't for adults, its more of a teenage movie... Because me and my friends found ourselves, literally casting the movie (I was unanimously voted Jim Breuers character ). The movie is a lot more fun to watch, if instead of seeing the actors, seeing you and your friends, because you can literally see yourself doing those stupid things. The movie isn't for the thinking type, it's for those who like to take off their shoes, loosen their tie, and kick back in their favorite recliner. BE WARNED! Because as the subtitle said, my friends and I did got a horrible case of the munchies... It's a great movie if you haven't seen it, with loads of new age jokes, and 4 rising stars...  "},{"Title":"An opinion from the minority","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Okay, okay . . . so everyone who's seen this film so far has hated it, lashed out at it, berated it, etc.  I happened to like it, and I am not a joint-smoking hippie wannabe.The plot was hilarious!  Some critics said it made no sense, but just like a good Cheech-n-Chong flick, it's not SUPPOSED to.   It's out-there, non -believable, moronic situation comedy.  This is exactly what daily life is like for pot smokers.  Duh.If you want a feel-good comedy, watch something else!  You will not like this film if you are close-minded!  But if you want to just sit back, put your thinking cap on the shelf, and just laugh your head off at four stupid people (I'm sure you'll recognize the characters in someone you know), then go get this film.  You won't be disappointed.This movie promises to be a cult classic once people get past the I'd die of embarrassment if anyone knew I liked this attitude.  I saw it with friends, and everyone loved it.  We're not exactly boozers here, but artistic, intelligent critics.  It was fun to watch.  See for yourself.  "}{"Title":"THE FUNNIEST WEED MOVIE EVER","Date":"13 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Half Baked is the absolute funniest movie ever made on the subject of weed.  Sober or stoned, I could not stop laughing. My friends and I have watched it  at least 5 times, and it still manages to maintain its hilarity. The most  quotable movie since Pulp Fiction. An absolute must see for anyone, pothead  or not. This movie is the shiznittle-bam-snip-snap-sack! Ever see Half  Baked? Ever see half baked... on weed? "},{"Title":"Weed addicts try to get their friend out of jail, by selling weed.","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As the movies enhancement smoker would say  Have you ever written a movie?   Have you ever written a movie while smoking weed?  This movie was so  bizzare and trippy that it's writers must have been high on something, and  low on intelligence, when they wrote it.  It was mildly entertaining, but  not that funny.  Besides a laugh here and there and a few fun guest stars,  there was not much in this movie worth watching.  However, David Chappelle  did give a good performance as the  narrator/smartest of the four  friends.On a scale of 1-20, Half Baked gets a strong 6. "},{"Title":"I always knew about Bob Saget","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought Half Baked was a hilarious movie...the only grudge I have is that  it was so short...Jim Breuer stole the show as far as I'm concerned...& I  always knew about Bob Saget...hehehe "},{"Title":"I have to admit I did laugh a lot... however","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" OK, to state the obvious yes, this movie is funny, it will make you laugh a lot. However as funny as it may be is it is extremely crude and crass, and makes pot look like a everyday normal activity. I find Dave Chappelle to be funny, but usually just offensive. Thats how it is with this movie. I did laugh, but I found it to promote a lot of shallow wants and make light of serious subjects. Of course, a lot of movies do that, but this seemed to have the message that its OK, and its fun. I am someone who stays away from drugs (and obviously it is individual as to whether or not someone does drugs), and therefore I found the movie to be negative towards any redeeming scenes. If fact, there really are no redeeming factors in it. But, each their own. I recommend if you like stoner comedies or dave chappelle (and if you do this movie is right up your alley). I rate this 6/10. Rated R for pervasive drug content, language, nudity and sexual material "},{"Title":"People who didn't like this movie are sad people","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you didn't like this movie, I feel sorry for you. You must not have watched it with friends or you just can't laugh because your sad inside. The average happy person will love this movie and see it for what it is. To the rest what do you find funny? I would really like to know. You don't have to be a stoner to like this movie. It has quite a few of the greatest comics of that time. I went through all pages of the comments and about 5 people said they hated this movie. The only reason I can see why is that they lead a very boring existence. So I say lighten up and try and laugh and enjoy your life, you only live once. Don't live your life serious, you begin to get unhappy. A movie for people who are happy fun loving people. All and all great movie. A classic to watch and chill with friends "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever made.","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Dave Chapelle stars in this stoner comedy about, well, stoners. He is a great comedian and this is one of my favorite movies.Chapelle plays Thurgood the narrator, a pothead who works in the 'custodial arts' at a pharmaceutical company. Him and his friends Scarface, Brian and Kenny have been potheads since the 8th grade. Naturally they're all brain-dead morons, especially Brian who delivers some of the funniest lines in the whole movie.The supporting cast includes Harland Williams as the hilarious Kenny. Kenny gets put in jail and fears for his anal cavities. Every scene with this guy is hysterical, and as he descends into madness, the situation becomes desperate.The rest of the gang decide to sell pot to bail Kenny out of jail, but they must deal with a ruthless dope dealer, who wants a piece of their business. Thurgood becomes involved with a girl named Mary Jane, (jokes about her name abound) and has to hide his pot addiction from her.This movie is full of celebrity cameos like Bob Saget (don't worry, he only has one line and it's hilarious), John Stewart, Janeane Garofolo, Stephen Baldwin and comedian Steven Wright as 'The Guy on the Couch'. Lots of stoner hilarity and campy effects. A must-see. "},{"Title":"Have you ever seen Half Baked?","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Have you ever seen half baked on weed? This was the most hilarious and completely blatant weed movie since the Cheech and Chong adventures. Great camoes from some of todays stars and it makes you wonder...how many of those people are actually closet weed heads.  "},{"Title":"I have seen this film, I have been moved by this filmed, I have rolled it up, and smoked it...","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Halfbaked is one of the funniest films I have ever seen. I must have seen it more then 20 times now. The concept of the movies is great. Four guys live their life by smoking pot and try to work. One of them, a kindergarten teacher one day goes to the local store to get crackers and snacks for their munchies. When he's done shopping, he meets a cop-horse outside, and he feeds it some of the food. The horse, being a diabetic dies, and he is convicted with murdering a cop. This is the plot. Now the other three guys must get him out before he loses his rectal virginity, and the bail is for 1 milion dollars. Can they sell enough pot? Can they???Well, see it, it's hysterical, in some part I laughed so much that I cried. "},{"Title":"This movie is the worst movie EVER!!","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ok. You love the song Because I got high by Afroman? You like the video? Then you'll like this movie. It's all about getting high, weed, smoking, and a little bit of a story line. Three friends are trying to get their other friend out of jail. And they're trying that to sell weed. Weak story, stupid jokes, bad actors. I think I give it 2 out of ten.    "},{"Title":"Potheads unite!","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie has to be seen to be believed. There's some really funny stuff here, folks. It takes a certain kind of person to fully appreciate this flick. If you've never talked to Samson, you might not appreciate this movie. Pay attention to the set and costume design. The main characters' apartment looks.... ok just check it out for yourself. This movie has some great cameos and the characters are all hilarious, especially my main man Scarface. He is early '80's hip hop personified. Some of the jokes aren't too funny after a second viewing but there's some classic stuff in there. Clarence Williams III? He's in here. Willie Nelson? He's yours for a sec with some hilarious quips. Watch with an open mind.... (wink wink nudge nudge). Personal favorite line F--- you, f--- you, f--- you, you're cool, f--- you, I'm out! *** out of *****. "}{"Title":"I REALLY wanted to like it... but it's not all bad.","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was expecting a sort of second coming of Cheech & Chong from Dave Chappelle, one of the best stand-ups working today (and a scene stealer in such films as The Nutty Professor).  Unfortunately, despite the presence of such hilarious performers as Jim Breuer and Harland Williams, Half Baked ends up being just that.  Despite the obvious fact that such a comedy couldn't really tolerate a plot which took itself too seriously, it's pretty paper thin stuff.  I can't help but wonder if some of the film's more subversive moments were left on the cutting room floor.  Oh, well.  There's still some GREAT lines in the film, most of them delivered by Chappelle (who, being the film's writer, also prooves he's no fool).  Breuer, who - with his dropping eyelids - looks stoned no matter what condition he's in, is a perfect choice for the picture, but doesn't get to cut loose like he did on Saturday Night Live.  Williams, who practically walked off with There's Something About Mary during his one short scene, is the most endearing of the four leads and very funny, to boot.  Guillermo Diaz doesn't fare quite as well, and the female lead is highly irrelevant to the overall film.  But, I must give credit where credit is due  this movie has THE BEST LAST LINE IN CINEMA HISTORY. "},{"Title":"Awesome party movie and awesome movie altogether!","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  All those who've gotten high in their lives--and don't lie!--can definitely relate to the characters in this movie in one way or the other.  And the results are hilarious!  Naturally, the majority of those who've seen the film remember it for Jim Breuer's hilarious character.  He sooooo stole the show!!  There are so many original, low-brow touches that put this in the Guilty Pleasure Comedy Hall of Fame.  Get your buds together--no pun intended--and you'll have a blast!  A comedy like this cannot be explained.  You'll love it!  And look for great cameos, including one surprising appearance by former Full House star Bob Saget.My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Love it, Man!","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I agree with what that other, like, dude type guy said, only, like, the Target Audience is gonna, like dig it.  What the hell are you 40 year old guys doing watching it?  This movie is one of the most popular among teenagers and is a huge underground success, providing great viewing material for parties and bashes.  No one under 21 disslikes this movie, and no one over 30 likes it.  Enjoy it while you can.  Until you crossover, man.... "},{"Title":"The Fourteenth Time","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Decades ago, Cheech and Chomg accidentally made a good movie, good enough. They unsuccessfully tried a half dozen times or so since then to recapture what it was that worked. And we've had an endless parade of similar attempts, all failures.Up in Smoke worked in part because of the times. Dopers individually were useless humans but as a group we all needed them to leaven the edges of society. In a way, we created the don't worry, be happy class to give us another horizon to scan, away from the Nixon one.So we already were open, and our stoners stepped into a warm tradition of cinematic humor based on comic intoxication. Oh, we loved our drunks.And so far as movies, we were entering a neo noir era where the whole point of the movie was to not only have the noir notion of hapless innocents caught in capricious events, but also to play with those mechanics.So much the better that the innocents were innocent because they were stoned (and when not might as well have been).It really was a sweet spot and additionally had a fold the performance was about getting to a performance and then performing. The women were perfect.The times have long since passed when stoners were a desired endearing mix for our idealized world. Now they are a drag, simply stupid. If you want to play with the form, you have to go deep in the folded direction. Wayne's World was a classic, really well engineered, that.But the original model lumbers on, and we get old fish heads like this.The writer-star disowned it, and I'm glad to hear it. There's no charm here, nothing to get engaged in even if you try. The movie is stoned itself, sitting there and not caring that we are watching.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Funny as hell (Spoilers)","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Dave Chappelle and Jim Bruer were both funny as hell, but I personally thought that Guillermo Diaz(Scarface) and Steven Wright(the Guy on the Couch) were the funniest. I could not stop laughing at the face paint that Scarface was wearing.  And the guy on the couch telling thurgood to rob the hospital was hilarious.  "},{"Title":"A group of friends save their friend from jail after he accidentally kills an officer (a horse)","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  GOOD LORD this movie is funny.  The drug references are heavy, but their performances are completely hysterical.  I couldn't stop laughing...I've seen a LOT of movies and this one is definitely one of my very favorites. "},{"Title":"Not as good as I thought it would be.","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Im a huge fan of Jim Breuer and Dave Chapelle so I had kinda high expectations for this movie. I thought it was pretty funny just not as funny as it should be. I hope Jim and Dave can team up again some day and produce a comedy thats as funny as they are. Overall I liked it but I was disappointed. gets a 6.0 on the funny-o-meter(Jim and Dave should be able to pull off a 9). "},{"Title":"It's no Shakespeare in Love, but it's still the shiznit","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  For Years my friends and I have spouted out dialogue from this movie when we're just hanging out. We watch it every now and then for laughs. This movie takes a subject. Marijuana. and takes a deep and thoughtful, provacotive, fresh and funny look at it. Dave Chapelle is really funny and I find his observational type of humor really funny. Being a teenage pothead once I at one time felt that I had finally found that movie that I could Identify with. This movie was my American Graffitti. Rent this movie it'll make you laugh. If you're a square who somehow has escaped never smoking weed in your entire life in the society you live in then it may fly right over your head. Otherwise, sit back and enjoy.'Yo, I'm Cuban B! - Yes, Cuban BLOL  "},{"Title":"My favorite comedy of all time!!!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Half-Baked is by far, my favorite comedy ever.  Many people say it's a film for posers and wannabe stoners, who act like they're stoned by never inhailed or even touched the stuff (you know what 'stuff' I'm talking about).  My favorite director is Tamra Davis, because I think she's genuine and awesome.  Besides Penny Marshall, Davis is one of the only female directors that can appeal to both crowds of guys and girls.  She's created Billy Madison, CB4, and Half-Baked to the male crowd of people, not to mention she's married to Beastie Boys frontman Mike D.  As for the female crowd, she still has provided a lot of sentimental values for them, that of course would include probably he most noticible work for Britney Spears' debut film, Crossroads, which, although was aimed toward more of a 12-year old girl who's a Britney-fan, I still thought it was actually pretty good.Anyways, I'm getting off track.  Baked is the never-told story of four best friends, growing up in New York City.  Whereas that might sound like Davis' early production on Crossroads' story, this is WAAAAAAAYYYYY different.  You see, these four friends are pot-heads to the extreme. The narrator and main character of the story is Thurgood Jenkins, played by hilarious comedian, Dave Chappelle.  Thurgood lives with Brian (SNL's Jim Breuer), Scarface (Guillermo Diaz) and Kenny (comedian Harland Williams). Around everyday pretty much, the four roommates meet up in their den, form a circle and smoke Marijuana.  After every 'ceremony', one of them is choosen to go out and get some munchies.  This time around, Kenny, who's a Kindergarden teacher, is choosen to go out and get some food.  However, trouble errupts when the stoned Kenny accidentally feeds a diabetic police horse, and less than an hour later, is branded a Cop-Killer and sent to a maximum security prison.  After hearing about Kenny's fate, Thurgood and the guys try to think of a plan to get Kennny out.  In pure serendipity, Thurgood's job as a custodian at a Pharmancy lab takes a big steer when it is revealed to him that the company is using Cannibis plants and Marijuana stash for experiments on medical reasons.  The idea is hatched they steal of the weed and sell it in order to raise money for Kenny's release. However, what seems to go without flaw turns sour.  Thurgood then meets a beautiful young woman named Mary-Jane (her name is by coincidence), played by Rachael True.  Mary-jane is certain about meeting a sober, pot-free guy, but by now you all know Thurgood isn't.  So he lies to her and the two become a bed couple.  Then, even worse occurs when drug Kinpin named Samson (Clearance Williams III) is furious about the boys' drug traffiking and decides to manipulate them.  Could the boys get Kenny out of prison before his...er, 'priceless artifact' is invaded?  Can Thurgood keep his secret from Mary-jane?  Is Samson gonna get his man?All these question are answered in this kick-ass flick.  Everything about this movie is great, because it's original.  Thurgood opening narration in nothing short of a National Geographic look at Stoners, which in my eyes is brilliant and hilarious.  One of the many things that make the film cool is it's justible selection of Cameos, which include Snoop Dogg, Willie Nelson, Tommy Chong, Bob Saget, Jeanine Garafolo, Stephen Baldwin, Tracy Morgan, Jon Stewart and much more.  This film is most definately a keeper.  What would be even cooler if Davis and company would make a sequel to it.  But no matter what, it's still my fave and always will be. "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I first saw the movie I didn't see why all my friends hyped it up.  The second time I watched it, I realized the movie was hilarious.  Once you get to know the characters the movie is great.  The humor in the movie can only be described as upsurd (with characters named Nasty Nate, Sir Smokesalot, and the Squirrel Master).  You don't have to be a pot head to appreciate the humor, although it might help.  If this movie didn't make you laugh, you either have a dry sense of humor or prefer slapstick Stooge comedy.  If you didn't see it and like movies that are fun, I suggest you and your friends watch it. "}{"Title":"Funny concept + Hilarious Writing/Acting = 90's Comedy At Its Best","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Half Baked is an amazing movie.  Its brand of humor is perfect, but more importantly, the movie is loaded with incredibly hilarious scenes.  This movie doesn't receive its due respect, but its scenes and quotes deserve to live on for a long time.  Bob Saget's cameo at the drug rehab meeting comes to mind.  This movie was well written, as the movie essentially moved from hilarious scene to hilarious scene without having to be weighted down by an overly important plot.  The mission is simple Raise money to release imprisoned friend in jeopardy of getting bad things performed in certain orifices.  There is a plot filled with rising action, climax, and resolution, but the plot serves as the medium for some of the funniest moments imaginable.  Dave Chappelle and Jim Bruer possess such natural gifts for comedy and take an already amusing script and make it so much better. Stephen Wright was so incredibly funny as the man on the couch, and Harland Williams (the hitchhiker from `Something About Mary')  did a fabulous comedic job, particularly in the scene where he just writes on the black guy's picture.  This movie is definitely one that will be watched many, many times - quoted many, many more times.  -8/10- "},{"Title":"Not too Shabby!","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well overall the movie is pretty stupid but it is very funny. My only complaint was Jim Buer (Sp?) he gets annoying very fast! It may not be worth the buy but it is worth renting! If you watch the movie over and over you notice things you haven't noticed before. Here is one thing I have just found out... The Guy gave the middle finger in one part.  "},{"Title":"Warning MUST be pothead or MoJo humourist to enjoy....","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie seems to elicit one of two responses from people they think it horrible or great! I for one had to give it a 10, a modern myopia of marijuana! Yes, this movie bumbles along as the average pothead would but that's what makes it great as well. Jim Breuer has to be representing the ability to get into trouble no matter what part of botanism. And of course, stereotypes, pop culture, and just landmarking are what make this movie good, so just go with the fluidy flow, feel the circular revolution, inhale the green god......and quit being such a damn critic about everything!!   "},{"Title":"Cult Classic - the 90's Up in Smoke","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm reading all of these views where people are like it's not a great movie, the acting sucks and all of this stuff. It's not supposed to be Schindler's List people, This is TAMRA DAVIS not Steven Spielberg.This movie set out to be a stupid comedy appealing to those who understand the world of the Pothead. It set out to be to Weed what Animal House was to frats and it succeeds. It's not the best made movie of the current weed flicks (Friday, Dazed and Confused), but it is hilarious in its own light as it tells the story of 5 stoners who live together and must sell weed when one of them is put in jail for feeding a diabetic horse junk food while he as high.Jim Breuer captures the stereotypical stoner and Dave Chappelle, who also wrote, proves he has the comedic ability to carry a film that's already funny in its own right.  It's an hour and fifteen minutes of fun and laughter replete with cameos by an odd cast of celebrities including Snoop Dogg, Willie Nelson and Bob Saget.Rent it now. I recommend it highly because it is a good bad/stupid movie! ! "},{"Title":"A Great Comedy!","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was a great comedy.  I couldn't stop laughing.  I am really annoyed at the people who bash this movie along with other movies of the same genre as Scary Movie.  Your not supposed walk into this movie expecting a plot. "},{"Title":"Greatest Movie ever Baked","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the best movie ever.  In fact, i am the president of a Half Baked Fan Club. This movie has a hilarious plot with great acting and even greater cast. The cast includes cameos by Snoop Doggy Dogg, Janeane Garofalo, Bob Saget, Willie Nelson, Tommy Chong (yes, as in Cheech & Chong), Jon Stewart, Stephen Baldwin, and more...  Someone has finally realized that since Cheech & Chong, there's been no good Marijuana comedy.  They brought it back.  And Chong even stopped by to help playing the Squerril Master. A+.  10 thumbs up. "},{"Title":"And I like this movie for what reason...","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Honestly I don't know why Half Baked is such a hot flick.  For some reason I feel mesmerized while watching like I can't get enough.  I have seen it about 50 times, and know just about every line.  One of the few films that actually makes me laugh out loud.   "},{"Title":"D00D?!?  ANYONE GOT A BONG?!?","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's obvious why this movie was dedicated to stoners -- you'd have to be under the influence of some sort of illegal substance to enjoy Half Baked.Now, maybe it's because I'm not a fan of drugs, or maybe it's because I feel that Jim Breuer is one of the reasons why SNL makes me want to vomit now, but this movie did NOTHING for me at all.  I mean, I appreciate and enjoy the drug-related humour of Cheech And Chong and George Carlin, but this is worthless.  If I remember correctly I got one laugh out of this film, and that was the fact that 'cultural icons' like Snoop Doggy Dogg, Willie Nelson, Steven Wright and Janeane Garofalo could be involved in it.  Plain and simple; I considered trying to call DirecTV to get my money back for viewing the film after I saw it.Stoners and/or Jim Breuer fans, rent it.  You'll probably love it. Otherwise, walk right past it and pick up some classic John Candy or Steve Martin (or Kids In The Hall Brain Candy, or some Cheech And Chong if you can't abandon drug humour) instead.  You'll be much happier if you do... "},{"Title":"Not a movie for everyone...","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie has its good moments and its bad moments. If you're looking for morality, ethics, or plot, you won't find them here, but if you're looking for a really short film with some excellent acting and cameo shots, this one's worth checking out. Not everyone who watches the movie will enjoy it, but almost everyone will get a few laughs out of it.A warning about this movie to some, though, might be the basic premise. Four guys who center their lives around smoking weed. Everything that happens in this movie happens because the characters have severe drug problems. But it's the character-driven obsession with the weed that gives the movie it's flavor. Even if you're one of those people who doesn't approve of marijuana, you'll get a kick out of the flick because it does show that smoking weed is a bad thing to do, and will end up getting you in trouble. In typical movie fashion, all the characters end up alright in the end, but there are a few scary scenes, particularly the hilarious shower scene that takes place while one of the characters is in prison (he killed a diabetic horse while stoned).I usually don't enjoy stoner movies (and often don't finish them), but this one was worth watching. (It did help that the movie was really short -- if they had tried making it longer, they would have lost the comedic element.) The cast of the movie does an excellent job in their roles, and there are some fabulous cameo appearances -- the two most notable were probably Canadian actor Tommy Chong (well-known to many fans of stoner flick from the Cheech & Chong series) and well-known comedian Bob Saget as a very out-spoken member of a narcotics anonymous group. Other celebrities you can see here include Janeane Garofalo, Stephen Baldwin, Willie Nelson, and comedian Steven Wright, as well as Canadian dramatic and comic actor Jason Blicker.Viewers who enjoy the movie for the stoner aspects may also enjoy The Stoned Age (not as funny or as well-written, but along the same lines) or the cult hit Pulp Fiction. If it's the comedy that gets you, it might be worth checking out the Hot Shots series, or various National Lampoon movies (particularly Loaded Weapon 1 and Senior Trip). If you just want to see Dave Chappelle in action again, check out the 1997 hit ConAir. No matter what, there's something for everyone. "},{"Title":"Half Baked was very disappointing.","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was there for the shooting of a few of the scenes on Yonge Street in Toronto, and all I can say is it was funnier to watch in real than on screen.  If it weren't for the fact that this film was shot in my hometown and that I had a chance to watch some of it being filmed, I wouldn't have even paid the $8.00 to get in to the theatre.  I had a feeling it would be a let down, but to my regret, I gave it a chance. "}{"Title":"Drug Culture Doesn't Translate","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" HALF-BAKED is a film trying to mimic something along the lines of UP IN SMOKE in terms of incredulity and sophomorism, but fails to elicit the needed chuckle-factor it so ardently strives for. We even get a semi-cameo performance from Tommy Chong as a prison inmate known as The Squirrel Master but even his over-the-top antics couldn't save the film.I'm not a big Dave Chappelle fan so that's probably a factor in my choice to review this film negatively. I don't watch THE CHAPPELLE SHOW; I just can't stomach his lowbrow comedy. I am, however, a lover of Cheech and Chong's films of the late 70s and early 80s. They were the very personification of the drug culture spilling over from the 60s.The best pot movie of late that I can recall was THE BIG LEBOWSKI starring Jeff Bridges. More character piece than drug-culture talk, it had a very flawed and funny Dude at its core. Here with Half-Baked, the focus is muddled with side-jokes that often miss their marks.The story is that of four marijuana smokin' friends who live lives of idleness and degeneracy. One buzzed-out day they send Kenny (Harland Williams) out on a munchies run. But while out collecting groceries galore, Kenny accidentally feeds all of the food to a diabetic police horse standing outside the store. The horse (of course) keels over of hyperglycemia and promptly dies. Kenny is whisked off to prison and a very serious threat to his anal virginity looms large. Protected by The Squirrel Master for now, Kenny must get bailed out before his protector hits parole. His three free buddies Thurgood (Chappelle), Scarface (Guillermo Diaz) and Brian (Jim Breuer) must come up with a flood of funds to spring him. Instead of ingenuity, though, they devise a not-so-sophisticated plan of selling lots and lots of weed. The trouble is, though, that another local drug lord wants in on their scheme. Also, Thurgood has fallen for a beautiful woman who's father is in prison for selling dope, and Thurgood must decide between love and getting high.Homage to pot movies aside, the film simply isn't funny. There are a few lines that smack of excessive attempts to make the characters laughable (I don't do drugs. I smoke pot.) and even they just don't hit the ol' funny bone.The biggest blessing is that the film is only 82 minutes, so you don't have to put up long with it regardless. "},{"Title":"Half Baked is funny!","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's all about the laughs, and this movie proves it. Some scenes are very funny. It's also entertaining. I give this movie *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"hilarious, stupid, and fun","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  On his way back from a munchie run, Kenny (Harland Williams) makes the mistake of feeding a massive amount of junk food to a tired looking, diabetic NYPD horse, which drops dead soon after it consumes the food. Kenny goes to jail and relies on his totally stoned roommates (Dave Chapelle, Guillermo Diaz, Jim Breuer) to devise a way to raise the $100,000 bail. Their solution? Sell marijuana stolen from a government research lab. Half Baked I think the title speaks for itself this was funny yet stupid everything you want in a comedy. Also check out the famous Bob Saget's small role as the coke addict it is hilarious. "},{"Title":"1/2 baked 1/3 funny","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dave Chappelle is funny. Harland Williams is funny. Clarence Williams III is incredibly funny. Jim Breuer is desperate for laughs. Director Tamra Davis couldn't negotiate a comedy scene to save her life. So this gunk is 1/3 funny, 1/3 incoherent and retarded, and 1/3 of the time I wish I was stoned, like these kooks. A couple of nice comedic performances and ideas peek through Davis' mostly crappy direction. Young Dave Chappelle's sharp-yet-laid-back charm delivers many guffaws. This film would be ideal for 12-17 year old aspiring pot-smokers who think that the brilliant Cheech and Chong's Up in Smoke is too old. Chappelle fan's, take a look. Up in smoke crammed as many jokes as possible into the stoner plot. This flick leans too much on the retarded plot and uses it's stoned facade as an excuse to be lazy. The sad thing is; half baked could have been a stoner classic if the creators worked a little harder. Making a movie about weed smokers is no excuse to act stoned behind the camera. The plot? More like , the pot. get it? "},{"Title":"This movie...","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is OK,but have you ever seen this movie......on WEEEEEEEEEED? This ................................................................ . Movie ............................................................... . is ............................................................... . very ............................................................. . good .............................................................. . for ............................................................... . children .......................................................... . over .............................................................. . 18. ............................................................... . "},{"Title":"HilARi0US<3","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" yo man this movie is amazing. its ridiculous. if u read the comment by laura <3 thats my girl I'm the one she was talking about in her comment. yo man we watched that movie like 1000 times 999 of which we were stoned man. it was hilarious.  don't worry don't worry I'm not going to do what everyone thinks I'm going to do and freak out man, all i wanna know is who's coming with me, who's coming man, who's coming with me, who's coming with me man and that lady with the poetry ,  i have killed i have helped kill i have killed a part of myself i cannot change this ,i , i must seek Budduh, i must seek Christ u must seek therapy thats where i'd go with that, but thats my own-- watch this movie high and watch close the first time they smoke out of billy bong and watch when Kenny exhales the smoke and moves his mouth, listen to the word in the background when your high it looks like hes saying it, and when they see Sampson and hes like tell me a little bit about yourself, well ya know i be from Jamaica man lord have mercy...right near the beach boy ...Sampson Simpson! i stick by my story I'm from Jamaica, if i wasn't Jamaican then why would i be wearing this hat' BRIAN IS MY BOY MAN he is hilarious watch his faces i cant take it i laugh so much i cant breathe!! the only thing i hate about this movie is Mary Jane, she so doesn't even need to be in it, every part with her is mad boring i just fast forward. so smoke a joint and watch this damn movie!! <3 thanks laura for making my half baked experience so fun .. stay up girl "},{"Title":"Moronic comedy about a bunch of guys who try to bail a friend out of jail by selling stolen marijuana.","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Half Baked is a drug comedy of the lowest order. It takes place in the all-American town of Anywhere, USA, in the mid 1980s, and concerns a group of pothead losers who come across a way to get their hands on huge amounts of marijuana, and use the opportunity to try to build up enough money to bail their pothead friend out of jail. Thurgood works as a janitor at a hospital and, as a result of having been asked to run an errand for a surprisingly generous scientist, has found a way to get his hands on a huge amount of the drug.It seems that his idiot friend Kenny was thrown in jail because in a stoned stupor, he fed all of their munchies to a police horse, killing it. He is arrested by a ridiculously emotional police officer (a human one), and thrown into jail as a cop-killer. This provides the inspiration for the other guys to go out and sell enough of the pot to bail him out of jail, resulting in some cheesy and un-amusing comedy that would require some serious pot-smoking to enjoy.There is a surprisingly small amount of thought put into this film, but for obvious reasons, given the fact that its target audience is stoned. There is a painfully un funny scene involving stoned police officers, and the whole plot to bring down the big drug mogul was not much of an addition to this terrible film. The ending tries in pathetic vain to deliver some sort of positive message about drugs (`I love weed.but not as much as I love pussy!'), but fails miserably and only ends up making it look even dumber. Even the hilarious stoned acting of Jim Breuer as Brian (`I'm not gonna do what you all think I'm gonna do and just FREAK OUT man!'), got old well before the end of the movie. Luckily, it's no secret the kind of low brow comedy that this is, so you know from the moment that you pick it up that you're about to watch something totally brainless. Your best bet is to avoid it.  "},{"Title":"The name says it all","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I disagree with what others have said - this movie does have a plot. However, it just isn't funny, and the plot is extremely dumb.  I found Stoned Age to be a much funnier movie and it really has no plot to speak of.  There are some funny moments (such as when we tally up the expenses of Dave Chapelle's date), but the unfunny moments really bring the funny parts down.  I not a real big fan of Jim Breuer either, it's obvious that this whole movie was contrived just around the fact that Breuer always looks stoned.  There are pluses and minuses to this movie, and I gave it a 5 rating, but there are much better movies out there, and I would say skip this one unless it just happens to come on HBO or something. "},{"Title":"as dimwitted as the people whom it portrays","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Half Baked is probably the best example of a movie that you sit around in your underwear and watch. A stupid - and I assume deliberately stupid - attempt at re-creating the spirit of Cheech and Chong, they just do any ridiculous thing that they want as three pothead friends (Dave Chappelle, Jim Breuer, Guillermo Diaz) try to raise money to bail a fellow stoner (Harland Williams) out of jail. There are some funny scenes, namely the hallucinations, but I recommend just sticking with Cheech and Chong. Pretty worthless, unless you're willing to accept something totally silly. Featuring appearances by Jon Stewart, Willie Nelson, Clarence Williams III and Tommy Chong. "},{"Title":"not too international","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, the problem with this is, that some things are only funny if you're living in a prohibitive society. That's also why europeans don't think American Pie is terribly funny. Half Baked has the same problem. It's just not so much fun to watch people act funny in public, because they don't want anybody to know they're smoking pot, while here most probably everyone will tell you freely (if) he's smoking pot -- it's just not a big deal. The first maybe 30 minutes are quite Ok, but then it started getting painful to watch. So I'd give this the label not suited for non-US citizens.  "}{"Title":"Half Done","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Though Dave Chappelle is my favorite comedian, this movie was weak. The story line non existent, the supporting cast- sorry (except for that fine sista Rachael True). I liked the play on words with True's movie name Mary Jane Potman. Chappelle's stand up in HBO's comedy half hour is classic but this film does him no justice. Stupid flick that you should not waste your rental bucks on. Wait to watch it on cable if you can take it. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Makes Pauly Shore look like an intellectual titan","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Apparently, it's funny just to smoke, sell, and talk about smoking marijuana, because that's all that happens in this film.I will say that Jim Breuer does an amazing job of acting like he's stoned on weed. He must know the same guys I knew when I was in school, because he nails them to a T. Unfortunately that doesn't sell this movie. I don't know what would, unless the only other movie showing is Barney.16-year-old kids love this movie. One of the dumbest things I've ever sat through. "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst movie in existence.","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Many other notable movies have gotten the Fletch F. Fletch 1 rating. Some classics include Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot, Spaced Invaders, Westside Story, and the unforgettable Mangler. However, Half-Baked by far takes the cake with its non-existent plot, horrible script and lines, invisible acting performances, and its obnoxious focus on  pop-culture. In summation, this movie is ridiculous, arrogant, ignorant, uneducated, superficial, hypocritical, and altogether, absolutely, without a doubt, question, or reservation, a waste of film, time, money, life, existence, mass, matter, anti-matter, positrons, God, Allah, Buddha and anything else which might have the slightest possibility, in some far out reality or dimension of space and time, of being insignificantly notable  "},{"Title":"dumb!!!","Date":"24 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  It was not at all funny.  "},{"Title":"A stoner's movie... need to be stoned to try and enjoy!","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Cheech and Chong had some good lines and were social commentary of the day.  This is a fourth rate take-off with no redeeming value.  The gags, such as they are, are old and tired; the acting is poor; the premise is ridiculous.  Try watching that old Indian movie - oh yah - that was the test pattern. "},{"Title":"Yet another pot movie","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Yet another pot movie. Although some pot movies are really funny and some others even have more to offer than just pure laughs, this one just gives you some laughs, but not enough to make it worth watching. The plot is ridiculous, which doesn't have to be a bad thing, but in this case, it is. Instead of watching this movie, just spend five minutes with some weed smoking friends and use the (about) 70 minutes you saved on something fun. Yet, when you're high, go ahead and watch this movie, I guess it will be better, but even then there are better movies to watch. "},{"Title":"Terrible. Terrible.","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First of all how could they call this a comedy, it's not funny. It was just plain stupid. It had no plot and was stupid from beginning to end. Nobody with an I.Q. above 70 would care about the characters. Without a doubt, probably the worst movie ever in the existence of the world. If there were a 0, I'd give it that. Worse than The Postman.  "},{"Title":"horrible","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This by far was the worst movie i have ever seen, in my entire life! I really don't recommend it unless if you are like one of the characters and can relate!  "},{"Title":"now I know why the fast forward button was invented","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I wasn't expecting the movie of my life but my expectations were somewhat above what half baked had to offer in the end. This movie is probably the most infantile film ever made on any topic. Seriously, it's a weed movie for 6 year olds which is a bit of paradox.The only (and I mean ONLY) worthy character is Dave Chapelle. Everyone else is constrained and simply awful. Don't get me wrong, I have nothing against the theme itself, but the lack of a decent dialogue, a punch line and a script is reason enough to dub this movie a waste of time money and space.Some people compared Half Baked to F. Gary Gray's Friday (which is a brilliant film). I wouldn't put them in the same video store. I'm really amazed how they got funding for it in the first place. "},{"Title":"Not an original (or funny) bone in its body","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In a pitiful glorification of marijuana, Dave Chappelle and his stoned buddies steal and sell experimental pot to bail their friend out of jail. An easy candidate for one of the worst comedies of the 1990s, Half Baked contains bad acting, an obviously pro-pot script (which comes off like a sermon given by Tommy Chong, who has a bit part in the film), and plenty of jokes stolen from other films (for instance, Chappelle's description of janitorial work as the Custodial Arts was ripped off from 1984's The Breakfast Club). The awful script also contains the uninspired anti-pot lines from Chappelle's love interest, while never being sincere. Ironically, the script is just as campy and cheesy as any anti-marijuana documentary, just the other way around.  "}{"Title":"Crap is not a stong enough word","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is by far the worst movie I have seen in years, if not of all time.  I sat through the whole movie with a straight face, I thought comedies were supposed to be funny, this wasn't funny at all.  Luckily I didn't pay money to see it.  I would give this movie a -1   "},{"Title":"a unique reviewing topic for me","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Usually, I will select a bad movie that everybody thinks is good to review. The reason what's the point of airing an opinion that everybody agrees with? Opinions are what lead to arguments, and arguments are fun. Well, they're more than fun to some people, to me it's a hobby. Movies are unimportant in the grand scheme of things. Like Freud says life amounts to nothing but sex and work. Bitching about movies all day is definitely work, and it Definitely doesn't amount to anything - as some of the idiots on this website often come to realize (you'll notice it, like...in a message board thread about...something exceedingly dumb and juvenile like Who thinks it was really Amanda Bynes in that porno...and he or she has clearly viewed the porno, and possibly masturbated to it, and is now interested to hear what other people have to say on the subject, so they go to the message board, read something idiotic...I mean so polymorphously retarded that they suddenly realize the banality existence and the fear of death which haunts them every day and they start attacking the nerds who frequent the aforementioned message boards (of course, these people are not nerds because...they don't believe in nerds? I don't know, you tell me, Buster Brown) and tell them to go get a life (which they DON'T have) go get laid (which, if they have, it wasn't very good) or go get a job (which is usually a twelve year-old telling another twelve-year old (both with nothing better to do) to seek employment.) Speaking of twelve year-olds with nothing better to do, I was a twelve year-old with nothing better to do once. And a twelve year-old pothead with nothing better to do, at that. So I got my dad to take me and my little stoner friends to go see Half Baked. Dad had to come because, of course, it's rated R...for, I believe excessive stupidity and use of the actors Harland Williams and Jim Breuer? I can't be sure, don't quote me on that. The truth is, I liked it. It was even the first DVD I ever owned. Also, it was the first DVD I ever sold, but that's another story. Flash forward six years. I'm a different man. It's a time a tale were told... Dave Chapelle and Neal Brennan (who went on to see success far greater than that of the video revenue for Half Baked with David's eponymous Show on Comedy Central which, miraculously, produced a 2nd not-horrible show after the success of South Park (I would include Win Ben Stein's Money because Ben Stein is very funny to watch...even the way he answered questions...so deliciously deadpan - but Jimmy Kimmel is not only unfunny but there's something about his face, I just want to kick it right the hell in. Maybe that's why he and Adam Corrola got along so well. Adam Corrola's voice makes me want to kick his face in too) wrote this here movie, and I'm sure it took them about half an hour. David Chapelle is, for some reason, very, very funny in concert - but his show, and this movie is...well, I'll put it in the words of an angry fan which Chapelle and Brennan discussed on the Audio Commentary track on the Chapelle's Show Uncensored Season One DVD too white for black people and too black for white people. Half Baked is also too white for black people and too black for white people. It's the Farrelly Brothers meets F. Gary Gray's Friday.Dave Chapelle's nasally voice and gangly, lanky body is funny, but his jokes aren't - so he's more or less a black Jim Carrey. Guillermo Diaz is the (second) funniest thing about this movie he steals every scene as Scarface. Jim Breuer is toxicly annoying and famously stupid. He's stated that he just happened to be born looking stoned. I think he was born looking rather normal, not particularly attractive, but, you know...as normal as normal can get, and he was dropped on his head, then fed into a waffle iron and peed upon repeatedly by a racehorse. I can't tell you how many idiots I've met since 1998 that actually think Brian is so cool, they try to emulate his whining voice. He even sort of sounds like a deaf-person. That's some great direction on behalf of Tamra Davis. Harland Williams, I have never liked. I met him once, and I had to interview him for the magazine I was writing for at the time and, unlike most funnymen I had met, he wasn't particularly funny. We didn't have the best rapport, I suppose because the idea of a twelve year-old film-critic is just too hilarious to an artiste of his caliber -- of course, I had just came from seeing his Rocketman which, I must admit, was indeed gayer than the song of the same name. Anyway. The gags come every 30 seconds in half baked...only there's nothing funny here. The film has no narrative structure, the story itself is ridiculously stupid, there's no real conflict. The sub-plots are boring. The acting is boring. And, would you believe, there are anti-drug messages littered throughout this movie. I mean, there's the most blatant one which is that the cocaine/heroin dealer is a cold blooded murderer, while the pot dealers are friendly lovable and pussified. But, bare in mind, that any and every minor f-up one may make while under the influence of marijuana is greeted with the stiffest and harshest of reprisal. I mean, it's literally a notch below Requiem For a Dream in terms of brutal consequences to self-destructive seemingly morally reprehensible (in the eyes of Squares) behavior. Harland Williams feeds junk food to a diabetic horse and kills it and goes to the Pokey where the unfathomably hilarious in every way shape and form Tommy Chong (the SINGLE funniest thing about this film in his greatest, soberist performance ever) protects him from the unwanted, mandigo Ape-lovin' of Nasty Nate - all for smoking a little pot? Get the fudd out of here. Who are you kidding? He's an idiot, and idiots do stupid things. Dave Chapelle meets the perfect girlfriend, whose got hang ups about her 30something boyfriend smoking marijuana habitually after a long, hard day of work because she's afraid it's going to lead to harder stuff. What an after-school special trip that would make Nancy Reagan wet (even in 2004, mind you - those apple blossoms haven't been ripe since the turn of 14th century.) Brian loses his job. The world falls apart because of marijuana!Oh no! Where is the content of this film? Did I smoke it by accident? Also, there are too many cameos, this is like the comedy equivalent of True Romance - they're mostly from people I don't like like political pund-isn't Janeane Garofolofalufallo and Jon Stewart who is not allowed to be in another movie again after appearing in Big Daddy. So sayeth the good book. He and Adam Sandler have got to be the two most unfunny Jewish people on the face of the earth. Wait...Eugene Levy, I forgot.  "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although I have no problem with stoner-movies, I still have to see the first GOOD one. They are always filled with those stupid clichés; or  they hang on to the image of the a-social, apathic pothead who's living in his own mental world or  they overrate the pot and make you believe it's some sort of Alice In Wonderland- typo drug. I'm not into judging users or non-users, but this movie is pathetic. 1. The image of the potheads is so lame, a-typical and too American 2. The movie wants to be controversial (oh wow, a movie about pot, rugged and rough!) but turns out to be oh so politically correct 3. The actors don't know sh*t about acting and the jokes are obviously made for a small amount of people who have NO taste of humour.This movie is made for those people who have nerely smoked one or two joints, but think they're the roughest potheads in town. Kick the habit and watch some real comedies! "},{"Title":"Awefull","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This has to be one of the most horrible comedies I've ever seen.Not once did i laugh.This was pretty dissapointing to me since I expected Dave Chappele and Jim Breuer (aka Goatboy) to be funny as hell in this film.The script was one of the most cheesiest one ever.I gave this a 1, and even that is too much. "}]