[{"Title":"An important movie; wish more people would see it.","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  It seems bitterly ironic that a movie about the war in Bosnia, ignored for the most part by the West, should have been ignored by moviegoers. I don't know what happened to the distribution of this movie (perhaps there is an explanation), but I suspect that many movie-goers just don't want to be troubled by the reality of what happened in Bosnia in the years that the movie so effectively depicts -- 1992-1995. It's a crying shame, because this is a powerful, beautiful story that focuses on a British journalist who must learn how to act on his moral outrage. As a former reporter, I empathized completely with his sense of disconnectedness from the terrible events he witnesses. But as the camera moves through the burned-out rubble of the city and its surroundings, the tension builds toward his inevitable actions and makes plain the movie's moral that even when we feel we can do almost nothing, we should do whatever tiny bit we can. The message isn't heavy-handed; it is intelligently conveyed through top-notch performances from a solid cast (Woody Harrelson is perfectly convincing as the cowboy American journalist) and a script that does justice to the complexity of the Bosnian situation. Real news footage is mixed quite cleverly with the invented -- so well, in some cases, that it's hard to tell them apart. This isn't an easy movie to watch but it's worthwhile for those many of us who become confused and overwhelmed by the Bosnian situation. It's a powerful reminder, too, that being informed isn't enough; action is imperative. I greatly admired this movie. "},{"Title":"A powerful tour through hell on Earth","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"28 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  What Welcome To Sarajevo did was open my eyes and help me realize how fortunate I am. Sarajevo was a peaceful, metropolitan city not unlike many cities in North America. But it is no longer. It's almost too easy to clear your mind of the strife going on in other parts of the world. Sometimes we feel guilty for being so fortunate. Sometimes we feel horror at the news reports of inhuman atrocities. And most times we shut out the reality of it as it is rarely affecting us in a personal way. This gripping tale of war-torn Sarajevo is told through the eyes of British reporters. It will probably shock, jar and depress you, but it will most certainly increase your sense of global awareness, and instill a better appreciation of the liberties that most of us have taken for granted. Images from concentration camps hauntingly mimic those from fifty years ago.This film is based on an amazing true story of one man's personal involvement and promise to rescue one refugee child and the great lengths to which he must go to deliver her from a war zone.I caught this film in its limited theatrical run following its inclusion in the 1997 Toronto Film Festival. I exited the theater with my wife in a staggering awe-struck state. No one could fully communicate what it would be like to live in a war zone, but this film gives you a potent taste without pulling any punches.What this means is that most people will likely find it difficult to recommend this film to friends. It's not an uplifting tale, but it is an extremely important one, and I feel privileged and fortunate for having seen it. "},{"Title":"Typical American product!","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"33 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The film has no connection with the real life in Bosnia in those days. Should be more realistic and shows the viewer real traumas that were happening to common people during the war. Please see some films of Yugoslav authors (Emir Kusturica, Ljubisa Samardzic,...e.g. Bure baruta( A barrel of powder), Tito i ja (Tito and me), Lepa sela lepo gore (Beautiful Villages burn Beautiful), etc... Just this is the real way to know about so called Bosnian problem. Hollywood is definitive not th right address to make films about the Balcan peninsula. Maybe Vietnam, WW II,... but not of the Slavs living in former Yugoslavia. "},{"Title":"nice, but too confused and missing the point","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  At the beginning I should mention that I live in Sarajevo, and I was a civilian in a besieged city, so that explains my perspective from which I was watching this movie, and experience I carry from it.Through the whole movie, one thing kept torturing me What is this movie about??? Is it about Michael Henderson and his moral issues, is it about all journalists and their moral issues, is it about Flynn and his understanding of war, is it about worlds' understanding of that war, is it about Sarajevo, about Emira, about orphans? This movie needs focusing on one goal, because this way I'm left with 100 stories that don't actually fit together and I don't know what I was watching the past 1,5 hours. Pictures of war make their message very clear, but then its messed up with the story that tries to cover too many things at the same time. So is it fiction? Well, no. Is it a documentary? Well, no, not that either...Most places shown in the move are totally wrong. Characters keep jumping from one end of the city to another in matters of seconds, some events that really happened are shown in wrong places, many times characters enter streets that in real life were sniper alleys etc. (meaning no way one could get near and stay alive), military checkpoints are mostly in the wrong places and so on, but one can forgive details like that.Welcome to Sarajevo is trying to show you how it was, living in Sarajevo under siege, but its constantly missing the point and showing the wrong things. If you want to know how it looked like, watch a documentary.To date the only realistic movie about Bosnian war is No Man's Land, and that would be my highest recommendation. Other than that, Lepa sela lepo gore is worth watching.  "},{"Title":"The Sad Effect of a War in the Children","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" In Sarajevo, the British journalist Michael Henderson (Stephen Dillane) is correspondent of war, who decides to cover the orphans' situation due to the Bosnian War. Through successive matters, he tries to show and sensitize the public opinion about this ignored war. Meanwhile, he gets emotionally involved with Emira (Emira Nusevic), a young Bosnian girl. He decides to take the chance and brings her to the breast of his family in London. Some time later, the girl's mother is found alive and requests the care of her daughter. Michael returns to Sarajevo to convince her to let him adopt Emira. The first time I watched this impressing movie was in 1999 and indeed it was the first film about the Bosnian war that I have seen. The director Michael Winterbottom makes a magnificent work, alternating reality and fiction through images. Based on a true event, he uses real war footages intercalating with his film to show the atrocities of this war, having the focus on the children. Stephen Diallane, Woody Harrelson, Marisa Tomei, Emira Nusevic and the rest of the cast have brilliant performances. There is a very special and cynical scene that I like a lot, when the American journalist Flynn apologizes to a local in the name of the American people for the non-intervention of USA in this dirty war. This is maybe the best line of the great actor Woody Harrelson in this excellent movie. This week I have watched five films about this war and all of them are really excellent and highly recommended. If the reader likes this theme and wants to see different approaches, do not miss 'Harrison's Flowers', 'Vulkovar', 'Pretty Village, Pretty Flame' and 'Shot Through the Heart'. I intend to see again the magnificent 'Savior' and 'No Man's Land' along this week also about this horrible war. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) 'Bem Vindo a Sarajevo' ('Welcome to Sarajevo') "},{"Title":"Unmissable","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Like many other users here i have never understood why such a fantastic and quite groundbreaking film has never received a more fitting place in filmic history. i think it's sensitive and fitting and yet packs enough punch to perhaps make people who didn't before, care a bit more or take a bit more notice of what happened in the Balkans. the actors are memorable and the script powerful. i have also loved the passion that has gone into this film, the filmmakers obviously had a real love for this part of the world which is something we were never shown on the news, that the Balkans are beautiful and vibrant countries and that the war in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Serbia let us ignore that and de-cultured the people in some way. watch it if you haven't already! "},{"Title":"sad, realistic, impressive","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"23 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I saw the movie about 2-3 years ago and I was very impressed and touched. I couldn't help crying all the time. Because it was so realistic... As a Russian I faced myself the pain of the war in Chechnya, for example... I mean the feeling is close to me and I can quite understand it. All the pain which seems so indescribable is summarized in the movie. However, what I didn't like was a certain lack of objectiveness. I mean the political moment. In this movie the Serbs are presented as the bad guys, and the Muslims - as the victims. But the true is the opposite. Or at least, both sides were victims of this horrible conflict. "},{"Title":"I'm surprised this movie didn't get more recognition","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I rented this film, having mistaken it for another, but I saw it and turned out to be quite satisfied with my foul up. Everyday since 1992 I always heard a brief narrative on the news about the troubles in Bosnia and was never quite clear what was going on until I saw this film. What made it interesting was the focus on the group of reporters, who were much more vivid and sympathetic when they first appeared. Very good performances, the soundtrack was good, but I must warn you about the cover Marisa Tomei seems like the main star according to the box; she almost has a cameo.Good movie. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking story","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Yes, we've seen the story of the detached journalist in a war-torn country who decides not to be detached anymore several times before (UNDER FIRE, SALVADOR).  The difference here, however, is at least in films like UNDER FIRE, the enemy was one side of government.  Here, the enemy is apathy, because while ethnic cleansing goes on, few care, and we see Henderson (Stephen Dillane) acts not only because he's moved by the child he rescues, but because almost no one else is.  The line that perfectly sums it up is when the U.N. delegate calls Sarajevo the 13th worst place in the world, and American journalist Flynn (well played by Woody Harrelson) asks what 12 cities are ahead of Sarajevo, and if it's moving up or down.I had problems with Michael Winterbottom's previous film, JUDE, because it felt like he didn't have a handle on the material.  Here, however, though the story sometimes gets confusing, he is perfectly in tune with the story. A heartbreaking film. "},{"Title":"More like a documentary of how people suffered in Bosnia in the war.","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  A better film could have been made to portray the tragedy of Bosnia. Some parts are very effective and the film does well to give some idea of the suffering of the people specially the children, but overall it looks less like a film and more like a documentary. Woody Harrelson is very good but the rest of the cast has performed well without being extra ordinary. Should be watched in order to get a rough idea of what the war did to the children of Bosnia. If one expects a great and gripping movie, Welcome......  will be a disappointment. "}{"Title":"The most bigoted film of the year award!!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Activist Woody Harrelson, and crew have out done themselves this time. They couldn't have made a more prejudiced film if they tried. The film totally dismisses the history of the balkans and the Croatian Ustase/Bosnian Hanjar/Nazi killing of over 700,000 Serbs in WWII and the tensions still existing from those actions. They have successfully demonized a beautiful ethnic culture. If this film was against any other nationality, this company would have been out of business over night. "},{"Title":"Cutting the Crap","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I think it's first important to understand what this film is not, and hence why so many of the critical comments here are wide of the mark. It's not the Hollywood melodrama the trailer almost inevitably suggests. It's certainly not an in-depth analysis of the causes of the Bosnian war. Probably what it's most about is the role of journalists, and the media generally, in a war zone.As an Englishman making a film about a foreign conflict I think Winterbottom's decision to focus on the (true) story of a British TV journalist was sensible - in the end Winterbottom's view can only ever be that of Henderson and in this way the film's integrity is maintained.It's easy to say that only someone with local knowledge can make a worthwhile film about this or any conflict, however I think mistaken. Obviously Serb apologists like the several posting here will prefer a film which makes their side look less bad; other parties to the conflict would presumably disagree (and it is notable that the Serbian residents of Sarajevo were not ethnically cleansed by the government there). Nicholson, on whose book the film was based, was in Sarajevo, undergoing the siege with the inhabitants. At the end of the day if a sniper is shooting children in front of you, you do not ask whether there may be some historical justification for their actions.Once these false expectations are dispensed with the film is surely excellent. As in his other work Winterbottom does not go in for Hollywood hand-holding or emotional manipulation; rather he aims at an Altmanesque ensemble piece with strong elements of black comedy and an open, improvisatory feel. Big stars are given only cameo roles and seem to be happy with that; certainly all the performances in the film are understated and unshowy, with the actors content to inhabit the characters and relate to each other instead of to the audience. As with Altman, we are expected to pay attention, to pick up clues and to think (and feel) for ourselves.Where the film may fall down is on the occasions when it does stray into outright comment. Winterbottom's politics, at least judging by this film, seem to be straightforwardly liberal - terrible things happened, our governments should have done more. Unfortunately as we have seen elsewhere, too often these genuine humanitarian impulses are cynically and selectively used by politicians to serve their own agendas. At the end of the day, Bosnia was of little economic value to the West, so intervention was resisted for as long as possible.Overall this film avoids a lot of easy traps and is a fine addition to Mr Winterbottom's growing body of challenging and inventive work. "},{"Title":"Cheese","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  All of you who are deluded enough to regard this movie as any sort of masterpiece obviously don't know better.  Both, Welcome to Sarajevo and Savior (another horrible movie about the Balkans) is nothing but cheesy, Hollywood-type melodrama made by the outsiders who are merely scratching the surface, presenting you with black and white perspectives.If you want to have a deeper understanding of the situation in the Balkans, I strongly suggest for all of you to see Underground, Pretty Village, Pretty Flame, and Cabaret Balkan.  "},{"Title":"Truth or Holiwood move","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I saw the film many times, and every time I am more and more disappointed,which is shame because the films from EX YU are usually very good. The shame here is, that Holiwood tried to make film about the place and people it has no idea. My self coming from the Balkans(Macedonia) found this film disappointing.Simply that the Bosnian characters are not really understood and not truly portrayed. To understand the mentality of a person from EX YU, you need to know their background, way of live, what makes them cry and laugh.And the director of the film didn't took that as guideline. When we(EX YU) make films, lots of symbolism is build in it, which makes the characters recognisable and likable, and mostly portraying the truth(if it is based on true story) The films like Pritty village, pretty flame, Tito and Me', Underground',No mans land', Before the Rain,Black cat, white cat,Otac na sluzbenom putu,(When father was away on business),Ko to tamo peva(Who sings over there?)Rare the masterpiece of the Balkan cinematography,and nothing can compare to it. Not the half baked story of and Holiwood studio. As somebody from the panel mentioned the story jumps from one end of town to the other with no real connection. I am sorry but when the film is made is not only for the American armchair variety of viewers but for the rest of the World too, and some of them live on the Balkans and Sarajevo too. And to add insult to the injury, half of the things are shoot in Bitola ,Macedonia where I come from. Imagen my shock when I saw the Broad st. of Bitola in the opening scene of the film, when the bride is shoot from the sniper.And what was that inserting real footage of the news covering in the film? Anyway very disappointing, as the truth is far away from the film. Shame that nobody consulted the real people how is to live in Sarajevo under fire, before they shoot the film. book is one thing and real life is other, and this film lets down both. "},{"Title":"Nice piece of work for Hollywood","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Although this movie makes a nice film about the heart-wrenching situation in Bosnia-Hercegovina, it should not be taken for it's portrayal of a current event. The movie seems to have been made as a historical film (a la The Killing Fields)but instead failed due to its one sided portrayal of the situation. The film ignores the truth of a country that has gone wrong, but instead blames a certain group who terrorizes another. Both sides lost by participating in a war which this film often overlooks. It was OK in the sense of entertainment value but no awards who overlooked this film made a mistake either. If you want to watch a quality film on the situation, watch Pretty Village, Pretty Flame (Lepo Selo Lepo Gore); it fulfills what Welcome to Sarajevo lacks. "},{"Title":"Works in an odd way","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  On a political level, Welcome to Sarajevo almost comes across as pro-Muslim propaganda, thus following the official line that tags the Serbs as the bad guys and the Muslims as the victims (and the Croats as a sinister footnote).  People unfamiliar with the conflict will walk away with this general assumption--especially given the common knowlege that the Serbs participated very prominently in the three other Yugoslav wars.  But the war was far more complex than that, and no single film has yet to show the startling array of dimensions that fueled the violence in Bosnia in the 90s; none manages to place the violence in a historical context.  Underground came close, and the last sequence of Ulysses' Gaze gave it a good try, but it wasn't really there.  (Crowd favorite Pretty Village Pretty Flame simply wasn't a good movie, whatever its intentions might have been.) Taken together, though, a picture of Bosnia begins to emerge--one that is decidedly dire and bloody, but one that at least suggests how complex the war was.  Round it out with Vukovar and Cabaret Balkan and you'll have a home video film festival guaranteed to make you kill yourself.  Until someone makes a film about pre-war Sarajevo, with its vibrant multi-ethnic communities, cosmopolitan sophistication, elegant boulevards, and generous hospitality (and am I the only one who remembers the Sarajevo Olympics?), cinematic Bosnia will have to be this violent wasteland of human pride and depravity.On pure film-geek terms, Welcome to Sarajevo is a meandering story that doesn't really seem to know what it wants to be is it a story about gonzo journalists, or about the rescue of a little girl, or about war atrocities? The gonzo journalist angle lasts for about a half hour, and then promptly goes away.  Then there's the plot line about the rescue of the girl, which appears somewhat arbitrarily a little late in the game.  Once that angle's resolved the movie keeps chugging along, with a thoroughly inconsequential return trip to Bosnia that serves little dramatic purpose except to kill off another character.  The war atrocities thread runs throughout the film, but never gels into a story of its own.  Given Woody Harrelson's top-billing and his grand entrance, you'd think he and his antics would be important...but they're not.  Too many of the scenes go nowhere (did I have to see the bus pulling over so the kids could sleep?  I think I could have figured out on my own that children sleep at night); scenes that seem important end up not being so, and some scenes that should be important are utterly forgettable. But still, the prolonged bus ride is dreadful to watch (in the good way--kids in danger, can't beat that for drama), and seeing the girl prancing about the English garden wearing a cute dress and a bow in her hair was enough to give me a sense of relief.Final note I can understand the outrage any Serb would feel watching this film.  But in a way, maybe that's the point.  Everyone should be outraged. Not by the one-sided depiction of the war, but by the fact that the Serbs did commit unspeakable atrocities in Bosnia and Croatia...as did the Croats and the Muslims (yes, even the victims took a generous shot at being the monsters).  Emira could have been from any one of those groups, and children and adults from all sides of this spectacularly multi-sided war suffered the same as she did.  The only other group that gets bad-mouthed in this film is the West.  Of the many participants and guilty parties in Bosnia, it is important to realize that not all were Bosnian.  European and American officials gave a collective shrug and said, Not my problem, and all those history lessons were proven to be worthless as we let the Balkan powderkeg explode once again and turned our eyes away from another Holocaust. "},{"Title":"Ambivalent","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is one very strange movie for me. On the one hand, it is undeniably bad. The movie tries to tell two types of stories, first it wants bo be a movie about war journalists, like Olliver Stone's Salvador. Then, it becomes a rescue movie when the main journalist tries to evacuate a nine year old girl from the war zone.One problem is that these two stories don't hang well together at all. The journalist is totally uncharismatic. Then, there are cameos (don't let the cover fool you) of Woody Harrelson and Marisa Tomei. Very charming actors, but they don't get enough screen time.What I think happened is that the director became overraught by the fact that they were _actually_ filming in Sarajevo itself, wanted to put too many things in, and in the end forgot what his job was - namely, to tell  a story.What I would have done, was focus much more on the little girl, her perspective of the war, which is much more interesting than watching some jaded journalists being jaded. Also, in the end, the war in Bosnia was about the people of Bosnia, not some parachuted in gonzos. It is in fact demeaning in itself that the people who suffered the most, are delegated to playing extras in some kind of movie that can't make up it's mind what story it wants to tell. At the same time, after focusing on the girl, I would have focused more on the Woody Harrelson character. He has a lot more going for him than the scrawny, balding lead, who's character, by the way, also isn't developed (why does he have a family back home?;What does his wife think  of him flying off to the latest war zone?;Why does she accept that he does this dangerous job and in the process shacks up with Kerry Fox and Emily Lloyd?; Questions, questions...). The movie falls into the trap of, instead of telling a coherent, progressive story, wanting to mention every atrocity visited on the city of Sarajevo.However, what it has going for it, are those rare moments. At times, the movie is effective in illustrating _how_ those people came to be dead, especially with the middle aged woman who was shot dead during the wedding party/procession. The images of the concentration camps are of course harrowing, and the scenes of the market place that was mortared are gruesome. There is an effective blending of news footage and movie, to the point where at _some_ point (not immediately) you don't know what is real and what is fiction. Ok. However, this does not make for a movie. Movies have to have characters you can root for - they don't _have_ to be Western journalists. I would have rooted for the little girl. Or her mom. Or the translator. You don't have to have American actors for it to play well in America (think  of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon). What has to be there is a good story, told well. And it unfortunately doesn't have the latter. "},{"Title":"True or not?","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Firstly the film is full of despair - not only for the Balkans but for all of us in Europe who treated this bloody conflict as a foreign war in a far away place between armies.We vacationed in Croatia as the first planeload of tourists to that country from UK several years ago and witnessed the devastation to the country around Dubrovnik. What the Serbs did was unbelievable but were the Croats, Bosnians any different?Hatreds live for a long time in the Balkans and memories are long. This movie brought home the shallowness of Western journalism and the lack of decisive and committed intervention by European neighbours for a group of peoples lost in a bloodlust that spares no one - child, old woman or man.The movie pulled no punches and is to be commended to anyone who wonders what the conflict was, and still is, about. "},{"Title":"You are here; here is where?","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Some people can never develop an affinity with their environment long enough to know peace. Our restlessness and urge to destroy means we only absorb snapshots of the world. We can never be content with untouched beauty, something usually spoils it.Violence can make strangers of people. Even if you risk your life with someone you don't often have a clear gauge of what they're like. You can be side by side with someone or they can be on your TV screen, and you still only have a fleeting knowledge of them. Any connections you think you do make can be destroyed easily and abruptly by a well-aimed bullet.This life is transient. The Balkan regions were once a beautiful part of the world; now too many people will only remember it as a hub of civil war. Maybe one day, out of the wreckage peace will come again. Then relationships can be built, following the example of those who have been lucky enough to leave and start a new life; but ties can not be held strong across a ravaged backdrop, that's just the way it is.This film lets us see the clear joy of simple living, and the mounting cost of permanent unrest. Anyone who appreciates powerful cinema should be moved to a state of intense contemplation by watching and collectively assessing the damage that has been done. "},{"Title":"well......","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  No offence, but Hollywood cannot capture feelings and visions of Balkan tragedy in movies, only directors from Balkan can make masterpieces like Underground, Lepa Sela Lepo Gore etc. and they show reality of the Balkan, some say true, some say not true, but these movies are based on situations that Balkan had and its suffering. Welcome to Sarajevo is not a good movie, its very tragic but soooo much is lacking.  "}{"Title":"Rubbish","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is just Art house rubbish. I sat watching this trash with my Bosnian Friends they found it as boring as i did. For a more interesting and more true account watch the excellent movie Saviour. This is just a snoozefest with people talking in coffee shops.A cure for insomnia. 1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"watchable, interesting war movie","Date":"7 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I'm just writing this review to point one thing out, the true story of Michael Nicholson (whom this movie is based off) involves him adopting and rescuing a Serbian girl named Natasha, not a Bosnian (Muslim) girl named Emira. Plenty of Serbian's themselves died in the siege of Sarajevo as we made up over 1/3 of the cities population. I'm not sure what the motive was behind switching the girl's ethnicity but I can only suspect that it was motivated by Hollywood's desire to uncomplicate a complicated mess as well as pander to public consensus that Serbs were the aggressors and the 'bad' guys while Bosniaks (Muslims) were the victims, 'good' guys.As far as the artistic merits of the movie herself, I liked how she interwove real footage with fiction, blurring the distinction. I also found it refreshing that such a marginal topic was brought to the big studios even though no one really watched. In the end though, the movie was okay, maybe even good but not great. The acting was fairly flat and the character development was mostly two dimensional. When the movie finishes, you forget about it. "},{"Title":"Documents the relative disinterest America had in foreign conflicts before experiencing a taste of some firsthand.","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Prior to September 11th, 2001, Americans could scarcely imagine what it could be like to experience large-scale, life-threatening violence within one of its cities. The slaughtering of civilians in the World Trade Center attack brought the reality of terrorist savagery to eyes that typically preferred to remain closed to such unpleasantness. This film, released in 1997, indicts those closed eyes which placed more importance on the love lives of British royalty than on the desperation of the citizens (including many children) of a city in the throes of immense brutality. Dillane plays a reporter in Sarajevo, Bosnia, sent there to cover the strife between warring factions of Serbians and Muslims (the ultimate victims being the people on the street or the children left behind in the various skirmishes.) He is, by now, desensitized to the everyday killings and maiming brought on by the struggle, but eventually finds himself caring about the fate of one young orphan girl who he befriends during a story. He is joined by other reporters played by Harrelson, Fox, Nesbitt and Lloyd who pass their time in between events by chatting over cold coffee or developing tentative relationships between themselves. There isn't a great deal of time to kill, however, since the city is under a nearly constant state of siege with bullets flying and bombs going off at irregular intervals. The entire situation seems surreal despite the blending of actual video footage paired with scenes for this film. Even though the US was hit hard on September 11th, this is an ongoing, daily battle with danger seemingly around every corner. Visnjic plays a Sarajevo resident whom Dillane hires as a driver. Visnjic evolves from a sensitive, caring young man into a rather detached, desensitized soldier over the course of the story. His character is actually more compelling than Dillane's thought Dillane does an excellent job in his role of observer and potential participant. Appearing somewhat briefly is Tomei as a relief worker, arriving to collect some orphaned children who have relatives outside the country. She and the other more name actors in the film try not to draw too much attention to their celebrity and are partially successful. A cast of complete unknowns may have made the film a bit more authentic, yet also may have relegated it to a lesser amount of interest and box office income than it received. The story behind the warfare is complex and complicated (to say nothing of deep-rooted) and isn't particularly well-covered here. This is more about the role of journalists in the field and their struggles with personal interest in their stories. It tries to cover a few too many bases, but does present some striking images and some jarring (and downbeat) elements which make it worth seeing. Part of the script (involving orphan girl Nusevic) is based on a true story. "},{"Title":"War movie doesn't automatically equate to important movie","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This is a well-intended, opinionated movie by an important director, based on real events and supported by a solid script and production and an A-list of actors. As a fellow IMDb reviewer put it in a nutshell An important movie; wish more people would see it. And yet I totally disagree. The movie doesn't deliver and I think that only people should see it who completely draw a blank on the post-Jugoslav wars of the 1990ies and who are willing to head straight for the library to find out what really went on.The story is about a bunch of ITN reporters -- in actuality, British newscaster ITN played an important journalist role in the war -- in the Bosnian city of Sarajevo reporting on the early stages of the war. At the beginning of the movie we see a wedding taken under sniper fire and the bride's mother being killed. In reality, this incident is considered to be the starting point of the siege, although in reality a middle-aged man was killed, and it was a Muslim Bosniak shooting at a Serbian-Bosnia wedding (the movie never makes this clear).The movie then weaves its plot -- one of the ITN reporters takes pity on a young Bosniak orphan girl, smuggles her out to the UK and adopts her -- together with a tour d'horizon of the most salient events of the Bosnian war. The shooting at the wedding, the grenade shelling of the market, the cliff-side massacre, the concentration camps, the cello player of Sarajevo.I didn't get why the journalist had to formally adopt the girl as opposed to act as her warden.Overall, this movie will give you the impression that war is hell, which I presume it is, but it doesn't tell you much about that war in particular except visual impressions of cruelty. "},{"Title":"And Next time whenever you watch a war film, think deeply, and think about other side of it. Don't just get yourself entertained.","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Welcome to Sarajevo (1997)directed by Michael Winterbottom is an official selection in 1997 FESTIVAL DE CANNES and was also runner up for Golden Palm. Three days ago I knew nothing about Sarajevo, except I knew a little about SARAJEVO FILM FESTIVAL. I had a lucid dream on August 1st 2013 that, I am in the city of SARAJEVO, This dream was as clear as real life, I was able to observe the buildings, Monuments, Restaurants, Cafes, People everything. It was an amazing experience, and above all I was able to remember everything in the same vivid form when I woke up. I did Image search on Google to verify the images from my dreams and this is how I came to know about The Film Welcome To Sarajevo and than I managed to watch it.The Visuals in the film penetrated my feeling and my whole existence as a human. The Film is based on Bosnian War from 1992 to 1996, During this period Sarajevo, the capital city of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was besieged by the Army of Republika Srpska. The film exactly doesn't discuss the cause of the Bosnian war, It is more a personal interpretation of ITN reporter Henderson, his cameraman Greg and producer Jane Carson who is reporting the war in SARAJEVO. But many sequences of mass killing & ethnic cleansing in the film which i think has been grabbed form the original news footage of brutality of Serb soldiers.When we see a war film, I think there is something more important than the plot, treatment, performance of the Actors or Visual effects etc. I feel that the lessons of the dark sides of time and history it is trying to deliver us must be taken very seriously. And we must not consider it as any other ordinary film we watch in our everyday life. The Bosnian war is the most recent page written in black letters in the history of Europe. And after watching Welcome to Sarajevo I was able to develop a personal point of view about the design of war in human Life. I am taking this film just as an example, But I am talking in general. As humans we think that we are divided and discriminated geographically, and in cast, religion, race and In Majority or minorities. But I think it's an illusion which has been created for us from ancient times to perceive the world in this way. So, that we should never unite. In reality the world is discriminated in three parts - 1. Who has access to all the resources in the world, and owns all the muscle power. 2. The middle class people, who serve the existence of the 1st category. 3.Who only relies on the kindness of the first two category, they don't even have access to basic resources food, cloth, shelter etc. Except the first category other two hold no power or authority. They are just like puppets. They are meant to live on the mercy of the government or the extremist and they have to die with the wish of the government and the extremist. And it is like that because we have no will and we have never been able to develop the will against the government or the extremist. The war is the most lucrative business for politicians and capitalist and The news and stories of war is the most sell-able and entertaining. And while sitting in a warm comfortable room who cares about causalities of war happens in the front line.What I am trying to say that we need to develop the resistance and strength against the will of the group of people who sponsor war and causalities. Else like SARAJEVO any city in the world could become next hellish city for a while. It is time to go against the patterns we have been following. It seems completely awkward to me that The priest bless the Weapons and Soldiers and the same priest ask the people to be generous and kind and compassionate. What a contradiction ?,Yes ! People should be kind and compassionate so, they should be killed easily. We must develop our knowledge and inner understanding, So that we can understand the intent of the people who try to control everything in the world. Being the follower of extremist belief or sect will only give birth to more stories of war & brutality. By referring to the climax of Welcome to Sarajevowith a concert of peace on a hill overlooking Sarajevo, Where Harun playing his cello to hundreds of Sarajevans. I appeal to pray for peace in the world. I recommend to include this film in the film study course by all the film schools in the world because of it's original treatment and honest storytelling. And Next time whenever you watch a war film, think deeply, and think about other side of it. Don't just get yourself entertained. "},{"Title":"Not Cohesive Enough","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Welcome to Sarajevo is the result of a good effort but it is just not gripping like similar movies such as The Year of Living Dangerously. First of all, Woody Harreslson has like a bit part. He isn't even part of any of the major plot movements. He actually stands out like a sore thumb as some dumb, drunk, slightly retarded journalist with absolutely no purpose staggering around in a war zone. Second of all, since the majority of the film centers around trying to get children out of Sarajevo, it probably would have been more fitting to call it Goodbye Sarajevo. I remember watching the events unfold on the news when this crisis was actually happening, and I have to say I got a better understanding of the situation from that than from this film. Granted, this is a beautifully shot film and it's not the worst war movie ever made, but, oh, it could have been so much more if it actually even attempted to shed some light on the horrors of the siege beyond depicting corpses spilling cherry syrup out of their heads in the street. Very little is explained. Like for example, why and how did the driver get shot. Or what was up with that scene during which the reporter dude against better advise just follows some stranger who doesn't even speak English into a room only to get mugged as warned. I couldn't really follow it and therefore didn't really enjoy Welcoem to Sarajevo. "},{"Title":"A harrowing and disturbing trip through hell","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  'Welcome to Sarajevo' is a haunting account of the Bosnian civil war. The movie portrays the true horror of war which continues to haunt the human race.The film abhors waste and futility of war, 'Welcome to Sarajevo' not only illuminates the horror of Sarajevo but also the dark half of our century.The film made me realise how precious our freedom as human beings really is. "},{"Title":"superb, haunting camera stalks war torn Sarajevo","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This film will probably be the only one ever to grasp the extent and horror of Sarajevo under siege and indeed of the Bosnian War. We see the western journalists and feel a certain sympathy with them in the heat of the battle but I gradually lost any sympathy. All of them seem to be only doing a job, they seem oblivious to the suffering yet they are in it as well. It's as if they are on holiday, in hotels getting drunk, chatting, wasting eggs for hangover cures. When the girl is taken away to England by the British journalist, I felt in a sense that she was taken away, almost kidnapped from her country and mother, who in the end did not seem a bad women. However, of course, she was taken to a better place free of war and misery which is a good thing.Whilst of course the shelling of civilians in Sarajevo was deplorable and inhumane, the Serbs in this film are made out to be ghouls, targetting women and children when the truth is that the siege of Sarajevo was, unlike most other wars, very light. Sieges invariably cause civilian deaths but Sarajevo, compared to most other cities of its size, did not suffer tremendous damage. Whilst the world is happy to lay all blame on the Serbs, we conveniently forget that both Germany and the US supplied Arms and support to the nationalist Croat regime between 1991-95, which brutally murdered thousands of Muslims and Serbs and was responsible for the single largest expulsion of refugees since the Soviets displaced 180,000 Sudeten Germans in 1945However, we cannot forget how brutally the Bosnian Serb army did murder innocents, in the film the warlord Zivko (fict. or non-fict??)is pointed out when we see his name sprayed on walls where he commits his crimes. The image of the 'lost' young boy in red is another memorable one, as are David Owen's chilling words of warning to Bosnians, that they cannot expect western help amidst the slaughter. Overall though, whatever you decide on the characters, this film is brilliant and incisive, utterly absorbing and sometimes terrifying. At its heart is a deep tragedy, the tragedy of all the people of Yugoslavia.  "},{"Title":"A powerful film","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This movie gradually builds in its emotional force, becoming quite gripping as it develops.  It compares very favorably with similar films like The Killing Fields and The Year of Living Dangerously.  For me it may even top those films -- a moving, sober piece of work.  I had tried not to pay much attention to the war in the former Yugoslavia, but this movie makes it all so personal that I now feel that I'd like to learn more about the past and present situation.   "},{"Title":"Cynical reporters in Bosnia experience the war first hand getting (of all things) emotionally involved!","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  War in Bosnia seem light years away and totally unreal?    If so, then this film will bring home to you the suffering, chaos, and personal tragedy of the Bosnian conflict as no other has done.  Seen through the eyes of international reporters and rescue workers, Sarajevo is a once cosmopolitan city  pillaged and bombed almost beyond recognition.Pro Bosnian and anti Serb in its outlook, the film is still a must see.  "}{"Title":"This War, All Wars","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This movie brought home to me the scope of the violent chaos in Bosnia, which I had pretty much ignored as a news story. It did not tell me who the various factions were. I learned little of the causes. But it brought into specific relief the horrors of this war and all those like it. When the movie finally settles down and we are familiar with the characters, then the story becomes personalized in one reporter's quest to save one little girl. And it is here that the movie shines.Stephen Dillane is good as the British reporter, trying to make a difference, even at the loss of his journalistic distance and impartiality. Woody Harrelson is spot-on as the wild American journalist. And little Emira Nusevic is excellent as the child in question.Marisa Tomei is very good in the tiny part of a relief worker. It is to her credit that she eschews any semblance of Hollywood glamor and handles his gritty little role perfectly.Why not 10 stars? Well, the first third of the picture is devoted to establishing the chaos and horrors of war, and in doing so leaves the viewer somewhat asea as to what is going on and who the players are, in terms of their relevance to the ultimate story.I think it is a 'must see'. "},{"Title":"An impacting and worthy film that uses a solid narrative well within the delivery of the bigger picture","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" With the two sides in the Bosnian war producing significant civilian casualties a third force enters the conflict zone. Armed with cameras and microphones, they are the eyes and ears of the West through the daily news. Among them is serious British journalist Michael Henderson and the more flamboyant American Flynn. While the latter is concerned with his ratings and manages to stay relaxed with all the violence around him, the former becomes tied up with the plight of the children in an orphanage on the front line and loses his distance from the story as he tries to force someone, anyone, to get the children out of the war zone.The film opens with a scene that sums the evil nature of the Bosnia conflict up perfectly when one of a wedding party is picked off by a sniper. It is an impacting way to open a film and the script more or less maintains this across the film in one way or another. The plot is hardly anything too original as mostly it relies on Henderson getting personally involved in his story to provide a narrative frame for the conflict but the film uses it well. Winterbottom was a good choice for director because he doesn't over-egg the emotion or push the narrative beyond what it can cope with. Instead he uses it well to tell one story without ever losing sight of the fact that it is just one story among millions. This worked well for me as I found the bigger picture to be the more engaging side of the film but appreciated the structure given the subject by the narrative; this way it remains impacting on a political level while also looking at the personal, human level.With the time the relevance of the film will fade as the conflict becomes something in the past &#150; I don't mean this coldly but just suggest that something fresh in our collective memories will be of more relevant than something in the past. The film retains its impact because it does shown more than the news showed but what I found more distressing was the fact that the same attacks on the media and our politicians could be launched about many conflicts since. Welcome to Dafour, Rwanda, Iraq &#150; take your pick. How many times do we see our leaders quibble over the legal definition of genocide while the news footage shows us images of corpses and the suffering of civilians? Winterbottom uses news footage within his material to good effect to highlight the stupidity and hypocrisy of the world leaders in the face of such horror and few viewers will take too much issue with the lack of balance in this regard; it is a strength of the film that these points are still valid but I truly wish that they weren't.The cast take to this serious material well and produce some solid performances while also knowing their place within the bigger picture and not showboating or overdoing things. Dillane is the best example of this as he is technically the lead character but yet holds back and shows restraint to the point of keeping his story from dominating the film &#150; it is a good show and Winterbottom also deserves credit for helping him produce this. Looking at it cynically, Harrelson and Tomei were added to sell the film and this is mostly what they do; however both are solid albeit in smaller roles than some viewers will expect. Nesbitt, Fox, Visnjic and Nusevic all produce solid support and more than stand up alongside Dillane's lead. The most important delivery is that of the conflict itself and Winterbottom does that well. Some viewers have bemoaned the lack of context or explanation of the conflict but to me this was a good call because what matters is that civilians were slaughtered and suffering, when this is the case what does it matter what the reasons for it are? Overall then a solid and impacting film. It doesn't have the most balance in the world but it is well worth a watch for what it does well and, sadly, the continuing relevance in current conflicts around the world today. "},{"Title":" moving........","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  OK normally I try to avoid the US films that portray foreign wars, and I only like a few within that factor ie The Killing Fields, Schindlers List etc. This film falls into my favourites list, and yes it does have several trappings that faulter it, but I feel that it's focus on the kids and their surounding's saves it, along with the very strong performances.I think the storyline has been explained well enough so I'll focus on the factor that draws me to rate this film so high. The acting I feel is extremely well conceived esp from Emira Nusevic, the young girl retrieved from the orphanage. She perfectly portrays the fear and frustrations with living in the center of an urban warfare and in fact is probably the best child performance I have ever witnessed on film. Stephen Dillane, playing the British Journalist, also comes through with an astounding performance, as does Kerry Fox and all others.Overall based on it's merit's I would rate this 7.5, for it's acting, on-location shooting, and the overall moving portrayal of the effect's of Urban Warfare. I detract 2.5 for the slightly one sided portrayal of the war. "},{"Title":"no comment","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This movie shows me, that americans have no knowledge about the situation in the sad balkan-brother war! Please, if you want to see umpire movies with this theme, watch Savior, and you will see that nobody is bad- and nobody is good in this land of tears and sorrows... "},{"Title":"The film is well intentioned, well made, and successfully highlights a difficult topic.","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Welcome to Sarajevo provides an important exploration of the events which occurred during the conflict in and around Sarajevo. Director Michael Winterbottom does an excellent job of portraying the lives and decisions of the reporters who covered the war, while also highlighting the moral dilemmas faced by all those involved.The acting is understated yet powerful, allowing the audience to feel a strong connection with those on the screen. Taken from true events, the horror on the screen is often taken from actual video of events.Many excellent artists were chosen for this film, and they seem to truly  have left behind any Hollywood egoism in favor of rendering an honest depiction of situations which are easily forgotten by many in the West. The film is well intentioned, well made, and successfully highlights a difficult topic. The only fault I could see was that the film could have given a background on the different factions fighting at the beginning, explaining to those not familiar with Sarajevo exactly who the different groups were composed of. However, this would not keep me from  highly recommending Welcome to Sarajevo. "},{"Title":"Powerful, engaging and well made","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This film is about a group of journalist covering the news of the war in Sarajevo. They have decided to take the matter into their own hands as the West fails to do anything about it.Welcome to Sarajevo is a striking, engaging and saddening drama. It is raw, brutal, and it evokes so much emotions in me. The usage of real documentary footage in the film enhances the realism and shock effect of the film. Indeed, it is hard to watch all the dead bodies on the roadside. And the United Nations spokesman saying there are thirteen places worse than Sarajevo provokes so much anger in me. The bureaucracy is scandalous and heinous. It is so hard to see lives lost, dreams shattered and cities destroyed. One of Flynn's lines about if the attacking side was reversed may well be right. Apart from raising awareness, sympathy, despair and anger, Welcome to Sarajevo also looks at ethical issues of who is to decide what is right for the people. Welcome to Sarajevo is engaging and well made. It deserves more attention than it is getting. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Sarajevo","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This is a movie that will leave the viewer stunned for two reasons the acting on all levels is superb and the subject matter is heart-breaking. I rented this movie and then bought the video because of Stephen Dillane's performance and the fact that this movie is so beautifully done. It will leave you emotionally exhausted, as if you've lived through the sadness of war, but will also leave you uplifted that this is based on a true story. This is what a good movie is all about you feel for the characters, you empathize, you're happy for them and realize the terrible dilemmas that war puts human beings in. Not to mention what human beings have to see in war, how lives are destroyed and just how wretched war is. This is a must-see movie. It will also allow viewers to realize what a terrific actor Stephen Dillane is and how all of the actors in this movie interact and play off one another in a very realistic way. If you've only seen Woody Harrelson and Marisa Tomei in comedy roles, you will now realize they can do drama as well. "},{"Title":"This was what I missed!","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I am still wondering why I hadn't heard of this movie before up until this year when I saw it on Dutch TV. For someone who missed a great deal of the war (thanks to the non existent news in Singapore TV and news), this provided a tame glimpse into what really happened. I'm pretty sure it was a whole lot worse but at least I got to see what I had missed. What gave the movie more reality was the news footage of world leaders dismissing the evils that were happening in Sarajevo and you felt like punching them across the face as you saw them speak. Stephen Dillane who plays the kind hearted yet confused journalist looks like he's going to go insane any moment in the movie. It was refreshing to see Marisa Tomei in a 'serious' role (she should stick to roles like that i.e. In The Bedroom) rather than play those awful ditzy characters i.e. The Guru. Woody Harrelson should've had more screen time. I kinda liked his nonchalant persona and how despite his no-care attitude, he does care about what happened as shown in once scene where he apologises to Goran Visjnic's characater about how the US has failed in its role in the war. This movie is no Full Metal Jacket but it is subtle enough to show what happened in Sarajevo. "},{"Title":"3 stars","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  In 1991, Yugoslavia, a multi-ethnic nation that remained one throughout the cold war, began to disintegrate.  Slovenia and Croatia declared independence and, shortly thereafter, were forced to defend their new freedom against Serbian armies intent on preserving a Yugoslav state historically beneficial to their group.  Following the example of their northern neighbors, the most multi-ethnic and divided of the Yugoslav provinces, Bosnia, declared its independence in 1992.  What followed was a brutal war fought in both rural and urban Bosnia between ethnic Muslims, Croats, and Serbs. 	Explaining this war with its many contradictions and developments is difficult; portraying it on film less than ten years after it happened is even more complex.  In `Welcome to Sarajevo,' English director Michael Winterbottom brings to the screen a vivid, troubling account of the Bosnian war that reveals more than any textbook or teacher can. 	The film centers on a small group of foreign reporters (mostly British and American) who are thrown into Bosnia to cover a war that few people at home care about.  Bosnian Muslims fighting Bosnian Serbs on the streets of Sarajevo hardly catches anyone's fancy in the peaceful and prosperous West.  Nevertheless, these reporters are sent there to do a job, and do a job they will. 	Much of the action in the film follows English television reporter Michael Henderson (Stephane Dillane) as he tries to simultaneously report on and cope with the brutal images of war in front of him every day.  While many of the other reporters are able to drown their fear and anxiety in alcohol, cigarettes, and late night chat sessions, Henderson is different.  The West's ignorance and inaction enrage him, and he makes it his goal to challenge that. 	It is in this smaller story within the larger war story that the film excels.  Using a mixture of real and fictional footage, Winterbottom draws a stark contrast between the official line taken by England, the United States, and NATO and the more personal approach of a man on the ground in Bosnia.  We see footage of President Bush, President Clinton, and U.N. Secretary General Boutros-Boutros Gali sidestepping and spinning the war in Bosnia as none of the West's business.  Juxtaposed with that we see Henderson, a man terribly affected by the brutality he sees, who presses ahead nonetheless, making the evacuation of an endangered children's orphanage his ultimate goal. 	The second half of the movie follows Henderson more closely as he smuggles a young Bosnian Muslim girl out of Sarajevo, adopts her in England, and later struggles to keep her from being sent back to her war-torn homeland.  It is not the details of this story that are necessarily important, nor how well the script follows the true story it sets out to tell.  It is the separation of personal and political within such wars that the film brings out most successfully.  The reality on the ground is rarely reflected by the jargon in political and bureaucratic circles.  While innocent people suffer, bureaucrats and politicians talk about sovereignty, risk, and human-rights violations.  This helps no one; Henderson and his courageous, if sometimes crazed, acts of kindness help some Bosnians live a better life.  	  One of Henderson's friends is an American television reporter, Flynn (Woody Harrelson), who represents the whole range of reactions to war in Western circles.  On the outside, he's cocky, brash, and aloof.  He acts as though nothing about the war offends or bothers him; he's there to do a job and be praised for it.  His exterior appearance is much the same as the U.S. and its allies.  They can't show emotion or caring for innocent Bosnians because that would compromise their integrity and destroy their professionalism.   	However, as the film proceeds, we see a different side of Flynn, a more personal, introspective side.  This is a man who hates the brutality he sees in front of him, much like Henderson, and responds to that with small acts of kindness and a hidden determination to cover the war correctly. From afar, Flynn is the type of person who wouldn't understand or care about the war in Bosnia.  However, his job brings him in direct contact with refugees, orphans, amputees, and other victims of a hateful and mindless battle; now he understands. 	The West's inaction and eventual failure to stop widespread killing and genocide in Bosnia is accepted today as a foreign policy error supported by two successive American administrations.  The issue is how to avoid this again.  Textbooks and teachers can only get us so far; they can tell of the violence and abuse, but they can't make us see and believe it.  A film like `Welcome to Sarajevo' brings that terrible reality to our living rooms, and while it's difficult to watch at times, it's also important to watch.  Seeing is believing.   "},{"Title":"Depressing, but good.","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The movie was depressing. Thats because it told the war like it is. Its true that both sides suffered in the war, but one side suffered a cut while the other side was cut in half.I liked how the movie depicted the situation as it was, and illustrated the media as a corporate entity trying to make money and advance themselves to the first page of the paper as opposed to something overly sympathetic. Bottom line, it was believable.My knock against the movie was the ending. I suppose the directors left the ending open and up in the air, just like the war. You think you have an idea of what may happen, but you really have no idea at all. So it was symbolic, but the whole movie didn't follow this theme, rather it was a story, and naturally you want to see how it ends. "}{"Title":"Sparse and truthful account of the Bosnian conflict (apart from the grass)","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The fearless American war correspondent Martha Gelhorn once said that of all the wars a reporter covers, you only 'love' one. Bosnia was my 'love'. The film is based on the true story of British TV journalist Michael Nicholson, who adopted a Bosnian child when covering the conflict there. The brilliant Stephen Dillane plays a reporter who questions news values when his stories about a besieged orphanage are overtaken by the Duke of York's divorce. All I did was bitch a lot and meditate on ways of barracking then UK Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd for facilitating the Bosnian genocide (Constant Reader I grew up eventually). Nicholson/Dillane did something more constructive and adopted a young Bosnian girl with no future. It's pretty much spot on, filmed in the ruins of the real Sarajevo. Watch out for Emily Lloyd playing a thinly disguised version of Guardian correspondent Maggie O'Kane, the reporter, who along with Newsday's Roy Gutman, set the standards (moral and journalistic) for the coverage of that war. But I was still annoyed by the filmmakers' careless failure to cut the grass that grew thickly around the rubble in the five years between the actual war and the actual filming. It looked all wrong against how I remembered it. Silly but there it is.For a different take on that war, try one of Emir Kustorica's memoirs, Zivot je cudo, or the excellent BBC TV film Warriors. "},{"Title":"Accurate, passionate, appropriately disturbing","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I was in Sarajevo in 1993 and early 1994. Everyone went as a journalist (the only way to fly on UNHCR relief flights), but I am an architect, and went to see how I could help. The movie has the feel of the place at that time, a surreal mix between normal and utterly crazy, with sudden violence and death as the wild card. Sarajevo was (as theater director Haris Pasovic put it) the first city of the 21st century. It was a city not so much at war, as under continuous terrorist attack. More than 10,000 men, women and children were killed by terrorists who called themselves soldiers, but were nothing more than murderers, targeting civilians, torturing a whole population for three years, while the 'great powers' fumbled and bumbled. In the post 9/11 world, I hope the world will never tolerate such a deliberate, and painfully slow, massacre of innocents again. The movie captures the feel and the awful dilemma of the situation "},{"Title":"Excellent story based on a true story!!","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is the best after-war film about Sarajevo that explains the war situation and terror on Bosnia during 1992. I survived this war, so I can tell that this film is telling the truth of the traumas and torments we survived. Script is OK, and the casting is good too. This movie opened eyes to many people who didn't know how actually people can be cold and cruel to the others! Excellent story based on a true story!! "},{"Title":"A portrait of a once beautiful city, torn by war.","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This film is a very un-pretty portrait of what can happen to a place when all the wrong things happen.  Sarajevo, a once beautiful city seen by the world during the Olympics of 1984 is now a pile of rubble.  The performances are very good and the fact that there were many Yugoslavs involved in the production gave it the air of reality it needed.  The filming was stark and jagged, this added to the impact of the film as well.  Perhaps this film touched me a little more than the average film viewer because I went to see it with my Yugoslav friend (who was in tears throughout the film), but I do not think so...very moving film...more should see it. "},{"Title":"Powerful and political","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The wars in former Yugoslavia were prolonged and bitter and - need we remind ourselves - located in 'civilised' Europe, so it is surprising that the conflict has resulted in so few films. It's almost as if there is a collective guilt about the weakness of international involvement until the Serbs tried to subjugate Kosovo and NATO finally intervened. Hollywood still shows no interest in this topic - this movie is a largely British effort, although it features two American stars (Woody Harrelson and Marisa Tomie)in support roles.The narrative, most of which actually occurred, is set in the Bosnian capital Sarejevo and - like Under Fire dealing with Nicaragua - focuses on war as seen through foreign media correspondents. It is based on the book by the British ITN journalist Michael Nicholson entitled Natasha's Story. The reporter Michael Henderson (played sensitively by little-known Stephen Dillane) finds himself unexpectedly involved emotionally in events to the extent of deciding illegally to bring supposed orphan Emira out of the war-ravaged country and to his own home in England.British director Michael Winterbottom shot the film on location in Sarjevo itself and parts of Croatia and Macedonia and this, plus the semi-documentary style of filming, gives a powerful authenticity to the work. There is no political background or scene-setting we jump straight into the carnage and are as confused as the Bosnians being shelled and shot at. The political messages come from short but effective news clips of quotes from international figures, showing the powerlessness and incapacity demonstrated by too many of them at the time. "},{"Title":"Excellent film!  A more global perspective on war.","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I saw this on a Saturday afternoon, and then left town for the remainder of the weekend, having plenty of time to think about the film on the train ride.  This is definitely different from most war movies,  but sometimes less is more (Saving Private Ryan springs to mind).  This film does what most recent films do not touch on the ravages of war that only time will heal, even for those not directly involved in fighting it.  It does not focus much on combat, but rather the communities at large affected by it.  The imagery is not as powerful as in other war movies, yet the message is equally powerful.  Stephen Dillane makes an excellently understated leading man (he proved himself wonderfully again in The Hours), and as you can see from the rest of the cast list, there are no slouches here. (Tomei is as good here as she would be later in In the Bedroom.  Fox is well used.)  Even Woody Harrelson, whose style is normally not my cup of tea (really bothered me on Cheers and in his early film roles), he does some of his best and most subtle work here.This film has a big heart and a bit of an attitude about our perspective on war among other countries (as opposed to our own), and it has a whole lot of heart. This film has stayed with me the past six years, and I have Highly recommended it to many people since. "},{"Title":"Very Good Drama","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The Bosnian War was one of the most brutal war in recent years, with hundred thousands people being killed, and Bosnians and Muslims were killed. It was a conflicted that showed the weakness of the UN, and took time for the West to get involved. Sarajevo itself became a war zone the centre because a no-mans land.Welcome to Sarajevo starts in the early days of the Bosnian war in 1992. Sarajevo is besieged by the Serbian forces and Bosnians are being rounded up to locked up or killed. An ITN reporter Michael Henderson (Stephen Dillane) is assigned to cover the war-zone. Sarajevo is a place where snipers are hunting on the roof-tops and shooting people who dare cross the streets including children and journalists. In the city Michael befriends Flynn (Woody Harrelson), a American journalist who has a seemingly uncaring attitude, but is really interested about the people. Michael ends up reporting about an orphanage and the children on the frontline. He becomes very involved with the story, reporting on it every night and start a campaign to get governments involves. When a Children's Charities is able to evacuate some children and babies to relatives abroad and in Italy Michael becomes involved. He ends up taking a care of one nine year old girl, Emira (Emira Nusevic), who ends up living with his family based in London.This film is based on a true story, with some names and events changed to moral and dramatic reasons. But the issues of the film is the same. Michael Henderson was bit like Oscar Schlinder, an ordinary person thrown into a extraordinary circumstances. But the twist is as a journalist he was not meant to get too involved, but he broke that golden rule of journalism. It is a film about the ethics of journalism and when someone should get involved with the issues there are reporting. The film is also about the war, and random killings that happened in the conflict. Civilians were hurt and killed and non-Serbs were rounded up. Serbia has always seen itself as a nation that had a right in nations like Bosnia and Crotia, and wanting to ensure power for the Serbian minorities. Serbia has often been a power broker in the region since World War I. Sarajevo itself was a shell of a city, with it being a live and death struggle. Electricity cuts are normal, and water supplies are short. But some people still try and make a go of it in the city until the fighting increases. The film is also about the inaction of the UN. They were late getting involved, and even the troops there didn't do much at first. The West were reluctant to get involving, fearing that it would be a propaganda coup for the Serbs. This was not a good time for Western nations and the UN at this point in history.The acting in this film was excellent, as expected. No one let the film down. They was a fine tort script, preventing the film getting bogged down, and find direction by Michael Winterbottom. They are some shocking and surprise moments, giving the film a more edgy film, and the use of hand-held cameras added to the realist feel. There are some continuous shots which I live and good editing. The use of news footage was also fitting and well done, giving the audience some background information and showing the wider affects of the war with the international community. However, I think some of Winterbottom's music choices were ill-fitting. He used some classic pop song which felt out of context. It does sometimes work, like in Vietnam war film, but that is normally to show the sixties setting and because the films have a longer timeline.However, this is a worthy film about an important war. If you like this then I also recommend Hotel Rwanda and Shooting Dogs are essential viewing. "},{"Title":"Brutally moving.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This movie is an extremely brilliant peice of filmwork.  It is easily one of the most underrated films of our time. Historically the film is incredibly accurate.  The story is true, and the only real exception, is that Woody Harrelson's character in real life was British.  He only has a supporting role however, so it doesn't change the course of the power in this film too much. The camerawork is flawless.  All scenes which are news footage, are just that.  They are genuine footage.  It is disturbing and there are some images that you will not forget any time soon.  The sewing of news footage, and film in the film is brilliant.  The scenes using actors build up to the news footage, and you could swear they were exactly the same. The film has remarkable realism as well.  It was shot not long after the war in Sarajevo concluded.  The buildings are all really burnt out, the actors are just Bosnians they found in the street, and the Holiday Inn, is the actual Holiday Inn where journalists stayed during the crisis.  The attention to detail is remarkable.  For example, there are no lights in the hotel, or other buildings, as the power was cut in real life.  The people get excited over small things we take for granted such as mars bars, and cigarettes.  Also, there is the famous, Miss World Bosnia contest, happening right in the middle of hell on earth - something the conflict is famous for. The most important thing however, is the reflection of man's inhumanity towards man.  We ignore stories about places like Bosnia, in the papers and on the news.  It is just something we are now immune too.  This is sad, however this film brings it into light.  It gives a harsh insight into what actually happens in these places we don't think twice about.  And it also shows the ignorance of world leaders, some who lived a days car drive from Sarajevo, towards the conflict. This film is brutal and compelling, and should be compulsory viewing, for all people alike. "},{"Title":"Very worthwhile, and not too violent for a tender heart like mine.","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Normally, I avoid anything that has explosions or injured people. I will never see 'Saving Private Ryan,' for example. But my husband was interested in this because it was filmed on location in Sarajevo during a cease fire and interweaves real footage of the war with the movie. In addition, it stars Stephen Dillane, who is really one of the most interesting actors around. So I saw it with my husband and found it very worthwhile. Surprisingly, I was able to watch the violence and gore--perhaps, because it was real, not filtered through the fantasy and political agendas of a Hollywood director. The location adds a great deal, as do the Bosnian/Serbian performers. The best scenes were those that suggested how life was going on in the midst of the rubble--both for the journalists and for the residents. The faces were incredible. Woody Harelson was wonderfully cast, a nice antidote to a potential good guy-bad guy dichotomy. Stephen Dillane's understated performance is impressive--he does conversation so beautifully. All in all, a very worthwhile, interesting film, even for those of us who generally prefer Jane Austen and silly comedies. It's complex, multi-layered and touching.   "},{"Title":"Brought my friends to tears...","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Just to point out something, that previous comment that said that Muslims weren't the victims in this war, just to tell you, how can anyone know who was the victim and who wasn't? My father lost all of his family in this war, his younger sister was shot right in front of him. His mother died a painful death, today my father has no one to call and check on to, why? because NOT all, but most Serbs who fought the war didn't give a rat's ass if you were a Muslim child, youngster, or if you needed a cane to walk with, all they wanted is murder and believe me i had to witness all of that myself.To generally speak about this movie, i watched it just right now as we speak, and the movie qualifies to show you some of the brutal slaughters that happened during those tragical unbelievable years. You can ask any Bosnian Muslim about the war, and they won't talk about it. My best friend's older brother was 9 years old when he saw Serbian soldiers take his father to his own backyard, torturing him, and killing him in front of his very own child, and then people dare to say that the Serbs were the victims? still this day, my friend's brother has effects from that day, you look at his face and you know that there is something wrong.This isn't basically a movie review, this is MY side of the story on how it happened and on how no one seemed to care about hundreds of children dying each day because some stupid nonsense pricks decided to kill everyone just to have their own F'n independence, well all i can say is i take big Sh.. on your independence. This movie brought my friends to tears, those who don't know 1% about the war, and surely it will bring those who actually lived it. I voted it a 10 just because i am actually glad they show the real side of the war, and how WE were the F'n victims. Hate this comment or love it, i don't care, but at least i shared the truth of my opinion, and the truth of our war. "}{"Title":"Shy,have given 8.0 to perfect circle and other monster film...this film must be with 7.6","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" 6.9 votes equal to fragile. And 'now clear that this site has a strong antipathy towards the horror film. If this movie had been in Stephen King would have had more. For me to go to pieces is the comment by Aaron1375. AARON STILL TU, quache distant relative of SHARON? Restless character already seen previously. Why make comparisons between SILENT HILL AND MIRRORS? E '100 times better this movie. Silent hill comes from a video. Do you have anything like the original film plot. There are mediocre film recited by actors who have high ratings as we are beautiful film recited by people less known. This site is so. In this movie there is a coup scene that leaves us with mouth open the others kind of Nicole Kidman. But since this movie and played by Sutherland takes one vote less. that's disgusting. Arise THE VOTE! "},{"Title":"An Olympic city torn by war.","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Welcome to Sarajevo in a true portrait what is happening now in the city.I remember watching the 1984 Winter Olympics on television at home in Philadelphia. The games are for world unity and peaceful competition against other nations. How ironic eight years after the games in Sarajevo, people are fighting and dying over differences. It is a different place in time of Olympics than now. The movie is worth to see. It gives you a chance to understand what happened in 1992 to present.   "},{"Title":"A Story about a war they all ignored","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Welcome to Sarajevo is a story within a story. The main story is about an ITN journalist who while working in Bosnia decides to adopt a young bosnian girl who has been left in a childrens home by her mother when the fighting got to bad. While we see this story we see how the war was fought in Bosnia and how the journalist's struggle to get their TV company's to take the stories seriously. We so how the Serbs killed the muslims and how they kept them in prisoner of war camps just like the Nazi's did in world war two.The thing that strikes me is that while all this evil went on we never really heard to much about it over in the Uk and i guess that is what the film makers tried to get across to the audiance. Woody Harleson's character says at one point in the film if it had been Christians being murdered by muslims and not the other way round, the world would have taken notice  Which i suppose is very true.The film is shot in many different ways to gve a feel of the conflict , it also shows real footage of the war which gives this film a cutting edge.The acting is ok ,Stephen Dillane at time seems a little uninterested but perhaps that is his way of acting. I cant help thinking this film lacks something but i cant quite put my ffinger on it.perhaps it's not long enough.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A very powerful, moving film. A must see.","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I can't think of a reason that why this film wasn't given its due importance and attention. Maybe because the victims in the movie (and in the Bosnian war) were Muslims. But calling what happened in Bosnia, a WAR is simply Not Fair!!! It was an army killing it's own citizens, and during this fight, they committed the genocide of Bosnian muslims. This movie showed us the horrors of a war, the brutalities of Serbian army and also the weakness of the United Nations and other neighbouring countries, who could have done a lot to stop the war and save thousands of innocent people, including young childeren but were unable to do so. And it also made it clear, that we haven't learned any lesson from the Holocaust. People (and countries) who could have stopped the second holocaust from happening in Sarajevo, failed to do so and they failed miserably. And the result of that failure is before us the same game is being played in Kosovo. Once again it's Serbian Army comitting yet another genocide of the people of Kosovo, whoh happened to be ethnic muslims. I think more people should watch this movie so that the message of the movie can be spread to more people, which is to do whatever we can to help those who are helpless! "},{"Title":"Score Visnjic - 10; Movie - 7","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I did not read Welcome to Sarajevo until a year after seeing the movie. Therefore, as I watched this film for the first time, I was under the impression that Risto (played by Goran Visnjic) was the lead character. Yes, I know the opening actors' credits listed Goran Visnjic fifth in line, but as the movie unfolded, it was evident that Risto had the ONLY fascinating character and story line. When a sniper killed Risto, I was in shock and actually thought the movie was over. Everything shown afterward seemed anticlimactic and inessential.I think Welcome to Sarajevo would have been better served if it had focused more on the Risto's life a peaceful intellectual finally forced to take up a gun to defend his city. While the film does give us snippets about Risto's life and character, more could have (and should have) been done to portray the effects of the siege on it's inhabitants. That would have been covering new ground for a British or American film.There are numerous movies depicting American and British journalist's point of views in war torn countries. What I wanted to see was the BEFORE as well as the AFTER in individual lives of the different ethnic groups caught in the besieged city.How do I rate this flick? Well, only a 7, but I give a 10 for Mr. Visnjic's performance. "}]