[{"Title":"A lesson indeed","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This uncommon film will test your ability to perceive at different levels, on the surface it only portraits what it seems to be a weak plot and the subplot of a movie within a movie, but that are not the points of this movie in my estimation. In another level there are the metaphorical aspects of the Tango (being a dance form born in the gutter motivated by raw instincts and erotic sensuality) versus the all unending male/female quest for love and understanding.This is not the typical follow me through the plot and visuals movie, but instead is about an atmosphere of sound and silent body language, spoken through the haunting sounds of a Bandoneon, lost in the sorrow of its own world. The poetic images and symbolisms are all there for those who can see them, but you need a sensitive and willing heart to find them. Like one of the characters says in the movie `You have to have suffered a lot to understand Tango'. Those who are still too attached to their egos will only see the surface, you have to let yourself go and then you will see.This microcosm of the world of relationships is enveloped in ravishing music and dance, all this tinted with subtle erotic overtones. It is not about the obvious, it is about the inner beauty or not of its characters, and their quest for communicating and understanding love. I find Sally Potter to be the perfect match in every way to Pablo Verón character's ego and abilities. This is a lesson indeed to teach those who live only in the shallow surface of today's society, that real emotions run deeper than the tan of their skin or their look. To love and to feel is hard work and not just good looks. And to understand a Tango you have to dance it, and here they dance it as best as I have seen it on film. And you have to ask yourself. When was the last time you truly held or were held in some one arms in a dance floor at such close distance with such passion? (And I don't mean sexuality as it is imposed commercially in everything now a days).This is a dance of kindled spirits and of two hearts who are emphatic on their pains and joys in their path through life, which see the world so differently but are ultimately united by their passion for the Tango, and to me, here is the real lesson. As it has been said, `You really need two to Tango!' and especially when the lesson is about love.  "},{"Title":"Spellbinding...","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I have read a lot of commentary on this film.  Then I went to the director's website (Sally Potter) and I read her comments.I was so into this movie.  It started out slowly and I wasn't sure if I was going to stick with it.  But as it went on, I was totally drawn in.  I love the fact that the director chose to film it in black and white which only added to the artistry of it.  I loved the fact that she as the director, and making it autobiographical, allowed us (the audience) a peek into her creative process.  I also love the fact that she courageously placed herself into the hands of another artist to learn the tango.  I was impressed when I read that Sally Potter had a background as a dancer so it came naturally to her to appreciate and learn the tango.This movie impressed me on many levels because as a creative talent it takes courage to cross over into the world of another artistic discipline (how easily could a dancer cross over into the world of a film director?  you see my point).  Or maybe that's not a fair comparison.  But to me its literally a case of walking a mile in another man's shoes.  Perhaps we find it easy to stand on the sidelines and criticize the work of an artist (be it an actor, director, dancer, writer, etc.) but is it hard to come up with creative visions?  Not bloody likely.I viewed this film as a metaphor for life, relationships, artistry, etc. all of which had parallels in the film.  If this sounds too deep, it is, believe me!  I saw all of this and more in this film.It also felt as if Sally Potter is going through an autobiographical and artistic midlife crisis in this film which has given me courage to put myself on the line autobiographically and artistically.  There was some criticism that she should have cast someone else in the title role, but when you can't see anyone playing yourself, but yourself, how can you answer even this kind of criticism?Bravo Sally!  I appreciated the peek you gave the audience into your creative process.  "},{"Title":"great art film","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" this is a wonderful film - for tango lovers as well as for people who like to ponder about life. if you are looking for a movie with pretty girls, short skirts, and guns, you will be asleep before the first five minutes are over.While the tango moves and general dance moves are great, what's really unique about this film is the commentary it makes about life and the power dynamics of relationships between men and women. It also makes commentary on the film industry and what it means to be an artist in this day and age.While it's true that Sally Potter is not a 21-year-old leggy blonde, she looks damn good at her age (I wish I had her body) and she is a very good actress. Pablito Veron also does a good job playing an arrogant ass. His dancing is awesome. Casting Pablo with a spring chicken as some have hinted, would have ruined the film all together.Go Sally - make more of these films; I'd love to see your other commentary. "},{"Title":"Tango and Romance","Date":"21 September 2014","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" The British filmmaker and screenwriter Sally (Sally Potter) is in Paris writing the story of models that are murdered by a serial-killer. When she sees a performance of the Argentinean tango dance Pablo (Pablo Verón), she asks Pablo to give tango lessons to her. She becomes obsessed by the dance, dancing with Pablo. Then she travels to Hollywood to have a meeting with producers that want to make her movie, but she gives up on her project. She decides to make a movie about tango casting Pablo in exchange of their partnership in the dance. The Tango Lesson is a little movie apparently biographical of Sally Potter for fans of dance in general and particularly the tango. The romance is developed in slow pace and practically nothing happens but good dances. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) The Tango Lesson - Uma Lição de Tango (The Tango Lesson &#x96; A Tango Lesson) "},{"Title":"Pablo Veron es feroz!","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This film was fantastique! The dancing scenes, especially the scene where Sally dances with three men in an empty warehouse, were beautifully shot and I found myself wishing over and over that it was me in the arms of Pablo Veron...The musical score and soundtrack are also superb; if you can find a copy of the soundtrack, do pick it up! It is the most authentic sampling of Argentinean tango that I've ever been able to find (unless you can get an original Astor Piazzolla album).  "},{"Title":"The dance is the thing. Play on","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Care to dance? Sally Potter, film director (Orlando), did, and fell in love with the Tango and Pablo Veron, one of its authentic Argentinian exponents. Pablo is a pretty sexy guy, and a bit younger than Sally, but by the end she's leading and he's following.(I'm not sure whether they actually get to do the horizontal tango.) In between we learn with Sally the intricacies of the dance as an expression of culture as well as personal affinity. There's not much of a story (a year in the life of an original and talented art film maker)but the Paris  and especially Buenos Aires settings are evocative - the latter seems frozen in the 40s, when the economic tide went out for Argentina. No, the dance is the thing. Remember Zorba? A Greek man dances for his soul. Sally dances like a moth drawn to a candle, but wears asbestos underwear and gets an interesting movie out of it. The black and white photography is luminous and completely appropriate, and the soundtrack a treasure trove of Tangos. Recommended for those interested in romance ie vertical and horizontal tangos though as I said the latter is merely hinted at. Not a film for people who want a compelling story. "},{"Title":"Passionate and beautiful","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  There are some amazing stories about the tango, and this is definitely one of them.  Lyrical account of a woman finding passion and life as she is consumed by her desire for the Tango.  Amazing dance sequences and really beautiful cinematography. "},{"Title":"intoxicating and raw","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  the dance. the passion of clashing characters, cultures and dancing styles. the music. the never-ending strive for dominance, for self-comprehension, for excellence in the art that speaks to your heart. the joy of love and the crying of the broken heart. the non-imposing touch of religion and intellect and determination, melted into the lives of tri-lingual strangers who allowed their pathes to cross to form an emotional bouquet of lust, atristry and cinematography called the tango lesson. elegant, sincere, and wicked. possibly, one of the best movies you'll ever let sink under your skin, along with the rain of buenos aires, lights of the Seine cruise ship, and a-typical british breath of life.mesmerizing movie. heart-breaking soundtrack.highly recommended if you believe that tango - or any art, for that matter - can change one's life. and a-must if it already did. "},{"Title":"An unexpected surprise!","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  How much is true, and how much is fiction? That is the genius behind this quiet movie. And as a viewer you yearn to know the answer to that question. A little gem by screenwriter, Sally Potter. Hats off! "},{"Title":"A provocative film about silence and power","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  As many reviewers have noted, there isn't a lot of talking in this movie, and indeed, this makes for a slow first half hour, but as the movie unfolds you realize that silence is the genius of the film.  It's appropriate that writer/director/star Sally Potter has chosen tango for her subject, for, as we see in the film, tango at its best is about two dancers communing with each other, silently and sharply.Sally and Pablo, the Argentinean dancer co-star, connect immediately as Pablo realizes Sally's seriousness and passion to the art of tango, and the two commune in various dance scenes, as well as through the one good conversation they have about believing in God.  But eventually this communion breaks down as the duo consider exploring romance, and then Sally and Pablo do a whole lot of dancing--instead of talking.  In the end, I think they realize that their relationship is based on a kind of mutual pain/joy the pain of alienation that Sally experiences in her job as a director and that Pablo feels as an artist, and the joy Sally feels as a creator and Pablo as a dancer for whom dancing is like a religion. This joy is evident in a memorable scene where Pablo dances all over the kitchen while making dinner for Sally, using every kitchen utensil as a rhythmic instrument. Besides dancing, there is also a lot of gazing in this movie--mostly Sally gazing at Pablo, and on the larger scale, the viewer gazing at the two dancing.  Part of Sally's fascination with tango, and indeed the way she became enraptured by it, stems from the sheer joy of watching.  Sally exercises a kind of powerful intrusiveness in her gaze, and it is this that makes her truly dangerous, and more of a leader than a follower as Pablo notes.  With this in mind, the subplot involving a movie Sally pitches about models being killed perhaps by their lovesick director starts to make sense--for in this case and in Sally's case, the art of looking has become a bit like murder, as the viewer subsumes the object into him/herself and thereby robs it of its autonomy.  As Pablo says to Sally after their first public performance, Sally's intense gaze robs him of his freedom and blocks his artistic ability; at the same time, though, it is precisely this gaze that fuels the uncontainable joy of Pablo and Sally's two other dance teachers. In the end I think this movie asks more questions than it answers, but it certainly dwells on an unsuccessful relationship that somehow manages to fulfill at the same time as it intrudes and violates.  We may like to think of tango as a dance of love and communion, but it can also be about power and control, and in this sense Sally uses tango as a metaphor for her relationship that transcends words yet can't subsist on silence. "}{"Title":"Potter Tango make a thin story in a magic film","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Sally Potter is always a very original film fact-totum. In this film much more Not only she write, direct, play and music the film, but she has given both herself and film to the Tango, that is the only true Star.The story is so thin, the characters are so light, the scene are cold, they seems only fills-in. Only the danced frames are full of inspiration and passion. The words are substituted with Tango (and its music), and also a classic scene like the separation at the airport became magic.  "},{"Title":"beautiful dance numbers","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  The dancing alone, in this film is enough to make up for what's lacking in this film...pablo veron maybe a incredible tango dancer, but in this film, his attitude towards everything else can only be summoned in one wordThe Male Ego.... he is insecure, and his relationship with sally is one of the most unfinished one i've ever seen, or heard about!..but as i said before..the tango makes up for everything else..makes me feel like hopping over to the nearest studio, offering tango lessons! "},{"Title":"I will not let you go","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  A very intriguing film.  The film communicates sagaciously by employing color and its absence.  The first time I saw The Tango Lesson I wondered why Potter abandoned the first film, the one in her head with the glorious color.  But then I began to understand what the Tango was teaching her about male/female relationships, and I could clearly see that the first film merely posited woman as a victim of male aggression, whereas the Tango Lesson discovered the beauty of a woman's strength.  The Tango is not a dance that relies on passivity, or the ability merely to be lead.  And this, I think, is key to why this dance becomes such a sensual experience for both men and women.  I was also delighted by the way Potter used the painting of Jacob wrestling the Angel to speak about the way men and women are capable of occupying the intimacy of shared space.  The film as well as the painting deftly explore the employment of bodies in a movement that calls itself dance, but looks enticingly like life.  The film is not about dance.  It is about life, which could be dance. "},{"Title":"Hey!  Let's make a show!  On the other hand, let's not....","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Dire. Just dire. The script is contrived, the acting painful, and the story just drags along. It is, without a doubt, a celebration of Sally Potter and little else. This wouldn't be so bad, but she's the director, writer and star of the film, and so is just self-glorification. I found myself not caring about the developing romance between the principal two characters, and the ending came not a moment too soon. It has two redeeming features. First is that a lot of the shots are really quite lovely, particularly in Paris, and look rather good in black and white. Secondly, whether you're a fan of tango or not, the music is by and large, excellent (except where Sally starts singing). Watch this film at your own risk, or if you need an unintentional laugh. I am sure it appeals to someone. Statistically, it has to. "},{"Title":"An Uninvolving Ego Trip","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Wow what a great premise for a film  Set it around a film maker with writer`s block who decides to take up tango lessons . Hey and what an even better idea cast the central role to a film maker who`s interested in tango. Gosh I wish I had that knack for genius . Yes I`m being sarcastic.It amazes me that these type of zero potential for making money movies are made . Come on unless you`re a rabid tango fan ( I do concede they do exist judging by the comments ) or a die hard member of the Sally Potter fan club ( ? ) there`s nothing in this film that will make you rush off to the cinema to see it . Even if you`re into tango much of the film is taken up with meaningless scenes like a house getting renovated or a man in wheelchair going along a road Coming soon THE REVIEW LESSON where a failed screenwriter from Scotland sits in front of a computer writing very sarcastic but highly entertaining reviews of films he`s seen . Gasp in shock as Theo Robertson puts the boot into the latest Hollywood blockbusters , weep in sympathy as he gets yet another rejection letter from a film company , fall in lust as he takes a bath and rubs soap over his well toned body . THE REVIEW LESSON coming soon to a cinema near you if anyone is stupid enough to fund the moviePS Sally Potter is unrelated to Harry Potter    "},{"Title":"Self-indulgent and embarrassingly bad","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Probably encouraged by admirers of her much-better Orlando, Potter here delivers a vehicle for herself in the worst way she writes, directs, stars, and actually co-writes the music, including a mawkish love song. The film strongly resembles a high school or college project by a teenager convinced that her own intimate loves and melodramatic obsessions are as fascinating to us as to her. But Potter's character is as unsympathetic as the object of her romantic obsession is unlikable, and the whole film is an embarrassing display of narcissism masquerading as a celebration of the tango. Perhaps if she hadn't cast herself it might have worked. She just can't act, whether playing herself or not. Pretentious, over-ambitious, dull, and silly. "},{"Title":"the worst ever!","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have ever seen,  and I have seen quite a few movies.  It is passed off as an art film,  but it is really a piece of trash.  It's one redeeming quality is the beautiful tango dancing,  but that cannot make up for Sally Potter's disgustingly obvious tribute to herself. The plot of this movie is nonexistent,  and I guarantee you will start laughing by the end. Especially where she starts singing. It's absolutely unreal. "},{"Title":"If you love the Tango ..","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  While not a big dance fan in general, the tango is very fascinating to me. My wife and I have taken a few lessons in it and someday when we get the time.....This movie is very arty and has beautiful tango dancing.  I rated it highly for that reason.  Dialog and plot are minimal but the dancing and visuals are excellent. "},{"Title":"Feminist Review","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Sally Potter is one of the most respected names in feminist film. The Tango Lesson, while very different from any of her earlier works, seems to be a really personal, even autobiographical film. It's about a middle-aged British filmmaker named Sally Potter. More recent productions have abandoned prudery towards women's bodies and moved to the other side of visual pleasure. The film shows Sally's own personal involvement with Tango. Its original purpose of something fun, new, exciting and stress relief from her routine life soon became an obsession causing several conflicts.The relevance of feminism in the film is blatantly present. A conflict scene in the film is between characters Sally and her Tango partner, teacher and love interest Pablo Veron. The back and fourth arguments are the strongest representation of a feminist point of view in a relationship. After Sally's first Tango performance with Pablo they are involved in a confrontation. Pablo's issue with Sally is that he is the leader and she was to follow which in his eyes she was not doing during the performance. The feminist thought and idea is that men lead woman. Sally replies to this by saying you danced like a soloist. She said that no emotions were involved in the dance sequence which is extremely important in order to create a believable and interesting performance.The fact that they were involved in a personal relationship outside of the dancing did not help the situation. Pablo's character was an alpha male who fell for a woman whose strength and power intimidated him. I noticed in the film in several scenes in his house in the bathroom, on top of the fire place, and in the dressing room, Pablo was placed in front of a mirror. His obsession with himself intrigues Sally to a near jealous streak. She is envious of his confidence. He is also in control of the language spoken between the two of them. They both speak French, Spanish and English. When they are not dancing as business partners and enter their personal relationship they speak French. Pablo unable to speak very well English prefers not to while conversing with Sally.Sally Potter was not considered what society considers beautiful. She was an older woman who dressed moderately, did not wear makeup, and did not possess a voluptuous body. The gaze in television and movies is a serious issue for our society. Woman are considered spectacles used as objects of visual and physical pleasure. The director's gaze is present in the film because she represents and analyzes our visual culture in how men and woman perceive each other. "},{"Title":"Original and simple, sensible and casual; superb photography, choreography and music.","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  The Tango Lesson is a strikingly good movie for it's simplicity, originality, casual tenderness, beauty and a straightforward narrative. The black and white photography could not be better transmitting the ambiences of places and people related  to Tango in major cities that we recognize by sophisticated details. The scenes evolve like beautiful pictures of movement and music.The few actors succeed in showing the cosy small and great drama of two persons meeting and loving each other amidst two objectives, dancing and making a great movie; pursuing excellence with emotion. "}{"Title":"Marvelous portrayal of the tango dance itself","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  If you watch this movie for nothing else then to view beautiful tango dancing accompanied by fabulous music... please do so.  Very charming, unique and refreshing.  12 lessons on two different levels.   Kudos to Sally Potter who wrote, directed, starred and sang in it! "},{"Title":"Chess for the feet ... but not much for the brain","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  `Tango is like chess for your feet' Sally Potter claimed during the publicity for this, a film that she wrote, directed, and starred in as a tango dancing director called - strangely enough - Sally. Like the screen Sally, the real Potter also learned from Pablo Veron, also her co-star. If only the film was as cogent and searching as her intelligent definititon of a fascinating dance!As a keen tango dancer myself, I was eager to see the committed to celluloid the intricacies of a dance which is part improvisational game, part physical conversation, and as much an exercise for the mind as for the body. A lot of work goes into becoming an excellent and effortless `tanguista', and there is much more to tango than most people realise. Turning her story into a roman a clef, does not make it experimental or postmodern, as appears to have be intended, but in fact regresses to the self-referential musicals of yesteryear such as `Singing in the Rain'. As long as there has been art, there has been art about art, and art about creative blocks. Though such an approach can create masterpieces (such as Fellini's 8 1/2), it can also create ponderous excuses for not creating original art.Worse still, it can come off as an act of monstrous narcissism. Potter is a stunning dancer, and it is understandable that she wished to play the main role on that count, but in all other respects she is merely adequate (and her singing, in the final scene, quite inadequate). Potter berates Veron in the film for not trusting her to be lead by him; by not trusting another actor to play her part, Potter is doing exactly the same thing.Thus the film plays out like a rather dull overheard conversation that one might idly listen to on the bus but not miss once you reached your stop. Tango is a dance in which the female must follow unquestioningly, adding little of her own input, occasionally stepping back to let the alpha male shine. The tensions that this has with a woman who is a film director and feminist, used to leading and guiding, rebelling against traditional roles of male and female, might have been fascinating. Instead, it all seems a playful act of revenge against Pablo in film, she gets to lead, not him.Though tantalising ideas leap out from time to time (the influence the tango had on her creativity is something touched upon but unfortunately not explored), and as always her visuals are sumptuous, I found the film a disappointment overall. "},{"Title":"Spellbinding","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I sat spellbound for the entire length of The Tango Lesson.  I've become an instant fan of Sally's work.  The movie takes romance and drama to a new level of intensity while drawing you in bit by bit into the story of Sally and Pablo.  I couldn't imagine a better film to watch for fun.  The soundtrack is original and when linked with the dancing it makes The Tango Lesson a memorable film. "},{"Title":"The longest 100 minutes of my life","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Strange how less than 2 hours can seem like a lifetime when sitting through such flat, uninspiring drivel.  If a story is as personal as this supposedly was to Sally Potter, wouldn't you expect a little passion to show through in her performance?  Her acting was completely detached and I felt no chemistry between Sally and Pablo and the tango scenes, which should have been fiery given the nature of the dance, were instead awkward and painful to watch. Obviously, revealing such a personal story on film can be daunting, and as such Sally Potter would have been wise to let a better actor take on the task rather than let her passion fall victim to her own sheepishness. "},{"Title":"6 OUT OF 10","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  The credits for The Tango Lesson make Sally Potter sound like the Barbra Streisand of independent film.  Produced, written, directed, music by, vocals... and on and on.  She might have catered the production, too.That may be the problem with the film.  The tango is a fiery, passionate dance and calls for an intensity that Potter's somewhat tepid British persona fails to bring to it, especially in what concerns her character and the story as a whole.  She is not more than an adequate dancer and might have been better served by casting someone else in the lead role of Sally.What saves this film somehow is the dancing by Pablo Verón and the rest of the Argentine cast, and good black and white cinematography.  The concerns of the film feel like typical French fare l'amour, l'amour, and little more than an excuse to showcase misty photography and musical numbers.  "},{"Title":"Self-Indulgence Gone Amok","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  The dancing was probably the ONLY watchable thing about this film -- and even that was disappointing compared to some other films.  My gawd!To me, this is the worst kind of film -- one that assumes it's a work of art because it has all the trappings of film-as-art.  Yes, it's beautifully photographed, but ultimately lacks the depth and tension of the dance around which the film supposedly surrounds itself.  Tango is a tease, it's hot, it has drama, it's audacious -- precisely what this film is not. "},{"Title":"If you love light there's lots in this film","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie for its luminous black and white portraiture of Tango, Buenos Aires and Paris. There's been a few negative comments about Sally's insistence on casting herself in the lead role. A reviewer said that she looked tired; the result of multi-tasking her role as lead and director. I say she has a face that is somewhat care-worn from living a life well which is full of emotional content. It is important to juxtapose the angelic face of Pablo Veron against her much more sage face. A younger more beautiful type would not have worked. She was so smart to think of that; or perhaps it was the fortunate result of looking at the rushes that it came to her. As an art house film it works; the locations are interesting; fragments of spaces and shapes and textures with beautiful lighting. As a study of human relationships it was so painful to watch. I so related to her reluctance to interfere with yet desire to connect with Pablo. Honestly painful. There are also the familiar cast of characters that appear in Sally's other films Heathcote Williams and Peter Eyre to name 2 that I recognized. I loved Eyre's interaction with Sally; he watched her sadly as she watched Pablo knowing exactly what was going on in her mind. Such an interesting actor with less than 5 minutes on screen time. It is interesting that Maria (one of the Hollywood execs) is an Argentinian born actress pulling off a very good interpretation of an LA beautiful person. Comfortable like a great pair of well worn dance shoes with a patina that just gets better with time. There was just enough there to whet the appetite but like good dancers; they held enough back making you beg for more. "},{"Title":"tango lesson","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" The Tango Lesson was a film in which one can very much see clearly the idea of feminism. Sally is a woman who wanted to learn how to dance tango. She met a man named Pablo who taught her very much on how to dance tango. He dominated her in the sense of how she had to dance, stand, look, etc. While she learned how to dance, she was writing a play that she wanted to publish. As they both practiced on dancing they start to attach feelings for each other. A little after experiencing these feelings she questions Pablo about where exactly they stand (she seemed like she wanted more than just a friendship). He replied to her that he wanted to keep distance and not confuse the professional with the personal.After learning enough to dance in a front of a stage, Sally and Pablo perform in front of an audience. She learned enough that he felt like she was taking more control than she had to. He says that she took his liberty away and he was upset. He had to be in control of the dance and let him guide her. Not the other way around. This is the turning point of the film, she starts getting in control. Her play advances, and she chose who was in her film and she regulated what happened in her film. She is the leader now in the dances, and at the end of the film she instructed them to dance and her personality gave away as a leader.This film portrays how a woman who came from not knowing anything, to a woman who became a leader of her self. Many obstacles were in her way, such as Pablo. He had an idea of a man who had to be in control and it somewhat astonished him when he saw the changes in Sally. I recall in one scene when they are arguing he states, Let me be in control! Even through the norms of this society, Sally managed to be in control of her self and what she wanted. "},{"Title":"The Tango Lesson","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" This is a different kind of film. It is based on the writer's own experience, and the main characters actually seem to be playing themselves. It is a film about the making of a film, so is a film within a film. I was bothered at first by Sally's rather stiff, and rather awkward movements as she learned the tango. Compared with her partner's fluidity and passion, her style of dancing seemed to me to match her personality (naturally), which I experienced as typically milk and toast English (limp). Though she is obviously fascinated by the tango, her passion does not translate to her dancing. At the very end, though, she seems to be beginning to get some true fluidity of movement and a teeny bit of sensuality in her dancing, so at the end of the movie, I found myself holding out hope that she one day, with practice and discovery of passion within herself, would be able to simulate something in the realm of that displayed by Carlo, her partner. It is a very good film, I think. She seems always to be thinking, while Carlo seems always to be moving, beautifully. He is a true artist of movement, and his joy of dancing comes through fabulously. He is poetry in motion. I enjoyed the extra material, too, though in one feature it was jumbled (production notes, I think it was) and in another (still photos, I believe) one couldn't use the pause, forward or reverse buttons and it was frustrating to have to play everything over from the beginning to be able to read things one hadn't time to read the first time around. And then not absolutely everything was able to be read the third time around, either, due to the pace. Anyway. The film is lovely, even though I was constantly irritated by the cerebral as opposed to emotional aspect of Sally's character. She moved like a broomstick, actually. It was annoying, especially when her partner was so fluid and sensual. But that is in fact part of the story . . . -). "},{"Title":"I was consumed!","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie so much that I saw it four times in 2 weeks. Never felt that way about a movie. I loved the music,dancing and city scenes from Buenos Aires so much that I have wanted to go ever since I saw the movie in December,1997.I received a soundtrack sampler leaving the theater and went to great lengths to find the full soundtrack. I bought other tango CDs and was lucky enough to catch Yo-Yo Ma at a performance when he was in Chicago that was half tango/half typical classical music. He's a great performer and I've got his tango CD,too.On the flip side, my friends all hated it -  thought SP was an egotist. My sister couldn't stand it either. They don't trust me to pick out a movie these days. "}{"Title":"Simply joyous","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure this film, as filmmaking, deserves the rarified company the 9 I gave it, but Potter captures the passion, beauty, and joy of the tango so well, that I cannot imagine myself ever tiring of this film.  A marvelous experience.  "},{"Title":"there is plenty for me in this film","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  What can I say? Sally, thank you for making this film. If any woman in a crisis could do something like that this would be one happy world. This is about satisfying one's needs, and I really needed that. And besides, every frame is so beautiful, to hang on the wall or something. And then there's music, incredibly emotional music. Dancing is only a bonus. Why did so many critics kill this movie? I guess there were more reasons behind Tango Lesson than normally.   "},{"Title":"Fantasy or fact? I'd like to believe there is some fact to the story.","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Somehow I got the impression that some of the story was true and that Sally was really fascinated with the Tango and all that it suggests. I could see Sally writing and living this script all at the same time. I guess that I am a dreamer who fantasizes about being a dancer too, that is why this film struck a chord with me. I really enjoy her work.  "},{"Title":"A must-see movie for Tango lovers","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  The plot is a bit weak and strange at times, but the Tango is fantastic!  This movie is a much see film for all Tango lovers. "},{"Title":"read my comment for my summary on this movie","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Men are traditionally seen as the stronger sex. Men are usually portrayed as being more powerful mentally and in strength than woman. The tango is a very famous and difficult dance that has the man being the stronger of the two sexes. Within the movie The Tango Lesson, directed and written by Sally Potter in 1997, the character Sally starts taking tango lessons by a man named Pablo. During the dance lessons Sally is taught to tango. Within her lessons she is taught to follow the man's lead. While dancing with Pablo, Sally becomes a very good dancer. Pablo asks her to join him in a dance that will take place in front of a very large audience. While they are dancing Sally makes very minor mistakes. While exiting the stage Pablo stays out longer and takes more bows, this can symbolize that he feels that he is the supeiror dancer. When they are off stage Pablo yells at Sally saying that he was messing up his dance because she was leading and taking up his space. He said that this prevented him from dancing.That situation shows that Sally is seen as the weaker and less important sex. Sally argues with Pablo that he cant handle the fact that she can lead and will. This shows that she realizes how Pablo is thinking and sees himself when he dances with her. The Tango Dance represents the difference of roles between males and females. Overall it was a very different kind of movie, there wasn't a lot of talking, but there was a lot of very good dancing. This is a good movie to watch if you are learning how to dance the tango or interested in watching movies that show very good dance scenes. "},{"Title":"Worth watching just for the wonderful tango dancing!","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  A sweet, whimsical film -- its ethereal feeling is heightened by seeing it in b&w. I stumbled on this film one morning on cable and found it most compelling. At times it is reminiscent of Fellini as it seemed, at least to me, almost to melt back and forth between a documentary and a fantasy.And... it's worth watching just for the wonderful tango dancing! "},{"Title":"How did you choose the tango?   I didn't. The tango chose me.","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" The Tango Lesson is a unique and beautiful movie made by the director/ writer Sally Potter about a director/writer named Sally Potter who is fascinated by the art of Tango, meets a young dancer Pablo Verón (played by a dancer named Pablo Verón), and dances with him - and as everything Sally (well both of them) does, her dancing is graceful, elegant, delicate yet masterful, subtle, and passionate - just as the movie itself is. I don't care if it is the Blatant narcissism, Self-Indulgence or Self Importance - they don't make the movie for me any worse and I am fascinated by Sally Potter, the strong, talented, and independent woman.The Tango Lesson examines the mysterious connection between two people, their interest to each other, even if they were not meant to be together. At one point, Sally tells Pablo, It doesn't suit me to follow. It suits me to lead, and you can't deal with that. The film is also about sensual passion of Tango where every dance is a fight between the partners over the control and victory and both victory and defeat are a celebration. "},{"Title":"Very strange Tangomovie","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" The Movie Tango Lesson is dealing with Tango as a dance and as a way of life. As a Tango dancer, I can only say that this movie is really bad. As a movie watcher, I have to say the same. A movie trying to be artistic, but is only one thing Bad. The plot is kitsch. The actors are bad and unprofessional. The dance scene are worse than what you can watch on youtube these days. The strangest thing about the movie is that there are some very inconsistent scenes in the beginning dealing with another movie that the main female character wants to produce.Don't waste your time watching it, go dancing or doing your dishes instead. "},{"Title":"Enthralling..","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Written/directed by and playing herself, Sally Potter tells a woman's story of self expression while following her passions.. One of my all time favorite movies and sound track.. The music is hypnotic and the whole thing is visually entrancing.......... I mean, what's more fun than listening to Yo Yo Ma playing Tango on his cello while watching some of the best Tango dancers in the world as they glide across the screen?.. ..............And the plot is fun too.. It is a true, one woman's art film and if you're a lover of feeling romantic? ..........You may be dancing by the ending.. ENJOY.... "},{"Title":"Dancing is the only saving grace of this messy and pretentious film","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I was very interested to see this film ever since starting to learn Tango. The reviews seemed favourable enough and the trailer was enticing. Regrettably, it is not a film I can appreciate. It is messy, uneven and pretentious. The plot barely makes sense, the scenes from a supposed film that the protagonist is working on are beyond absurd and the only saving grace is dancing. I only wish there would be more of it and much, much less of the rest. Unfortunately, the learning process is mostly omitted and the protagonist becomes this amazingly proficient dancer all of a sudden - which is implausible to the point of ridiculous - in reality it would take her a minimum of 5 years of intensive work to be able to dance like that - Tango is an incredibly complex and demanding dance, there are few dance forms that are harder (perhaps Ballet and Flamenco). My advice to the viewer is to fast forward to the dance scenes - this way avoiding the waste of their time and being disappointed. "}{"Title":"Great dancing!","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" My wife and I are Tango lovers! This movie takes you to a level of dance that is truly entrancing. The scenes are mesmerizing as the dance steps unfold. We have rented the video several times AFTER we experienced the movie at a local Cincinnati art theater. Sally is wonderful! We agree that the plot of the movie takes the viewer into a secondary premise. There is the mystique of the various models who have bright color gowns or dresses on them. Then, the quick segue from dance to model can be confusing for the viewer. We felt that the overall sensations of the movie were true dancing, and the will of a person trapped in the routine of daily job expectations can drag one down into depression and ennui. The reason for Sally's release to explore tango was very realistic...bad flooring in her flat. The movie came back to that premise several times to keep us in the loop of her forays into dance and Holiday. This movie contains development and climax. We enjoyed the character growth and the intricacies of the finer dance steps of Argentinian Tango. Bravo to Sally Porter! "},{"Title":"The professional and the personal","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  The music and the dancing, of course, are wonderful.  So, too, is the cinematography, mainly in black and white.  They sustain our interest through a subtle, even difficult, film that is pre-occupied with identifying the qualities and spheres of professionalism and of the personal in life.  That Sally Potter's acting is amateurish, that her dancing is not consummate, that the dialogue is predictable to the point of being banal, is the point.  The slick attempt at a film she abandons, 'Rage', and the narcissism to which Pablo is prey, both demonstrate the limits and dangers of skill untempered by the subjective, the personal.  The great truth of this film is banal that it is only in trust, in abandoning yourself to another, that you can find your deepest potentialities.  It is then that professionalism finds its purpose, in supporting that trust, in providing the medium through which your potential is realized, as is so enthralling demonstrated in the dance.  Sally and Pablo start as professionals and end the film having, through each other, discovered themselves.This film helped me understand my life, it might help you understand yours.  In any case, you can certainly enjoy the tangos. "},{"Title":"Now I always have an answer to that worst film ever question","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Terrible acting by Potter and a flat plot with no tension what so ever. And as for the feminist polemic, it's laughable. I saw this garbage when it was first released and though I found it tedious beyond belief I'm glad I did go to see it. That's because I now have an immediate answer to the question 'what's the worst film you've ever seen?' Plus, I have the comfort of knowing that every film I see for the rest of my life will be better than The Tango Lesson. But I have to admit I was impressed with the way Potter wrote a script that would garner the maximum number of arts council grants from around the world (as is revealed in the closing credits).I only very recently saw Orlando and I can see how Potter learnt the wrong lessons from making that film. All it took was a bunch of frilly costumes, a few hard stares to camera by the leading lady, and a loose plot to seduce the cinema going public. So why shouldn't she think she could get away with the self-indulgent nothingness that is The Tango Lesson? "},{"Title":"The Tango Lesson - about power struggle between a man and woman","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" What happens when two dominant personalities fall in love? Who gets to lead? Who gets to follow? What if it doesn't suit either one to follow? Writer/director Sally Potter is also the lead actress in this dramatic love story about a film director (herself) making a movie about tango. Sally meets Pablo Veron, an authentic world-class Argentinean tango dancer, and convinces him to give her tango lessons. Pablo obliges her, in hopes of starring in one of her movies. Sally gets good enough to become his professional dance partner. The movie is divided into Lessons. If you're a dancer, you should see this film if for no other reason than the numerous spectacular dance scenes. Half-way through, the viewer realizes that these lessons are not about dance after all, but about life. The tango is used as a metaphor for the power struggle between a man and a woman falling in love, but being stymied because each insists on being in control. Like the tango, the tempo starts out slowly and crescendos as Sally and Pablo's professional and personal relationship deepens and grows more volatile. Can a relationship like this survive? This movie was funded by the French government. It's in English with a few French subtitles; set in France and Argentina. "},{"Title":"Strange and memorable","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  The Tango Lesson is one of the strangest movies I've seen.  Normally I am very much put off by self-indulgence in any art form.  The Tango Lesson is nothing if not self-indulgent (as well as self-referential!), yet somehow it all WORKS; even the extremely corny action in the movie shoots that serve to point up Ms. Potter's fictional (or is it real?) frustration with her craft, have some kind of wacky propriety to them in the context of this very unusual story.  The dance scene in Pablo's apartment is magical. (And it is hard to believe that he isn't a professional actor.)  The scenes with the two tango instructors in Buenos Aires (and indeed all the Argentinian scenes) are touching and beautiful.  Ms. Potter's difficulties with her London apartment will be sympathized with by any city apartment dweller!I've seen the film twice in the theater, and once on tape.  The second time I enjoyed it even more than the first (because I knew what to expect); the third time I found I'd reached a kind of plateau, but still was sorry when the film was over.  This is one of those films I find myself thinking about every single day.  It just won't let me alone.  I would never call it great, but I certainly find it memorable, and entertaining even in memory. "},{"Title":"A perfect film - for certain audiences","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Whether you judge The Tango Lesson to be as perfect as a film can get, or a self-indulgent autohagiography with nice legs and sets, is probably about your viewpoint. There is bound to be at least one reader who will disagree with either view. So I am inclined to look at what the director was trying to achieve. Sally Potter is an established art-house filmmaker with particular interests in gender politics and dance. She also sings, writes and, in this film at least, acts.Tango is a dance drawing heavily on passion. Unlike many dances, its emotional range includes jealousy and betrayal. When sparks fly, they are not just sparks of attraction. Male power and domination, silence that bites, and doomed love and destruction (hence the metaphor of Bertolucci's Last Tango in Paris). A woman never escapes the man's embrace. The brilliance of her steps give the appearance of being entirely due to her partner's masterful guidance. At one point in our movie, Potter's partner, enraged, tells her she must 'do nothing' &#x96; he means nothing that doesn't come from him.It is a perfect dance to build dramatic metaphor around.But Potter's interest goes further. She wants to examine role reversal (this is the director who has had a hit a few years earlier with the sexual ambiguous Orlando). In The Tango Lesson, she plays opposite a top tango dancer, mentally submitting to him in order to learn the dance. Her character is a film director, disillusioned with a Hollywood deal and looking for a new project. Could it be dance? In the second half, she enlists him to play in a film. The power position is reversed. He must follow instead of lead. He must take direction.The success of this plot relies almost entirely on its real life elements. The circumstances in which the film was made mirror those depicted in the film-within-a-film. Names of principle characters are not changed. Potter does all her own dancing. Obvious commercial sell-outs are avoided.So in terms of dancing and the gender politics, how well does the film perform?The answer has to be, Magnificently. The tango scenes are among the best of any motion picture. Tango on the stage, tango on the streets. Tango in the dancehalls, tango on the water's edge. Tango in rain, tango in snow. Potter described some of the technical challenges, saying that in the rain there were, a limited number of takes possible due to the limited number of dry jeans. But the result is stunning. If you wanted a tango photo to hang over your fireplace, you would be spoilt for choice with stills from this film. Perfect mise-en-scene and impressive lighting make the film visually intoxicating. And when we hear Libertango &#x96; the most familiar of all tango tunes &#x96; the energy explodes as Potter bursts from the dance studio, dancing with several men at once.Cinematography is endlessly inventive. During a stage performance, the camera is positioned so that it faces the audience, dancers silhouetted by the dazzle of spotlights. I wanted to show something of the visceral sensation of being onstage, she says, with the lights in your eyes. Gender analysis is equally successful. Potter deals with simple male chauvinism, and in a matter-of-fact rather than an unkind way. Pablo and his friends act in a 'perfectly reasonable' manner which Potter then exposes as unreasonable. They cherish a glamorised idea of film-making. She has to exert gentle authority when they 'decide' that they've waited long enough for someone to turn up; or when Pablo might not 'want' to shed a tear in her 'little film.' She must &#x96; and does &#x96; handle their unprofessional emotions, fears and ignorance, exactly as Pablo had to handle hers when she was learning to dance. And now it is against his every instinct. He must follow and let her lead.Potter takes us beyond gender politics to the creative process. The film opens with her wiping a white table, then she sits at it with a blank sheet of paper. She starts to script, but discards one idea after another. Fast cuts to bursts of colour (in the Hollywood movie she had originally planned to make) illustrate action sequences of a movie style that makes money. They are like fragments of a finished film, waiting to be found. She hovers, waiting for the right idea to take form. I know this moment well. It's the most precious, delicate, terrifying moment in film-making. The void beckons, seductively. But at any moment, the pencil will touch the blank page and the first, irrevocable step will have been taken. Every such step can feel like an act of treachery against abstract and infinite perfection. That state of 'becoming,' the moment before any definite action is decided, parallels the state of preparedness a follower must have in dance.It is the philosophy that an early feminist-filmmaker, Maya Deren (also a dancer), propounded in connection with films (such as her Study in Choreography for the Camera). For her, it was an essential trait of being a woman, the ability to wait, as opposed to a man's desire for immediacy. For Potter, who had focused on dancing in her earlier life, the film becomes a voyage of discovery. I remember suddenly what I always loved about dancing &#x96; the combination of vigorous endeavour, present timidness, and dedication to process &#x96; the sure knowledge that you never 'arrive', you are instead in a constant process of arrival. It is itself, and it is a metaphor for learning, for living, for being.On the downside, there is not a lot of story. The Tango Lesson is Strictly Ballroom stripped of make-up, witticisms, clichés, overacting, and the pointless, predictable, but highly entertaining storyline. The Tango Lesson proudly states that the ideas (and the dancing) should be sufficient. Sadly for some people of course, it won't. "},{"Title":"I had too leave the cinema, it was that awful","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" The Tango lesson is an absolute horror. You either have to love tango or the actors or have brought a book or an extremely interesting date, otherwise this movie is unsupportable.My suggestion is to buy a book or go see another movie, in any case, do not rent or go watch this one, unless you have any of the above qualities. If you fail to qualify for any of these, please rest assured that your evening will most likely be spoiled like mine was some years ago. It is beyond comparison with anything I ever have seen before or since.I never left a cinema before the end of a movie but I couldn't wait until the end of this one. You have been warned.. "},{"Title":"About Art and Life","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I saw the Tango Lesson and found it a genuine work of Art.  I recommend those who love good movies to watch this one.The Tango Lesson perhaps has a weak plot, but a film director isn't necessarily a story teller.  The spiralling meta-narration which takes place in the Tango Lesson certainly makes this movie an advanced art product, which has nothing to do with the telling of actual occurrences, but rather focuses on the developing of Art itself in the mind and life of an artist, while touching on a series of parallel topics.Some may interpret this film as an empty exercise in self-indulgence, but personally, I find this approach misleading, especially in the age of the Self.  We're talking about Art here, and Sally Potter is the artist. Herself no one else should be the starting point and centre of her own movie.  The lady knows how to direct, act, dance and sing why shouldn't she do all of the above?  I think she deserves much admiration she's a well rounded artist, and there aren't many!  Besides, as I've said already, to me the film is about Art, Life and the relations between the two &#150; e.g. the tango as a representation of the male/female social role playing &#150; above anything else.  The director uses her own experience and many skills to make a point and to get things done exactly how she wants them, but the movie isn't about Sally Potter.  In my opinion, the fact this film allows us to peek into the director's head, and see Art through her eyes  (I can assure it's quite a sight!), is one of its strong points, not one of its faults. The apparent conflict between two Art forms (dance and cinema) &#150; which, in my opinion, is one of the themes developed in this film &#150; on the one hand highlights the difficulty which people are confronted with when having to understand and recognise as worthy something they're not familiar with, the need to change perspective and see or feel Art, rather than simply discharge whatever they don't understand as an inferior form of artistic creation, and on the other shows that in the end the similarities between the Arts are greater and more profound than the differences Perhaps all along Jacob had simply been wrestling with himself&#133;  Difficulties spring up when the desire to lead doesn't allow one to ever follow, when the need to be looked at won't let one see.  Changing perspective for a minute, and letting someone else lead the game, can be enough to prove the Arts are really only different ways of signifying the same thing.  Art is Art the creation &#150; by means of self-discipline, abstraction, and finally inspiration &#150; of something beautiful and fertile, that touches and gives life to the human heart, that makes us feel less beastly, something morally edifying as a consequence of the Beauty it surrounds us with.  The lesson to be learned from this, I think, is that respect and the willingness to follow can open the door to the understanding of Art as well as of others.Far from being a mere celebration of the director, in my opinion this movie also deals with a lot more than just the tango.  To me, this movie is about self-control, discipline and abstraction.  And through abstraction, it's about the strength deriving from calmness, the quickness only slowness can assure, the music only silence can give birth to.  It's about the Reasoning Power we &#150; as human beings &#150; are provided with the sixth sense which allows us to pierce the surface of things and find Beauty, Perfection.  To Reason means to See, find some kind of Truth and therefore free our shadowed consciences.  What this means to me is that having an aesthetic approach to life doesn't imply being superficially appreciative of appearances, but that, on the contrary, it can be a key to spirituality.Even in experiencing love, it seems to me that Sally tries to uplift its irrational essence to Art's state of perfection and balance.  Passion seeps through Sally's high need for cognition, becoming something intelligible, that makes sense.  The human faculty of loving has to cooperate in fulfilling destiny, rather than in letting case follow its course. Love, being life's natural vehicle of energy and therefore of creative powers, is looked at as something fundamental, but only as it is heightened to the status of a work of Art&#133;  So life is used as the indispensable platform for artistic take-off.  But from the very beginning, what Sally does  - both in the movie and in directing it &#150; is exert her will and strength, constantly struggle to reach perfection.Inspiration is found neither through self-indulgence nor through love's bliss and oblivion, but through concentration and finally abstraction.  In this sense, the Tango Lesson is a religious movie, an exercise in the metaphysics of Art.Now to the point.The editing has character, it's intelligent, original, definitely not a Hollywood product. The photography is breathtaking &#150; and eloquent it says the Tango Lesson is about Aesthetics, Beauty itself. The acting is honest, fresh, and charming.  In my opinion, the acting is superb Sally Potter really knows what measure and elegance are.The soundtrack is exquisite.  The tango pieces are great, and so is the leitmotiv of the movie the seagull-like cry in the airport scene (Doyna) tears my heart out every time I listen to it (it's also the one track that made me decide to buy the CD).This film, someone said, has little to offer the general public.  I'm afraid this might be accurate.  Or rather, the general public &#150; that, for the most part, is fed upon fast-food movies &#150; probably has neither the adequate means nor the desire to tackle this art-movie, which I don't believe was meant to give easy answers to difficult questions (like so many other films) but to make people think.  Nonetheless, seeing this movie made me realise all over again that it's definitely worth trying. "},{"Title":"Chickflick that even chicks won't like.","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Pretentious drivel. This film tries too hard to congratulate itself on being artsy. Artsy, but not very entertaining. We get to watch as Sally Potter is one woman-does-most. Finenking the whole time about how OLD she looks. The film is autobiographical, but honestly, her life, or this part of it anyway, is just not interesting enough to form the entire content of a film. The photography (black and white) is attractive and some of the dancing, as well. But a little goes a long way.We had a lot of fun laughing at the (probably) unintentional comedy at the beginning. I won't spoil it for you, but there are ladies in ballgowns and a legless midget, and you get to watch some of them getting killed. These scenes are happening in the woman's imagination, as she is making up the script of her film. All of this doesn't seem to have very much to do with the rest of the film, but this is as good as it gets. "},{"Title":"Musical Numbers","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Everyone has mentioned this the problem with The Tango Lesson is that it has Sally Potter all around. And Sally Potter doesn't dance badly, but her character, her persona, feels thin for a main character (surely because she tamed it down a lot, forgetting many of her ugly bits, so she feels like an unfinished creation), and can't carry the movie. It's interesting when the films feels sincere (loneliness, creation, and so on), but the thing that redeems this 100 minutes are the dance pieces, the musical parts, which for once they feel like a natural and optimistic part of the story that do not break the narration but feel part of it (like in the old MGM musicals and so on), and Pablo Verón. She has strengths; it's a pity that she didn't realize of her weaknesses. "}{"Title":"Direction is brilliant, story is remote.","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Sally Potter wrote, directed, starred in, composed some music, and even sang the ending theme for this film. As a director I think  she did an extraordinary job. The black-and-white cinematography is no pretentious gimmick here; it makes for some dazzling shots. But the story left me a little cold. It was so obscure at times that until well into the movie I might have had difficulty even telling someone what it was about. Like some arty documentary gone wild, she plays a filmmaker named Sally who wants to make a film about a dancer named Pablo Veron, played by Pablo Veron.One thing that was accessible enough was the dancing, showcased in several segments that were glorious. And Ms. Potter showed herself to be quite a terpsichorean, in addition to her other talents. The dancing and direction combined to leave a slightly positive impression on me overall at the film's conclusion. Still, I wish I could have liked 'The Tango Lesson' as much as I admired it. "},{"Title":"Oddly formal for movie about the tango","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I mentioned in my comments on DANCE WITH ME that dance can be a form of communication in movies(and, of course, in life), but it's not the only one. In this movie by Sally Potter, she seems to use it as the only form of communication between her and Pablo Veron, at least at first.  This is an oddly formal approach to it, and the effect is to distance us from the two of them, which is odd in a movie about the sexiest and most engaging of dances, the tango, which depends not just on technique but on the interplay between dancers.  So when Potter and Veron dance together, we feel the exhilaration of the tango and of the music, but we're not quite engaged as we should be, because we don't learn enough about them.Still, as the film progresses, we do get a sense of how they relate to each other outside of dance, and the dance sequences do work.  It helps that they also warm up as actors later on.  Overall, good, but not the best film on dance. "},{"Title":"Tango letdown!","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  What a letdown, I thought this would be good, but it was very boring, except the music. The dancing is good, but the story line so thin - I never did get what the  point of the movie was.   Sally Potter was an unusual leading lady- and most of the film was in black and white which added a little to the mystique of the tango. Glad I got this in video.   Good soundtrack- mediocre movie.  "},{"Title":"Lousy, Boring Waste","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Casting herself in the lead role was the biggest mistake Sally Potter could have made.  I'm not trying to be harsh here but she is not aesthetically pleasing.  Not even in the slightest which makes the story that much more unrealistic when it could have been fine with a better casting decision. Ego, ego, ego. "}]