[{"Title":"Twisted, but exceptionally crafted.","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"80 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is not the film to see if you're looking for a feel-good Hollywood anesthetic to cope with the end of the holiday season. If, however, you wish to experience a great film, then I highly recommend *A Simple Plan*. Its disturbing twist on the American dream may be too difficult for some--especially the very dark ending--but that is part of what makes the film such quality fare. Scott B. Smith's screenplay is tight and flawless. Sam Raimi's inspired direction may finally reveal to the rest of the film industry what fans of the Evil Dead trilogy have known for years that, though his tongue is often firmly in his cheek, Raimi is a fine and grossly underrated filmmaker. Especially impressive is the way he and cinematographer Alar Kivilo approach the snow-covered landscapes. There is an immensity to the frozen wastelands of the film's crucial scenes that is almost worthy of David Lean. Also commendable is Raimi's skillful use of animals (among them crows and foxes) for symbolic purposes.But the cast, not to be outdone by their crew, is equally notable. Billy Bob Thornton gives his best performance to date, surpassing even his award-winning role in *Sling Blade*. Bill Paxton is phenomenal as a straight-laced-family-man- turned sociopath, and Bridget Fonda's convincing portrayal of Paxton's determined wife complements him well.Audiences at the screening I saw were commenting on the film's similarities to *Fargo* as they exited the theater, and seemed to belittle *A Simple Plan* for its lack of originality. Granted, *A Simple Plan* is not entirely original. There are indeed vague shadows of *Fargo*, as well as *Macbeth* and Robert Frost, among others. But there is no such thing as an entirely original work, as great art is made by standing on the shoulders of giants. Make no mistake, this is NOT a cheap replay of *Fargo*. The differences are too numerous to note here, but suffice it to say that *A Simple Plan* is a great work in its own right, and deserves to be appreciated as such. "},{"Title":"A study in desperation","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"63 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan is certainly not a simple film, as some reviewers here had hoped it would be.  The point is not how simple life is, but how horribly wrong and out of control things can get.  This film takes you to the absolute depths of human greed, desperation, and frailty.  It is amazing how many evil deeds one can rationalize by believing and then it will all be over.  A Simple Plan is a great character study which makes you think of what you would do in the same situation.  At what point would you draw the line?  How far would you go to keep millions of dollars all to yourself? The excellent photography adds to the sense of desperation that permeates the whole film.  The vast, snowbound landscape is the perfect image for the feelings the main characters have for their station in life cold, silent, lifeless, unending, and unrelenting.Don't watch this movie unless you are prepared to see a group of people reach the end of their rope and make a series of life-changing decisions. "},{"Title":"Simply Terrific","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"65 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Simply one of the best films of  the year, perhaps the decade! A Simple Plan is about three men who find a huge amount of money in a plane wreck. They decide to keep the dough. It's like winning the lottery. It's the American Dream except that  you're supposed to work for the American Dream. But that just makes this better replies one of the characters.A Simple Plan stars Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thornton as two Minnesotan brothers Hank and Jacob who find the money with Jake's friend Lou played by Brent Briscoe.The film is directed by Sam Raimi, the creator of the Evil Dead movies and there are some suitably macabre and funny Evil Dead touches to this masterpiece, although Raimi doesn't botch A Simple Plan up as he did with Sharon Stone's The Quick And The Dead a couple of years ago. This is a restrained, delicate Raimi.A Simple Plan instead is on one plane a wry incisive comment on the human condition, but it's also a cautionary tale about the evil good men can do.The characters are fascinating. Paxton as Hank is the brainy one of the three. He's been to college and has a wife (Bridget Fonda) who's just about to have a baby. Jacob is slow and sad with a big touch of goodness about him. His hair is lank, his teeth are dirty, he's in his thirties and has never had a girlfriend.Jake gets drunk most days and nights with his boozing friend Lou, and both are unemployed. The prospect of a ton of money is as unsettling and exciting to this lot as it would be to any honest person who becomes suddenly very rich unexpectedly and illegally. This find is guaranteed to turn their lives up side down.But things take increasingly violent turns until A Simple Plan has the air of a Shakespearian tragedy solidly biased by Hitchcockian twists. Add to this Raimi's weird sense of humour and a Coen Brothers, Fargo like frozen air and you have a superb film that will have you laughing uncomfortably as you ponder the extent to which men and women will go nuts and nasty when greed overcomes them.Quite  rightly both Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thornton are being touted for big acting awards as a result of their work in this marvellous film.  "},{"Title":"This movie really makes you examine your own motives.","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"49 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A Simple Plan immediately reminds you of Fargo. A dull, snowy winter. Men beginning to cheat on a small scale, which then begins to escalate until it becomes out of control. And no one will *like* the ending, but it is the only ending that could make this fine film complete.It is set in the wintertime. Two brothers come upon a small plane that has crashed. Since there have been no news reports, they rightly assume no one knows about it. There's money inside, lots of money. Everyone knows what the 'right' thing to do is. But what will they do? What would most people do?The acting, especially Billy Bob Thornton, is excellent. You will watch the film without blinking. You will ask yourself, what would I do in a similar situation? Unless you only like light entertainment, you really need to see this film. "},{"Title":"Dark and twisted - classy","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"43 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is not a pleasant film and you are going to have to think a little - if this doesn't sound like your type of movie, stay away! If, however, you like intelligent and peculiar film-making, then you'll probably appreciate A Simple Plan. In an effort somewhat reminiscient of Fargo meets Shallow Grave, this clever, dark, character drama explores some unpleasant ground to produce a quirky and distrubing overall result. I must admit I finished this movie feeling rather unpleasant, but struck by its intellect and striking dialogue and performances. This movie is definitely worth the price of a video. My vote 8/10 "},{"Title":"Highly Underrated !!! Guys wake up and Please see this movie and Vote , deserves a Place in IMDb Top  250","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"32 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A simple plan,you may compare it with shawshank redemption and believe me Frank darabont won't mind it.Because this ain't a suspense thriller but with all the things open in the story you will love it.Sometime you will be so involved in the movie that you want to give some advice to the Bill Paxton ,and yes you must not forget about the Academy award nominee performance by the Billy Bob Thornton,the real innocence you can see in him.I don't know what else people were expecting from this movie????? i am curious to know this ! and also i would love to see this movie in IMDb top 250 , I am a movie buff and guys as Baz Luhrmann asked people to trust him on sunscreen i am asking you to trust me on  A simple plan  it worths a rent of 100 $ ,i believe is one of the best of movie that i had ever seen,Best Screenplay , Superb story , Good performances,As a whole i will rate it as 10/10 . "},{"Title":"Well filmed, well paced drama-come-thriller that never goes too far","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hank, Jacob and Lou are out for a ride in Hank's truck when they hit a tree.  Walking out into the snow they find a crashed plane in the woods with the pilot dead and a bag of money ($4 million).  They decide to keep the money and wait to see if anything is mentioned about it.  However as time passes mistrust and betrayal becomes murder as the original simple plan becomes more and more complex.Sam Rami is a great director, albeit more well known for less subtle films than this such as the Evil Dead movies.  However here he shows that he can deal with things that lack in OTT visuals etc but be a good subtle director.  The basic story starts simply and gets more convoluted very easily.  The plot twists are never absurd even if they are extreme, the way the story builds gradually is one of it's strengths.  The best bit is the way that everything is simple (as in the title) &#150; the snow makes all the scenes a simple white, the relationships are simple and the misunderstandings are straight forward.  This simple nature makes the twists even more powerful as they come in the middle of a `normal' situation..The cast are all very good.  Paxton is especially good in the lead as the man who doesn't want to take the money originally who then is forced to take the lead in the actions that need doing to cover the crime.  Thornton is the best &#150; he not even that recognizable and he deals with his role really well.  He may be a simpleton but he doesn't make it just a cartoon role.  Briscoe is less well defined and Fonda isn't really key to the plot.  Gary Cole has a small part towards the end and Paxton Snr has a small role.Overall this is very enjoyable.  As a noir it is very different to have it in a Fargo landscape.  Rami's toned down direction is very good and he does very well with the exciting twists and with the emotional sections too.  A different, sometimes slow, but very enjoyable thriller of greed and mistrust. "},{"Title":"At what cost?","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Say what you will about him, like him or hate him, you gotta admit that Raimi knows the craft. Here, he puts Hitchcock's methods to good use, decades after the master died, and creates amounts of suspense that honor his memory. The tension is thick and impossible to ignore. This is exciting and engaging, and it's completely realistic, down to earth and human, to boot. The pace is spot-on, this never outruns the viewer, in spite of being fast and tight, and so much of the relationships and past being told to us through hints, the behaviour and how situations evolve. More thrillers should be like this. This also qualifies as noir and drama. The acting is beyond reproach, there's not a single performance that is lacking, and I'd say Paxton does pretty good in a lead role. Kudos to Thornton for not turning his part into a caricature. The writing is excellent. I have not read the novel, but I would like to do so. I understand that this isn't entirely as brutal as the book, though it is disturbing, and, at times, violent. The cinematography and editing are incredible. There is some strong language in this. The story is magnificent, and develops so well throughout. Thank you, Sam, for making an effort, for not just going for the lowest common denominator, and for understanding that it was the build-up - not purely the plot twist at the end - that made Alfred, and his films, such treasure. The DVD holds a theatrical trailer. I recommend this to any fan of the director and/or anyone else who helped create it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A good solid thriller","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Scott B. Smith's A Simple Plan puts Sam Raimi back in my book (I forgot about him for a while after he did EVil Dead and part 2) by giving a good solid thriller that can sometimes be interpreted by some as a very dark comedy.  The plot (I think already stated) has 2 brothers and a friend in a winter setting, who find a plane, a plane that can change they're lives (chiching), but the cost, is something they don't even know they are going to bear.  Sometimes the characters make dumb choices, but that atually makes it entertaining.  The best surprise however is Billy Bob Thornton's performance because he is always good in anything he does.  Good film for Raimi to have, and for the cast also.  A- "},{"Title":"Simply brilliant","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"21 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan is a film that had immense critical acclaim yet was in limited release.  I was eagerly looking forward to this films release seeing as I am a huge Bill Paxton fan, but why wasn't this film in wide release?  I was living in Toronto at the time and to find this film I had to go downtown to one very small art house theater.  It wasn't at any of the bigger Silver City's.  And that is a disappointment.  Because this film is amazing.  In a way ( I can't believe I'm saying this ) this film reminds me a bit of Star Wars.  Only in the sense that I think there is enough intrigue and well developed characters that you could have made a trilogy and prequels out of this.  Jacob could have a whole movie made about him.  The characters are that rich.The film starts off with two brothers named Hank and Jacob ( Paxton and Thorton ) and a friend named Lou( Brent Briscoe ) chasing their dog into the forest.  As they get deep into the woods, they stumble onto a downed plane. It is here they find the money, the buried treasure to the tune of about 4 million dollars.  At first they are talking about how rich they are and what they are going to do with the money.  But it is then that Hank says that maybe they should wait a while to see if anyone comes looking for the money before they start to spend it.  After all, the plane is snow covered so maybe it has been here for a while so by the end of the winter if no one comes for it, they will keep it.  The other two are adamantly against that logic.   This is the American dream,  one of them says.   You work for the American dream, you don't steal it. Hank replies.  Then of course all hell is about to break loose.Suddenly people that lead their lives without much money are consumed with greed and desperation.  Hank's wife Sarah, in a great performance by Bridget Fonda, says that she is tired of having to eat dessert at home when they go out for dinner.  She wants to provide a nest egg for their soon to be child. Lou owes money to everybody and wants his share of the money now.  Jacob wants to fix up his dads farm.  The insatiable need for money is driving everyone apart.  It is from here that the plot thickens and it is like the layers of an onion.  Every time you peel one layer back, there is another layer to deal with, until there is nothing left.  And then what happens?This film works because it has a terrific story but it also works because of the people involved with it.  I will first mention Raimi, the man responsible for directing this tangled web.  He masterfully strokes every shot perfectly.  He gets the feel for a small, cold winter town and he actually makes you shiver inspite of yourself.  If anyone is a true horror fan they would have known that Raimi had a ( hidden ) genius.  His Evil Dead films ( especially the first one ) really showed that he could direct a tight film and he did a masterful job of scaring you.  And that is not easy. There are not many truly scary films out there and Evil Dead is one of them.  Here he finally gets his due.The second person I want to mention is the cinematographer.  This is Alar Kivilo's first real foray into film.  He has worked mostly in TV and for this to be as well photographed as it is, is a true credit to his ability. Filming in the snow adds many challenges to this aspect of film and he conquers it beautifully.  There is one scene where there are a few men heading into the woods to find the plane and all we see is their footprints. This scene reminded me of a similar one in Lawrence Of Arabia.  It is executed perfectly and it conveys the feeling of what the scene is supposed to represent.As for the actors involved, as I said, I am a huge Paxton fan, just as anyone is if you like his portrayal of Chet and Hudson.  And he is very good in this film.  He has to play the level headed one of everyone involved and he comes across as the torn voice of reason here.  But as much as I thought he was excellent in this flick, I have to say that Billy Bob Thorton blew me away.  You can feel his pain.  You can sense his split loyalty--friendship and brotherhood.  Everything that we are supposed to see in him, we do. He really should have won a best supporting actor this year but he had the deck stacked against him seeing that he already has a statue and James Coburn, the veteran that he is, has none.  Go figure.  Too many politics in the academy, but anyway....This film examines so many human issues and it asks us to make our own decisions along the way.  And the sad reality is maybe we wouldn't make some of the same decisions, but maybe we would have made worse ones as well. It is a tough movie to examine, and that is what ultimately makes it brilliant.**** Just on a side note here, I just find it amazing how the six degrees of separation works here.  Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thorton have known each other for years and they worked together on a similar character study in One False Move. They also briefly had screen time together in Tombstone.  ( If you can't figure out who Thornton is in that film, try thinking of Johnny Tyler.  He was about 100 pounds heavier than what he is now. )  Raimi and Paxton met on the set of Indian Summer. Raimi had a small role as Stick. So it is kind of nice to see loyalty does perhaps still exist in Hollywood. And I am really glad they met and then hooked up for this project.  This is a true definition of a great film.   "}{"Title":"Modern film noir with drama, suspense and sensational performances","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The film deals about Hank(Bill Paxton), his loser brother Jacob(Billy Bob Thornton) and Jacob's best friend, a boozy bud named Lou(Brent Briscoe) find the wreckage of an airplane in the heavy snowy Minnesota forests. The pilot encounters dead and appear a bag filled with various million dollars in stolen money, that they think is dope cash.The trio decide to keep silence about it and Hank hold the money hidden in his house.But someone else is looking for the money, a Fed agent(Gary Cole) and the sheriff(Chelcie Ross)are investigating. Besides, the Hank's mean and pregnant spouse(Bridget Fonda)brings out the greed and soon bad things start to happen to everybody those involved.This neo-noir story contains drama, thriller, tragedy and is quite entertaining. From the beginning to the ending, suspense and mystery is continuous. The film is plenty of twists, especially on its final part and the script is adapted from the 1993 novel by Scott Smith. The picture is well set and shot in rural small town of Delano, Minnesota. Acting by main actors is frankly excellent with special mention to Billy Bob Thornton and Bridget Fonda as the ambitious librarian wife. Suspenseful and atmospheric music score by Danny Elffman, he's Raimi's usual musician and appropriate cinematography by Kivilo . Firstly was Ben Stiller hired to direct the movie with Nicholas Gage as starring but his wage overall budget and they left , then was set Sam Raimi who made a magnificent direction. He learned techniques on filming in the snowy woods from the Cohen brothers who formerly had directed ¨Fargo¨, a story with certain similarity. Rating  Very good. Better than average. It's a ¨must see¨ for Billy Bob Thornton fans and suspense genre enthusiastic. "},{"Title":"Superb, flawless examination of greed (spoilers inside)","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"    You work for the American dream, you don't steal it Bill Paxton says in the film, and that line rings true until the very end.  The plot is simple.  Three men find 4.4 million dollars, and decide to keep it.  From than on, they remain tied to each other in a crime, yet they see it as finding lost treasure.  As soon as Jacob and Hank kill Stevenson, they are in even deeper.    We (the audience) is asked to accept the fact that these decent people are breaking the law, and sympathize with them.  It leads us through plot twists that expand on the film's haunting qualities.  Sam Raimi's direction is incredible, as is Scott Smith's script.  I have read the novel, and some things were changed.  However, the changes were necessary as some parts of the novel weren't cinematic.  The cinematography and score also lend themselves very well.  The performances are all incredible.  Billy Bob Thorton should have won the oscar for his thoughtful turn as Jacob, the dumber brother who realizes first that they've opened a Pandora's Box.   I wish someone else found that money.  When he said that, it's not just the loss of the money that makes him say that, it's the loss of his soul.  He is the first to realize that this will end in tragedy.  Bridget Fonda is remarkable in her Lady Macbeth-type role.  She's chilling and convincing as the wife who at firsts thinks the money should be burned, than changes her mind.  Bill Paxton plays the 'everyman' who is the smarter of the three men who find the money.  He is incredible, and holds this film together.  What makes this movie work is that it forces us to ask ourselves questions about our morality.  Not everyone will like the ending.  I think it is perfect.    Number 2 on my top ten of 1998 "},{"Title":"Do you ever feel evil?","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A Simple Plan is directed by Sam Raimi and adapted to screenplay by Scott Smith from his own novel of the same name. It stars Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thornton, Bridget Fonda, Brent Briscoe, Chelcie Ross and Jack Walsh. Music is by Danny Elfman and cinematography by Alar Kivilo.The snowy wilds of Midwest America, and two brothers and one friend unearth a crashed plane in the snow that hosts one dead pilot and a duffel bag with over $4 million dollars stashed inside. It's moral quandary time. Keep the money as it's probably drug money anyway, tell the police, or sit on it and wait to see what happens? A decision is made, and it literally turns everyone's life upside down...Scott B. Smith's novel was perfect for a filmic adaptation, in essence it's classic noir with its small town Americanna setting that houses a moral twist of fate that ultimately sees the town implode from within. How refreshing to find the author adapting his own source material, and not only that, to find that it has also gotten a grade A production from Raimi and his team.The story is in all truth simple, it asks the characters, and us, what to do when finding so much cash? Fate meant they found it and fate then dealt its moral card, from the point the decision is made, nothing will ever be the same. The tale spins the three male characters, and one pregnant wife, into a vortex of bad decision making and misery. Enter paranoia, greed, murder, panic and a whole host of other bad things to upset the equilibrium that once dominated their mundane, but safe, lives. Director Raimi, who apparently received coaching from his pals Joel and Ethan Coen about how best to work in the snow (the Fargo likeness is well noted by critics), ensures the coldness of the landscape dovetails perfectly with the untangling world of the protagonists. With the frost bitten locale acting as the extra character, and as an accomplice as it happens, Raimi slots in memorable imagery to tickle away at the senses. Animals figure most darkly, with crows and a fox in the hen house beautifully endorsing the themes of decay and the need to kill to survive. While the pacing is sublime, Raimi using a slow dripping tap method that tightens the screws until violence jolts the story, and us, to the precipice.As a character piece it's superbly mounted, where Raimi is indebted to a four pronged delivery of acting performances of some substance. Thornton was rightly lauded for his turn as the slower brother to Paxton's (excellent) all American nice guy, but Briscoe as the town drunk best friend and Fonda as the inverted femme fatale wife, also deserve great praise for realisation of characters that bring this Shakespearean neo-noir to vivid life. Elswhere the tech credits are thematically notable. Kivilo's photography is in sync with Raimi's ideals about the snowy backdrop playing a key part, and Elfman's score, while not something to interest potential newcomers to his work, works very well as blunderbuss percussion is replaced by appropriate woodwind that flits about the wooded surrounds with foreboding glee.At the end of the day it comes down to quality of story telling, in that regard A Simple Plan is a first class production. If you haven't seen the film or read the novel, then I certainly would recommend the novel to read first as there are inevitable tone downs in the movie. But that is not detrimental to the film's worth, for the visual version of Smith's novel is engrossing, chilling and poignantly bleak. And away from his Indies, it's still Raimi's most accomplished film so far, and he really should consider doing more neo-noir in the future. 9/10 "},{"Title":"One Man's Road To Hell","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When an ordinary man is presented with a chance to acquire a huge sum of money, he seizes the opportunity and in so doing, propels his entire life into an uncontrollable downward spiral. The tragic events that take place on his personal road to hell involve deception, betrayal and murder as well as the breakdown of a number of his close relationships. The main characters with whom he has contact are so realistically portrayed that their actions, although clearly criminal, are always made to seem totally believable.Hank Mitchell (Bill Pullman) is a decent guy who works as an accountant in a feed store in a quiet Midwestern town. He has a pregnant wife and enjoys the friendship and respect of everyone he knows. One New Year's Eve, he and his brother Jacob (Billy Bob Thornton) and Jacob's friend Lou (Brent Briscoe) are in the woods when they discover the wreckage of a plane covered in snow. Inside they find the dead body of the pilot and a bag containing $4.4 million in cash.Hank immediately suggests that they hand the money over to the police but Jacob and Lou see no reason why they shouldn't keep it. After a while, Hank agrees with their suggestion but only on the condition that he keeps all the loot until the following Spring by which time the crashed plane will have been discovered and it will be known whether anyone else intends to claim the cash. If they do, he'll simply burn the evidence; otherwise they'll split the money equally.The three men swear to keep their discovery a secret but Hank breaks his promise almost immediately when he shares the information with his wife Sarah (Bridget Fonda). The relationships between the men soon deteriorate as they become distrustful of each other and the actions that they have to take to avoid suspicion soon include murder. Lou demands some of the money and when Hank refuses, Lou threatens to speak to the police about Hank and Jacob's involvement in one of the killings. Hank and Jacob then conspire against Lou and further violent incidents follow before the problems caused by the money are finally brought to a halt.One of the most chilling aspects of this movie is the way the conspirators (who are just ordinary people at the outset), change so radically as a result of being involved in a crime. Their notions of morality alter rapidly and their readiness to carry out some heinous acts is truly shocking. All of this points to the view that money has the power to corrupt anyone and that under the thin veneer of decency that prevails in civilised society, a far more malign force lies ready to be unleashed whenever the right conditions exist.Bill Pullman's portrayal of a well-educated man who makes a dreadful decision that leads to awful consequences, is incredibly subtle and convincing. Billy Bob Thornton provides the movie's most outstanding performance as the seemingly not-very-bright Jacob who is actually more complex and sympathetic a character than he first appears and Brent Briscoe and Bridget Fonda do well in their roles.Overall, this is an exceptionally good thriller in which the atmosphere and the pacing of the action are perfect and director Sam Raimi's measured approach is extremely effective in building up the suspense. "},{"Title":"but the problem is that this plan doesn't go exactly as it was planned","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers, spoilers, spoilers...The first thing that drew my attention about a simple plan (1998) was the director's name Sam Raimi, the director of a horror movie which became a cult-movie Evil Dead (1981). With a simple plan, it is to believe that he decided not to stay confined to the horror movie but to try his hand at other cinema kinds. He chose wisely. We can sum up this movie, often compared with Fargo (1996) a movie by the Coen brothers by this sentence how an important amount of money can put an end to a friendship.Sam Raimi is a brilliant detective movie with allusion to Hitchcock the ravens evoke the ones of the birds. Moreover, one of them hurts Bill Paxton at the forehead, exactly like Tippi Hendren. There's another reference at Hitchcock the body of the dead pilot may evoke the stuffed old woman in Psycho.The success of a simple plan mainly rests on the actors who are cleverly directed Bill Paxton, at first sight appears as the most intelligent gut in the trio (he is graduated from university). However, I felt that Sam Raimi tried to make his weaknesses appear like for instance his anguished side when things don't go as they were planned, he tries with difficulty to keep his head and to make things as right as possible. But Paxton has also an easily influenced side. On that subject, Bridget Fonda is probably the most interesting character of all the film. I think Raimi, during the movie makes us guess that she wants to keep the money for herself and her husband Hank. Nevertheless, we could say that she's the one who makes the plot progress and create the situations. She's the one that gives her husband the information about the plane crash and above all she's the one who advises him about the decisions to make. And Paxton obeys her almost blindly. So, we can interpret one the last sequences when Paxton throws all the money into the fire like this he managed to free from his wife's influence.But according to me, the actor that dominates the cast is arguably Billy Bob Thornton. Of course, he didn't act only in good movies. His previous movie was Armageddon (1998) but when he's directed by a stern film-maker as Sam Raimi, the result is conclusive. He's excellent and sometimes very moving in his role of narrow-minded and naive man.There's also an outstanding emphasizing of the landscapes which confer to the movie a certain poetry and especially of the snow. Indeed, it can be useful to confuse the issue But look! It's going to snow soon! says Paxton to Fonda after this one put a part of the money back into the plane.This movie is ultimately a success mainly thanks to its actors. Highly recommended.   "},{"Title":"one of the best of 1998","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I thought this was certainly one of the best movies of 1998. The story was exciting and the acting was superb. This was one of those films that had all the ingredients a great movie needs. Perhaps the fall from grace the main characters exhibit was a bit of an exaggeration, but it was a powerful portrayal of what good people will do when put in a position that breeds greed. And again, the acting was magnificent. Besides the highly acclaimed performance of Thornton, there was the equally brilliant performance by Paxton, which up until this movie had yet to show that he was a great actor. He plays his character with an intelligence that only great actors have. The performance by Fonda is also strong. You don't just watch this movie, you experience it, and you feel that there is going to be a downward spiral that can't be stopped. A Simple Plan is certainly one of the best movies that came out last year, and although it doesn't have the happiest ending, it doesn't pull any punches either. Even though you feel bad for these characters, you can't really say that they didn't get what they deserved. "},{"Title":"Top 5 Film Class Movies FILM #2","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" We're up to my second favorite film from class with Sam Raimi's A Simple Plan. The very well told story of a family divided over what to do regarding the recovery of 4 million dollars from a downed aircraft in the remote woods of their small town. Bill Paxton plays the very intelligent Hank Mitchell, a humble man with a decent job and a pregnant wife, Sarah (Bridget Fonda). He is definitely the brains of the operation, having his slow-witted brother Jacob (Billy Bob Thornton) and obnoxious redneck Lou (Brent Briscoe) included in a plan to lay low with the money in case someone else is looking for it. What proceeds them are games of deceit and murder.There are many different aspects that are enjoyable to this film. The suspense of the story keeps you on the edge of your seat despite no use of flashy special effects. With no visual effects, the acting becomes that much more important. Thornton is my favorite of this film simply because there is no mildly retarded role he cannot fulfill with great precision and timing (He made the murderer Carl an American icon in Sling Blade). Jacob may be the long shot of the Mitchell kin, but he ends up being the most admirable of the two brothers. When everyone in the group begins talking about leaving the city and buying new cars, he makes it known he just wants to buy the family farm back. In a time of greed and self-indulgence, it depicts his love and faithfulness to his family (who obviously preferred the company of Hank over himself). Not one dollar is spent, yet all four start dreaming of the better life that would await them with the money. The greed theme plays out to be the ultimate demise of the common man with even Sarah, who was the voice of reason, violently making it known that she wants her cut of the money. Raimi makes use of the snowy season as his good friends the Coen brothers did for Fargo. The bright white surroundings of the chilly substance goes well with his characters&#133;very cold hearted. When good people begin killing and stealing, it just goes to show that money is the root of all evil. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie...","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you found four million dollars, would you keep it or turn it in? a   character asks his wife in A Simple Plan, which documents the events   of two men who choose to do what everyone always says they wouldn't do   but probably really would if they were given the chance.    What chance? A chance to take four million bucks, without anyone   knowing who took it, or even that it was taken at all. It's just a   simple plan for a simple event. But simple plans can be disastrous, as   A Simple Plan tells us, in which two brothers named Hank (Bill   Paxton) and Jacob (Billy Bob Thornton) discover a duffel bag full of   $4,400,000 in a crashed plane sitting out in the middle of an abandoned   nature preserve. Do they turn it in? Keep it? In a moment of weakness,   they choose to do the latter.    Hank's wife, Sarah (Bridget Fonda), is supportive of their decision.   She even tells Hank to return some of the money to the plane, to cover   their tracks. When Hank does this, it results in the death of a nosy   neighbor on a snowmobile. Soon this tragic chain of events slides into   even more murder and cover ups as one of Jacob's close friends and his   wife die, in short, because of Hank and his brother.    The town Chief of Police, Carl, suspects that something fishy is going   on. And when an FBI agent comes to town searching for the plane, Hank   has to face the facts that the man may not be from the FBI, but instead   might be one of two brothers whose ransom money was lost in the plane   crash.    The film reminds me of the Coen Brothers' amazing Fargo in many   different ways. Most noticeable is the landscape, as well as the   quirkiness of the film that lends a realistic tone to it. Also is the   spiraling downfall of the characters -- the events trigger one tragic   circumstance after another, eventually turning into murder and   double-crossing and greed.    Billy Bob Thornton turns in another great performance here as Jacob,   the lonely guy who has never kissed a girl but fondly remembers the day   that he held hands with a high school babe. His plan is to buy back the   family farm that his father once maintained. But underneath Jacob's   exterior is a heart with little armor. I feel evil, he says to Hank   after lying to the police about the death of his friend.    Hank, played by Bill Paxton, is the prime example of how greed can   corrupt a man. When they find the money, it is Hank's firm belief to   turn in the cash and report the plane to the police. He is convinced to   keep the cash, since it's probably dirty drug money. Soon he is the man   who is interested in the money more than anyone else. And by the very   end of the film, we realize that sometimes people do the worst things   for something they can never even have.    Paxton is one of our greatest actors, his credits ranging back to the   days of The Terminator (1984) and Aliens (1986). He's in most of   James Cameron's films, including those two mentioned before and   Titanic and Ghosts of the Abyss. He's not exactly one of mainstream   Hollywood's brightest stars, but here he proves that he can turn in a   better performance than some of the highest paid actors (*cough*, Tom   Cruise, *cough*) in cinema history.    The last fifteen minutes of A Simple Plan are tense, exciting and   unnerving. This is the type of movie where the hero knows the bad guy   is next to him, leading him towards his own death, but can't say   anything because then everyone will know that he committed a crime   himself. He has to pretend that he doesn't know the bad guy is a bad   guy. He has to pretend that everything is all right, even when he's   being led into a trap. And when the so-called FBI agent, Hank, Carl and   Jacob split up in the woods to search for the plane, I primed myself   for what was to come.    Is this the type of movie where the hero dies or lives? I won't ruin   the surprise. But I think the ending is entirely more meaningful than   it could have been if Sam Raimi, the director, had chosen a different   route. This is one of the best films of the past decade, and certainly   one of the most important.    4.5/5 stars.    - John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Do You Feel Evil? I Do, I Feel Evil.","Date":"8 March 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers AheadThe first thing is that this is the only Sam Raimi movie I own. Yes, it is dark as night, full of creepy naturalistic imagery. Who will see crows on a snowy branch ever the same? The naturalism extends to a concatenation of doom that opens with the fox breaking into the farmer's hen house which causes the truck crash leading the doomed men both to the crashed plane and to their Fate inextricably downwards. The movie rivals Blood Simple for its interconnected matrix of unintended consequences yet there is a deep moral base to this movie that Blood Simple lacked. Like Sierra Madre, little flaws in the relationships lead to devastating outcomes. Jacob and Hank have this tension between them, for their dead father losing the beloved farm that Jacob was counting on inheriting. Hank's father put him through college, then lost the farm. With the discovery of the four million, in what they mistake as a drug plane, the tenuous relationship between the brothers simply comes apart. What gives the movie its realism is Jacob's lack of intelligence which leads to the threads that unravel 'The Simple Plan.' Raimi's movie is deeply moral, we hear at the beginning Fonda clearly enunciating the right thing to do until the pile of money magically overcomes her theoretical scruples. SPOILER She actually initiates the first thread that leads with everyone but Hank and his new families' annihilation. Hank is forced to kill the farmer and the brothers continue their moral descent. My header is spoken by Jacob as Lou and his wife are the next to go. The killings are neither pre-meditated nor malicious, yet, see the cost upon the men. By the very end, Jacob cannot live anymore with the memories of what was done to obtain the money. There is a great ironic ending, I will not spoil for you, it demonstrates that assumption is the mother of all mistakes. Billy Bob gives a performance you will never forget as an outcast whose future was destroyed so Hank could get a college degree and have a beautiful family. This tension between the brothers adds such verisimilitude to the movie. This below the surface resentment of the brother who wiped out the farm, got the beautiful wife and rendered Jacob without a life haunts the movie. By the end of the movie, when Jacob tells Hank he simply cannot live with the horrors they performed for this money, it is rendered quite believable. His life was barely there, drinking with Lou, his only joy besides his dog. Jacob spends most of his time at the deserted farm, dreaming of the life his brother annihilated for him. These are the stars here Deep characterizations with people pursuing greed which leads them to increasingly horrible deeds which are usually performed as consequences of ones that came before. The naturalistic winter with the crows as existential similes for the cold coming out from inside of each of these normal people. Hank's wife trying to make the scene appear more untouched initiates the chain, but truly, Raimi wants you to see the opening shot of the fox in the hen house as the first link in this chain of Doom. Unlike Blood Simple, the cost of Evil upon its performers is delineated starkly. Hank hides it from himself, in the name of his new family; Jacob, being alone after Lou is shot, has nothing left. All he has is the memory of the killings performed for that existential restoration the farm. Jacob retains our sympathy for his simple mindedness; Hank manipulates and controls him using his love, as his brother, and his impossible fantasy of the lost farm's restoration to push him forward. The best of all of Raimi's movies for its moral depth, find me another film that shows what killing others for money does to the human Spirit other than Unforgiven?Dark and relentlessly downward the vortex of destruction we go, as the deeds to protect the money grow more and more heinous until we understand Jacob's nihilism. Raimi's message is heard near the beginning with Hank's wife reminding him how happy they are, why change anything? Ironically, Jacob had Lou, they had carved out as happy a life as he could ever have had. The crows on the branch are harbingers of Death; they wait to feed upon Evil. The creepy naturalistic imagery with the disturbing dissonant music will stay with you long after watching. Keep a watch over your Existential Winter, my friends, as I must do as well. The Crows Wait For Us All. A Very Good Movie. Q.E.D. Deus Vobiscum IMDb. Those Who Can Make You Believe Absurdities Also Can Make You Commit Atrocities. Voltaire "},{"Title":"What would you do? Exactly! Read on...","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A Simple Plan (1998)A brutally efficient script makes this seemingly simple movie take on serious formal and psychological depth. The question occurs to us all&#x97;what would you do if you found a bunch of money? It's not yours, but why not keep it?Indeed. And so it goes, with problems of guilt, trust, deception, persuasion, and cleverness. And inconsistency, as people change their minds.Everyone here puts in a good performance, with Billy Bob Thornton giving his role some amazing subtlety. (His performance of a slightly simple but actually smart man has more depth here, for me, than Sling Blade where he pushes it over the top.) The setting is Fargo country, some place far north and snowy. The implication is that people are honest and yet prone to the usual temptations. And that people know each other and you can't quite get away with anything. The light and the open flat land combine to add a tautness to the dialog, and the events as they keep slowly curling and surprising.No, it's not a Coen Brothers movie. It lacks some sense of poise and style for that. But director Sam Raimi has a direction of his own that works beautifully, a straight forward competence that you see in the Spider Man movies. Because this movie needs not distractions. It's about the script, and the delivery of that script. See it for that reason and be sucked in. "}{"Title":"A Simple Brilliant !","Date":"9 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Director by Sam Raimi Two brothers and a friend find $4 million in the cockpit of a downed plane. The pilot is dead. No one is looking for the money. To keep it, all they have to do is wait.A Simple Brilliant !.. what can i say, one of the best movies in the 90's, this film Reminds me of Fargo (Small town, Snow, crime, money and greed) The difference was on the plan and how the plan comes up Suddenly, the storyline in the film was excellent you wouldn't expect anything so there was many great scenes i will leave the rest for you to watch .Sam Raimi's direction is incredible, as is Scott Smith's script, really i didn't read the novel but i will soon, in the film i know there was a many changes but i'm really enthusiastic to read all Events .What makes this movie work is that it forces us to ask ourselves questions about our morality. Not everyone will like the ending. I think it is perfect.The Performances are universally excellent. Especially Billy Bob Thornton, who gives a truly great, and at times heartbreaking performance as a not very bright nor pretty middle-aged man that is doomed to life of loneliness.5/5 "},{"Title":"I marked spoilers...just in case...","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm known for spoilers &#x96; slap on my own wrist &#x96; but here, with A Simple Plan, I don't want to give away&#x85;anything. I will sum up with one of my favorite (two-part) quotes in the movie, and if you've seen this classic, you'll agree that this pretty much groups the entire movie togetherWell, it looks like we're both going to have a lot of explaining to do. &#x96; Neil Baxter (Cole.) Just me &#x96; Hank Mitchell (Paxton.)This movie, easily comparable to Fargo, but in my opinion &#x96; superior to Fargo, as well as Very Bad Things (that was released approximately three weeks prior &#x96; doubt that was a coincidence.) Heck, the entire movie's been done before. And that's okay because I always like to add to that famous Biblical quote there's nothing new under the sun&#x85;so make it your own. And they did.Brilliant script, believable acting and surroundings, great pacing and dialogue that was both real and shocking. They certainly proved that this could really happen&#x85; Sometimes good people do evil things.As for the acting, I was never a Bill Paxton fan, I guess until Frailty. Sure, he was good in Aliens and True Lies, but when he finally got serious in Frailty, so did I about him. He's funny, somewhat, as the giddy sidekick, but when he's the lead and he's the straight man, he truly shines. And he did here.But, the secondary actor, whom is also not one I favored originally, took the cake here in spades Billy Bob Thornton as Hank's brother, Jacob. Thornton displayed deep and emotional layers as the slow, but not stupid, simpleton who, indeed, loves the simple life with his buddy, Lou (Briscoe.) Furthermore, there was Fonda, who shocked the (blank) out of me &#x96; okay, I promised not to give anything away. But, suffice to say, she, too, was way above par. As were&#x85;the birds! I loved the birds. If nothing else, they'll give you a nice remembrance of Stephen King's The Stand film. (Dang it, there I go again.)Normally, I would give a synopsis, but again, I really want anyone who has not seen this to experience the joy of the film, the first-rate suspense and the twists and turns. I will commit to this When one think they're the smartest one in the room&#x85;RUN.I know I'm not giving much away here. Allow me to beg. This movie is nearly flawless (aside from possibly the worst Danny Elfman score &#x96; and that's saying a lot from someone who's on par 9.5/10 times) and should be seen by all.Side Note Yeah, I get why the score was the way it was&#x85;but that didn't stop it from s**king for the most part. There were times it was decent, outside of the main theme, that is. I love a powerful theme that can enhance the film and I hate a distracting score that can usually break it&#x85;fortunately, the incredible greatness here forgave the background music. Sorry, Elfman, not everyone can be John Williams. "},{"Title":"The Fargo of the year","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sam Raimi may be most at home with Horror, but his body of work in the last three decades has encompassed a variety of genres, the most intellectual of which is drama. One could argue that a Simple Plan is Raimi's smartest picture but it is not a film where we see any of his distinct auteurism. Equal credit for the film's reasonable competence goes to novelist Scott Smith, adapting his own novel for the screen.The plot bears some close resemblance to Fargo. One could argue that A Simple Plan is a few steps ahead of the Coen Brothers. It feels far less contrived, and has a bigger heart. Fargo is cold, cynical, but definitely creative. Anyway, that is another movieThree buddies find a plane wreck in the woods, and inside is a sack containing four million dollars. They agree to keep it hidden until they are convinced that the police are not looking for it. Sounds simple enough, but things get ugly pretty quickly.I've never thought much for either Bill Paxton or Brigit Fonda, but A Simple Plan shows them at their best, although Billy Bob Thornton's is the most accomplished performance of the movie. The movie is one worth seeing, it is admirable and thought provoking. There is nothing necessarily unique about it, but then again uniqueness is a rare gift for a movie to have. "},{"Title":"A simple enough plan but Raimi delivers a thrilling and rather complex study of morality and loyalty.","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sometimes I get the feeling Sam Raimi, as a director, just wants to have fun when he makes a film. Yes, he's interested in story and characterisation but he really just wants to deliver an experience that the audience will go away feeling good about. Whether it's a coming of age fable in Spider Man 2 that comes complete with a range of rather epic fight scenes with a tentacled antagonist, or a Western-come-revenge tale complete with hard bodied female lead as more of a match for her male counterparts in The Quick and the Dead or even the classic 'last stand' scenario complete with balance of inventive camera work and lashings of gore as seen in The Evil Dead; Sam Raimi toys with genre, delivers generic pictures but plays and has fun with other conventions, usually culminating in creating something a little special. A Simple Plan is his morality tale crime saga about small town American life and what the American dream really means to some people.I think A Simple Plan is Raimi's best film from what I've seen, and it carries that timeless re-watchable feel that all great films of this ilk carry; that sort of familiar premise done really, really well no matter who produces them and when they're made. The set up in this case is relatively simple; the sort in which locals encounter a large amount of money apparently unowned given the initial carrier lays there dead, and debate over whether or not to take it. Of course the film does not revolve around this decision in one scene as much as it does the whole film. In recent picture No Country for Old Men, it takes Moss about five seconds to swipe the money and a lifetime in trying to keep it; here, it's not so much about trying to keep it as much as it is whether they should or not.In Hank Mitchell (Paxton), you have the all American; clean cut; small town guy who gets along with his healthy lifestyle; good job and loving wife named Sarah (Fonda) who's additionally got a baby on the way. It is less-so this character and more-so this mentality or persona that is placed in the moral predicament do you take the money in order to keep it or do you take it in order to hand it in? Initially reluctant, Hank is given the burden but only after some persistence from a Southern buddy named Lou Chambers (Briscoe) whose eyes light up with dollar signs in a second, perhaps similarly to Moss' in recent said film.The visual clue Raimi drops is to do with the birds that house the downed plane housing the dead pilot and the cash in the first place. Crows; crows as scavengers, feeding off the dead pilot's body and taking what it is they have found through this act of chance that was the initial plane crash. Now the human beings have arrived, they too must decide if they are to scavenge from the wreck they have stumbled upon &#150; it's true that it isn't a matter of life and death with them, but it that doesn't mean the decision isn't life changing.The film raises questions to do with one's identity and one's drive to follow through with a new-found sense of greed. It is no coincidence that the money is stumbled upon whilst everyone is on the brink of the start of a new year. Everything is 'all change' and Hank is taking on a scenario and a belief that the right or at least sensible thing to do is to keep the money and split it between Lou and his slightly more simple brother Jacob (Thornton) with whom he finds it with. It is a clash of mentalities and a stirring of the conscience on the brink of a new beginning and it is truly interesting to watch unfold amid everything else.In true classical noir fashion, Hank narrates the story from the future in a downbeat and somewhat sad tone, perhaps reluctant? The sorts of questions that I began asking myself half way through were to do with whether he'd been caught or perhaps someone that meant a lot to him had died or maybe something else was afoot. So if we are invited to see the film through Hank's eyes then all the suspense and drama that arises as a direct result of others, either suspicion or stupidity, resonates with us in the same manner in which it does with Hank. We feel that fear or that pinch that something might, possibly go wrong here and there during some scenes and it is genuinely good film-making on a dramatic and engaging level.Sadly, Jacob's idiocy forces some of the more unnecessarily nervous moments in the film further placing Hank in a situation that may test both his patience and loyalty towards his brother and it's fascinating to see it all unfold. What I really liked was how each character's dream was set up; about how Jacob wants to get a farm going again with the money and that Sarah wants lots of wonderful things for the baby and that she doesn't want, what she deems to be, the pauper lifestyle she's living with Hank right now. The scenario tests the mental agility of its clean-cut characters and murder and betrayal are two of the many ingredients in this pacey and quite gripping thriller that I think will remain many-a person's favourite in years to come. "},{"Title":"A very good suspense film that you won't forget","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Whew! I just finished watching this again and forgot what a masterpiece this film was. Sam Raimi did an excellent job on this film.Long of the short of it is that this film is about a bunch of guys that find a bag of money and deal with the problems involved with it. I figure this is nasty enough as it is and in reality if you look at it you can definitely see where the tension is at.Anycase looking at this film from the long point you can't but help think about what you would do in the same situation. I mean me? I would take a nice little trip to another country and enjoy the privilege of one of those nice little ask no questions bank accounts. The movie overall has a very dark plot over a very bleak atmosphere. I mean if I didn't double check I would have said this was a work by stephen king! Of course at the end you can see that one of the characters is shelving a Stephen King novel, Coincidence? I don't think so! If you are a fan of Stephen King works or just like a good suspense film I recommend this as a high quality ride that you wont forget. "},{"Title":"Great old-fashioned morality tale.","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Jesus, is this a good movie.  Sam Raimi is one of the great underrated talents of Hollywood and with this achievement I hope he gets some of the recognition he deserves.  Equal credit must go to screenwriter Scott Smith and actors Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thornton.  There's a scene at the climax of the film that will just tear your heart out and the reason it works is because it's not only written well but acted excellently.  If either of those elements had been sub-par the whole thing would have fallen like a bad souffle.  This movie is a testament to the craftsmanship of solid collaboration. "},{"Title":"What NOT to do if you find millions of dollars","Date":"17 February 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" (59%) A largely paint by numbers morality tale in a similar shape to the much better Fargo, featuring a good central performance from Bill Paxton and more than decent support backing him up. The premise is one of such dramatic substance and fuel for What would you do? type debate that even a lousy writer such as Skip Woods, or Eli Roth could squeeze at least some intrigue out. Where this does come off the rails a bit revolve around the character's decisions being clearly wrong-footed from the start. And even though the characters featured are supposed to be dimwitted, it still makes for a film that doesn't really push the premise to any real limit because the characters couldn't make more of a hash of things even if they tried. This is still an interesting, well made film, and it's worth a look, but it just doesn't quite make it as a true future classic. "},{"Title":"A Simple Plan is a great suspense film from Sam Raimi","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The leading performances of Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thornton, and Bridget Fonda are excellent as is that of Gary Cole in a role that shouldn't be a surprise to anyone who knows his work. Two supporting players that really impressed me, however, were those of Brent Briscoe and Becky Ann Baker (who I recognized from Freaks and Geeks) as Lou and Nancy Chambers. Brisco brings a slightly obnoxious but somewhat lovable vibe as the co-conspirator in the money laundering scheme that when his fate happens, you feel a little sorry for him. Ditto Nancy as she cries when she sees what happens to her husband and her eventual fate as well. Great atmospheric direction from Sam Raimi accompanied by a very suitable score by Danny Elfman. And the constant scenes of snow and the animals that inhabit them are so beautiful despite the mostly suspenseful tone throughout. So having said all that, I highly recommend A Simple Plan. "},{"Title":"A Good Movie","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Recently, I found a copy of this movie in an old box of home video releases and watched it for the first time. All I knew about the film was my recollection of a thumbnail sketch of the story and that it had received good reviews when it first came out, almost ten years ago. Watching the TV reviews again on a website archive (Gene Siskel reviewed it two months before his death, with Roger Ebert), I was reminded of the praise for the film's acting, pacing, and foreboding mood. Reading the reviews on this site, I enjoyed the insights that some of them, both positive and negative, had to offer. Unfortunately, too many of the reviews, often very skimpy, went way over the top one way or the other without making any serious attempt to explain why (the movie is neither a masterpiece nor a disgrace) and got bogged down in lazy, sloppy, inapt comparisons (this is not Fargo or Macbeth), trivial hang-ups (whether a character behaved exactly as the reviewer would have liked or a body flew at exactly the right angle after being shot by a rifle), and tedious platitudes (greed is bad, money is the root of all evil).I saw nothing to complain about in the writing or lead performances, maybe because they were built on a strong foundation of the book (I have not read it but it has received a lot of praise). Bill Paxton does a solid job. He looks and acts persuasively his all-American boy-next-door role. Bridget Fonda, as his soft-on-the-surface but hard-as-nails wife, plays a terrific scene of brutal honesty about her life and conveys a merciless, misguided, blinkered sense of intelligence. The character of Paxton's brother, played by Billy Bob Thornton, shows some depth, surprises, and touches that make it much more than a stereotypical portrayal of a retard. There is smart, honest dialogue. Some examples are Fonda telling Paxton that he would not be suspected of wrongdoing because he is so normal, various characters calling each other on their mistakes and illusions, and Thornton confiding under stress to Paxton uncomfortable facts about his growing up and their father's demise. Contrary to the negative reviews, the movie manages to make the characters' downward spiral into ever-more disastrous events seem convincing, through its well-done set-up and depiction of them. The characters make so many mistakes because of their limitations and because the situation they face is so new and unusual to them. Of course the movie exaggerates, but it is handled well and makes a point. Its mundane ending is an interesting commentary.On the other hand, the negative reviews are right that the film's animal imagery, especially an early, noisy, ugly scene in the crashed airplane, comes across as heavy-handed and overdone. The tone is set well enough by the deeply unhappy, going-through-the-motions characters, grim events, and daily-grind, snowy-wilderness surroundings, without having to go to excess with the ear-piercing, carrion-foraging black birds. I suppose the intended message may be that the human beings in the story, although horrified by the flesh-eating birds, become little better than them in the end. Still, the symbolism in the movie feels clumsy and distracting, rather than seamlessly enhancing the story (maybe it was handled better in the book). At times, Paxton and Thornton do not seem very believable as brothers, though to some extent their incompatibility is the point. Some supporting characters and performances, particularly the dim-witted sheriff, are weak. Gary Cole is completely wasted in the film. And the pacing gets a little forced toward the end of the movie.It makes me uncomfortable to read simpering, simplistic, one-sided reviews, long on mindless hype and boosterism, that give a seriously flawed movie an easy pass, make no attempt to come to grips with its problems or, worse, try to dump on anyone who points them out, as with the lazy, unintelligent flicking of the not helpful button on others. Such reviews offer little or nothing of value and only contribute to the impression that moviegoers are suckers. But it also bothers me to read hatchet-job reviews that become so self-indulgent in coming up with supposedly clever put-downs and in heaping on the vitriol that they show no appreciation for what the film does, or attempts to do, well in individual scenes and in its larger design. Sometimes they read as if they were based on preconceived, surface-level, gut-driven reactions formed without even watching the movie very well or at all, which can make them completely worthless and a waste of everyone's time. Unduly negative reviews can give as false an impression about what is on the screen as overly positive ones. Overall, A Simple Plan is a well-acted, well-written, well-paced movie with some real intelligence. "},{"Title":"A Simple Plan - A Complex Masterpiece","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Three men are walking around in a snow covered forest somewhere in Minnesota. They find a plane wreck, and in the plane wreck they find 4.4 million dollars. They decide too keep it, hide it for some time and to split it up and move away as soon as the air is clean. But what they thought to be a simple plan turns into a nightmare of greed and murder.The basic premise of this movie is not very original, but the way the story unfolds is absolutely brilliant. We are shown how a regular guy commits a crime and then gets drawn into a whirlpool of terror, forced to commit even worse crimes in order to cover for the original one. In the end you could call him a mass murderer. What is great about the screenplay is that it is able to convince us that this is something that could happen to anyone. The Performances are universally excellent. Especially Billy Bob Thornton, who gives a truly great, and at times heartbreaking performance as a not very bright nor pretty middle-aged man that is doomed to life of loneliness.This is a must-see for everyone who knows what's good "}{"Title":"An incredible, flawless film - must see","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Films like A Simple Plan don't come along very often.  From the moment it begins with the opening credits, you know that something magical is about to take place.The movie keeps you glued to every detail, and you will find yourself wanting to slap those who make smack their popcorn during this fantastic dialogue (who could chomp on popcorn during dialogue and acting of this magnitude? Only a surface moviegoer, and this is definitely not a surface film.)I didn't think Billy Bob Thornton could ever equal the performance he delivered in Sling Blade as I found it to be one of the finest performances ever captured on film, but he has.  His performance is tour-de-force.  You won't find a bad performance in this film - not one. The script is flawless, each moment is visually breathtaking, the music is perfect and the continual build-up of suspense will leave you breathless.You will re-think all of your daydreams about what you would do if you found a million dollars........ "},{"Title":"Just one of those movies in which everything adds up perfectly.","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those rare fairly recent movies in which everything just adds up perfectly. It also pleases me to see that you don't necessarily need a big budget to make a brilliant with these days and still have a great talented and acclaimed cast & crew involved in it.This movie has always been compared a lot to Fargo. And yes, there also are similarities; both movies involve a large sum of movie, both involve some odd but yet realistic character, both involve killings, both involve a seemingly good plan that goes from bad till worse and both involve snow. A lot of snow. A Simple Plan is also a very white looking movie, which provides the movie with a good- as well as beautiful looking settings and atmosphere. But perhaps the reason why this movie never really became a financial or critical big success was also Fargo. This movie was made only 2 years after the brilliant Fargo and like always the majority of the public say this movie as a bad copy, trying to cash in after the success of Fargo. And also like always, the movie is now, almost 10 years later, slowly gaining more credit and is better known and watched by more and more people.What mainly makes A Simple Plan such a great movie is that it features ordinary everyday people. It makes the characters and therefor the movie as a whole, a very realistic feeling one to watch. It of course also helps that they are being played by some top-class actors. It's funny how Bill Paxton always basically plays the same guy but hey, he's good at it. Billy Bob Thornton is also always at his best playing these sort of simple minded characters. This is yet another wonderful performance by him and he rightfully so was also nominated for an Oscar for it.This is not really the sort of movie you 1,2,3 would expect from a guy like Sam Raimi. There is also basically very little in this movie that can be described as 'typicaly Raimi'. Not even Ted Raimi is present in it! Everything indicates that his is just an in between little project for him, which all makes it sort of ironic that this is also one of his best movies.It has a very effective story, that on top of all things is really well written and constructed. It's a character movie but also with lots of twists and turns in the actual plot. The story style reminds us of a good old fashioned film-noir. It's about ordinary people who get themselves into an ordinary situation. They form 'a simple plan' but almost immediately things start to go from bad till worse, without giving any spoilers. The story was written by Scott B. Smith, who based it on his own novel. The screenplay was even nominated for an Oscar as well.A rare great movie, that is so great due to its realistic approach, performances and a well written and constructed story.10/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"All ingenious - is simple!","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  All ingenious - is simple. The excellent script, is included into my 5 favourite films, the atmosphere - amazing, grasps film from the very beginning, more human drama it is difficult to find. The human factor is at the head of a corner, film has set me thinking, a tower has broken capitally! Money spoil people and at times people do the big mistakes in a pursuit of these. In the chapter of all human tragedies there is a nonsense and abjectness, it is possible to mean abjectness of money. Communication with Fargo I do not see, two different films though in both big role play money. Only in a case from Fargo people earned on it and went intentionally. That here more thin picture, about that as usual would seem people can make acts in a cut to the values.10/10  "},{"Title":"When Simple Becomes Complex","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Three guys stumble onto the wreckage of a small plane that happens to contain a stash of cash. What's interesting here is the men's decision-making process, as unforeseen events intervene in their plan. As their greed overwhelms the men's ethics and common sense, their collective predicament just gets worse, and what seemed so simple at first becomes more and more complex. The plot does contain some unexpected twists and turns. But the overall story is made possible only because the men are so stupid.Actually, I could not identify with any of them. The Jacob character is totally not consistent from one moment to the next. You get the feeling that his inconsistencies are included as a contrivance to keep the plot moving. Billy Bob's performance renders Jacob annoying and grating after about ten minutes. Bill Paxton seems to be on auto-pilot through most of the film. And the transformation of Bridget Fonda's character is not the least bit believable.The film's cinematography is competent but conventional. Production design seems low budget to me, but maybe it's because the story takes place in a rural setting.A Simple Plan renders greed a lot less glamorous than society makes it out to be. Perhaps that's the film's saving grace. But the characters are all so simple-minded, so dim-witted, and their decision-making skills so moronic, the story is just not very credible. "},{"Title":"Not A Message To Be Dismissed","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A good beginning gets your attention quickly in this film, but then a bit too talky for a long spell in the middle before momentum is regained. The finale is very interesting.The story is a good illustration of what greed can do to people, and that crime does not pay. As I was watching it, I thought it was okay film but apparently was better than that because it stayed with me for a while. It's not a film you dismiss right away.I've never been a big fan of Bill Paxton as an actor, maybe because of his stupid voice. However, I thought he did a fine job in A Simple Plan. Billy Bob Thornton plays another interesting role, nothing new in that regard and Bridget Fonda is about as unglamorous as you'll ever see her.This is one of those movies that is better in retrospect and I would gladly watch it again now that it's been awhile since I've seen it. "},{"Title":"See it if you haven't yet","Date":"2 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am surprised this movie has not scored a 10 out of 10 and did not bring to its creators as much cash as was spent on its production. From the opening shot, you get completely immersed into the plot, setting and characters' lives. Scenery and interiors are masterfully chosen to set the right mood, and impeccable acting by Paxton, Thornton, Fonda and Briscoe will move even the most emotion-deprived viewer, it seems. This movie is one of those rare productions that make you believe there is hope for the American cinematography, after all... even though six Oscars to The Hurt Locker and not even a nomination for A Simple Plan suggest otherwise.... "},{"Title":"Things don't always go as simply as planned","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Simple easily understood or done; presenting no difficulty. Plan A detailed proposal for doing or achieving something.How often does a simple task, such as hanging up a picture or changing the lock on a door, turn into a far more complicated project than when it was first started? Sadly, more times that I'd personally like to think about. There's an expression the best laid plans of mice and men often go astray, meaning that no matter how well you plan for something, there's always something that comes along to mess things up. A Simple Plan, from director Sam Raimi, is a perfect illustration of how things can go unbelievably bad, incredibly fast, no matter how simple the plan.Hank (Bill Paxton) has everything he needs to be a happy man; a pregnant wife who loves him, a decent job, and neighbors who like and respect him. One day while out in the woods, Hank, his brother Jacob (Billy Bob Thorton) and Jacob's friend Lou (Brent Briscoe), stumble across a snow- covered airplane. After searching the wreckage, they discover a duffel bag filled with money; Four million, four hundred thousand dollars to be exact. Although unsure where the money came from, Hank is convinced by Jacob and Lou that it's in their best interest to take the money for themselves. After coming up with a simple plan to sit on the money for some time, Hank takes the money home for safe keeping. It doesn't take long before greed, necessity, and temptation overwhelm the men, causing distrust. As other people are made aware of the money, the problems increase, leading to conflict between brothers, friends and family. Things intensify all the more, when someone comes looking for the missing money.Director Sam Raimi, mostly known for Evil Dead and the Spider-Man trilogy, does a spectacular job of turning Scott B. Smith's novel and screenplay into a modern-day masterpiece. Raimi does a wonderful job of perfectly pacing the film and slowly establishing the growing tension that evolves once opportunity presents itself, before the shocking finale. In typical Raimi fashion, there are shockingly brutal scenes throughout the highly suspenseful film, but all tastefully done.Bill Paxton gives one of the few fine performances of his career; another would come three years later in Frailty. Paxton's ability to play the nice guy is done in such a relaxing manner, he makes the character easily someone your able to relate to. The complex transformation Hank goes through is made all the more true to human nature, thanks to Paxton.Billy Bob Thornton, nominated for Best Supporting Actor, portrays Jacob as a bit mentally challenged, only to show that he's not quite as simple-minded as one would think. Early in his career, Billy Bob played some very well written characters; such as Ray Malcoln in One False Move, and Karl Childers in Sling Blade for which Thornton was nominated for Best Actor and won the Best Adapted Screenplay Oscar®.Brent Briscoe, mostly known for a number of small character roles in film and on television, easily gives the most memorable performance of his career as the troubled and desperate Lou. The camaraderie between Briscoe and Thornton, which started when they worked together on Sling Blade, is plain to see.Bridget Fonda, the unsung star of the film, gives a Lady Macbeth like performance as Hank's pregnant wife Sarah. Sarah starts as the loving wife, only to become the dark side of Hank's conscience, planting the seeds of despair in his mind pushing him to make rash decisions for which there's no coming back.A Simple Plan, similar to the Cohen Brothers' great film, Fargo, is very well written, directed and acted film; a dark, intriguing, and intense character study of choices made and the ramifications of those choices. Although Billy Bob's performance was the only thing the film was recognized for, there are arguments that could be made that the acting performances by Bill Paxton and Bridget Fonda, as well as Sam Raimi's direction, went unrecognized, undeservedly so. Similar is style to the Cohen Brothers' great film, Fargo, A Simple Plan is by no means a happy film, it is a pleasant surprise just how good it truly is.Grade Avisit our site at www.twodudereview.com "},{"Title":"When Bad Things Happen to Idiots","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I don't normally get squeamish about film, but this one was hard for me to watch. I knew pretty much what was going to happen. It just hurt to watch it. The plot begins with a couple of local yokels and a brother and friend, coming upon a crashed plan in the snow and finding millions of dollars. I live in rural Minnesota and that place looked like a hundred I've seen. Of course, they had that moment of should we turn this in? or Should we keep it for ourselves. One look at two of these guys and there is no question which direction it's going to go. The key element is that the sensible one sets up a scheme by which they can put off spending the money and all be rich...at a future time. We all know what's coming. The movie is about the relationship among these three and what happens to them as a result of their simple plan. There's that old saying, Three can keep a secret if two of them are dead, or something like that. How this movie plays out is satisfying but so hurtful to watch. In essence, we kind of like these guys. They each have their own issues, for some just plain stupidity. I gritted my teeth and watched, but I can't get it out of my thoughts. "},{"Title":"An Enjoyable Plan","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A simple plan has got it all, good drama, excitement and great acting! Billy bob does as usual a great part and so did Bill Paxton. This is probably Sam Raimis best work. It takes place out in the country during the winter and the two brothers and their friend finds an abandoned airplane. In the airplane they found a bag containing 4 million dollars, unmarked cash. They agree to keep it a secret and to share the money. But what they don't know is that someone is searching for the money.This is a movie containing betrayal and murders.See it! "},{"Title":"Gripping, Beautifully Acted, Unpredictably Suspenseful Stolen Money Thriller","Date":"23 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Just outside a snowy rural town, three men find a crashed plane with a bag full of money. They make an uneasy pact to hide it and wait until the authorities discover the crash to gauge if they can keep the loot. But the best laid plans of mice and men ...A Simple Plan is a stark, wintry, black-hearted fable of human greed. As a comment on humanity it is almost unremittingly bleak - basically everything goes wrong for and with Hank, Jacob and Lou from the moment they find the money - which may explain why it isn't very well known. However, as an execution in style and suspenseful storytelling it is a brilliant achievement for screenwriter Scott B. Smith (based on his own novel) and director Raimi in an eye-opening move away from the visually dazzling histrionics of his previous work. Whilst there are occasional gasping moments (the bird attack, the sudden rustling of a hospital curtain, the shootout at Lou's house), almost all of the horror comes from the avaricious, mistrusting, pathetic nature of the characters, and in particular the depravities that Hank and his wife will sink to in desperate times. Fonda's big speech near the end, where she describes normal everyday chores as if they were beneath contempt, contrasted with the initial, simple beauty of her character we are introduced to, perfectly sums up this morality tale, and is profoundly effective. Only the borderline-simpleton Jacob emerges with any sort of dignity, and his fate is the most cruel and horrible of all. Raimi works closely with his actors, gently pulling fine performances from all (especially Paxton and Thornton), but also gives his movie an icy sheen - coldness visualised - with many intriguing motifs (foxes and crows, tracks in the snow, Jacob's taped-together glasses) and exquisite pacing, slowly allowing the characters to figuratively dig their own graves. All of this is augmented with a rich, subtle score by Danny Elfman, which traces the moods of the characters, and evokes the loneliness of the location and the tragedy of the story. As in the most evocative drama, the storytelling is carefully minimised, with only a few characters and no subplots, making the suspense all the more uncomfortable. Raimi has often been dismissed by critics as a director who relies too much on flashy technique, with cartoon people in his movies - they should check this out and eat their words. A first-rate thriller on the true nature of evil. "}{"Title":"Plan Gone Awry","Date":"20 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Two brothers stumble upon millions of dollars in the wreckage of a small plane crash, but it changes their lives for the worse. It starts with an intriguing premise but loses steam because the plot developments are too contrived and the characters are too stupid. The rapid transformation of Paxton from a man with the convictions of a Boy Scout to a cold-blooded killer is never believable. Thornton does crazy as well as anyone, but his character is too unpredictable to be interesting. Fonda, playing a variation on Lady Macbeth, is given little to do except move the story forward with her lame schemes. The film manages to be entertaining, but could have been much better. "},{"Title":"Haunting thriller","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sam Rami, famed director of both the low-budget Evil Dead trilogy and blockbuster Spider-man trilogy, directed A Simple Plan, a haunting tale which explores the darkness of human nature. Scott Smith wrote both the screenplay and novel of the same name. A Simple Plan features a great cast which includes Bill Paxton, Bridget Fonda, Billy Bob Thorton and Brent Briscoe. As Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thorton and Brent Briscoes's characters walk through the woods, they discover a crash- landed airplane. When Paxton's character ventures inside the wrecked plane, he discovers both the corpse of the pilot and a large bag which contains four million dollars of unmarked bills. After discussing their options, the three men decide to keep the money. They discuss a simple plan to store it safely until they are sure that no one is looking for it, after which they will split the money and leave town.Smith plots this film in a meticulous fashion. This initial crime spirals out of control as the men continue to make bad judgments and are forced to cover up their successive crimes. A simple theft soon turns into a series of murders. This film grows in intensity as these average men are sucked into committing unimaginably evil deeds. Billy Bob Thorton's acting in this film is nothing short of fantastic. This film takes place in a bleak winter setting which contributes to its dark theme. This film is both thrilling and heartbreaking. It takes you through these character's actions, step by step, showing the audience how easily greed is able to corrupt good people into committing unspeakable acts. "},{"Title":"A Simple Story","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A Simple Plan  is a simple story of how people can be corrupted by greed . Two brothers,one of them not very bright,and a friend happen upon a crashed plane containing 4 million dollars,the story of how they plan to hold onto the cash while battling against a fate which has decreed that everything that can go wrong will go wrong makes an engrossing film. There are strong performances from Bridget Fonda, Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thornton who is outstanding as the slow witted Jacob. I do not share another reviewer's opinion that the downbeat ending detracts from the quality of the film any other outcome, in view of what goes before,would have been crass. "},{"Title":"Thornton's performance is wonderful.","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is one of the best I've seen this year.  It's absolutely believable that good people could find themselves in the evil situations that present themselves in the movie.  Thornton is wonderful as the simple-minded Jacob.  As I write this, it's a few days 'till Oscar time, and it'll be a crime if he doesn't get the award for best supporting actor.The scenes of violence are jarring, and not overly done with special effects, but the situations and actions are explosive.  I don't know what the work in progress ending was, but in the final version I saw, the ending was totally surprising.  Yes, a little of a 'downer,' but it's completely in keeping with the overall tone of the plot.  Definitely one to see, if it's gone from theaters in your area, get the video when it is released.  "},{"Title":"Sam Raimi is the best!!!","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The film first caught my eye a few years ago and I had really wanted to get it then but couldn't find it anywhere. Seriously! The title alone mystified me and after reading what the film was about I was greatly intrigued by this film. One of the reasons why this captivated me was because the title, a simple plan, had a sense of sarcasm stuck to it. It should have read not a simple plan. Only a genius like Sam Raimi can do something like that to make you love the movie before you have seen it. He has created blockbusters like The Spider-man Trilogy, The Evil Dead Trilogy, Darkman, and Drag Me To Hell, and I have to say that A Simple Plan tops that list in an instance. I had high hopes for this film but not too high and I was surprised to see this movie wrap around me like a warm, bloody blanket. Sam has done a great job and why isn't this on the IMDb top 250 list! It should be on there!!! The cast is perfectly chosen because it contains actors who have a lot of talent to give to this film and who also are quite famous so you can say, Hey, I know that guy...and that guy too. Matter of fact, I know them all!. The depiction of innocent Hank to not so Innocent Hank is portrayed with great execution by Bill Paxton. He plays his role smartly, seriously, and enthusiastically, couldn't say that in the movie though. Jacob is Hank's older brother and his life isn't as great as his brothers. I guess, you could call him a loser! And do you know who plays him? Yep, you're right, Billy Bob Thornton is the appropriate choice for the portrayal of Jacob. This role should have helped him for Bad Santa. Life is the same, personality ain't. Bridget Fonda plays, at first, a charming pregnant lady who is the wife of Hank. Things are going well, until the money rolls in and from then on she becomes a great tactician on how to hide the money and keep it safe. She is deceiving and her intentions become clearer on how to use the money at the end. In my opinion, I consider her act the finest and tastiest. There have been a lot of questions on which one is better The novel or The film. I haven't read the novel, nor plan to, but whatever anything originates from is not as good as the original. That is my saying. The motion picture will sound lame to you at first but, hey, looks can be deceiving. To me it seemed like an drama that moves slowly and boringly but , in fact, this picture is quite the opposite. The first few minutes are slow but from then on a trail of murder, deception, and cover ups lie in the way for Hank and his brother. The first murder scene was unexpected and it shocked me but then when the second murder scene came on, I knew from then on that this was the beginning of a long and murderous task.(minor spoilers)It all starts when Hank, his brother Jacob, and Jacob's friend, Lou, are driving when a fox run in front of their car and later, their dog follow the fox. The trio discover an abandoned, crashed plane, that, mysteriously, has four million dollars in cash in it. The bunch decide on keeping the money if no one claims it by Spring break and they have to let Hank Keep it, considering that Hank can be the only one trusted. Hank shows the money to his wife Sarah and, at first, she doesn't want to keep it but, eventually, realizes on how the money can make their lives better. To seem like that no one has stolen the money, she asks Hank to return five hundred thousand dollars back, and he happily does. A nosy farmer on his ski disturbs things and they kill him. This is the first of their murders and the rest have to follow. The ending will be one of the best in a long time because it doesn't contain one twist but instead three. How about it folks? (spoiler end)The murders are brilliantly planned as they hit you in the face with a sick churn. They are sickening and very shocking. The deaths and blood do not terrify me but instead on saying Sometimes good people to evil things. It is pretty hard watching an innocent man with no reason to hurt anyone to someone who you do not want to be near with. The thought of it terrifies me! The actors portray these scenes very realistically and carefully. The haunting music that goes along with this film creates the atmosphere that this film really needs to succeed. The ending was even better than The Mists, and that was a beautiful one. My favorite bit was when (Spoiler) they find out the whole thing was useless because the money could not be used(spoiler end) and my worst bit was (spoiler) the ending again, because I had to watch all that money go to waste when it could've been filling my tummy with food(spoiler End). Final Thoughts This is a awesomely crafted thriller that will captivate audiences in the very first twenty minutes, and I can guarantee that. It lacks in nothing and has everything. This film will live with me since I die! A great film! 10/10 - first movie so far of 2010. "},{"Title":"Dark and well acted","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I went into this movie with high expectations. I was somewhat disappointed, but this is still a good film.Acting was great, great, great, especially Billy Bob and Paxton. Paxton surprised me with the depth of his acting and I walked away with a new respect for the man. Billy Bob Thornton is just, you know, Billy Bob, so he always gives a great performance. A magnificent supporting cast of Bridget Fonda, Brent Briscoe, Chelcie Ross and Gary Cole lend some real grit to the story. So the acting I cannot fault.The cinematography is unreal. Some of those snow covered scenes took my breath away, sending me back to my time spent in the woods on snowy evenings as a kid. Just incredible.The story was nicely developed as well. However my problems lies on how long it took for something to happen. It would be no problem leaving at least 15 or 20 minutes of this film on the cutting room floor, and it would add so much more to the pace and excitement of this movie. Some films, like Blind Horizon and Blood Simple, rely on a slower pace to add more to the plot development. However, this is not the case for A Simple Plan. It is what separates this film from being good and from being great. Hat's off to Mr. Raimi for his exploration into new territory for him with this film, but like Spiderman and Evil Dead, there can be too much of a good thing. "},{"Title":"The best laid schemes of mice and men .....","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Three men go into a snowy nature preserve in pursuit of their dog who's run off after a fox when they stumble across the wreckage of a small plane wedged in the trees.  Inside is a bag of money.  A whole lot of money.  $4.3 million in neat bundles of hundred dollar bills.  Turn it in or keep it?  It's an interesting dilemma and one that drives the plot of this pretty decent film.  Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thornton are two thirds of the trio that finds the money and they're brothers.  Paxton is the responsible one who's married and has a job, Thornton is the oddball in the family.  Together, they make this movie worth watching.Billy Bob Thornton is just goofy and unpredictable enough to keep you in suspense.  His actions imperil the group's attempts to keep their new-found wealth a secret (they decide to stash the money at Paxton's house and wait to see if anyone comes looking for it).  You never really know from one minute to another what he's going to say or do. Bill Paxton appears to be a good old country boy on the outside, but there's something twisted in that smile of his that allows you to believe he's capable of doing the things he does in this film.  He takes the viewer on a roller coaster of emotions as we ponder among ourselves what we'd do if we found that money.Bridget Fonda plays Paxton's wife, who knows what has happened and advises him on how to deal with things.  I've never been a very big fan of hers and she doesn't do anything in this film to change that.  The rest of the cast is just adequate to the story.<<<  SPOILERS >>>I really didn't like the ending to this film.  Most of what happened to the brothers was pretty believable and I liked the plot twist where one of the kidnappers shows up pretending to be an FBI agent looking for the plane, but I just didn't buy Billy Bob begging his brother to shoot him.  I know things had gone spinning out of control and the realization was creeping in that he was a loser, but deciding to end his life, and at that particular moment?  Sorry, it just didn't fit.And Paxton deciding to burn all the money because the real FBI agents told him they'd written down some of the serial numbers?  Again, why?  He could have stashed the money out of state or out of the country and gone after it years later.  And what are the odds of somebody checking the serial number on a legitimate $100 bill?  You could go to the race track and recycle it and nobody would ever trace it to you.***************Still, I found this movie enjoyable and recommend it for some casual viewing.  As a side note, there was an article in today's paper about a small plane found in the wilderness of Washington state that contained a hundred thousand dollars hidden away in secret compartments.  The police think they were drug smugglers who crashed last winter during bad weather.The plot isn't so far fetched as it may seem. "},{"Title":"Fargo Junior, maybe.....","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It kept making me think of 'Fargo'-you know, common-place types wind up trying to become bigtime criminals and getaway with it, though they never do. And set in Minnesota. Here we have Bill 'Aliens/Apollo 13/Titanic' Paxton finding a ton of $$$ in a crashed plane with his goober brother Billy Bob and Billy Bob's rednecky pal. You get the predictable lies, cover stories, killings, betrayals and other misfortunes afterwards, some of them being believable, some of them of course not. The local police were treated as being complete idiots, somehow I just don't think Paxton woulda gotten away with all that he did for as long as he did in the real world. SPOILER ALERT!!And what is up with Gary 'Midnight Caller' Cole playing a fake FBI agent? What-you just walk into the local sheriff's and pretend yer an agent and they just take you at yer word? Sure guys. That was Not believable.But-I did like the acting, I did like the production, I certainly winced at all the intentionally wince inducing moments, and of course I was never sure just Who would wind up with the $$$ at the end, if at all.  Bridget Fonda was as much a conniver as any of the rest, constantly spurring her hubby onto trying evil plan A or plan B, she was also equally to blame for things not working.This got over praised in spots, but certainly is a high grade flick.*** outta **** "},{"Title":"Unpredictably delightful (perhaps 1 spoiler)","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sometimes, many times, films rely simply upon the imagination of the writer to carry them.  Perhaps the filmmakers do not realize this, but it ends up being the case.  A Simple Plan is definitely one of these situations.  None of the characters are terribly charismatic and the story does lag in a few spots, i.e. a lot of dialog that ends up adding nothing to the development nor the entertainment.  However, it has enough surprises to keep me focused, which is an accomplishment unto itself.  I love Sam Raimi's early work, namely the Evil Dead trilogy.  He has obviously had enough funding since to aim for a bit more of a mainstream polish on both production and cast for his films, but still manages to keep the film away from being just another movie with nothing memorable.  The shootout scene at Lou's house is very cartoony, especially when the main character blasts the wife.  I laughed there.  I hope I was supposed to.  But overall, between the way the story shifts directions but doesn't get too out of hand and the cast taking on fairly one dimensional characters and doing the best they can, I give this movie an 8 (a bit generous) just for sheer entertainment.  Can't wait for Spider Man.   "},{"Title":"What a nightmare...","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that I was desensitized.  Having seen so many movies, I was actually ignorant enough to think that nothing could shock or disturb me anymore.  Boy, was I ever wrong.  Horror is my favorite genre and while this isn't a horror flick it is still pretty damn horrifying.  Two things drew me to this movie.  Billy Bob Thornton was the first.  I have followed his career steadily since he gained recognition with Sling Blade and the man has not let me down.  Second reason, Sam Raimi.  He is an icon among horror film buffs and up and coming film students.  The Evil Dead trilogy showcased his talents with the brilliant camera work and his somewhat warped sense of vision.  A Simple Plan tells the story of three regular guys who find a suitcase full of money in a downed airplane.  Assuming the money is drug money, they figure that no one will notice if they keep it.  The plan does start off simple.  Hank (Bill Paxton), his brother Jacob (Billy Bob), and Jacob's idiot, loser, drunk friend Lou (Brent Briscoe) decide that to hang on to the money for six months.  If it's not missed by Spring, they will split the cash between them and go their seperate ways.  Things seem fine at first, with Hank as the natural leader, but soon all goes to hell once greed sets in and morals start to fly out the window.  It's all down hill from here.While the plot may be simple, what really makes this thing work is the characters.  All three of the leads are totally believable in their roles.  Hank could be easily be a friend of yours, Jacob could be the guy behind you in the checkout line at the grocery store, and Lou could be the town drunk you see walking on the side of the road.  This is a character movie.  Simple story, complex characters and their reaction to a seemingly easy situation.  Billy Bob Thornton became so devoted to playing his role, he shed 30lbs to play Jacob.  You can tell that a lot of the pain you see in Jacob's eyes is not just acting.  The actor has truly felt this guy's pain.  Playing this role was NOT easy on the guy and (in my opinion) he should have gotten that Oscar.Bill Paxton is wonderful as Hank.  He has the look and feel of that guy (every town in America has at least one)  who had so much potential, but never left his home town.  He is the brains and the moral center of the three.  Brent Briscoe (Scooter Hodges from Sling Blade) plays the part of Lou.  Lou is the best friend of Jacob and the town drunk.   Although many would argue that it is Jacob's fault, much of the trouble that comes their way is brought on by Lou's ignorance.  He is a thoroughly annoying and disgusting character and Briscoe did a fine job with the part considering how likeable he was in Sling Blade.I'm not going to give away any more of what happens.  Earlier I described this movie as horrifying.  It is.  Why?  The characters are all people we could actually know.  No, this isn't a horror flick, but decent, ordinary people can turn into monsters at the drop of a hat.  Disregard Leonard Maltin's review (with all do respect) where he says that the transformation of the characters simply does not ring true. It does and I've seen it happen.  The movie is, in no way, as harsh and cold as the book but the point is still made.   9/10 "}{"Title":"Memorable film.","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Enter small rural Minnesota in the winter.  Shades of cinematography of Affliction and perhaps Fargo.  However, while Simple Plan does not match the greatness in story and character development as those previous films, it certainly stands out as a film that could be nearly on the same level of perfection.Paxton and Thornton play 2 brothers, one an accountant (Paxton) who works at a seed store and is college educated, the other (Thornton) an older slightly dimwitted one who wishes he had the family farm.  The two and Thornton's best friend while out on a nature preserve come across an abandoned plane in the woods.  Inside besides a dead pilot, they find a bag filled with 4 million dollars cash.It's the dead of winter, they are the only one's who know about it, we are immediatly drawn into a situation of 'what would you do'.  Paxton wants to immediatly report it, it has to be dirty money it could be marked, while Thorton's friend says no way and says the loot should be split, and Thorton's character is torn between defending his brother or siding with his best friend. For the moment Paxton has 'a simple plan', he tells them he will hang on to the money, they wait until the Spring (cause then the snow will melt and the cops will find the plane), then once all the hubub of the plane dies down, they split the loot and leave town for good.  As much as Thorton's friend hates the idea, they all agree but he adds that Paxton shouldn't tell his wife who is 8 months pregnant (Fonda).Nevertheless, Paxton gets home and IMMEDIATLY shows his wife the loot, and from then on this 'simple plan' becomes anything but simple.The movie is not big on locations, or story but more on the characters and on the simple scruple idea of what would you do.  By the end of this film you pretty much know that the right thing to do was the best, but it's the mess that gets left behind that makes the story fascinating AND I MEAN A MESS!!Throton is great in his role, and I have never seen Paxton act so brilliantly.  Paxton usualy ends up playing very small bit characters in other films (sometimes memorable such as his role in 'Aliens') that you don't get a lot to know about, but here he excels in playing the honest guy thrust into evil and torn between what he knows in his heart is right and pleasing his ambitious sometimes unscrupilous wife.  It's a complicated character that he handles perfectly.  I am impressed way to go Pax!Some people may not like the film simply for the fact it is a 'morality play', but aside from the great morals and killer twists and turns, it's a ride worth taking.  As many critics have mentioned, definatly one of the best sleeper films that came out in 1998.Rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"So real it's scary..!","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Halfway through watching this film, something amazing struck me I was feeling more terrified with it than with most horror films. I was literally biting my nails..!The reason? Because, at every turn, as the nightmare the characters go through gets deeper and darker and more twisted, I could feel their desperation, their lack of options, I could picture myself in their same situation and making the same wrong, but unavoidable decisions. The film continuously made me ask myself What would I do if this was happening to me? and I was horrified at discovering the kind of mess I could get myself into, because it is likely that I or anyone else would make similar mistakes. To me this terrible tale was as believable as they come, and that's what made it so compelling. These characters were as real, everyday people as I have ever seen in a movie, with their virtues and their defects, just like any normal person. It was a story without heros or villains, just people who wander in the grey areas but see themselves shifting to the black as they are sucked by their fate, their greed, their ignorance and their fear into a spiral or violence which destroys their lives without them hardly being able to stop it. And to the depth of these characters and the story contributed not only the wonderful script of course, but also Raimi's atypically restrained but elegant direction and the marvellous acting from all four leads, especially Thornton, who is once again on oscar-deserving form.In my opinion, better than Fargo!  "},{"Title":"Beautiful and Shocking","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Recently one night before work I stuck a tape in my VCR to record a movie I have never heard of before. It's name, A Simple Plan. It turns out to be one of the greatest movies I have ever seen. Suspenseful, believable and well acted. It offers twists, turns and you never really know quite what to expect. Filmed in Minnesota and Wisconsin, the cinematography is simply beautiful.  The film is about two brother and a friend that find 4.4 million in a crashed plane. After some uncertainty as to what to do with the money they decide to keep it until the plane is recovered and the heat is off, but things just keep getting more and more complicated until all heck breaks loose. Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thornton are great together as the two brothers. The film also star Bridget Fonda as Bill's wife and Brent Briscoe as the friend.Although I am not familiar with much of Briscoe's work he does a great job here and has worked with Billy Bob Thornton in other movies such as U Turn and the Oscar winning film Sling Blade. I highly recommend this movie as a fresh thriller that will keep you watching to the end. Movies like this don't come out everyday. "},{"Title":"The best laid plans......","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan is an excellent thriller from start to finish.The story is basically that three average men (Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thornton, Brent Briscoe) stumble upon a downed plane and discover $4.4 million in a duffle bag. They decide to keep the money but hide it until they feel that it is safe to divide up - a simple plan. Of course, with that amount of money at stake the plan is not adhered to. The lives of the princpals begin to unravel, double crosses ensue, deceit and deception take over leading up to unexpected tragic events.Director Sam Raimi keeps the story moving and builds the suspense throughout the story. Paxton plays the college educated Hank Mitchell who is married to a scheming Sarah (Bridget Fonda) who begins to plant ideas in his head. Thornton plays Hank's simple-minded brother Jacob who wants nothing more than to buy back their parents old now vacant farm. Briscoe is the loose cannon of the trio who likes his drink and is in need of money for debts. And then greed takes over. And you know that the rightful owner of the money will eventually show up.An edge of your seat thriller. Don't miss the ending. "},{"Title":"Couldn't quite suspend my disbelief.","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I wanted to adore this movie.  Having just seen Sling Blade and been EXTREMELY impressed by Billy Bob Thornton, I was ready for A Simple Plan to match or even top it in quality.Not a chance.  The promise that the film built up was disrupted, over and over, by unbelievable scenes that kept me from getting lost in the story. Oh, I was squirming all right when Hank was sitting in the sheriff's office waiting for his wife to call, and when the four men all went out into the woods together, but what about the ending?  Jacob's final plea to Hank wasn't quite feasible, and Hank's voice-over at the very end really ruined it for me.  When I see a movie, I don't like to have the moral rehashed, compressed, and shoved in my face in the last 60 seconds.Nonetheless, a few terrific performances made this film worth watching. Billy Bob Thornton, as I had hoped, made playing Jacob look easy.  I doubt many other actors could pull that role off and make Jacob believable. Bridget Fonda was also amazingly good.  Her character may not have seemed like anyone I know personally -- yes, the acting was a bit contrived -- but she was mesmerizing whenever she was on camera.  Bill Paxton, on the other hand, was anything but impressive.  I guess I was supposed to despise his character in the end, but I started in the first five minutes.  Those pathetic faces he kept making never drew an ounce of sympathy from me.I was going to give the film a 6, but then I thought about all the pure crap Hollywood is turning out these days and I decided to make it an 8.  This is an extremely interesting film, and one I would recommend to anyone who can stomach off-kilter stories and slightly slow-paced action.  It's worth the two hours it takes to see it... it just wouldn't be worth two more to see it again. "},{"Title":"An excellent and disturbing film about greed..","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Last Christmas, I received the novel A Simple Plan. Knowing very little about it, I began reading it the day after Christmas. I finished it later that day. All 400 pages. I am not trying to brag that I am a good reader, but that the book pulled me in soo much. Scott B. Smith, the writer shows incredible promise as this was his first novel. Later that month, a trailer for A Simple Plan came on in a theater I was in. I was excited. All of it's characters were being played by the perfect actors. I missed it in the theater, as it wasn't a huge film, and I never got around to it. The reviews were excellent, though. I sat down and watched it today.. I loved it. It was an amazingly well written adaptionby Smith himself that included the book's highlights and removed the slowerof which there were not manu parts. The ending was changed. However, even during the big moments, I felt nervous about what was going to happen even when I knew. This is amazingly well performedThorton got a nomination, and if Paxton hadn't done a bunch of crap before this, he'd be taken more seriously and nominated, cuz he deserves it more then Tom Hanks did. Don't get me wrong, Tom Hanks was great, but Paxton has grown leaps and bounds study of greed. Absolutely brilliant. Also, it's director, Sam Raimiof the Evil Dead has gone his most mature work, therefore establish himself as a main streamer. Be warned, thoughThis film will disturb you, and you may very well cry. "},{"Title":"Definitely not what I expected.....","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Usually you hear about movies that have some sort of feel good quality to them, but this one just didn't do that for me.  Although Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thorton played terrific roles as two guys living in a small northwestern town that seem to have no morals, ( at least that's what it seemed like in the movie ) this one just had a weird feeling to it.  The small town gave this movie more of an errie feeling - kind of like Fargo - you can see some similarities between the two.  But I guess I can see where this movie is coming from.  This movie explained to me about the consequences of the decisions you make and how they may effect your life even more in the future.  It just seemed like Billy Bob and Paxton made one wrong decision, then another, and then even more, digging a deeper hole for them each time they did something.  If I could describe this movie in a phrase I would absolutely say it's the Feel Bad Movie of the Year.  "},{"Title":"Chilling, and totally engrossing!","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A SIMPLE PLAN is a movie that took me by surprise and has yet to release me from its grasp. The plan itself is in fact...quite simple  Hide $4.4 Million dollars from a wrecked airplane and bide the time till any suspicion is eliminated.  Oh, if it only were that simple!  This movie's 'plan' quickly begins to lose cohesion and chaos, greed, and treachery destroy these down-to-earth Minnesotians. The movie is divided into two basic settings the harsh outdoors and the 'comforting' indoors.  This division, in my opinion, is the most chilling aspect of the movie.  In scenes that usually instill comfort, placity, and joy (a busy kitchen, a maternity ward, the bedroom, and baby nursing), these scenes, ironically, contain the actual planning of the back-stabbing and all the truly 'evil' deeds.  There is no safe place to hide from evil in this movie...no small town or comfy house is protected from avarice.  Also, look for the fox and chicken imagery in this movie.  What do you think it means? Oh yeah...did I mention CREEPY ASS RAVENS?!?!Billy Bob Thorton is just beyond words in this movie!  He is so caring and downright pathetic.  How can you not care for his character?  Also, Bridget Fonda is soooooooooo conniving in this picture.  Hello?  Lady Macbeth?  Bill Paxton and the rest are very convincing in their roles...but they pale to Fonda and Thorton's characters. What else do ya need...snow...Minnesota...murders...greed? Hey, it worked for FARGO, and it works once again for A SIMPLE PLAN.GET OFF YOUR COMPUTER-BUTTS AND SEE THIS MOVIE RIGHT NOW!!  "},{"Title":"So real it's scary!","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan is a delicious thriller that is so incredibly realistic and believable it is flat out scary.The in depth plot based on the novel of the same name has many turns ,namely for the worse, which keeps the audience on their seats and often in surprise.  The movie doesn't get boring or slow down one bit which makes it so great.  It also has all the components to a great movie.  The screenplay by Scott B. Smith was adapted terrifically from his novel and was nominated for an Academy Award.  The direction by Sam Raimi was certainly good, nothing special but nothing fancy was needed for a small thriller like this. Besides the ending, the acting was the best thing about this movie.  Bill Paxton easily gave the best performance of his career as Hank Mitchell, a husband and new father who wants to keep everything simple but strict in order not to get caught with the 4.4 million dollars he found in the woods with his brother Jacob and Jacob's friend Lou.  Billy Bob Thornton plays Jacob Mitchell a single man who is a little slow and doesn't often think before saying or doing something.  This was Thornton's best performance in his career and he deserves the best supporting actor Oscar this year. Bridget Fonda plays Hank's wife very well also but she is easily outshined by Paxton and Thornton.Many people may say the ending ruins the movie because it is a downer.  The ending is a downer but it is very unpredictable and it isn't often seen in movies so it is very innovative and it certainly makes you think and talk about the movie even more.A Simple Plan is the second best movie of the year (behind Saving Private Ryan) and it certainly deserved an Oscar nomination.  I still urge you to see this movie because it is a certainly an instant classic. "},{"Title":"A Thinking Person's Thriller","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I personally can't see why this is in the top 100 films at IMDB. It is one of the best American films in the last few month. Perhaps our group was so hungry for something worthwhile, they got carried away when they voted.Bill Bob Thornton certainly deserved all the nominations and wins for his role as the simple-minded brother. Bill Paxton showed he can extend his range, if he has to. Bridget Fonda has had better characters to work with. Here she is merely a clever plot device.The film is definitely creepy, and there are several plot twists that will surprise many viewers. The ongoing snow scenes were almost as good as those in Fargo. The symbols of the fox in the henhouse, as well as the black birds, worked.My major complaint was that, while the beginning and the middle of it were well written, the ending left too many unnecessary questions, as if to raise the meaning of the story higher than it deserved. Especially suspect was the way the money was finally dealt with because the actions taken were counter to Paxton's and Fonda's characters as written up to that point. "}{"Title":"An excellent film--careful attention to adapting the book pays off","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's been awhile since I read Scott Smith's novel, but, as far as I can remember, the film version sticks remarkably close to his original story (as well it should, seeing that Smith adapted his own book).  This is one of the hallmarks for truly successful film adaptations of books, I think.  Look at the wildly successful adaptation of _The Silence of the Lambs_ or the very close screen adaptation of Stephen King's _The Shawshank Redemption_.  When you start screwing around in a film adaptation with what made a book successful in the first place, you're asking for trouble.  Unfortunately, too few producers and directors in Hollywood seem to recognize this.What about the film?  It's a harrowing, ultimately depressing experience. But, that's a positive thing.  It's nice to see that those involved weren't pressured to give this story a happy ending.  It could not have supported one.  Bill Paxton does his usual great job, though his acting is so non-flashy, he'll probably be overlooked for any sort of recognition.  Billy Bob Thornton does a great job and his Oscar nomination is well-deserved. It's hard to believe that this is the same guy who acted in _Sling Blade_. Bridget Fonda is also memorable, as the film's dark heart, the instigator who causes most of the problems the various characters must deal with.The film is somewhat reminiscent of a harder-edged _Fargo_, set in a cold, snowy Minnesota winter, but it lacks any comedic edge.  The story looks very critically at human motives, greed, and what the average man (or woman) might be capable of, given the right circumstances.  Director Sam Raimi is also to be commended.  This is a much more restrained film than some of his other efforts, befitting its serious and somber subject matter.One of the best films of 1998. "},{"Title":"What would you do if you found $4.4 million?","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'd keep it.  And now I am smarter as this movie taught me some pitfalls to avoid.   But seriously...This film was very well crafted and completely absorbing.  I enjoyed the use of symbolism (fox in the henhouse) and the foreshadowing of ominous black birds.  The performances were all top-notch, including Bill Paxton, who is usually very emotionless in his movies.  Not this time.  Bridget Fonda (one of my favorites) gives a very understated performance although her character is not much for an actress to work with.  Billy Bob Thornton is the best of all, because he breathes life into the character of Jacob, and goes way beyond a simple characterization of the brother-- he inhabits his body, his soul.My only complaints were that two scenes were silly-- namely Bridget Fonda's description of her life without the money, and the scene where the third man's wife is literally blown across the kitchen.  Both evoked much laughter from the audience.  From then on, in fact, a lot of the audience was laughing in inappropriate places.  This leads me to conclude that you'll either love or hate this movie-- no in-betweens.  "},{"Title":"The best date movie of the year!","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What?  You don't agree?  This is the best kind of movie to take a blind date to that hasn't exactly been working out.  Here's the deal - you go really late and when the movie's over you repeatedly scare the hell out of her. Put a fake gun to her head and if she was really paying attention she'll say well, well, well, you've got a piece?On a serious note - the middle of the movie was great and the beginning and the end were bad.  The beginning seemed rushed and the ending reminded me of Scoopy Doo.  Well, Hank, now that the film's almost over I guess we'll tell you our secret plan after all!  If I'd have made this film I would have ended it right after Jacob died.  I would have panned up toward the sky then faded to an overhead shot of the field like any classy filmmaker would.  But what do I know, I'm just a kid!Billy Bob Thorton played an EXCELLENT character and while Bill Paxton's was sort of blase.  The character personality fluctuation kept me on the edge of my seat literally and Bridget Fonda's character Sarah was believable.  I don't they should have included the baby though.  Wouldn't a new mother be spending a little more time on her two day old kid?All in all see this movie, don't complain like I am, and impress your friends with the knowledge you possess after reading this review. "},{"Title":"The most powerful film I've ever seen","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film would stand out as a truly great film even if it weren't released during a period of films that have no thought or originality in them.  This may be the last film to be released for quite a while that has any sort of message in it, what with all the remakes and sequels that are headed toward theaters.  Very often a film has a message that is either too obvious or too subtle, but this is one very big exception.  The plot alone was enough to make me want to see it, even if it meant going 35 miles to the nearest theater playing it, which it did.  It starts out with three men in the woods (Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thornton, Brent Briscoe) who find a crashed plane in the forest with millions of dollars inside, and they have to decide what to do.  Their decision is to hide the money, and if nobody comes looking for it, they split it up and move away.  However, they realize that their plan isn't quite as simple as they might like to believe, and they have to decide at what cost the money is worth being kept secret.  The story doesn't get unnecessarily complex, but the fact that you wouldn't expect anything to go wrong if it happened gives it a real feeling of reality when things do happen that weren't expected.  You eventually realize that when it involves something as drastic as this, there is no such thing as a simple plan, thank you Murphy's Law.  With most of the decisions the men make, you can really get an idea of what they were thinking, and some people may be thinking that they might even have done it too.  Then there are decisions that the men are faced with that really seem impossible, which is one thing that makes this movie so dramatic.  Although I'm sure many people would watch this movie and think about how they might have handled the situation differently, watching the movie it seems as though just about everything these characters decided to go through with is the only answer.  The only one they really seemed to have a choice with is whether or not to take the money, and without the benefit of hindsight, it would seem almost crazy not to, although they appeared to be struggling to rationalize the decision.  Then, with the way everything turns out, although you would never expect things to go this far, you realize that 4.4 million dollars isn't enough for it to be worth taking. Jacob (Thornton) even says I wish we'd never found that money.  When you are talking about this much money, it would be hard to imagine something that would make you say this.  There were some very good performances in the film, especially from Paxton and Thornton.  Bill Paxton can have a big smile on his face and yet still very clearly show how nervous his character really is, even while trying to hide it.  By the end of the film, the main characters are starting to feel really bad about what the money has been leading up to, and you find yourself feeling just as bad for them.  When Jacob started telling his brother Hank (Paxton) about how guilty he feels, I felt sorrier for a fictional character than I ever thought was possible. The overall message the film is trying to make is that the road to hell is paved with good intentions, and boy does it get that message across!  This is one movie that is very powerful and haunting, and is very hard to forget. The only other film I can recall seeing that comes close to being as strong with emotion as this one is Ransom (1996).  I am just really disappointed with the fact that barely anyone seemed to notice this film when it was released, while movies like I Still Know... are just barely leaving the theaters, and being replaced with all these other films that are based around ideas that have been done before.  Hopefully, it will be re-released with a lot more publicity.  Although I have never really thought out my own personal top 10 favorite films list, I know that this one is very high on that list, possibly number one.  I very highly recommend this one! "},{"Title":"A Perfect Adaptation","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I read this book, I thought it would make a great film, and I was right. This film captures the book perfectly, and probably even improves on it a little, focusing the story a bit more. All the performances are great especially Billy Bob and Bill Paxton. The direction is extremely understated, which fits the mood of the story and sets the tone perfectly. It's hard to believe this is the same guy who directed the Evil Dead films. The reason the film works so successfully though is the screenplay. Scott Smith has to win the Oscar for Best Adapted Screenplay. The dialogue scenes and the action scenes are well-balanced and complement each other throughout the film. Yes, the ending is a downer, but that's part of the power of the film... The movie has a moral to it, and a happy ending would completely undermine the point that the movie is making. In fact, the ending is in my opinion the best possible ending for the film. It doesn't succumb to a typical Hollywood happy ending, or a typical action movie shoot 'em up ending. Instead, it makes you feel how much Paxton's character has lost and how little he has to show for it. My only worry about the film, through no fault of its own, is the inevitability of the comparisons to Fargo. In fact, this movie is far better than Fargo, but will probably be in that movie's shadow because of it's snowy Midwest setting and superficial similarity of plot elements. Hopefully in time, people will be able to value this movie on its own merits, and see it as the classic that it is.  "},{"Title":"Simply Outstanding","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sam Raimi, director of The Evil Dead, Darkman and The Quick and the Dead, strikes gold with his latest effort A Simple Plan, which is among the very best films of 1998.Based on the best-selling novel by former Toledoan Scott B. Smith (who also penned the screenplay), this is a harrowing tale of ordinary people who stumble into a nightmare beyond their wildest dreams.It's an age-old question What would you do if you found a lot of money? A lot of money, in the context of this film, is $4.4 million. The money is found in a small plane, which has crashed in a remote wildlife refuge in rural Minnesota, by brothers Hank and Jacob Mitchell (Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thornton) and their friend Lou (Brent Briscoe).Assuming the money is of illegal origin, they decide to keep it. What seems to be a simple plan quickly turns into a horror story of greed, guilt and murder. The subject matter of A Simple Plan is not unfamiliar, but never have I seen a film that more skillfully draws us in, step by step, to the consequences of a criminal action. Good God, what a great film!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   "},{"Title":"a shame it was released the same year as Saving Private Ryan","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best movie I have seen since Saving Private Ryan, and, with LA Confidential is one of the three best films I have seen in the past five years. Bill Paxton is pretty good in his role as the nice-guy gone awry, but it is Billy Bob Thornton in his role as the dufus brother that really makes this film work. He delivers his lines so awkwardly I can't imagine that this is the same guy who someone picked to play the head of NASA. He makes you feel remorseful simply for watching him lead his tortured existence as an unemployed, never been kissed, amazingly disheveled, poorly hair styled mna whose two best friends are the town drunk and his dog. He is truly turning out to be the best chameleon in Hollywood these days (when they showed him at his table tonight at the Globes I didn't realize who I was looking at until they said his name). And much should also be said of the script which was adapted from a novel by the writer of the novel, the best way to do it in my mind (LA Confidential being the exception). This film is chalk full of classic lines, the best being in the middle of tensely dramatic scenes, whose inherent drama is deftly broken up by humor blacker than the deepest black. And I am especially happy to see Sam Raimi break into serious filmaking, not to say that I don't love his Evil Dead movies (Hell, I hope he keeps making those) but he is clearly an extraordinarily talented fimmaker who can turn good subject matter into a brilliant film; without losing touch with those Evil Dead roots (see the death of Lou's wife). "},{"Title":"Wonderful, simply wonderful and great","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  So rarely does a movie make me feel like a piece of dirt, and still make me love it. This is one of those very very few films which depicts the actual process of evil, and does it so damn well you can actually sympathize with the bad guys. Sam Raimi is definitely one of my favorite directors (I can't think of anybody besides Stanley Kubrick that I like better), and Danny Elfman's score was absolutely wonderful. The movie did move at a somewhat slow pace, but it made the documentation of insanity all the more realistic. The bullet wounds inflicted in this movie are some of the most realistic I've ever seen (I was wondering when hollywood would finally show us somebody getting shot in the head, instead of just reaction scenes), and the overall tone of the movie was just plain freaky -- especially with all the crows waiting around for everybody to die. Needless to say, I didn't sleep too well the night I saw this film! Not quite a drama, and not quite a horror film, the nearest category for it is thriller, and even that is a loose fit. A grade 'A' film no matter what, I recommend this for everybody except those who can't stand the sight of blood. "},{"Title":"The feelbad movie of the year","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although terrific, this is not a film you'll want to take suicidal friends to. Like the novel on which it's based, this film takes a simple premise--3 regular guys, all lower middle class, find a big chunk of cash that doesn't seem to belong to anyone--to its logical conclusion. And like the book (the book's author wrote the screenplay), its strength lies in its ability to make the choices each man makes along the way seem like the correct choice; but the film's gloominess derives from the sad fact that the correct choice is sometimes not the right choice.Strong performances by Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thornton, and Brent Briscoe make this film watchable and believable. Except for Bridget Fonda, who's merely good, the supporting cast is also excellent, particularly Chelcie Ross as the sheriff.Alar Kivilo's spare and sadly beautiful cinematography of a poor community's snowed-in loneliness perfectly complements the plot, which to director Sam Raimi's credit, completes nearly all of its own threads. (What happens to the dog?)Will a lot of people see this? I doubt it. It's sure to bum out the happiest holiday. Better to have released it on Halloween. "},{"Title":"A compelling, and hilarious film about normal people and extraordinary events","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This tense, compelling thriller sets a bunch of normal people in extraordinary, dangerous circumstances.Two brothers (played by Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thornton) along with a lowlife friend, find four million dollars in a crashed airplane, hidden by a deep snowfall. Against Paxton's better judgement, he agrees to hold the money until the spring in case anyone claims it. Then they intend to share it out equally. His backword brother's drunken best friend convinces them that they deserve the money as they found it, the money probably being the proceeds of drug-dealing.As Paxton tries to keep their secret, whilst all around him contrives to betray him, he is drawn into deadly situations beyond his limited control.Similarities with Fargo are likely (Raimi's friendship with the Coens and the wintry landscapes ensuring this) but in its own right A Simple Plan deserves to be similarly praised. The tension Raimi musters as Paxton's character falls further and further into the abyss makes this a gripping and surprisingly funny film.  "}{"Title":"Sam Raimi reinvents himself","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I swear to God, I never thought Sam Raimi would give up his flying camera and his affection for comic book dialogue. I figured he'd be hard-pressed ever to even read a book, let alone direct a literate film. Don't get me wrong I like Sam Raimi's earlier movies, Evil Dead 2 in particular, I just saw him as a director who did one kind of movie really well.Well, now he does at least two kinds of movies really well. A Simple Plan is as perfectly honed as some of my other favorite films noir, of which Kubrick's The Killing comes to mind most strongly. As in that story, the best-laid plans of a group of men begin to come unraveled because the participants neglect to account for their own human frailties.The difference between A Simple Plan and classic noir, though, is that the older films were so over-stylized -- visually, dialectically, musically -- they created a distance between the audience and the on-screen events. We, as moviegoers, could probably never imagine ourselves inhabiting the world of Out of the Past or Touch of Evil; but we love to marvel at the horror on display.Of course, those movies are rightly loved for their style. They're juicier than A Simple Plan, to be sure. But what Raimi's film has over its predecessors is a naturalistic approach, and fully drawn characters who act and speak like people we all know (again, things I thought I'd never say about Sam Raimi). The horrors in this film take place in the real world. And simple human emotions which we're all guilty of -- insecurity, a need for family, even reluctant greed -- drive nominally good people toward bad, destructive decisions. Few of us can watch this movie and say that in the same situation, we'd be any nobler.Raimi has done excellent work here, and even higher praise is due Scott B. Smith, writer of the nearly seamless screenplay and the novel from which it came. The performances are excellent throughout, with Billy Bob Thornton's standing out among them all. If it were up to me the Supporting Actor Oscar would be  his.  "},{"Title":"An unexpected gem, filled with literary complexity, symbolism.","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The opening scene in A Simple Plan shows a coyote walking through a field of snow into a farm, where it sees some plump chickens roosting. We all know what will happen The coyote will break into the roost and steal a chicken. Is the coyote evil? Given the opportunity, the coyote does what is in its nature. Is man any different? This is the underlying question of A Simple Plan.One of the best and intricate films I've seen this year. On the surface, this is just another simple plan gone awry movie. However the film is much more than its title implies. Bill Paxton plays the Jimmy Stewartesque role of the sheltered, college-educated brother to Billy Bob Thornton's Jacob, the unemployed, uneducated loser. Bridgit Fonda plays Sarah, a library assistant and wife to Paxton's Hank.In a nutshell, this movie delves into human nature and the corruption of man, with each turn of events a layer of that onion. On a literary level, this film is very complex and provides sophisticated symbolism in levels not normally seen in movies.Hank (Paxton) may seem the most educated; yet he is the most naive, the most sheltered. He believes himself morally superior to Jacob and his friend Lou, because Hank went away to college. However we learn that this education came at the price of his father's suicide.Jacob seems at first to be mentally slow; we learn that he is tied to the family farm, and that he is now shunned and shunted off just like the farm, which now lies fallow. Was Jacob and Lou corrupted? Nay; I say Sarah was the most corrupted of them all; the only one calculatingly working up various plans so she could keep the money. In fact, her corruption mirrors her pregnancy and birth. Once she has the baby in her arms, she loses her innocence and spends her time scheming. One of the most significant scenes occurs in the hospital room, when Hank presents Sarah with the teddy bear gift from Jacob. Oh, it looks used, she says, as she sniffs the bear and makes a face. In effect, Jacob has offered his innocence to Sarah through the one cherished item he has had since his childhood. Sarah rejects the bear, embracing instead her baby, which is brought to her by the nurse. However before holding her newborn, Sarah takes a tissue and wipes her hands. How symbolic -- Sarah wipes off any innocence that may be left from Jacob, and instead welcomes in her baby (and symbolically, the money). We all know how the movie could end -- but fear and hope against it because we are used to seeing traditional endings. Yet I suspect most in the audience realize there is really only one ending that would be true to the spirit of this film.Definitely a must-see, but recommended more for individuals who understand that some films, like good literary works, could be appreciated on a multitude of levels. "},{"Title":"The best suspense/noir I've seen in several years.","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This presents a moral dilemma worthy of Arthur Miller.  I don't understand the objections to plot holes.  With one exception, these are quite believable choices the characters make.  Is the deck stacked because one man is mentally challenged?  Perhaps - but that is part of the dilemma the trio of men is faced with.  This is not a generic thriller and it is problems like that that help it.  Yes, I didn't believe that no one would notice the man who was rifling through the gun cabinet (no pun intended), but people find faults in King Lear, too.The ending is superb.  Depressing?  Perhaps, but REAL.  This is what happens - fantasy escapes from the consequences of our actions happen only in John Grisham novels, if you get my drift.Well acted and written, I'd recommend this to anyone who loves Hitch or the Coen Bros. in particular. "},{"Title":"A chilling morality tale","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan is quite simply one of the year's best films. Sure, we've seen tons of films based on the concept of money being the root of all evil, and of course we know that greed, unlike what Gordon Gekko might think, is not good. However director Sam Raimi and writer Scott B. Smith bring the concept to such a shatteringly human level that A Simple Plan hits a lot closer to home than some would like it to. When three friends find $4.4 million in cash, they decide to keep it, with reservations. Soon enough there are complications from such a decision as questions of trust, honesty and loyalty begin to tear them apart. The men are played by Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thornton and Brent Briscoe. While Paxton doesn't want to keep the money at first, Thornton, playing his brother, and someone of slightly diminished mental capacity, and the brash and temperamental Briscoe, talk him into it. Bridget Fonda plays Paxton's wife, and she almost steals the film as she becomes more and more involved in the plotting of their scheme. While most films dealing with found money are interested mainly in greed and its consequences, A Simple Plan gives us regular people with average dreams who are given an opportunity to fulfill them. Thornton wants to fix up his dad's old farm, and maybe buy a good truck. Fonda, pregnant, wants to be able to care for her child without needing food stamps. What A Simple Plan does by giving us characters and situations that could stem from real life and not some kind of movie fantasy is it puts us on their level, and in a way, implicates us along with them. When a character has to make  a decision that may very well affect the rest of their lives, we wonder if we'd make the same decision or not. While a film like Very Bad Things covered somewhat similar circumstances, it was more concerned with being a hip, shockorama type film, it didn't pause to consider consequences or guilt. When Paxton makes a particularly grisly decision, he immediately asks his wife if she could have been capable of making the same decision. Billy Bob Thornton, in a sad, brilliant performance is the moral center of the film, his feelings of guilt resonate throughout the entire film. While the concept may be  a well worn one, A Simple Plan brings an emotional weight to it that most other films haven't accomplished. Under Sam Raimi's direction there are plenty of chills, and a few macabre moments,and the snowy landscape is as effective as it was in Fargo, but it also understands a lot about human nature. If only we could do something like the characters in A Simple Plan and not think about it afterwards. You see it's the thinking part that gets them in trouble.   "},{"Title":"Simple but Deadly","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS***Not expecting much on a ride back home through the Minnesota countryside after visiting their parents grave brothers Hank & Jacob Mitchell, Bill Paxton & Billy Bob Thorton, together with good friend Lou Chambers, Brent Brisoe, are run off the road when a fox, with chicken in between it's jaws, crosses their path.Slogging through the snow the three men find this crashed plane inside the snow covered tree-line. Checking the insides Hank together with Lou find a duffel bag stuffed with some 4 and a half million dollars. At first the three men feel that this is their lucky day planning to hide the money and then before the spring thaw sets in, when the plane and it's dead pilot are discovered, split it and go their separate ways. What at first look like the three mens salvation from bills and money problems soon metastasized, like a festering and malignant tumor, into a nightmare that leads to some half dozen murders. With the only survivor of the three taking the money and, with his wife strongly objecting to it, shoving it into the couples fire place to keep the house warm as well as have him forget that he ever had it in the first place.The film A Simple Plan has no simple solution to what to do with the windfall that the three friends Hank Jacob & Lou got their hands on. Slowly their plan to keep the money hidden fell to pieces with greed and suspicion of each other slowly setting in. Hank, being the brightest of the three, who was in charge of keeping the cash hidden was hinder by his somewhat simple-minded brother Jacob. Jacob just couldn't keep his mouth shut telling the local Sheriff Carl Jenkins, Chelcle Ross, that a plane crashed in the vicinity almost blowing the entire plan that Hank so painstakingly put into motion.Hank also got unexpectedly hinder in his Simple Plan by his very pregnant wife Sarah, Bridget Fonda. Sarah at first was in favor of giving the money back to it's rightful owners who turned out to be the parents of a kidnap victim who paid it to get their daughter back; they didn't and she was later found murdered. Later Sarah got both greedy and devious trying to pin the death/murder of family friend Dwight Stephenson, Tom Carey, on Lou who was totally innocent of it. In fact Dwight was knocked unconscious by Jacob who smashed his head in when he thought that he'll turn him together with Hank and Lou over to the police for having the stolen money on them. The movie never fully explains Jacobs mindless action since there was no evidence at all that Dwight had any knowledge of what was happening between the three men. Hank who at first through that Dwight was dead found him breathing and then suffocated him and pushed Dwight and his snowmobile down a bridge making it look like a tragic accident.Like with poor Dwights murder one mistake leads to another with the entire Simple Plan unraveling where there's****SPOILER**** only Hank left alive to collect the money when the smokes clears. It's then that Hank together with his wife Sarah find out that by spending their hard won, that has already cost six lives, fortune their chances of getting caught by the FBI are one in ten. That's how many, 10% , of the 4 and a half million dollars in hundred dollars bills were marked or recoded by the Federal Agents before they gave it over to the kidnappers who originally got it!Hank and Sarah have to now live with all those lives who were lost in this Simple Plan, that became very complicated and deadly, that they cooked up where it looks like the police, who were totally ineffective in the film, would not in the end bring them to justice but maybe just maybe their guilty consciences will. "},{"Title":"It took me (only) two viewings to realize that this movie is excellent.","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I saw this movie for the first time, back in 1999, I was a bit disappointed. I thought it was a bit too slow and even boring in some parts. I thought it lacked tension and didn't quite get it why people were referring to it as The best suspense-thriller of the year. One of the reasons for my disappointment, was because I was used to Sam Raimi's exuberant way of filming, as shown in EVIL DEAD en DARKMAN. At the time, I also compared A SIMPLE PLAN to that other snowy black comedy/thriller FARGO, by the Coen brothers. I remember liking FARGO a lot more because of its occasional dark humor and the fact that the characters were a bit more 'crazy' and out of the ordinary, as opposed to the rather 'normal' people in A SIMPLE PLAN. I failed to see, at the time, that this was in fact the whole purpose of A SIMPLE PLAN Normal people doing evil things (when a considerable amount of money, the root of all evil, is involved). I also failed to see that A SIMPLE PLAN was an excellent story-driven thriller relying on solid acting instead of graphic violence. And I even failed to see that Sam Raimi had grown as a film-maker, making a film with a lot more contents, a different tone and visual style.The set up to the story is simple Two brothers and a mutual friend discover a crashed plane in the woods which contains a dead body and a bag with 4 million $ in it. They decide to keep it and divide it when the time is ripe. Now, you can expect that things will go wrong and that people will die. But you can't possibly predict how and when. Then there's also the question about the origin of the money. I can only say that this is one hell of an intelligent script with enough twists and one that also manages to have you think together with the characters. Because, what would you do if so much money could be yours? The characters are well-written with a lot of background and the acting is just superb. Especially Bill Paxton as Hank and Billy Bob Thornton as his slightly mentally challenged brother Jacob. There's one really strong scene were Hank and Jacob are tricking Lou into a confession. It is such a deliberately misleading scene (even Hank at one point got mislead), but it shows that Jacob really is a bit smarter than he looks. Brilliant scene, as well as the escalation to the conclusion of it.Like I insinuated before, this is a rather down-toned thriller, so don't expect a spectacular climax in the end. But the conclusion to where it all leads up to is extremely satisfying (in terms of cleverness, sadness and unpredictability). This movie has some sort of subtle 'finesse' to it which shines through in the visuals as well as the acting. Two random examples The wide shot were Hank, Jacob, Jenkins and Baxter all walk into a different direction towards the woods to look for the plane is beautiful (with the tracks through the snowy field and all) but also foreboding ('cause you know that the horrible conclusion will take place in those woods). And then, before all this, there was the scene were Jacob arrives at the point of rendez-vous, against all expectations. When Hank asks why he did show up after all, Jacob replies that he talked to Sarah and decided to come after all. Just look at Hank's (Paxton) reaction to that. For a second or two you can see him realize that Jacob now knows what he and Sarah already knew but Jenkins and Baxter don't. Hank then quickly gets back into his roll and they all head off to the woods. Those were just two little detailed examples I gave for showing that this movie is excellent on every level.I'm gonna stop now, 'cause I realize that the paragraph above isn't very interesting to you if you haven't seen the movie yet. Point is, A SIMPLE PLAN just might be one of Sam Raimi's best movies (it only took me several years to acknowledge that fact). So maybe I should re-watch THE GIFT again, 'cause I wasn't too enthusiastic about that one either back then. Anyway, if you haven't seen A SIMPLE PLAN yet, then do so. And keep in mind that it's actually nothing like FARGO at all. "},{"Title":"Yeah.....TOO simple!","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I admire Bill Bob greatly. Paxton has his moments in country hicksville mode, while Bridget Fonda can be a bit of an iffy proposition. All up though, this just didn't cut it for me whatsoever. A film that in totality is considerably less than the sum of its parts!As first-up reviewer 'Bandguy' of Nashville suggests, I was prepared, and DID watch a group of people reach the end of their rope and make a series of life-changing decisions!  Problem was, WHO cares?..I didn't! I was neither moved, emotionally involved, artfully cornered or even casually interested in the fate of these people. Definitely a wannabe thinking person's movie and hell, Sam Raimi is my kinda director but throughout the film's running time I was far more interested with a business contract I'd been trying to put together for a month or so!Try as one might to WANT to believe these were interesting people facing a problem (of their own making) escalating outside of their control, they just WEREN'T!  Agreed, the snow-bound cinematography lent an aura of cool depression and emotional isolation but for all that I wasn't slack-jawed at the limitless talents of the script-writers either. You want to see searing emotion, desperate pathos and gut-wrenching misery - go watch MIDNIGHT COWBOY. That film has cornered the market in cinematic brilliance and in fact I recall the advance publicity for A SIMPLE PLAN suggesting it was, if not one of the greatest human dramas ever filmed a movie that would stay with you long after you left the theater.I forgot about it long before I reached the car! "},{"Title":"A gripping tale","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An intriguing film with some very exciting moments.  Three men come across a crashed plane half-buried in the snow.  They find a zippered bag in the cabin filled with more than $4 million. The simple plan is to lie low and later divide the cash. Snow covers their tracks to and from the plane.  Nobody knows they are there.  The pilot is dead. And it turns out to be ransom money. So who really owns it?  Moral aspects are discussed between themselves and arguments break out about the return of some or all of the money. I find it interesting to follow the arguments and the attempts to justify the keeping of the money.  There are some very tense moments in the film when an idle word is dropped and suspicions begin to arise. I like very much the snow setting..bleak and cold..and the black crows on the naked branches of the trees.  The dark cabin in the plane is terrifying with crows pecking at the dead pilot's face and noisy fluttering of black wings.  The quick despatch of the local sheriff when he begins to learn too much seems at first to be the perfect crime, but a local man who has made hundreds of runs on his sled doesn't just fall off a bridge.  When the F.B.I.turns up ( he is really an impostor in disguise) the drama intensifies.  The dramatic final scene at the plane leaves most of the characters dead (and will Hank shoot his brother Jacob?) At this stage the simple plan has turned into a nightmare.  This is great script writing as the story twists and turns with a most surprising outcome.  It is said that money is the root of all evil The moral of this film is just that.  As Jacob says I wish someone else had found the money! Great stuff! Recommended. "},{"Title":"Told Before But Rarely Better","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There's nothing like a good morality tale,to get you thinking about who you really are--not who you like to think you are.Of course the theme-normal,seemingly decent people faced with an almost irresistable temptation,succumbing to it,and being forever changed by it,has been told countless times. Its the first story in the Bible,after the creation. But I've rarely seen it portrayed better on film.The story is a simple one. Two brothers and their friend stumble across a wrecked airplane while hunting in the woods. They find a dead pilot and over 4 million dollars in cash. The story is their efforts to conceal their discovery and to remain who they always thought they were.  I found the interaction between the 2 brothers,Hank Mitchell and Jacob Mitchell believable,and intriguing. Hank and Jacob discover they really don't know each other despite growing up and living in the same town since childhood. Sarah Mitchell,(Bridget Fonda),Hank's wife reveals her true nature to him, and her transformation is unblinking and complete.I found it somehow appropriate for the film to be set in the stark,cold backdrop of winter. The murder of crows around the crash site a sharp,lyrical contrast to the shockingly white snow. I really enjoyed this movie. Excellent and thought provoking. "},{"Title":"9 - Excellent","Date":"23 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you and your friends found an airplane $4 million dollars, would you report it to the police or keep it for yourself? Would you all split it equally or work against each other. Apparently, while most people would say they'd do the right thing, the writers of this movie make the case cogently with main character's Lady Macbeth of a wife. That we're not angels when presented with the opportunity.One mistake leads to another and the characters find themselves in increasingly more dangerous events. It's a psychological thriller which will have you guessing the mystery at every turn. The resolution was satisfying as it had numerous twists which I wasn't expecting but ones which still feel consistent with the tone of the movie. A Simple Plan was an experience which completely sucked me in from start to finish. "}{"Title":"I wish somebody else had found that money.","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The setting of rural snow-locked Minnesota is established early. Foxes and chickens of the land flash across the screen, much like the ill omen of the raven does later on when these simple lives come across a stash of 4.4 million. Hank and his dimwitted brother Jacob and friend Lou set off into the snow to hunt for this fox. It is a shame that there is not a greater sense of community instilled into the setting as a small rural town would have, because we then have to rely on the performance of Paxton and the words of his wife when she says that he is a good man, and no one would ever believe him to be a murderer. The actors do a great deal of the lifting. There is natural conflict between their demeanours, and that is escalated when they come across the crash site. We are led to believe that Hank is a man of good moral standing and virtue. Not many would say no to millions, but he initially does, and has to be coaxed. His wife also does, giggling at what is a clearly impossible occurrence and adamantly stating that it would be stealing and the wrong thing to do. Their life is fine, and comfortable. Later on, her teary eyed monologue demolishes that notion, but the great strength of these characters is that we are able to sympathise and understand both scenarios and their merits, and how money has twisted their expectations. Fonda's performance is fantastic; almost as soon as she sets sight on the pile of cash, the gears begin to turn in her head and she descends into a path of action that will leave her family for the better. Hank lets the air out of a tire with a cheeky smile, and the brothers chuckle at their little deception, not even considering what they will be capable of later. The other great performance belongs to Billy Bob Thornton, whom is initially regarded as dumb and incompetent by both audience and older brother. He blurts out guilty clues and in panic whacks a man in the head, but unlike Hank, these acts aren't cold and calculated, but acts of desperation and motivation to protect his brother (who by all accounts shares no sincere feelings of affection, but only a last name). In one confrontation, there are two levels of pretense happening, the drunken ramblings of Lou, and the battle between the two brothers as they argue over the morality of framing him for the murder, and it becomes a tense see-sawing of his affiliation. Hank tries to appeal by bringing up their deceased father, and Jacob brusquely and rightfully shuts him down. In a later moment, he soberly reminisces on a a prank played on him by his high school 'girlfriend' (and again we see how out of touch Hank is with his brother) and Jacob makes it heartbreaking because of how easy he seems to take it, and how there are no hard feelings. Thornton is much like his dog; loyal, and sometimes dumb, but it is via the good of his heart. And we see in this monologue just how little he lives for, and that gives us a little solace when his end comes. The Coens gave tips to Raimi on how to film in the snow, based on their experiences with Fargo. They are similar in many ways; both are about the greed and desire for monetary wealth, and how it warps people into doing despicable things. It is not as perfect as Fargo; in the latter the snowy setting is a character in itself, tripping and hindering and being admired all at the same time. The closest A Simple Plan gets would be the shot of the four diverging footprint paths in the snow, which signalled ominous danger up ahead. When has splitting up ever been a good idea? And I think in the tensest scene in the office, where a pleading Fonda on the phone offers no comfort as Hank is trapped in between two unsuspecting people, with guns. The best thing this film does is shepherded us alongside these characters, because no one can resist the allure of so much money. We yell and become frustrated when Jacob gives away the sighting of the plane, and shake our heads as the murders pile up, but still hope that the money remains unscathed, even as the family is corrupted. There is a real life parallel to this, in the alarming occurrence of lottery winners being bankrupt a few years on. How peaceful would their lives have been if that plane had never been uncovered? The damning of Hank and Sarah is so great that I do not think the script needs to further deal a cruel blow to them, by revealing that the bills were indeed marked (in addition to the logical explanation of this being so ridiculously and logistically impossible - how the hell does writing down thousands of serial numbers enable you to track bills). They have been punished enough, and dealt a harsh lesson. "},{"Title":"Can you really steal the American Dream ??","Date":"25 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" 'A Simple Plan' directed by Sam Raimi is a crime drama film. It follows Hank, a seemingly innocent family man, his wife Sarah, his slightly dim brother Jacob and Jacob's friend Lou. One day Hank, Jacob and Lou accidentally chance upon a crashed plane with a dead pilot and a bag containing over 4 million dollars in it. This discovery sends all of them on a path of lies, deceit and crime.If I wouldn't have known that Sam Raimi is the director before watching this, I would have placed my money on the Coen Brothers being the filmmakers, as this film has an overtly Coen-esque feel to it. I was not surprised to find that Sam Raimi is actually close friends with the Coens and he had conversations with them prior to the shooting of this film. The snowy locations where the film is shot, the nature of the storyline, the pattern in which the plot proceeds and the undeniable black comedy existing in the script reminded me of 'Fargo', 'Blood Simple' and 'No Country for Old Men' on multiple occasions. I guess the nature of story in the original novel by Scott Smith (who is also the screenwriter for the film) lends itself in my mind more to a Coen Brothers screen adaptation than a Raimi adaptation considering their respective styles. But Raimi's direction though being to some extent a pastiche of the Coen Brothers' style, is impressive. He actually effectively uses symbolism in the film by using animals and birds like a fox, black crows, etc. and the film looks great too. Raimi also keeps the film flowing with the requisite pace to maintain the tension on screen.For me the best thing about the film are the characters. Thanks to Scott's script and Raimi's direction, we get very well rounded and layered characters. Along with greed and the consequences of succumbing to greed, the other primary theme of the film is to show that looks and reputations can be deceptive. The person that looks the most likable and innocent, under trying circumstances can turn out to be capable of committing extremely devious deeds. This film shows you that people who have the reputation of being upstanding citizens can be more conniving than people who have 'serial killer' written on their foreheads. So in a way, it is about transformations of characters, and I like that process of transformation of a character in a film where the person gradually changes for the better or for the worse when executed properly. This film can also be interpreted as an updated and loose adaptation of Macbeth due to the nature of Sarah's character who remains extremely interesting and brilliantly shaded.The acting is brilliant because the performances from everyone involved look very real without any exaggeration or over the top elements. At the basic level, these are ordinary characters(who get caught in extraordinary circumstances), so the understated performances felt very plausible. Special mention has to be given to Billy Bob Thornton. This is another performance of his that underlines his versatility and it reestablishes how great a character actor he is. His character of Jacob is supposed to be slightly dim witted, but instead of hamming it up to 11, he keeps the weirdness of his character to a believable level and forces us to show empathy for Jacob.But having said all that, I still think that 'A Simple Plan' doesn't quite achieve that status of greatness which 'Fargo' and 'No Country for Old Men' managed to achieve in my eyes, but it is mainly due to some minor problems that I have with the script. So I guess it has more to do with the original story and adapted screenplay by Smith than Raimi's direction. I think the treatment of Jacob's character is slightly inconsistent at times and also certain things which take place leading up to the ending seemed a bit implausible. But the ending itself was perfect and heartbreaking. So 'A Simple Plan' is a very good film with a tight plot, deep characters and good direction, but it is not a masterpiece in my eyes due to some plot issues. "},{"Title":"Most criminals really aren't masterminds.","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Hard to find any real faults with this movie, beyond the fact that it's a bit grim. Of course, you know from the very beginning when they find the money that it isn't going to work out well--the only question is how it is going to go bad--I don't want to say anything else to spoil the movie.Everything about this movie, from the filming to the acting to the plot, is strong. Yes, most of the characters annoy you or seem stupid or both, but they do so in a believable fashion and that is why we have a story--otherwise it would have been happily ever after very quickly and we would have no movie or morality play, and there would be nothing to discuss. After all, we can assume that we never actually hear about the smart criminals, and the dumb ones make for the best stories anyhow. "},{"Title":"Fargo II","Date":"26 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When three blue collar acquaintances in Minnesota come across millions of dollars in lost cash they make a plan to keep their find from the authorities but find complications and mistrust weaving its way into their plan.Sam Raimi saw A Simple Plan as an opportunity to direct a character-driven story that differed from his earlier works, which were highly stylized or dependent on intricate camera movements. This plan seems to have worked. All the markings of a Raimi film are gone, and it helped him move beyond being the Evil Dead guy.Filming took place in Ashland, Wisconsin, where most of the film's exterior shots, and the road and woods near where the characters find the plane, were shot. As a Wisconsin native, this makes me happy and gives the film a slightly more personal touch. Granted, Ashland is far off the beaten path, but still part of the great state.Billy Bob Thornton is endearing, sort of a mentally disabled Barney Fife. His being recognized by critics is no surprise, as this is easily his best role (perhaps even more than Sling Blade). Fewer people have commented on Bridget Fonda, but they should. She is the grounding of the film, and this is a great departure for those who know her from such things as Jackie Brown. "},{"Title":"A good thriller - it's just that it could have been even better","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sam Raimi's A Simple Plan works &#x96; just. There's no denying it's a gripping thriller, but it lacked one element which could have made it not just a good film &#x96; which it is &#x96; but a great film the characters from the off are too sketchily drawn. We don't get to know them before it all kicks off and so their development &#x96; and the story's development &#x96; is taken more on trust than it should be. That's it really. Should you see it? Certainly, and you will not be disappointed. It's just that I feel it doesn't quite hang together as well as it might have done had the film been just a little longer with opening scenes establishing the four main characters more. "},{"Title":"A Happy Man","Date":"21 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" One of Sam Raimi's better films, A Simple Plan finds a group of Midwesterners stumbling upon a Pandora's box of ransom money out in the woods. Like John Huston's Treasure of The Sierra Madre, or Erich von Stroheim's Greed, the greed of our covetous heroes quickly mounts. They concoct increasingly elaborate plans to keep the found money, but these plans degenerate into several farcical murders.At its best, A Simple Plan watches as ordinary, happy families fall prey to temptation. At its worst, the film eschews plausible tragedy for incredulous noir violence. The film stars a fine Bill Paxton and an overacting Billy Bob Thornton. With its wintry locales and vein of black humour, the film has been compared to the Coen Brothers' Fargo. The Coens wrote and edited a number of Raimi's own early features.7.9/10 &#x96; See The Drop and The Lookout. "},{"Title":"Money,money,money makes you funny","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Heres a movie with an excellent cast ,film direction,and story line with first rate photography adding to the cold,forbidding atmosphere.Mans greed and selfishness is pitted against the basic need to do the honourable ,moral thing. It is a lesson on how normal,everyday people once embarking on the slippery slope of dishonesty suddenly find themselves losing control of the situation and their actions to remedy that situation merely pushes them closer to the abyss.Two brothers and a friend find a crashed light plane ,the pilot dead,his eyes being picked out of his head by hungry aggressive crows.They retrieve an extremely large carry bag containing hundreds of bundles of $100 dollar bills,amounting to over four million dollars.The big question is do you keep it or do you hand it in to the proper authorities? They make their choice and immediately are sucked down into a vortex of trouble and woe. Recommend this movie! "},{"Title":"Masterfully Tense Thriller!","Date":"10 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A Simple Plan is a well-crafted thriller that follows in the veins of the Coen Brother's Fargo. Heck, both movies even look the same. This film makes good use of the backdrop of snow in the Minnesota setting. The morale of this story is simple things may seem simple, but are not actually simple. This is an incredible film that is masterfully directed and tells a story about people who make life-changing decisions.Sam Raimi, known for his horror and Spider-Man films, directs a very tense thriller about these blue-collar people and what we could see as their fatal flaw. Two brothers, Hank and Jacob and Jacob's friend Lou stumbles upon an airplane that is loaded with four million dollars in cash. They devise a plan which is to keep the money if no one comes searching for it, but little did they realize things may not be that simple.The acting is fantastic, especially for a thriller like this. Bill Paxton as Hank is excellent as the guy who's reluctant to keep the money. Billy Bob Thornton was also magnificent as Hank's not-so-bright brother, Jacob. Thornton's scenes were just incredible. Brent Briscoe does a great job as Lou. Finally, Bridget Fonda does an excellent job as Hank's pregnant wife who is very eager for money.Overall, A Simple Plan is a taut, tense thriller following in the snowy footsteps of Fargo. It's also noticed for it's complexity and smartness. This film also has a morale in that even good people can do evil things and unfortunately that's a hard truth. A very good thriller indeed. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"A Razor-Sharp Thriller!","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Maverick Filmmaker Sam Raimi has always impressed me, be it his work in the Spider Man series, Darkman or even The Evil Dead, his work has found its place. And with 'A Simple Plan', Raimi triumphs with A Razor-Sharp Thriller, that also offers superior performances by its lead cast.'A Simple Plan' Synopsis When three blue collar acquaintances come across millions of dollars in lost cash they make a plan to keep their find from the authorities but find complications & mistrust weaving its way into their plan.'A Simple Plan' deals with greed, ambition & above-all The American Dream. The characters in here, aren't bad people. Like the film's caption accurately states Sometimes Good People Do Evil Things. The characters aren't lovable, but they aren't the kind you'd hate either. There is a motivation & sadness attached to them, which makes them do bad things. But then again, A Crime is A Crime.Based on the novel of the same name by Scott Smith, The Screenplay, also Written by Smith himself, is engrossing. Its a realistic thriller, but the thrills in here, are for real. Raimi's Direction is crisp. His handling of this thriller, deserves distinction marks. Cinematography & Editing are perfect. Performance-Wise Billy Bob Thornton takes the lead with a sterling performance. Bill Paxton is remarkably credible. Bridget Fonda is natural to the core. Brent Briscoe is impressive, as well.On the whole, 'A Simple Plan' is, most definitely, worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Asks a Simple Question","Date":"8 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It is a soft snow that blankets this softly spoken Neo-Noir. There is a lot of whispering and a fallow feel to it all. The four protagonists drift willingly into an avalanche of uncontrolled circumstance that they set in motion and it buries them all, some literally and some figuratively.While not a pleasant film, it manages to be engrossing and interesting to watch the deceptions mount and the bleak outlook of it all slowly manifesting itself scene after scene. There is very little joy here as a newborn is the only thing that looks unscathed in this depressing atmosphere and hard looking folks.It is not a feel good film, but there could have been many other outcomes depending entirely on decisions made and an adherence to moral ambiguity. In the end it is a study of simple people's character and fortitude. There is one chilling monologue by the Mother and Wife and the fourth participant that is more than platitudes, it is a stark reality check about lower class struggles and a way out. Mr. and Mrs. each make different decisions, but only one will prevail. Which one would you take? "}{"Title":"One of my favourite thriller movies. Highly recommended.","Date":"7 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really felt compelled to write a review after watching this movie.The plot is really gripping. All the actors acted really well. I loved Bill Paxton especially.The story is very strong and keeps you engaged all the time. It shows how relationships come under pressure and manipulated by greed. One lie leads to another and to another. What supposed to be a simple plan with nothing going wrong turns out to be very different one than originally conceived. It shows how desperate one can be after committing a crime, to hide it and to come out clean.Some scenes in the movie are so gripping that it feels like you have to know what's going to happen immediately otherwise you'll choke. Background score is amazing and it complements the scenes really well. Thrilling story. Truly amazing acting. Perfect background score.All in all, a highly recommended film. "},{"Title":"Focused Parable on Love of Money","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" 'A Simple Plan, directed by Sam Raimi, was one of the better movies of 2008. It was highly entertaining and acted. Usually Sam Raimi's movies are not as mainstream, but he's assembled a great story here from Scot B Smith's novel and screenplay. I especially liked Billy Bob Thornton's character of Jacob who was not too savvy or educated but obviously loving. Contrast that with the character of Hank who was educated but calculating as well as his wife Sarah. The parable involved is a time honored one the love of money has power to deteriorate even the best of relationships. (Major Spoiler) Although I thought the ending scene became a little bit over-the-top dramatic with Jacob's sort of quasi-suicide, I thought it unreasonable that his brother would actually shoot him at his own wish. This is a minor quibble. I'm not a big Sam Raimi fan, but I know some of his earlier work, and this one I think might get out of his comfort zone, but it may be best movie to date. A Great Watch. "},{"Title":"Depressing (but don't let that put you off)","Date":"24 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" You can say what you want about Sam Raimi, but the guy knows how to give his movies atmosphere. A Simple Plan just looks brilliant the miles and miles of snow, the utter desolation, the gripping emptiness, Billy Bob Thornton, you just know bad things are about to happen. It's completely different from Raimi's usual antics, but it isn't any less powerful. The story's great too. There isn't much action, there isn't much anything, but it's a great look into human nature. Without knowing it the main characters are pretty happy with their crappy lives, but then suddenly their world is ruined by four million dollars. Suddenly they realise what they're capable of, and they don't find it pretty. It's a confronting movie to watch, because in pretty much every scene you start wondering if you would act the same. The ending to this is actually darkly amusing though, because it puts everything in perspective so much. Truly unique and very compelling thriller. "},{"Title":"Beautifully written","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" An underrated gem. It's a great example of plain old artistic quality. Raimi started with a perfect script; at the risk of insulting him, the movie feels like it made itself.It's sort of a cult film, but avoids a common blight that afflicts most artsy productions The writer writes cleanly, clearly, and very, very well for varied voices.Anyway, I love flicks like this that are simply high quality, without airs, without pretense, sustained only by the purity of conception and dramatic execution. I guess the key is that the piece is writing-driven, and that's something I just don't see enough of.I could comment on the themes or moral of the story, but that's best left for your discernment. Enjoy a great, tragic story, well told. "},{"Title":"An American Tragedy","Date":"21 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Rather reminiscent of Fargo from two years earlier, A Simple Plan is set in a frozen area of the U.S. and revolves around a lot of cash and what it will drive otherwise decent people to do.However, this is no mere Fargo rip off. Sam Raimi provides gripping direction, and Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thornton and Bridget Fonda give a trio of performances that are exhilarating for how accomplished they are. Thornton's will break your heart, while Fonda's, which threatens to steal the show, will chill you to the bone.The film received Academy Award nominations for Thornton's performance and for its screenplay by Scott B. Smith.Grade A "},{"Title":"Great movie but will not leave you happy!","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has a great story, is beautifully filmed and full of atmosphere, but it is about a sad group of people in a nightmare situation. Some critics have picked on the films lack of humour, but in some situations there is not a lot of humour to be had, this is one of those situations. Everything in this movie is well done, the casting is terrific and the pervading feeling of helplessness as fate deals it's dreadful course is numbing. The music is ideal as are the episodes of silence in a snow blown wilderness. I watched this movie sat cosily in front of an open fire and it gave me goosepimples. Billy Bob Thornton plays a wonderful part as a simple man on the edge of suicide, Bill Paxton's role gives him a great chance to play the part of a man pushed into crime and then murder while attempting to stay good and thoughtful.... he does it well. Not a happy film but a damn good one. "},{"Title":"Sunday afternoon","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a perfect Sunday afternoon movie. I had never heard of this movie until a few weeks ago, It came recommended by a friend. Hearing that Billy Bob was in it, and it wasn't a direct comedy, I was eager to check it out, since I really enjoyed his recent works, and thought it would be cool to see him in a different role, plus it's almost ten years old, and I had never heard of it?!?!?! OK all that being said, I was pleasantly surprised with this, if you are a Billy Bob fan from his comedy flicks, check him in this interesting role. I usually stick with what I know which is comedy and mainstream stuff from the various genres, but now and then I will take a chance on something none of the above in my taste, and this one was worth the gamble!7/10 "},{"Title":"Wintry tale is guaranteed to give you the shivers...","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A good deal of suspense is maintained from the very start of this story about three men who discover a load of money in a plane wreck and intend to keep quiet about it until they can start cashing in on their discovery. A SIMPLE PLAN that goes haywire when BILL PAXTON's wife, BRIDGET FONDA, finds out about the loot and becomes the men's financial adviser. From then on, the plot takes devious unexpected twists and turns before reaching a suspenseful conclusion.Filmed against a wintry landscape in a bleak and unforgiving manner, Sam Raimi gets the maximum amount of suspense out of this morality tale about greed being the destructive force in men's lives--especially when their plans go astray.As the dim-witted brother of Bill Paxton, BILLY BOB THORNTON has the showiest role and makes the most of it. Not only is the story of utmost importance in the scheme of things, but the character study of the three men unfolds gradually as the plot unwinds.Summing up Taut, chilling tale with only a few slow spots, worth seeing for the clever plotting of author Scott B. Smith, who wrote the screenplay from his novel and the direction of Sam Raimi. "},{"Title":"Deeper Grave","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  'Shallow Grave' meets 'Fargo' in 'A Simple Plan', a story of three men in the wintry American mid-west who choose to hide a corpse in order to steal the dead man's money.  Lacking 'Shallow Grave's  irreverence, the film as first seems slow and ponderous, a predictable parable about a good man (Hank, played by Bill Paxton) bought down by greed and the company of idiots.  But also unlike 'Shallow Grave', this film contains some proper character development, or, more precisely, in adversity, we see the true extent of certain aspects of the character's personalities that were previously submerged such as Hank's ruthless pragmatism, or his stupid brother Jacob's hopeless, idealistic moral compass.  Hank is not truly evil, but his sense of victimhood can be (and ultimately is) used to rationalise anything it takes his simpler brother to see the simple truth.  With fine performances from all the case, and an outstanding one from Billy Bob Thornton as Jacob, 'A Simple Plan' transcends its familiar plot and air of self-importance to become a profound reflection on the ways that we perceive the world.  Worth watching. "},{"Title":"What, you mean money can corrupt? I had no idea!","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What's that? You say money can corrupt? You say greed can make you do verrry baaad things? Why, I had no idea! Why don't you show me a movie- a really, really LONG movie- about people killing each other over some 'green'! Yes, and be sure to include characters with serious possessive, alcoholic, and family issues. Oh, and put in alot of senseless violence! I love that! And talking, loooots of pointless talking. As much as possible, in fact. And then we can seduce some fairly good acting talent, tell them it's intelligent material, and let them drown themselves in snow. It worked in Fargo!(spoilers ahead)THEY ALL DIE.   Yep, they all DIE. Just as I predicted, actually. Did I like this movie? No. Did I hate this movie? Not really. It was mildly effective, I guess, and I must say the end is a very good twist- although by that time I was just kind of praising God that it was over. And as for the moral- I got the point in the first half-hour of the movie. Money and Greed= not good. And I really did not relish watching character after character kick the bucket. I suppose if you really, really adored Fargo you could get into this movie- but be forewarned- there are no cute sheriffs in this one. It should probably be mentioned that I liked neither Fargo nor Simple Plan, and I can kind of see why some people might appreciate it. Appreciate, not LIKE.  However, if you intend on studying brilliant performances- in this movie, this film contains a very significant one by Billy Bob Thorton. I had always heard he was good, but his showcase of talent here was probably worth the $2 rental fee. I can't say the same for the other actors, though.   Bottom line A good lesson to kids about greed. But... er, don't let them see it or anything. They might fall asleep.  "}{"Title":"A simple-minded and boring movie","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't understand people who call this a suspense thriller. There is absolutely no suspense; it is clear from the outset that the money is going to corrupt the three friends and they are going to end up at each others throats. So, no suspense - well, what is there? Is this an original or interesting plot? Afraid not, the story has been told numerous times, and the fact that it's so obvious where it is going makes the pace seem very slow. The characters are woody, and there is no sense that the story has any point. A depressing affair.There are some nice shots of crows in trees, but that does not save the film. If you think this is going to be another Fargo, then you'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Well-acted, good film but book is better","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Some comments have been made about discrepencies or parts of themovie that are hard to believe. For those people, I would definately suggest reading the book, which is great and explains everything. The screenplay is written by the same author as the book, though.The differences from the book are noticeable but the storyline stays the same as it's still a great, tense, well-acted film.Bill Paxton is excellent, the best part of the film definately, a great change from his usual supporting role in action films and it highlights his acting skills. His desperation to not get caught takes him from family man to criminal in a believing way. Billy Bob Thornton is great as Jacob, Hank's slow brother (although he's a different Jacob from the book, especially physically).The book is definately superior, and I would suggest a read instead, or as well. But it will still grip you and entertain you!(BTW, to the person who asked why Hank would work in a Feed Store if he was an accounting major, the book describes that Hank is the accountant/book-keeper at the local feed store, and in a tiny town in the Midwest I doubt there huge, fancy accounting offices to work in). "},{"Title":"Sometimes good directors do good things. This is one of them.","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  `A Simple Plan' has a great simple idea &#150; what would you do if you found millions of dollars in a downed plane? No one else knows about this plane, as far as you know. Do you keep the money or hand it over? This is the dilemma faced by three people Hank Mitchell (Bill Paxton), his brother Jacob (Billy Bob Thornton), and their friend Lou (Brent Briscoe). They decide to take the money&#133; but this simple plan goes awry (obviously).The plot of `A Simple Plan' is pretty&#133; simple. That's okay when the script is fairly sharp. So the pacing is slow, but it's not boring. The dialogue of the characters &#150; as they debate their actions and react to situations &#150; is both realistic and interesting. There's a certain sense of desperation throughout, added to by the snowy, barren landscaped mood of the movie. There's an inevitability about certain things, and you cannot help but empathize with the characters, even as they fall victim to their basest desires. The final resolution is saddening, and yet powerful.The acting is spot on, and particular note worthiness goes to Billy Bob Thornton as the slow-witted brother Jacob. They add credence to their roles, and let you wonder if you would act any better than them, trapped in their situations and dead-end lives.Sam Raimi has produced an enjoyable little thriller/drama here. It's not perfect &#150; the plot itself is somewhat lacking, even if it's offset by some great character interaction. But the acting, and solid suitable direction, means you will be able to well enjoy this above average fare. 7.1/10  "},{"Title":"A Simple Plan...? Liars!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  (Just to warn those people who have not yet seen this film, there are a few plot revelations - you have been warned!)Jeez, you call this movie simple? Whoever in their right mind would write such a complimacated doowacky as this movie and then have the guster to title it A Sim... wait.... you say that... that the lyin' title is all part of somethin called irony? Well how 'bout dat?! They got names for everything nows'adays!That's right folks, irony is a word that comes to mind when I think of this film. The words desperate, tragic, and true also come to mind.Sometimes, movies deal with characters in such an unrealistic fashion that you can't help but wonder what the hell the writer or director was thinking. Now, I understand that it's JUST a movie, and I know that I've never fought an alien or had to deal with an island full of mean dinosaurs, BUT there is some essence of human nature that most movies seem to just fling aside and simply ignore. However, in A Simple Plan, this is not the case.The movie works because the characters are believable. You have an educated man and his mentally challenged brother with his even dumber redneck buddy all fighting to get a piece of four million dollars. How far would you go to keep it safe? Hank Mitchell, who at first is the lone voice of logic becomes the manipulator with bloody hands. Hard to believe that the man who had more than the others combined would be the one who wanted the money the most.The best thing about the movie is Hank's turn from voice of reason to one of erratic desperation. Of course we can't forget the chief catalyst, his shrewd and conniving wife Sarah who seems to want the money even more. Finally, when confronted by a tragic turn of events, Hank must leave behind any dreams of wealth and destroy that which they tried to hide so well. Funny thing, that greed, and what it will do to the most innocent of people.Of course, don't take my word for it. Watch how people are brutally murdered all for a some of money that eventually disappears into the smoke of a fireplace. This of course makes me wonder, what if it had ended up differently. What if they went ahead and spent the money... and... what if they got caught? Caught for all the murders, all the manipulation of an innocent farmer, a drunken redneck couple, a gruff yet kind hometown sheriff, and a brother. What if someone found out? Of course, they didn't... but if they did... a line from I Love Lucy would seem appropriate. Lucy! (or in this case Hank and Sarah), You've got a lot of esplain'in to do!  "},{"Title":"Raimi in control.","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Money is the root of all evil. Yeah, we know. That's why I found myself stranded in the business sector of Chatswood during peak hour traffic. I just finished a brain dead job that pays for my nasty habits and decided to pull over into a cinema while the traffic died down. Nothing like a good old suburban meat market cinema on a Tuesday Scab Night, (tickets are $7 compare to any other night of $12), where the rustling of chip packets and the whispering giggles of the Inner-North Shore school girls accompany the film's soundtrack. That all died down eventually as the plot sucks you in for the end thrills. It all starts with three men finding a crashed aeroplane camouflaged in the thick snow. In the plane is a bag load of money. The three men decide to keep it, allowing a brutal chain of events to take over their quiet peaceful lives. With the cliches that money is the root.... and evil is in all of us thrown upon the audience, there lurks another mystery to life rarely seen in main stream cinema. That is the conscience after the brutal act.Jacob, (great performance from Billy Bob), has doubts about his own existence when faced with the evils of life. Will he be able to live with the pain of memory. He may be a simpleton but his guilt eats him away. As for his mentally well off brother, Eddie, (Bill Paxton), he discovers the evil in himself with support by the love of his wife, Sarah, (Bridget Fonda). The film plays with you, not going where you think it may head, always taking a different road to disaster. Only drawback comes with Sam Raimi controlling his manic style of directing that made EVIL DEAD a horror classic and saved THE QUICK AND THE DEAD. Maybe he knew the story was strong enough to carry itself. With something as this long, a few of Raimi's visual flares wouldn't have caused any harm. Even Alfred Hitchcock threw in a few visual treats to heighten the thrills.  "},{"Title":"A good restrained film","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was surprised by this film and how it got to me.The film's theme is How a good man can turn to greed, money rules the world, the material world. The film's characters are interesting, and are human, nothing special about them.The direction is superb, it's very restrained. The acting is excellent, I couldn't fault it.The story may feature some problems, but the characters are much more interesting. I recommend not reading any plot synopsis.A nice film, remember to watch in wide-screen  "},{"Title":"Very good thriller which gets deeper and deeper as it moves on...","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This thriller starts off, as the name suggests, as a SimplePlan, but step by step, Bill Paxton is pulled deeper and deeperinto more and more frightening situations, until there's onlyone way out.A very good thriller, with some twists and turns that'll haveyou exasperated at the characters and almost screaming at thescreen. The choices they make may not be the best ones, but theyare extremely well characterised.Billy Bob Thornton and Bill Paxton play brothers very  convincingly, and play off one another with ease. Loyalties areoften questioned between family and friends, and Sam Raimi andScott B. Smith manage to keep the tension to the very last word.I almost dare you to try and guess what's going to happen next,you aren't lead along this story, for the most part you're leftin confusion and doubt, in sympathy with Hank Mitchell, until itsuddenly dawns on both the character and the viewer almostsimultaneously. An intelligent thriller, with a great story and well executed,excellent  "},{"Title":"simply touching.","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the movies that has impressed me more lately. Its perfect combination of intrigue with the human portrait of all the characters make it as big as Fargo, movie it's been frequently compared to. The whole cast do their very best and the director, Sam Raimi, has shown his career has begun a new period we'll have to pay attention to. Also advisable for those who need a humbleness lesson.  "},{"Title":"Intriguingly twisted tale","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Any film with Billy Bob Thornton and Bill Paxton in it is going to be worth seeing almost by definition, but the plot of A Simple Plan makes it even more so.The two play brothers who along with their friend discover a plane wreck, with $4.4m of cash with it.This is a tale of morality and what extent the three go to in order to cover their tracks, and was excellent all round.Excellently cast and well scripted, definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Oh what a tangled webb we weave etc.","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie very much deserves the very high ranking it has received by IMDb users. Very well directed, getting the best out of all actors, and also for putting in small details that aren't necessary to the plot such as showing Jake with a small piece of tissue on his face to blot up a nick he must have gotten that morning in shaving. Many other instances like this which adds to the reality feeling of the plot.With this much attention to extraneous details, it is needless to say that the same attention was given to the plot. Editing was excellent as the movie never seemed dull.The main event of the plot is possible enough to easily cause the viewer to ask hemself what would I do in that situation? Their weakness and desire for the sudden wealth discovered, leads the two brothers into unending attempts to salvage themselves from the initial deception,with tragic consequences. "}{"Title":"A Bit Too Simple...","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I must say, I was very much surprised when I noticed this movie was voted into the top 250 films of all time (that is, the list at IMDb).Sam Raimi (the director) is a funny character. Granted, the Evil Dead films are amongst the greatest shlock works of all time, but considering his resume also covers projects such as Xena Warrior Princess, I hardly think he is a 'master'. There is nothing wrong with the direction in a simple plan, but it does not display anything exceptional. The only really 'Raimi' style scene occurs when a woman is shot and flies across the room.The real problem with the movie, however, is in its scripting. Vaguely interesting, but highly cliched characters, are unfortunately only given pockets of thoughtful dialogue, while the rest of their speech is devoted to moving the plot along. And while we're on the plot, it isn't very good. Gee, three ordinary guys find a stack of money, decide to keep it, and it causes them to act a little immorally - how original! The story is all highly predictable (wow, I didn't expect the rough looking guy to get killed - not) and it all moves about as fast as an asthmatic ant with some heavy shopping.With the exception of Billy Bob Thornton, the actors are nothing special, with Bridget Fonda only changing her facial expression once (or maybe twice), and Bill Paxton really should just stick with the likes of 'Mighty Joe Young', children won't notice how poor he really is.I think people have simply (absolutely no pun intended!) voted for this overrated waste of time, as they've recently seen it at the cinemas, and as it was directed by Raimi, they were prepared to enjoy it.Some reviewers have already admitted that A Simple Plan is not entirely original, but state that no film is. I suggest you try a new video store, one with more classics (both ancient or otherwise).  "},{"Title":"A Simple Plan","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Thornton's exquisite Oscar nominated performance highlights this thriller about tensions that arise when three local gents discover an airplane with a bag containing over $4 million dollars inside. As the tensions rise, the more crimes that are committed. Paxton is effective as Thornton's mild-mannered brother who is tempted by the future the money could bring to his wife and baby, but also knows the price that might have to be paid. A little unbelievable, but entertaining as hell!     "},{"Title":"Three guys scheme a way to keep 4 million dollars","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A SIMPLE PLAN ( rating, * * * ½ out of 5 )After stumbling across a downed plane in a remote snow-covered area, Hank, (Bill Paxton) his brother Jacob (Billy Bob Thornton) and friend Lou (Brent Briscoe) discover its cargo of one dead pilot and four million dollars.After some spirited discussion they decide to keep the money and devise a plan to cover their tracks. As time passes and paranoia builds, the three men are transformed into the worst of what human nature can toss up.Writer Scott B. Smith and director Sam Raimi effectively forge this tight thriller around simmering human suspicion and conflict. Add an icy wasteland as the setting and what follows is a haunting portrayal of mankind's darker side.The performances are very good with special mentions going to Billy Bob Thornton as the slightly backward Jacob and Bridget Fonda as Hank's wife Sarah. Gary Cole pops up in a small role and is very effective, if not slightly wasted.In general terms, most elements combine successfully to create an atmosphere of mounting tension. However, it isn't all smooth sailing. I felt Bill Paxton was just along for the ride and the constant stupidity displayed by all the characters was extremely annoying.This is a good movie that will do well off the video-rental shelves. See it once and move on as repeated viewing will only highlight its many problems. Some films get better with age while offering further discoveries with each new screening. 'A Simple Plan' is not one of those films.The criticisms here are minor ones as the overall view is a positive one. When there is so much offal masquerading as film being thrown at us by Hollywood these days, it is a real pleasure when a movie like this one comes along. Besides, there's far worse ways to spend an hour and a half than looking at Bridget Fonda.  "},{"Title":"Think-Of Mice and Men,doing Very Bad Things, goes to Fargo written by Stephen King!","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A great film. Sam Raimi does it again. It is nice to see an original film for a change. Even though it had elements of Fargo, Of Mice and Men,Stephen King and the brothers Coen, it still held up its own.It was good to see Raimi take a somewhat different approach then his usual fare. Although classic Raimi elements still showed through from time to time Thornton stands out in this film as the borderline retarded brother,who isn't as stupid as he appears to be. It would have been nice to see more of Coles character,but what little screen time he has he makes an impression. Of course the whole cast in this film stands out. A must see! "},{"Title":"Nothing simple about this movie","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Which one of us watching this movie wouldn't want to find a way to keep it? The idea is simple enough; three men, two of which are brothers, find money in a crashed plane and decide to sit on it until they see whether or not someone's looking for it.If it were THAT easy, there wouldn't be a movie here. Everything about this simple plan goes wrong and goes wrong FAST. Paranoia sets in on all fronts, each man is a suspect of the other on who's going to cut whom out of their share... I felt for a while that I could predict the ending of this movie, but no matter what you THINK is going to happen, unless someone's told you the ending you won't know it (or believe it) until you see it. Paxton gave a midline performance as usual, but once again Billy Bob Thornton manages to change everything about himself from his speech to his appearance to play his character to the fullest extent. "},{"Title":"A character study par excellence","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sam Raimi has such a talent for filming and developing interesting characters, and it shows through throughout this film.If you're interested in dialogue-driven movies that focus on character interaction and response, this is one of the best you'll find from the last 10 years.While I enjoy the silly camp present in Raimi films like Evil Dead and The Quick and the Dead, I'm glad to see that Raimi has matured beyond visual gimmicks and cheap laughs. This is his first true great film. "},{"Title":"Good Stuff","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Solid, gripping film that is quite subtle in its portrayals and makes you wonder just what you'd do given the same situation. My only reservation is will this stand up to repeat viewing? My opinion is probably not, but team this up with Fargo and Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels and you have a great evening's entertainment. "},{"Title":"It's how some people can make bad choices.","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  At times it was a struggle to watch. When decisions are made that you can predict are flawed, it is painful to watch the consequences. The acting is quite good; very believable. Hank, (Bill Paxton) at first, appears to be the only voice of reason in a sea of stupor, but he eventually too dissolves into the blur of stupidity that has infected the characters until no protagonist survives. The ending is ironic, at best, but the only one possible under the circumstances.    "},{"Title":"1 name Billy Bob Thornton","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very good film, full of disturbing images and quite thrilling. Also, if you've read the novel, billy bob Thornton's performance as the dim-witted brother, is astounding and he should have won best supporting actor for it this year. Good work from Bill Paxton as well. And Raimi's direction is something to watch, plenty of his fans as well as the new ones he'll garner from this outing. This will be a big DVD and video rental. Go out and get it!!! "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie so much, it was just a great movie experience not for me but for everyone I know who saw this movie.  I went with some friends, and afterwards all we could say was wow.  By the way the ending was perfect for the movie and the movie would not have had quite the effect with a different ending.  See this movie!  "}{"Title":"A brilliant film","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan is probably one of the most brilliantly acted, directed, and written (adaptation) films that I've ever seen.  This film tops my list of favorite films of 1998.  Not only can it present a moral issue that is all lurking in the depths of our being with passion and intelligence, but we believe and can relate to the actions of the characters.  I recommend this film to all people that think life has simple right or wrong decisions, and especially to the very opinionated.  It will change you.  "},{"Title":"A depressing but wonderful movie","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan is a simply wonderful movie.  I saw it a couple of months ago and the initial impression it made on me still lingers.  The acting is terrific, especially that by Billy Bob Thornton (Jacob), who as usual invests a seemingly simple character with incredible depth.  His acting actually made me cry at one point, which is unusual.  The direction is great too, not something I really expected from horror-cult-movie-director Sam Raimi.  The direction and acting keeps you on the edge of your seat almost the entire time, and there are a few absolutely perfect scenes in the movie perfectly written, acted, and directed.  As I said, it is a depressing movie (the end especially) but this is essentially the point of the movie.  It leaves you frightened of ravens, wary of snow and with no hope for good and righteous things in humankind, but the movie is worth the ride.  I wouldn't say I liked it, but I'm very glad I saw it. "},{"Title":"Moving, character driven thriller.","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What makes A Simple Plan so effective is the fact that the film concentrates more on the development of the characters than on creating big explosions or dumb special effects. The characters develop plausibly as the film progresses - Hank is initially weary about the discovery of $4million, but soon is trying to get his brother to betray is friend in order to save him (and it). His brother's morals move in the other direction resulting in the deeply moving conclusion. Soon all the characters are on a downward moral spiral and there's no going back. That the character's motives are believable (given the initial decision to keep the money) the rest of the film works like a (nightmarish) dream. Paxton and Thornton are excellent in a kind of Of Mice & Men type set up, while Bridget Fonda does her best with a comparatively underwritten role as the Lady Macbeth figure of Hanks's wife. In fact, by the end of the film, I had become to doubt her motives and become suspicious of her, which made the final face-off almost unbearably ambiguous. Impressive, complex and moving. "},{"Title":"MONEY IS THE ROOT OF ALL EVIL!","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I walked into the theater without knowing what this movie was  about, only that Billy Bob was in it. There was no hype, which was just as well, as it usually ends up disappointing me. I think this was really well done, it stayed with me for days.I really enjoyed this movie.. especially the ending.Yes, it was depressing, but so much more realistic than the usual happy endings you generally see in the theater. That was the whole point, they didn't get away with it.Two thumbs up!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Interesting premise -- brilliant movie","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan is an extremely fascinating movie, not as much a thriller as it is a complex look into the psyche of normal people who change when they stumble across 4,4 million dollars. What will they do? And how do the choices they make change them?It's such an interesting premise, and the writer and director makes it to something more than just interesting; the movie is intense, intelligent, horrifying, sad, and incredibly fascinating. A movie you think about and discuss after you've left the cinema. And let's not forget the brilliant cast Bill Paxton and Bridget Fonda, and the wonderfully talented Billy Bob Thornton. "},{"Title":"Marvelous","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this movie expecting a callous black comedy on the lines of Shallow Grave.  Boy, how wrong I was.  This film suckers its audience into letting their guard down, but before you realise it you're genuinely feeling for characters you were expecting to see as cannon fodder.  Billy Bob Thornton and Bridget Fonda are the stand-outs, Thornton again suckering you - you're expecting a rerun of his Sling Blade simpleton so his character's skewed intelligence shocks you every time.On the debit side, Gary Cole phones in his role (it seems as if Raimi just phoned him up and said Why don't you come over and do Lucas Buck again?), and a few of the plot twists are a little predictable.  But the ending will get you in the gut.  Some days... we don't think of anything at all. "},{"Title":"brilliant morality play!","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not since Treasure of the Sierra Madre have I seen such a wonderful slow descent into madness! If you're into dark, human nature revealing films, this is for you. The direction is superb. Billy Bob Thornton was robbed at the Oscars. "},{"Title":"Thrilling and intelligent, a tightly drawn thriller.","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hank Mitchell, his brother Jacob and Jacob's friend Lou stumble on a crashed plane and 4 million dollars. As their obsession with the money grows, so does the need to keep it in whatever manner necessary.Sam Raimi crafts a dark and downbeat thriller, with a remarkable enthralling plot and a pleasant mixture of strong casting Paxton, Thornton and Fonda, a powerful premise and confident direction.Interesting, entertaining and cool. Based on Scott B. Smith's brilliant novel.  "},{"Title":"A Very Good Film","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I appreciate Raimi's work. And this one was very good, the cast, the screenplay, the plot was all good. Maybe a little reminder of Shallow Grave but this one is from the master Sam Raimi. I'm looking forward to see some new work(s) from Raimi. "},{"Title":"All a film needs","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I read the book a couple of years ago and I'm sure that you already know the plot so I won't go into that. However I must say that it's a brilliant movie! I remember the book being slightly different but as the script is written by the author of the book it doesn't matter. The basic story is the same. Right from the start we get premonitions of bad things to come through images of foxes and ravens. The fox becomes the symbol of evil preying on innocent victims (chicken, people). There are many beautiful images in the film, the main colour being white. The actors are fantastic. I've never seen Billy Bob Thornton in action before and I was amazed. All the characters seem real and believeable (it could be you or me) and the sometimes painfully long pauses in the dialogue gave almost a Dogma -95 feel to it. The moral of the story is as simple as the plan Don't touch anything that's not yours (especially not blood money) and be content with what you've got, it might seem pathetic and ordinary, but you'll miss it when it's gone. Please go and see A Simple Plan. It's bound to become a classic and it will have you thinking for a long time. "}{"Title":"A triumph in motion pictures!","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie truly exemplifies a great picture.  The movie follows the story of three men who discover more than $4 million dollars.  This leads to a destructive course of horrendous actions for these seemingly good people. The plot remains absolutely captivating and the cast plays their roles perfectly. The film works best in its successful attempt to identify with the viewer. It raises many moral questions that cannot be avoided.  The only fault of the movie occurs when it misses an obvious alternative near the end.  "},{"Title":"Slick and Dangerously Funny","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What would you do if you found 4.4 million dollars and know you should turn them in to the police? Well, watch this film and learn.A Simple Plan is a black comedy from the director of The Evil Dead movie series and The Quick and the Dead, Sam Raimi.The plot is about three friends who find 4.4 million dollars in an airplane, the smartest of them, Hank Mitchell (Bill Paxton, Aliens and Mighty Joe Young) insists on turning them in to the police. But his brother Jacob (brilliantly portrayed by  Billy Bob Thornton, Primary Colors and Pushing Tin) and the brother´s pal Lou (Brent Briscoe) persuade him to keep the money and Hank agrees on one condition, that he keep them in his hide so he then have to burn them up incase the police finds out about them. Hank shows his wife Sarah (Bridget Fonda, Jackie Brown and Lake Placid) the money and she boils up a simple plan that they keep ´em for themselves. After that everything goes downhill. We´re treated with some funny moments and very nice twists, it may be boring at times but the conclusion will satisfy you and you will leave the cinema knowing that this was a one time deal.I´m giving this fine piece JJJj of JJJJJ.         "},{"Title":"Haunting","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I had read the book before seeing the films, so I knew what the relative story was.  Let me just say that Fargo is not one of my favourite movies, and while there are comparisons (the snowy landscapes), A Simple Plan certainly rates better. A Simple Plan simply asks the question, what would I do? when setting up the movie.  Three guys find four and a half million dollars.  Will they keep it? obviously?  However, we are forced to ask ourselves that question when they find out the consequences. The entire cast gives tour-de-force performances.  Paxton again gives an understated performance, as he has done in the past. ( Has anyone noticed he's been in four of the biggest hits of all time True Lies (1994), Apollo 13 (1995), Twister (1996), and Titanic (1997) ).  Bridget Fonda is chilling in her portrayal of a Lady Macbeth like wife, whose evilness is shown over time. The moral fulcrum of this movie is Billy Bob Thorton.  He's the one who first realizes that they've opened an ethical Pandora's Box, and have gone down a road, leading to the inevitably tragic end.Let it be a warning to us all. Ranks- 9/10 ( one of the best of 98). "},{"Title":"A killer flick, a perfect adaptation to a perfect novel......","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Reading a best-selling novel after seeing the film adaptation of that story is a good idea.  I can now say that I thought the novel was better in the fact that its body count was larger and the gore factor played a more important role, but that the ending in the movie was much better, and left me with a better, more resolved feeling.Billy Bob Thornton brings a great deal of style to the movie, the scene where he asks his brother if he ever feels evil is a powerful one.The only sour note is the more than occasional monotone narration or rationalization of one of his or his brother's crimes on the part of Bill Paxton.The direction is great, Sam Raimi never fails to impress, the quick cutaway of an extreme closeup of a fox stealing a chicken is classic, and in many ways startling to the viewer.  It uses the element of surprise to scare the moviegoer, which is what Raimi has relied upon for years.  Luckily for him, it still works, with the help of an exceptionally erie dramatic score. "},{"Title":"* * * * (four stars)","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A masterful movie with incredible performances all around. Particularly by Billy Bob Thornton as Jacob in an Oscar worthy performance.The movie focuses on three men. Two are the brothers Hank (Bill Paxton) and Jacob (Billy Bob Thornton). The Third is Jacob's friend Lou (Brent Briscoe). The three find a crashed plane in the forest one day which contains 4.4 million dollars. The three decide to let Hank hold onto it for some time and then split it amongst them when they are sure it's safe. The plan begins to fall apart around them and things go from bad, to worse, to absolute worst in no time.The film does an amazing job of building the suspense and making the audience feel sympathy for the characters. It also makes one ponder what they would do in the same situation. The one thing that people really seem to dislike about this film is the ending. I personally found it to be quite appropriate to the atmosphere of the movie.* * * * - classic, see it at once "},{"Title":"A cracker-jack thriller that explodes in your face and leaves you think about the end for the next couple of hours.","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Everybody says that 1998 was a weak year for movies. True, some movies in the spring were kinda stupid, but others such as this end up as one of the best of the decade. This movie is about REAL people, not stick figures. The people in the movie act as if it were you in the same position. It's the kind of movie that has jaw-dropping scenes because of the risks the characters take to keep the money a secret. Some say this is like Fargo but I can't see the similarity. People say this is funny but I don't see the laughs. What I see is a great drama mixed with action almost as tense as Armageddon. As for the end. Well there is only one thing I can really say about the end...THE BEST CLIMAX IN MOTION PICTURE HISTORY. It left me a little sad and depressed. You leave not wanting to do another bad thing in your life. It also makes you feel good that your life is better than Billy Bob Thornton's character, but at the same time you just can't help but feeling sorry for him. One last thing, Billy Bob Thornton does his best role. If you're a Billy Bob Thornton fan than see this movie by all means. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable movie","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie on an Academy Awards voters video, and I am looking forward to seeing it again on the big screen.  The screenplay was adapted quite well from the novel, and is able to keep the same intensity.  Billy Bob Thornton is nothing short of brilliant in his portrayal of his character.  I'm not a big Bill Paxton fan, and he's okay in his role.  The plot is intriguing, and the ending is very interesting.  I liked most aspects of this film, except for Bill Paxton.  He's not terrible, just not great.  I do recommend this film, especially if you like Fargo.  "},{"Title":"This is the reason I see movies...","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Billy Bob Thornton better win an Oscar for his role as Jacob! A Simple Plan was a very gripping movie, and the plot unfolded very slowly, revealing every element at the right time. I loved the cast Bill Paxton as the hard working family man, Bridget Fonda as the sweet, yet smart wife, and Thornton in the second best performance of his career. Not to be overlooked is Brent Briscoe (Lou) who also played (Scooter) in Sling Blade. The movie relies heavily on drama, yet uses subtle bits of comedy in all the right places. And though his role was a serious one, I couldn't help but laugh to see Gary Cole as the FBI agent.  I kept thinking, It's Mike Brady. Anyways, go see it, you won't be sorry! "},{"Title":"Very well written and played out--but VERY disturbing.","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know if I can say that I enjoyed this movie.  It's one of those confusing ones!  I thought the actors did a great job of being really depressing losers.  I thought the writing was very thought out and creative. I wouldn't recommend this movie to very many people, though--it was a bit hard to take.  "},{"Title":"No two are alike (plans, that is)","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There is one thing about this movie that I want to talk about which makes this film great. It is the title and inherent theme therein. Picture a snowflake falling outside your window. Now, freeze-frame, and zoom in until you are enveloped in an ice palace that is way more spectacular and unique than Superman's house. This is your plan, a white speck made up of an infinite number of other variables, and it is as unpredictable in nature as it is uncontrollable. There is a scene late in the film in which four men walk through snow into a forest, and their trails line up parallel behind them. In the end, those paths are no longer so orderly...  The characters are equally profound yet outwardly homogenous. Amazing performances, Beautiful photography. AND ALL FROM THE DIRECTOR OF 'THE EVIL DEAD'! Rating ****1/2 (four and one half stars) "}{"Title":"Excellent, but good only once.","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed A Simple Plan. I thought Billy Bob Thornton was excellent, and Bill Paxton was just the right actor to pull off the humble, hard-working family man, a character we could easily sympathize with.The story, which was great, was better than the movie.  Don't get me wrong, however, I loved this film; I thought it was gripping and suspenseful, and I got the impression that everyone in the theater, including myself, was captivated by the unraveling of events and the deterioration of the characters' plans.The only fault this movie has is that it takes a long time for the events to occur and when seeing it for a second time, without the tension created by the unknown outcome, I don't think it would be as effective or enjoyable; in fact, I think I would find myself bored at certain times. Regardless, a movie's replay value does not change it's quality, so I give it a 9, and I would recommend this film to everyone I know. "},{"Title":"A brilliant mix of acting and suspense with Thornton leading the way.","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan was an incredibly suspenseful, believable film which truly made you feel the character's actions and reactions. Billy Bob Thornton deserves the best supporting actor Oscar win with his surreal performance as the tragic Jacob.  He is interesting, sympathetic, compelling, yet hilarious at times.  Bridget Fonda is perfectly cast as the initial voice of reason, but then she becomes a convincingly plotting, cunning player in the scheme. This movie is not meant to be about saving the earth from a comet, but if you watch it without expectations, it is extremely powerful with its insights.  It is the opposite message of Wall Street...Greed is NOT good!.   "},{"Title":"Excellent, but depressing, film.","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was absolutely incredible.  The characters were very well developed, and the story unfolded believably.  However, don't expect to feel good after watching it.  This is possibly the most depressing movie I have ever watched.  It is also incredibly frightening.  Check it out, but be prepared! "},{"Title":"Simply Wonderful","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For the second time in a year a director with a cult following has made a successful--and surprising--transition to the mainstream.  Years after Steven Soderbergh made independent films a household word with Sex, Lies and Videotape the director re-emerged with the critically-acclaimed Out of Sight.Now Sam Raimi, noted previously for such low-budget horror films as Evil Dead and Army of Darkness has come up with one of the best films of the year.Adapted by Scott B. Smith from his own novel, A Simple Plan tells the story of three men, two of whom are brothers, who come across a crashed small plane containing $4 1/2 million.  The simple plan is for one of the brothers to keep the money for a few months to see if anyone claims it.  Of course, the plan unravels.Roger Ebert has commented on the wonderful pacing of the plot developments and the near-perfect acting.  Billy Bob Thorton redeems himself after a horrible performance in Armageddon with an Oscar-worthy effort. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A brilliant film, I consider it second this year only to Shakespeare in Love.  It's a shame that the Academy snubbed it.  The performances are superb, especially Billy Bob Thornton, but Paxton as well, who makes his role real.  Thornton takes the role of the simpleton, and gives it more depth than I thought possible.  He was better here than even in Sling Blade. Raimi's direction is brilliant.  He seems to harness the energy you see on screen in his other movies and put it into crafting a brilliant story with incredible tension.  the scene where Hank smothers the old man sticks out in my memory especially, very intense. Elfman's score is, I believe, his best to date (and I've loved all his scores).  If you have not seen this, do so immediately. "},{"Title":"Excellent performances all 'round in this less character-driven Fargo","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Everyone involved did a much better job than I've ever seen before (besides Billy Bob Thornton, who is immaculate as always and looks a lot like Yes guitarist Steve Howe in this one) Paxton's perfecting his leading man qualities, and Bridget Fonda and Chelcie Ross both turn in performances that can actually be taken seriously.  Sam Raimi does a more artful, restrained job of directing than I'd ever have thought possible of him.  Just as full of unpleasantness as Fargo, and just as tongue-in-cheek in places; but where Fargo painted characters that had a few vivid features and nothing else, A Simple Plan presents normal people that become more vivid only as their morals are stripped away one by one.  It's a movie with an important lesson about where happiness can and can't be found, and although, yes, the ending is a downer, it's an important conclusion to that lesson; and yet the moral is presented in an engaging way without an ounce of preaching.  "},{"Title":"A great story that will get you wondering what you would do in the same situation.","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a terrific film -- well written, great cast and performances, and perfect restraint from director Sam Raimi.Some people have commented on the depressing ending, but don't let that stop you from seeing it. Truth be told, it is perfectly realistic, and if the writer had made the ending upbeat, it would have been a betrayal to the rest of the film.Besides, life can be depressing, and American film-makers shy away from reality all too often. Kudos to the producers for taking a chance with the ending (which is another reason movie-goers should support this film).The only disappointment was Danny Elfman's soundtrack, which went unnoticed to me. Elfman's tracks usually add another dimension to the film, but in A Simple Plan he was too restrained, which doesn't hurt, but I was a little disappointed.  "},{"Title":"A devastating morality play about the ravages of greed.","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Before I saw this movie I thought Saving Private Ryan was clearly the best movie of 1998, now I'm not so sure. Director Sam Raimi just put his name on the A-list with his handling of Scott B. Smith's neo-classic tale of greed and the capacity of evil in all of us. Billy Bob Thornton, Bill Paxton, Bridgett Fonda and Brent Briscoe all give Oscar-worthy performances as people permanently damaged by the sudden discovery of 4.4 million dollars of dirty money practically right in their own backyard. Raimi and Smith have crafted a terrifically entertaining, intelligent and finally heart-wrenching thriller that Aesop would've loved. Everything that people do in this movie make sense to their characters. The internal logic is perfect. This is a modern day Treasure Of The Sierra Madre and is an American movie classic.  "},{"Title":"Why didn't this film get any publicity?  It's the best I've seen of 1998.","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Finally, Sam Raimi tells us a story without all of the snazzy visual camera work he has used in so many prior films.  This is a well-acted film that probably will make audiences wonder what they would do and how they would act given the same circumstances the characters are given.  That may be exactly why it has not done well at the box office.  Maybe the studio felt the same way because, other than that, I don't understand why it was not promoted better than it was.  I don't think I saw anything promoting it until it received a couple of Academy Award nominations.  "},{"Title":"A Simple Plan tells superb story of ghosts, cages","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sam Raimi's A Simple Plan is a superb, heart-breaking piece of filmmaking.  It's a film about ghosts, personal cages, and greed.  The acting is outstanding, particularly Billy Bob Thornton as the slow-witted yokel who feels evil. The most interesting thing about the film, to me, was its use  of structuring motifs--especially that of the cage.  In the opening scenes, this metaphor is clearly established by use of the gnarled, entangled tree branches that criss-cross each other like barren fingers.  This idea of the cage is perfect in relation to each of the characters--Jacob, who's trapped in a life of loneliness and hopelessness, always dreaming of making a life for himself that his father would have been proud of; Hank,  who's dying for a financial break that would ensure the prosperity of his unborn child; and, of course, Hank's wife (who  Raimi frames into her own cage using the bookshelves of the library) with her aching desire to escape the humdrum small-town life. A Simple Plan is one of the best films of 1998; it's a suspense-thriller with enough intelligence and strong performance to merit comparisons with Hitchcock.  It's got one hell of a tragic ending, but it's fitting and thought provoking nonetheless. "}{"Title":"Thornton shines in this excellent motion picture...","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found this film to be a superb blend of every element of filmmaking. Based on Scott Smith's novel, this film's most outstanding factor is the profound talent of one Billy Bob Thornton as Jacob Mitchell Rarely does an actor truly draw my mind and emotions into a film, and Mr. Thornton accomplished such a feat with his performance in this picture with a raw and realistic degree of acting. And everyone else in the picture is great to boot! See this movie and understand why the Academy has nominated Mr. Thornton in the best supporting actor category.  "},{"Title":"A good movie with great scenery.","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought A Simple Plan was a fine movie.  The story was interesting.  The acting was excellent.  And it reviewed for all of us an old lesson we have heard over and over again.  And that is that money is indeed the root of all evil.   "},{"Title":"One of the great ones","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the finest i've ever seen.  A combination of superb acting and a great story make this one of the best movies you could ever see.  I was a bit disappointed that it didn't get more Oscar nominations, but i'm pretty sure Billy Bob Thornton will get the Oscar for best supporting actor.  Although the ending was a bit of a let down, it was still one of the best movies i've ever seen.  "},{"Title":"A Rural MacBeth","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is an excellent film all around, but if you haven't made the connection yet, try looking for the comparison to Shakespeare's MacBeth.  The extent of what the promise of power and money can make a good man do are explored to fascinating results in both.  And how about Bridget Fonda's character as a modern-day Lady MacBeth?  This great film already works on so many levels; this is just one more.   "},{"Title":"very good moral film.............","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is very well written with a very good moral in a sense that 'what would happen if you found $4,400,000.00 in cash  and had a pregnant wife with the both of you in dead-end jobs? Your brother is on disability and his friend who is just an almost alcoholic were present with you when it was found? You could be the nicest guy in the world and very honest and polite and blah,blah,blah,blah,blah (you catch my drift). Money brings out the worst in people, it corrupts, brings greed, betrayal in us until suddenly you aren't such a nice guy anymore (and i'm talking about a s**t load of money NOT $100.00).That is what is quite scary in people, it's a sickness everybody has it even the Pope (even though thats hard to believe, it's there in him somewhere I bet ya). Don't say this won't happen to you, go find $4.4 million and see if you can handle the temptation of it!!!!I give this movie a 10/10! "},{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've been a fan of Raimi's since the first Evil Dead. My, how he's grown. This movie really shows JUST HOW TALENTED 'ol Sammy-boy is. It's visually stunning, smart, subtle, shocking and heart breaking (and don't get me started about the acting!). What an experience.Thank you, Sam...I forgot movies could be this good. "},{"Title":"The most powerful film I've ever seen","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film would stand out as a truly great film even if it weren't released during a period of films that have no thought or originality in them.  This may be the last film to be released for quite a while that has any sort of message in it, what with all the remakes and sequels that are headed toward theaters.  Very often a film has a message that is either too obvious or too subtle, but this is one very big exception.  The plot alone was enough to make me want to see it, even if it meant going 35 miles to the nearest theater playing it, which it did.  It starts out with three men in the woods (Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thornton, Brent Briscoe) who find a crashed plane in the forest with millions of dollars inside, and they have to decide what to do.  Their decision is to hide the money, and if nobody comes looking for it, they split it up and move away.  However, they realize that their plan isn't quite as simple as they might like to believe, and they have to decide at what cost the money is worth being kept secret.  The story doesn't get unnecessarily complex, but the fact that you wouldn't expect anything to go wrong if it happened gives it a real feeling of reality when things do happen that weren't expected.  You eventually realize that when it involves something as drastic as this, there is no such thing as a simple plan, thank you Murphy's Law.  With most of the decisions the men make, you can really get an idea of what they were thinking, and some people may be thinking that they might even have done it too.  Then there are decisions that the men are faced with that really seem impossible, which is one thing that makes this movie so dramatic.  Although I'm sure many people would watch this movie and think about how they might have handled the situation differently, watching the movie it seems as though just about everything these characters decided to go through with is the only answer.  The only one they really seemed to have a choice with is whether or not to take the money, and without the benefit of hindsight, it would seem almost crazy not to, although they appeared to be struggling to rationalize the decision.  Then, with the way everything turns out, although you would never expect things to go this far, you realize that 4.4 million dollars isn't enough for it to be worth taking. Jacob (Thornton) even says I wish we'd never found that money.  When you are talking about this much money, it would be hard to imagine something that would make you say this.  There were some very good performances in the film, especially from Paxton and Thornton.  Bill Paxton can have a big smile on his face and yet still very clearly show how nervous his character really is, even while trying to hide it.  By the end of the film, the main characters are starting to feel really bad about what the money has been leading up to, and you find yourself feeling just as bad for them.  When Jacob started telling his brother Hank (Paxton) about how guilty he feels, I felt sorrier for a fictional character than I ever thought was possible. The overall message the film is trying to make is that the road to hell is paved with good intentions, and boy does it get that message across!  This is one movie that is very powerful and haunting, and is very hard to forget. The only other film I can recall seeing that comes close to being as strong with emotion as this one is Ransom (1996).  I am just really disappointed with the fact that barely anyone seemed to notice this film when it was released, while movies like I Still Know... are just barely leaving the theaters, and being replaced with all these other films that are based around ideas that have been done before.  Hopefully, it will be re-released with a lot more publicity.  Although I have never really thought out my own personal top 10 favorite films list, I know that this one is very high on that list, possibly number one.  I very highly recommend this one! "},{"Title":"Great book becomes powerful movie","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Reading this novel, which I own, is like watching a car accident; you want to warn the driver to slow down, but you know it's inevitable.  But great novels (or books) don't always make great movies, so I was a little nervous going in.  I shouldn't have been.  Although Raimi and writer Smith (adapting his novel) cut down the gore some (Hank doesn't kill as many people as he did in the book), this is still powerful, moving, and, of course, incredibly sad.  It's also highly moral, which is unusual to find in a Hollywood film. And I add my praise to the work of Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thornton, and Bridget Fonda, all who give life to all too real characters. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the year.   A dark and sinister tale of greed and betrayal.","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It is certainly refreshing to watch a film where the characters are just as smart or smarter than the audiences who watch them. Director Sam Raimi shows that he can handle complex characters and plot with a tight and restrained hand, without resorting to the usual cartoonish camera acrobatics that permeated his previous films. The cast is superb, Billy Bob Thornton will certainly get an Oscar nomination for his performance. Here he shows that he is indeed not a one hit wonder. Bill Paxton, and Bridget Fonda also give the best performances of their careers. Here's to hoping a great future in films for Sam Raimi. "},{"Title":"liked it, especially the ending","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've read a number of negative comments about the downbeat ending, but when Jacob asked Hank to kill him, I turned to my companion and said I think they're going to give it a happy ending.  And they did.Anyone who's read Scott Smith's wonderful novel will probably understand what I mean Hank kills more innocent people in the novel--and does not kill the fake FBI agent, as he does in the film.  And the novel ends with grim attention to Hank's depressing family life over the years.  Having read and enjoyed the novel twice for the way it is told, I am pleased that the filmmakers (including Scott Smith, who adapted his own work) softened the ending and protected innocent filmgoers (i.e., the ones who had not read the novel) from the novel's bleak point of view.Read the novel and you too can feel superior to the folks who moan about the ending.  "}{"Title":"Raw truth in arresting thriller","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What separates A Simple Plan from thrillers like Pulp Fiction is its relentless believability.  Bill Paxton gives the performance of his career as an ordinary working stiff given the chance to forever alter his life by committing an easy-to-rationalize crime.  Then personal demons and familial ghosts enter.  Soon, the little crime spirals and shows how far this seemingly honest guy will go to cover up his actions. Billy Bob Thornton, as his slow-witted brother, deserves an Oscar for his heart-breaking performance.  "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 1998","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan is a must see film.  Well directed by Sam Raimi and beautifully acted by Bill Baxton and Billy Bob Thorton.  Sam Raimi toned down his directing style for this movie but it's the little things that just scream RAIMI.The great thing about this film is that it really gets the audience into the film.  You'll find the audience calling out things like Oh No! Don't...don't or even the occasional Oh my GOD!  Some nice twists and some things you'd thought you'd never see.A Simple Plan is definitely one of the Top Ten of 1998.  "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  very enjoyable film with a thought out script.  After all it's every man's dream to strike it rich. The question is how far are you willing to go.  Bill Paxtons part was well played as was Thornton.  Go see this movie, I thought it was worth the price of a ticket. "},{"Title":"Wonderful ensemble acting","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Like the ending, or hate it, it was the only possible ending for the film and it was very, very right. Before you arrive there, however, you are treated to one of the finest displays of ensemble acting you'll see for a long time. Every role had weight, and each was played wonderfully; and the whole was better than the sum of its parts.  "},{"Title":"It almost made it.","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although A Simple Plan is anything but simple, it almost made it as a good film.  Certainly, it was effective in its reflections on greed. Nevertheless, motivation was often lacking.  Why did she change her attitude so easily?  Was it simply the smell of the money lying on the bed?  Why did he kill the farmer?  Simply to protect the brother?  Once we were caught in the web of the plot, however, there was no getting out.  That is the film's strength.Never mind the sometimes ridiculous dialogue.  Never mind that Billy Bob Thorton was in and out of his character...sometimes mentally retarded, sometimes clever and witty.  Never mind that the relationship between the brothers was left unfinished.  Never mind that the relationship between the husband and wife was absurd.The film still has merit.  It almost made it!   "},{"Title":"What kind of person are you and what are you capable of?","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I asked myself this question as I left the theatre.  Too bad I still don't know the answer, 4.4 million dollars is a lot of money.  However, I was a little scared as I began to identify with certain characters, Hank in particular.  Phenomenal performances all around. Bill Paxton is finally coming of age.  Billy Bob Thorton is simply brilliant and will receive a guaranteed Oscar from the academy this year.  The movie wasn't just about the money though, How far would you go to protect a loved one?  The only complaint I have is with the score.  Was Danny Elfman on acid? "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this movie very much","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's kind of a hybrid of The Treasure of Sierra Madre and Fargo.  Some of the events seem a bit far-fetched, and you have to take a leap of faith to believe that the characters would think of some the things they do, and behave in some of the ways they do.  But, it was a good story, very involving and well told.  It's also quite atmospheric, which I love.  The snow is almost like a character in the film.  And the performances by Bill Paxton and especially Billy Bob Thornton were superb.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant...","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A simple plan can go wrong with a snap of the fingers, and that's exactly what happens in Sam Raimi's new film. Raimi, whom I've been a huge fan of since his Evil Dead days, has absolutely outdone himself with the direction of this film, and every single character was real. Bill Paxton should receive an Oscar nomination as should Billy Bob Thornton, who was absolutely amazing as the slow witted brother who manages to screw things up at every turn. There are more twists and turns than you can shake a stick at, and even though the ending was a downer, it was brilliantly true to real life. There is also a tragic twist ending that basically says You don't always get what you try for. Even though it's tragic, it's true and you can't help but laugh about it...even though it is sad. This is one of the best films ever made. Period. "},{"Title":"One of the best I've seen in awhile","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best films I've seen in awhile.  The cameras were all pointing in the right direction, all the actors knew their lines, the snow looked great, the murders were a surprise, the cop had too much time on his hands, the wife was cunning enough to keep you wondering, Billy Bob is one of my Favs. I'm becoming a real Bill Paxton fan and the ending shocked me. my wife and I loved it. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just got back from seeing this film, and it was one of the greatest experiences I've ever had in a theater.This movie kept you on the edge of your seat throughout.  And the characters and relationships were beautiful.  I would have a hard time finding one thing I didn't like about it.  It had the suspense of a Hitchcock, the plot of a Mamet, and the emotional range of a Shakespearian tragedy.A great many movies you can walk out thinking how good it was on an intellectual level.  Movies are few and far between that can hit you on such a visceral level, and let you have some much fun along the way. "}{"Title":"Like _Very Bad Things_, but much better","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Parallels can be drawn between this movie and _Very Bad Things_. Both had a lead character who commanded the group as to their course of action (Christian Slater - Bill Paxton), a female who _actually_ controlled what was going on (Cameron Diaz - Bridget Fonda), and lots of people dying. Even with all these things in common, _A Simple Plan_ was far superior to _Very Bad Things_. The overall script was better written, and _A Simple Plan_ did not attempt to be a comedy, which _Very Bad Things_ did, but did not succeed at. The plot was not as predictable as it could have been, causing the movie watcher to wonder who was going next. "},{"Title":"Superb, well acted tale of suspense","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Money doesn't buy happiness, but most of us feel that more money would at least make our lives easier.  In A Simple Plan, directed by Sam Raimi, two brothers and a friend discover that more money (4 million dollars more) only brings tragedy.  Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thorton are great as the brothers.  As the movie unfolds, the viewer is forced to consider what he or she might do in similar situations.  Bill Paxton's decisions are entirely logically correct, but bear horrible results.  Sam Raimi directs with style and suspense.  One of the best films of 1998.  "},{"Title":"A bitter pill to take","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A real tough movie.  It sort of reminds me of an earlier movie, 'Very Bad Things.'  Though this movie was done a whole lot better.  Billy Bob proves again he got what it takes to be an actor.  I like Bridget Fonda's performance as the wife who is tired of small town life and wants something better.  She is the actual planner in the picture, but of coarse, simple planning goes the wrong way.  The way it ended I asked myself; they should have left the money alone.  Grade it  B or *** "},{"Title":"I can resist anything except temptation.","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although I'd read the novel, and knew exactly what was going to happen, and exactly how everything would turn out, this movie had me on the edge of my seat throughout.  Masterfully acted, masterfully directed, this is one of the must-sees of 1999.  First time in a very, very long time that people actually applauded at the end of a movie I attended.  Please go see this incredible film.  "},{"Title":"Nothing Fancy Needed","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a truly perfect movie with excellent performances.  This compelling and gripping story will remain to be one of my favorites.  A lot of people are upset that Sam Raimi didn't do any of his usual stunning camera flare, but I really don't think it was necessary.  The film was excellent in every way and nothing too fancy was needed. "},{"Title":"Puts Fargo to shame","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie will no doubt inspire comparisons to Fargo, for it bears many similarities- the snow-covered settings, the true-to-life characters, and the way we see these characters dig themselves into a hole of deception and murder. And director Sam Raimi has often worked with Fargo creators Joel and Ethan Coen. However, this film is light years ahead of Fargo. While that movie created characters that were so wierd that it was fairly clear that they were characters, this film gives us human, three-dimensional characters that we can't help but care about- after all, who could resist the temptation offered to these people?  Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thornton and Bridget Fonda all give Oscar-worthy performances, and the way the plot unfolds- as the main characters try to conceal the money they've found and become increasingly suspicious of each other- is ingenious. Although the film doesn't end on what anyone would call a happy note, it's not really a downer, either. All in all, this is easily one of the best films of the year.  "},{"Title":"The Best Film of the Year","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't see why people are so upset by the sad ending to this film.  In my view this was the best movie of the year and the ending was just great, a very appropriate finale to this great film.  I don't want to give too much away but Paxton and Thorton's performances stand out and are very Oscar-worthy.  The film should win best picture for 1998, in my opinion it is better then either Saving Private Ryan or A Civil Action, which are two other movies I have seen this year that are getting Oscar buzz. Anyway, if you want to see a really good movie right now and in my opinion the best film of the year then go see A Simple Plan.  "},{"Title":"A dark, interesting, and intriguing film","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is an exercise in how humans can take even the simplest idea and make it very complicated.  The film centers on three men who find the American dream in the form of a duffel bag.  Often painful to watch, A Simple Plan aims to show how people with the highest morals can be tempted and corrupted with the easy path.  Billy Bob Thornton turns in a good performance as the brother of Bill Paxton, who at times seems to be caught-up in the moment.The problem here is not with the acting, nor the direction, but more in the script that keeps promising to lead somewhere, but instead keeps delivering more sidesteps that never seem to go anywhere.  Characters start out with the best intentions, but in a quick reverse, do exactly the opposite of their nature, and we never really know why they have a sudden change of heart.The cinematography is quite gripping and you quite often get a sense of how Minnesota can be brutally cold and barren during the winter.  Fargo this film tries to imitate, but again the script doesn't let it ascend to that level.  Above average.  6 out 10.   "},{"Title":"Raimi's restrained directing is essential","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie because I love Raimi's films. I shouldn't have. I ended up leaving the theatre realizing what Raimi and cinematographer Alar Kivilo must have realized before--His usual directing--crazy camera moves and all--would not be right for this film. I appreciated the wonderful scripting and acting, and I wasn't disappointed too much that this did not have the marks of a Sam Raimi film. The characters are very developed. The touching moments are very touching. See it, but don't expect a Raimi film. "},{"Title":"Yeah, and people tell me I look just like Brad Pitt...","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Boy, a little bad weather and everyone loses perspective.  A Simple Plan has absolutely nothing in common with Fargo except snow.  If comparisons are to be made, it's to The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, Of Mice and Men, McTeague (Greed), and Macbeth.  Not to mention that A Simple Plan is based on a novel written long before Fargo saw the light.  Hello?  Fargo was an allegory of breathtaking originality (as were the other works mentioned).  A Simple Plan is an excellent but derivative character study.  Definitely see it, but read or watch one of those other titles when you get home and expand your mind beyond popular films of the past three years.  "}{"Title":"GREAT FILM MAKING","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a pleasant surprise from the never-boring Sam Raimi.  He handled this material perfectly.  Thorton was excellent.  Paxton may not be taking his off-the-wall supporting roles anymore, but he was totally believable as a man completely beside himself till the very end - trying to both protect his brother and keep them out of prison.  Very well done.  "},{"Title":"Good story, characters, acting, it has it all","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan is the great story of how two brothers and their friend find $4.4 million.  They knew it would change their lives, but not like this.  It drives them apart.  Every main character is interesting and well played. The story is excellent.  It's got enough jokes to keep it from being too heavy, but few enough so you still take it seriously.  A Simple Plan won't get much Oscar attention, but it deserves nominations for Best Picture and its acting.  "},{"Title":"ask yourself...","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  4 million dollars in cash...no one knows about it, no one seems to be looking for it, would you take it? that's what this movie is about. people just like you and me decide that and how they try and make themselves feel they're justified at every step as they get deeper and deeper into covering up their tracks.excellent performances by thorton and paxton with subtle humor and gripping tension.   "},{"Title":"Better Than Fargo...and Maybe A Down Ending Is The Point","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Plainly and simply a great film.  Paxton is better than you'd expect, and Fonda and Thornton are wonderful.  A tense, but humorous morality tale. People compare it to Fargo...and while the two really aren't very similar, this is definitely a more satisfying film.  And to the person who wrote Good but a downer ending...ever think maybe that was the point?  "},{"Title":"Raimi, Scott and Studio  Your reality check is ready","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The only way to get better movies is to ask for them - and to refuse to accept inferior product.  I walked out at the moment Hank killed the farmer. There was absolutely NOTHING to suggest that his character was capable of this action.  His life was perfect.  If such a character flaw was revealed later, okay I missed it, but the rules of the game are  there has to be SOME HINT of this character flaw beforehand, otherwise a viewer is left behind the narrative.  From now on, I'm walking out when this happens and I'm telling the world (or at least you).It should be absolutely impossible for a filmgoer such as myself to point out such GLARING MISTAKES in entertainment made my hundreds of people at the cost of dozens of millions of dollars.  Call me a nut, but why don't customers hold entertainment to the same standards of quality control as other industries?  Would you accept a big disappointment from every other use of an airline?Attention filmmakers  if you're going to break the rules, make art - like Fellini or Cocteau.  If you're going to tell stories about real people in real situations - follow the rules of human behavior. "},{"Title":"Treasure of the Sierra Madre meets Fargo","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best movies of its type -- a stark, thoughtful morality tale about honesty, greed, friendship and family. We've all seen movies about what money and greed can do to people, but seldom has the story been told in such a gripping way.  The movie makes you care about the characters -- you feel that they are basically good people doing bad things and getting in deeper and deeper.  There are moments in this movie that actually gave me chills.  Billy Bob Thornton's Jacob is a sad, tragic figure, similar in some ways to his Sling Blade character but much more complicated.  Yes, the ending is a downer, but as far as I'm concerned that's a big plus over standard Hollywood fare.  I've been a big Sam Raimi fan since his Evil Dead days, and I'm very pleased by his development as a mature director.  Danny Elfman's jangly score is perfect, as is the cinematography.  A classic.  "},{"Title":"Smart, devilishly good plot with fine acting.","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a smart movie that has--somehow--avoided the dumbing down of most of the current crop of Hollywood movies. Bill Paxton deserves an Oscar nomination for his role, although Billy Bob Thornton will probably be the one to get it. His role is more quirky and thus perceived as harder to act. Not true. Bill Paxton was completely believable, in fact, it was his acting that made some of the surreal events believable. One of the best movies of the year!  "},{"Title":"Gripping, well made drama","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was very entertaining and well made. I would recommend any Sam Raimi fan to go see it. It's kind of like a Fargo without the humor, and a little more subtle.Bill Paxon was good as the brightest of three bumpkins, Bridget Fonda was evil as his wife, Billy Bob Thorton was believable as the biggest bumbling country idiot and the supporting cast were very believable.There is one scene that has some old Raimi techniques, and the crowd loved it.I'm not sure it has to be seen on the big screen but there are some beautiful camerawork. Some of the snow scenes were very white and might not transfer to the small screen. "},{"Title":"A Simple Plan turns out to be anything but simple in this riveting drama","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thornton and Brent Brisco give excellent performances as three men who discover a crashed plane with 4.4 million dollars aboard. What follows is a dark look at human nature and how greed can take over our very being. If you liked Fargo, you will no doubt enjoy A Simple Plan.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've ever seen","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie blew me away.  The story about ordinary people who do some very evil things is intriguing and actually makes the audience get a feel for the characters.  I found myself hoping that no one would drive by during the tense moments and then seeing how they handled the situations that they were thrown into.  The acting is terrific, especially by Billy Bob Thornton, who deserves an Oscar for this.  Bill Paxton is a good lead and I think he is under-appreciated in the film industry.  Overall, this is one of the best movies I have ever seen and I think it should win Best Picture for 1998. "}{"Title":"A Real Thinker","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is very good right up until the end, which just didn't seem probable or rational.  I enjoyed the whole theme of the movie and it really made me think.  People are human and do desperate things that may not be the best things, but seemed at the time to be the only thing.  If you are self-righteous and believe you have achieved a hig degree of moral character than you must go see this movie to see what people just like yourself do when enveloped in extreme circumstances.  Bill Paxton turned in a surprisingly good performance and Billy Bob Thorton played the only role he really can, a mentally challenged guy who hasn't gotten much out of life. "},{"Title":"Raimi creates a film which suggests anyone could fall prey to the temptation of money","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wow! Sam Raimi scores a huge win here. This film is amazingly well conceived and executed. The portrayal of three men in rural Minnesota who discover $4 million in cash at the site of an undiscovered small airplane crash, and their slow descent into evil is remarkably well paced.  Raimi shies away from portraying any of the characters as either good or evil--they all are implicated as the simple plan to keep the money begins to unravel.In many ways, this films covers the same territory as The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, but comes off as more believable. Raimi's greatest triumph may be crafting a drama which the viewer can project himself into--suggesting that anyone could fall prey to the temptation presented by a quick fortune. "},{"Title":"Billy Bob WOW","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very enjoyable Film that puts you right into the characters heads. You keep asking yourself What would I do in that situation? Billy Bob Thornton steals the Movie. "},{"Title":"A character driven thriller","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This thriller about the destructiveness of money succeeds because it centers on its characters, and because those characters are so well portrayed. Standouts are Billy Bob Thornton and Bill Paxton, who play very dissimilar brothers, and give two of the year's best performances.  The direction by Samuel Raimi is excellent in that it focuses on the characters and the surrounding local color, which is very well captured.  (He's come a long way from Evil Dead!)  Although we've seen the theme of the movie before --from Treasure of Sierra Madre on down -- it seems fresh here.  One big minus is that a crucial plot point is totally implausible.  It's a major flaw in what is otherwise an intelligent screenplay. "},{"Title":"Unconventional, Fresh, Engaging","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a surprise.  A movie that actually doesn't utilize every cliche in the book.  Unlike most films out these days, I didn't know how this movie would play out as I watched it.Bill Paxton turns in a performance I didn't think he was capable of and newcomer Brent Briscoe will have doors opening up for him everywhere once people see his performance.The ending of this film is GREAT.  Why? Because it is true to the characters and not true to textbook Hollywood.Go see this movie before all the plot secrets are revealed.  "},{"Title":"Do the animals represent the characters? - decide for yourself.","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A fine, entertaining film, if you can suspend disbelief on a couple of major plot points. This is an excellent study of what greed can do, and a beautiful exposition of cinematic symbolism. It is not giving anything away to say that the movie begins with what looks like a film cliche -- a fox stealing a chicken, carrion-crows waiting in the branches to finish off the remains of the discarded carcass. But I believe that the director's secret is not just using these creatures to set the plot in motion, but that each animal represents one of the three main characters. See it and decide for yourself who is the fox, the chicken and the crow. With excellent performances from all, you will enjoy the game. "},{"Title":"great movie, great performances, perfect ending","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie at its North American premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival, and I thought it was absolutely wonderful.  The performances are strong all around, and Billy Bob Thornton is a notable standout.  This is one of those movies where you think you know what will happen, but then you find out that you just didn't know at all, and this is a good thing. Unpredictable twists, but all plausible within the given guidelines to the story.  Sam Raimi has outdone himself with subtlety and restraint, two things you don't normally see in his movies! <g> "},{"Title":"Possibly Sam Raimi's Finest Film","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A Simpe Plan (1998) Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thornton, Bridget Fonda, Brent Briscoe, Jack Walsh, Becky Ann Baker, Chelcie Ross, Gary Cole, Bob Davis, Tom Carey, John Paxton, Peter Syvertsen, Marie Mathay, Paul Magers, Joan Steffand....Director Sam Raimi, Screenplay Scott B. Smith.A Not So Simple Plan....Sam Raimi is not known for directing films like this one, an intelligently written dark comedy-drama in the style of Cohen brother's works like Fargo or the more recent films like Ice Harvest. Sam Raimi directed the Evil Dead horror-comic films. A Simpe Plan is based upon Scott Smith's novel (he also wrote the screenplay) and tells the story of a group of brothers who come across millions of dollars found in a plane crash in the snow. They immediately recognize the seemingly good fortune and decide to take the money, ignoring all the consequences. As the film progresses, they become more and more greedy and their luck runs out. Bill Paxton, fresh after his work in Titanic, stars as Hank Mitchell, the eldest and most resourceful brother. He's married to Sarah (Bridget Fonda) who is pregnant with his child. Set in the Mid-West during a snowy winter, this film is Sam Raimi's best film. It does not rely on excessive violence or bizarre touches, though the use of dark humor is used. Even this is well done and emphasizes the biting satire. The film explores the nature of greed and how easily one can get caught up in the dream of instant fortune, at the cost of other people's misfortune. It's not long before the brothers turn against each other over the money and murder takes place. Hank, by far the greediest, was essentially a good guy and an average Joe before his lust for the money causes him to take the lives of his own brothers. Kudos to Bill Paxton for taking on such a difficult role. He manages to appear normal and very human even after all the bad things he does. Billy Bob Thornton is wonderful as the mentally challenged, sickly brother Jacob. Thornton has played nasty characters in recent years but this role is quite different and he manages to do create a sympathetic character and it's painful to see how Hank mistreats him. The superior script, the fine performances by all the actors and the chilly mood of this film makes it a winner. Because of the language and violent content (namely murder) this film is suited only for mature adults. Great music, very haunting and dramatic, and great use of cinematography. If you love watching Bill Paxton films or Billy Bob Thornton films, this one is for you. Plus, for the Sam Raimi movie fans, here's a film that is above the Evil Dead films and is quality drama. It should have won an Oscar. This film is a lot more tame and more thought-provoking than Ice Harvest which was ridiculously bad in its content. Check out A Simple Plan. "},{"Title":"Money may not be the root of all evil, but it sure helps some to decide...","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It would be unfair to say much about this story or the plot. If you've seen it already, you'll understand why, without question, I would hope. If you've not seen it yet, then I won't spoil it for you at all.I can say this much about the story it concerns three men who decide to keep a bag (a very big bag) full of money that they found on a crashed aircraft on a cold winter's day somewhere in the mid-West (I think). Two of the men are brothers, one of whom (Billy Bob Thornton as Jacob Mitchell) is not very bright, intellectually; the third man (Brent Briscoe as Lou Chambers) is best friend to him. Jacob's brother is Hank, played by Bill Paxton. Jacob and Lou are more or less layabouts, who have no jobs, and spend a lot of time doing not much, except drink and hunt; Hank is educated, employed in town, married and generally regarded as an upstanding member of the local community.So, after deciding that Jacob can hold the money hidden until safe to use it, the three men agree to say nothing to nobody until the way is clear for them to divide it all up and move away from the area. A simple plan.I saw this movie when first released, and saw it again just recently. Happily, the intervening time has not dulled my liking of the whole production, with one exception (see below).The acting, dialog, setting &#150; boy, it looks so cold all the time &#150; and suspense are all top notch and the theme &#150; how greed corrupts the soul &#150; is virtually rammed down the viewer's throat. But, that's fine, because we're all blasé about the excesses of stock trader Gordon Gekko of Wall Street (1987), right? Still, it's fun to see how the twists of the plot are thrown at the viewer, making sure we get the point. But the irony &#150; ahhh, the irony &#150; that's where this film excels, way beyond most movies of this genre. A comparable film noir that comes to mind is Out of the Past (1947) with Robert Mitchum and Kirk Douglas, with a story that has some parallels.But, A Simple Plan succeeds wonderfully as two hours of exquisite suspense as we watch, in horror, the things people will do for money, and even as the body count exceeds most viewers' needs or wants. My only criticism now, however, is that, after long reflection upon the story and the psychology of all of the characters, I'm not convinced that the character of Hank is fully believable; I just don't see that type of person as being able to achieve what he did, if he existed in real life. I could be wrong, of course. See the movie, and judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the best thriller of all time","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sam Raimi's A SIMPLE PLAN is his best film. It is also his most underrated. Based on the best-selling novel by Scott Smith that was published in 1993, it tells the tale of two brothers, Hank (Bill Paxton) and Jacob (Billy Bob Thornton in one of his best roles, cheated out of an Oscar) who, along with Jacob's friend Lou Chambers (Brent Briscoe) come across a crashed plane containing over $4 million. Naturally, they decide to keep it after some resistance from Hank in one of the greatest scenes in the picture. Everything seems to be going smoothly until Hank makes the mistake of telling his controlling wife Sarah (Bridget Fonda in one of the most spectacular performances of any actress of the past decade).This super intense thriller from the always reliable Raimi provides more tension than possible any other thriller ever made, including anything Hitchcock ever did. Raimi plays tribute to Hitchcock early on in one of the rare instances in which it is done in thrillers that isn't painfully obvious and annoying. Other than Hitchcock, influences of MacBeth, Of Mice and Men, and John Huston can be seen throughout the movie. Raimi uses these influences to their maximum effect while at the same time creating a suspense-filled journey unlike one has ever seen before. Credit where it is also due to Oscar-nominated screenwriter Scott Smith who wisely changed the second half the script from his original novel, cinematographer Alar Kivilo (who went onto THE ICE HARVEST, similar to 'PLAN', and composer Danny Elfman. A must-see for everyone, a truly remarkable piece of art. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Blackmail. Trickery. Betrayal. Greed. Death; A Simple Plan is a tragic masterpiece.","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sam Raimi has become a great director, from his own creation of zombie flicks, to superhero films that even the critics enjoyed. Most of his films got an IMDb score of at least 7.4, some sequels even higher. A Simple Plan is no exception.A was first introduced to Sam Raimi when I saw Spider-man 2. I saw this on a shelf, thinking it would be a light drama- fairly dramatic; minor twists and turns, but pretty simple. Boy was I wrong.Despite its name, A Simple Plan is NOT a simple movie. There are major twists and turns, which result in drastic results for the characters. The snowy setting plays a minor part in the story, and lets the viewers know it is going to be melancholy. (The background music is also depressing.) Three friends find the supposed American dream which is code for a duffel bag full of money. The men let they're emotion come over their thinking, which leads to blackmail, paranoia, trickery, and even death.The characters are surprisingly realistic. I actually know people who may turn out to be like Lou and Jacob. Let me explain them to you. Hank is a nice guy. He thinks he knows exactly what to do with the money, and tries to make things right. (This is probably due to paranoia) Meanwhile Lou and Jacob remain a bit immature, unemployed, and greedy.The only flaw is that A Simple Plan is what we've come to predict. It's a movie about how people can turn greedy by money. The audience already expected the characters to blackmail and kill each other.A Simple Plan is NOT a film for the average moviegoer. It is NOT for the people whose ideal film is a light-hearted comedy with a happy ending. And most defiantly, A Simple plan is NOT a feel-good film. If you have a good attention span, and enjoy dark and depressing films, take this off the shelf, and stick it into your VCR.9/10 "},{"Title":"The Greatest movie about how even good people succumb to greed","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Most thriller movies are neither intelligent, or give their characters morals and moral boundaries that they are tempted to cross and good reasons for doing so. They simply let the story drive the plot instead of the characters and their choices, character arcs, and faults drive the plot line.Its finally a joy to see a movie that does just that. A simple plan simply follows 4 people as their morals are tested, stretched, and eventually broken over the course of a month or so. 3 men find 4 million dollars in a wrecked plane on a reservation and decide to keep the money even though Hank Mitchell the sensible, moral, family guy in the film at first says no but agrees when the other two men (his brother and his friend) want to keep it. He takes it home where his wife also says no at first till she sees the money. At first the plan seems simple enough which is to keep the money hidden and safe till the spring in case anyone comes looking for the money, and then if no one does then they split the money and hit the road. But alas the most simple things in life usually are the ones that run into the most problems. And this movie does just that except the problems are greed, mistrust, and loyalty, as each man is pitted against the other. Values also as time goes by eventually erode as each man see his future only in the money.Hank becomes paranoid by greed and the constant lurking of the possibility of being caught. By the time the first half of the movie is over he has already killed someone. His wife helps him in plotting against the others in order to protect themselves, while the other two men are not quite smart enough to think of these things. There are some great scenes be each major character. Hank's wife Sarah gives a speech on how she doesn't want to check the coupons in the paper the rest of her life for every nights meal or when going out to eat they have to skip the dessert because they can't afford it. Hank's brother Jacob one of the other men is not quite so bright has two scenes that struck a cord as in one he comments on how their dad lost the farm because of Hank's college tuition and it shows how jealous Jacob is of his brother. In another Hank talks about how Jacob was once happy with a girl he dated in school only for Jacob to reveal that the girls best friends bet her $100 she wouldn't go steady with Jacob for a month. These are just a few of the scenes that give the screenplay which is very intelligent a lot of humanity.The acting is top-notch as every actor throws themselves into their character till you only see their character on the screen. The plot is simple but its not the plot but the characters, their morals, reactions, and greed that make the movie so engrossing. Basically this movie is about how even he best people can succumb to the great life that they think money can provide and exactly how far people will go to get it and how even murder which normally would never enter their mind can be so easy and necessary to give them this life. "},{"Title":"Billy Bob again prooves he can play  less than bright folks perfectly","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Billy Bobs character Jacob,who was as a rule a very gentle person, but was also impulsive when a crises presented itself, and he killed a man in his confusion, and from that point the domino effect set in. Bill Paxons character Hank Mitchell did every thing he could to protect his mentally challenged brother Jacob, but the simple plan they had devised to keep anyone from knowing they had found the four million dollars, began to become more, and more, complicated, until it finally became inconeivable that they were never going to get to spend a penny of it, as an FBI man who wasn't really an FBI man convinced them to lead him to the crashed plane.When they arrived at the plane, it was evident to the fake FBI man that they had removed the most of the money. one thing led to another, and there were killings.Jacob, who had had as much of this chaos as he could take wanted out, permently out, so in order not to tell you more than I already have, I'll just say the end was unspeakable.This movie made me angry, it made me sad, and it made me cry. It's positively worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Simply a Great Film.","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Those who have followed the career of Sam Raimi will be surprised by A  SIMPLE PLAN.  This a sobering masterpiece, devoid of all of Raimi's usual tricks and flourishes.  That is not to say that this film lacks style, it is simply a different kind of style that Raimi employs here. Three men (Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thornton, Brent Briscoe) stumble across a gym bag containing four million dollars.  They institute a plan that almost from the first word becomes unhinged and disastrous.  The way Scott B. Smith's story unfolds is brilliant, so I will not speak too much upon it.  The really great element of this film is that the actions the characters take are completely plausible.  These people are alive, free from the restrictions of plot mechanics.  A SIMPLE PLAN becomes a character study of sorts.  Consider the scene in which Lou (Briscoe) is tricked into being tape recorded, does he admit he has been cornered and give up?  Would he?  The psychology of what he does do is perfectly believable considering what we know about the character.  The actions of Jacob (Thornton) are another good example, he simply does not have the mental capacity to lie convincingly.  He tries to be clever, but fails at every turn and he hates himself for it.  I admire a film that ends the way A SIMPLE PLAN does.  It may not please those who crave Hollywood resolutions, but it is honest and does not betray what has come before.   The cast is great  Paxton (who can be irritating), plays his role of the slightly-above-dumb every man perfectly; Briscoe is perfect as the boarish drunkard Lou Chambers.  However, the films best performances are delivered by Billy Bob Thornton and Bridget Fonda.  Thornton's monologue on evil is stunning and his Jacob, with humble dreams and hopes, becomes endearing and sympathetic...a fact makes the climax all the more powerful.  And watch Fonda in the scene where she is breast feeding her newborn child, how her voice and demeanor change when she speaks of the plan; it is a chilling sequence.  The rest of the rather intimate cast, including Chelcie Ross and Gary Cole, is equally as good.  A SIMPLE PLAN exudes style and skill.  The stark photography by Alar Kivilo, the haunting score by Danny Elfman, Sam Raimi's understated direction all help this complicated tale unwind until its' final frame.  This film does not waste a single image a fox bounding across the virgin snow, an empty window, the fresh innocent life of a newborn child, these symbols speak volumes of what A SIMPLE PLAN is about.  They add a rich subtext to the sad violence and frustration the characters find themselves entangled in.  One of the best films of the 90's, and certainly Raimi's most mature effort, A SIMPLE PLAN is sure to resonate with the viewer long after the film has ended.  10/10                   "},{"Title":"Downward Spiral with overly moralizing ending. 6 of 10.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Some spoilers.A Simple Plan is a study of what ordinary people are willing to do for an immense amount of money and also of just how badly things can go out of hand. Our mothers have told us early on how one lie inevitably leads to another and that, sooner or later, something or someone is going to crack. Of course, any plan is only as good as its weakest link, and while the main protagonist and, ultimately, the only survivor, seems stable enough, his dim-witted brother and his best friend (who has a serious gambling habit) are obvious sources of trouble from the start. Therefore, as greed and a lack of intelligence combine with the local police investigation and the other pilot of that crashed plane, things rapidly go downhill and people start getting killed. While the atmosphere of the movie is powerful at all times, the fatalism of the protagonist is not always believable. Had the writers opted for a more brave ending, I could have given this nine out of ten points; I'll leave it at six now because said ending is an overly obvious rephrasing of the crime never pays motto. Apart from the fact that thousands of big shot crime lords the world over prove this to be wrong, the resolution is also not very clever, as the so-called obstacle is easy enough to avoid. All in all, good set-up, disappointing ending.  "},{"Title":"Raimis masterpiece.","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When you think about what kind of productions our friend Sam Raimi has been involved in through the years, you can´t believe that he has managed to put together such a wonderful film! It´s a slowpaced and character driven film that focuses on the behavior of ordinary people who have to take an ethical stand, e.g. get those bucks or do the right thing.The acting is overall great, especially between Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thornton. The story is fixed on what might happen when you have to choose between friendship, brotherhood and a whole lot of money. Here the choice is taken beyond the theoretical and I have to say that Raimi manages to give life not only to the story but also, most importantly, to the characters. I love the way Raimi shows how money can make people change and I have nothing else than praise for the overall performance of all involved.Even if the ´Evil Dead´-trilogy has attracted an cult following this must be Raimis true masterpiece. It just goes to show that even a devoted ´B-movie´master can turn around and surprise everybody. "},{"Title":"a contemporary masterpiece","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sam Raimi and cast capture the essense of neo-film noir in A Simple Plan. This much ignored gem of 1998 is a great example of perfect execution, both by film-maker Sam Raimi and cast. The story is gold, and it's a miracle that it found itself in the hands of such a talented crew.spoilersThe story of A Simple Plan begins when two brothers and a friend discover a downed plane that contains four million dollars. It is unknown to the unlikely millionaries where this money has come from, so they decide to hide it for awhile, and not use it until they know that whoever it belonged to has stopped looking for it. As time passes, the group becomes anxious about using their new found wealth, and murder and betrayal ensue.The acting in general is great, but Billy Bob Thorton gives a performance that will not be easily matched for many years. He captures the essense of desperation and doubt perfectly, especially in the scene where he and his brother (Bill Paxton) confront their friend in an attempt to resolve the conflicts about the money. Not only the performance of a lifetime, but a monument to man's ability to perform as an actor.Sam Raimi turns it down a notch for this film, forgoing the exciting camera work of the Evil Dead series and Dark Man for a more restrained, but equally as effective appraoch. This shows his ability to grow as a film-maker, and confirms him as one of today's masters.It is unfortunate that A Simple Plan didn't receive a special edition release on DVD; It could have found a new and larger audience if it did. "},{"Title":"So you dreamed of finding a million dollars...","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  How many of us have imagined what we would do if we ever found a million dollars?  Would we buy a Porsche and a big new house?  Would we put it in the bank and live off of the interest?  I would say that the vast majority of us have pondered over that one from time to time.  But how far would we go to protect what we found from being taken away from us?  That's the question asked by A Simple Plan.At first it seems like a tale of three lucky guys who find the American dream, in Lou's words. But very quickly the film takes on a feeling of paranoia, mistrust, and later in the film, a profound sadness toward the desperate situation in which the characters find themselves.  Finally, there is a real sense of horror.  Not the grossed-out, unrealistic horror of Friday the 13th or A Nightmare on Elm Street, but a different kind of horror that is not often captured on film.  That horror lies in the fact that the characters in the story are regular people.  They aren't evil, spiteful villains.  They're your next door neighbor.  They're the people you see at the store every day.  They're you and me.  Yet because of their actions, good people end up dead.We must ask ourselves whether we would really do the right thing and turn the money in or keep it if we could find a way to rationalize, just like the characters in the story.  And the fact is that many of us, but not all of course, certainly would try to find a way to keep it.  That's real.  And it lends to the believability of the story.One other point made by the movie that I don't think many have touched on is that people are not always who they seem.  When they first find the money, Jacob, who is dim-witted and seemingly irresponsible, won't hear of turning in the money and is immediately seduced by what he might be able to do with it.  But when the coverups begin and as people begin to die, he feels a deep sense of guilt and wants to give it all up to get it off of his conscience. On the other hand, you have Hank, who has a job and a family and seems to be a morally upstanding and responsible citizen.  His first instinct is to call the police and turn in the money.  But as soon as he finds a rationale for keeping the money, his morals begin to slide.  The more wrong the plan goes, the more desperate he is to cover it all up, perhaps to maintain his falsely moral image as much as to keep the money.  Ultimately his greed consumes him to the point of murdering his own brother.  It goes to show that our real self may be completely different than our public self.This is definitely one of the best tragedy films in quite some time.  Watch it. "},{"Title":"Solid Performances from Actors","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan(1998) is the quintessential Neo Noir with believable situations, believable characters, and believable story.  Follows in the path of the great Noirs of the past.  Although I love Fargo(1996), I find that I prefered the acting of this film.  This is because the main character who planned the perfect crime is intellegent and thinks things out.  A mature step for film maker, Sam Raimi.  More closer in tone to Blood Simple(1985) than Fargo(1996).  Contains all of that film's plot twists and double crosses.  Bill Paxton gives the performance of his career.  For some stupid reason, A Simple Plan(1998) did not get nominated in the Academy Awards for Best Picture and Best Director.  One of the five top movies of 1998.  Billy Bob Thornton is great as the slow minded but morally conscious, Jacob Mitchell.  Bridget Fonda is good in a role that makes Lady MacBeth look powerless.  A Simple Plan(1998) in some scenes is inspired by the play, MacBeth.  Shows how good natured people react when it comes to finding lots of money that isn't theirs.  Sam Raimi has done some terrific films such as The Evil Dead(1983), Darkman(1990), and A Simple Plan(1998).  A masterpiece that is an improvement over the lame and stupid, Quick & the Dead(1995).  Sam Raimi does some surperb piece of filmmaking for A Simple Plan(1998).  A great film from the closing years of the 20th Century. "},{"Title":"One of the best thrillers in years.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  (spoilers) A Simple Plan, while the foundation of the plot seemed rather unoriginal, was surprisingly realistic and convincing. The overall meaning of this movie deals with the consequences of a few regular people running into a very large amount of money, especially when they have to bend the law in order to keep it. I think it also deals with the importance of obeying the law, because throughout the movie, the three guys, Hank, Doug, and Lou, seemed to be a bit like a rolling snowball as far as what they had to do to keep the money a secret. It demonstrates the startling ease with which the common man can be driven to commit unspeakable atrocities, such as shooting his own brother despite the utter absence of any direct conflict between them, just to keep his hands on a large sum of illegally obtained cash.I think that there is also an underlying theme dealing with the closeness between brothers, much like the closeness felt between sisters in other films like Hillary and Jackie. I think that the relationship of Hank and Doug, the two brothers in A Simple Plan, is much more realistic than Hillary and Jackie's. Although they do get along, they have what appeared to me to be a common occurrence of disagreements. For example, they disagreed on chasing the animal into the woods at the very beginning of the movie, as well as whether or not they should keep the money they found. The fact that neither of them were the &#145;beautiful people' usually found in Hollywood films (particularly Billy Bob Thornton's character!) made their roles even more convincing. I think that cinematics played an unusually important role in A Simple Plan. The very first thing that really stands out is in the very beginning of the movie. When the three men finally reached the decision to keep the money, there was a very high angle shot of the three of them, as if the camera was sitting in the trees above them, and in the foreground was a black crow. Black crows are often associated with bad luck, and just by showing this crow in the foreground the audience knows that the three men have just made a bad mistake, almost as if it was said out loud. I think that the snow was also very important to the presentation of the film. The fact that the three men were bundled up in coats pretty heavily seemed to give them a look of vulnerability. It made them look helpless against the cold, calling attention to their mortality, and thus subconsciously enhancing the suspense later in the film. Also, the snow provides a kind of a muted atmosphere. It is very overwhelming of everything so it creates a great sense of isolation for the town where the story takes place, and I think that this adds to the theme about three regular guys. I don't think this film would have been nearly as effective if it had happened to three guys in New York City. There is also a lot of foreshadowing in this film. One example is when Hank is in the sheriff's office with the sheriff and the pseudo-FBI agent. The sheriff keys into his gun cabinet, and then there is a quick cut to Hank's face as he watches where the key is placed, and then a close shot of the sheriff's hand placing the key under his memo pin on his desk. I think that by showing Hank's face looking at the key being hidden on the desk hints that he is going to try to get into the gun cabinet soon and, sure enough, he did. I also think that this knowledge adds to the suspense because the viewer knows that guns are soon going to be involved.A Simple Plan is a very original and very effective thriller that is very inviting but surprises you because it turns out to be much more intense and much more moving that you would expect. It's about ordinary people dealing with extraordinary circumstances, and the resulting message is powerful and unmistakable. The skill in this film is not only heavily present in the acting and directing, but also in the cinematography and editing departments as well. Don't miss this one.  "}{"Title":"Can you spell trapped?","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  We have all heard the saying, honesty is the best policy.  Nothing drives it home quite like watching Hank Mitchell try to squirm his way out of the ever-deepening pit of despair his actions have gotten him into.Hank (Bill Paxton), his dullard brother Jacob (Billy Bob Thornton), and Jacob's friend Lou (Brent Briscoe) accidentally stumble across an opportunity to do right - and a temptation to do wrong.  Finding a wrecked plane in a deserted location, they must decide what to do with the $4.4 million in unmarked hundreds they find aboard.  Although the intelligent Hank counsels for taking the money to the police, his two slower partners want to take the money and run.  Hank yields on two provisions 1) he holds the money until they can determine that there is nobody looking for it, and 2) when they split the money they must also split the town.Hank's situation draws advice from his pregnant wife, Sarah (Bridget Fonda), whose every recommendation leads him into deeper desperation.  Jacob's slow wit and open mouth continue to create new problems, and the drunken, bullying Lou proves ruthless about keeping to the plan.  At every turn in the plot, poor Hank must make another fatal error to cover up the last one.The desperation that the simple plan throws into the lives of Jacob and Hank soon make them rue the day they ever saw the money.A compelling story and great performances make for a wonderful, yet painful two hours. "},{"Title":"A great film that stirs your emotions.","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The plot to A Simple Plan is, as the title says, simple.  Three friends find a bag in the woods that contains $4.4 million.  They decide to wait until spring, then divide the money evenly if no one is looking for it.  The plot is far from complicated, but it soon becomes extremely unnerving and heart wrenching.The problems come when greed, jealousy, and fear take over the characters. It is then that A Simple Plan becomes so real that I began to forget it was just a movie.  What makes it so real is the incredibly real emotions, reactions, dialogue, and expressions of the main characters.  At times, I could eerily feel exactly what they were feeling.  That fact alone made the movie completely worthwhile to me.  Then add to that the stunning events that occur throughout the film, leading to an incredible ending.  This is not just a movie to rent, but one to own.  Easily one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Just Brilliant!","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is simply the best movie ever made. The movie tells the story of an average working man who finds 4 million dollars, and therefore, it's easy to picture yourself in the same situation having to make similar decisions. The simple idea and theme can be complexly exposed by author Scott B. Smith in a interesting and well written masterpiece. It shows how horribly wrong and out of control things can get when human kind is filled by greed and the fantasy of change in their lifestyles. With the `snowbound setting' the author accomplishes to create the perfect image to show what the characters are feeling. Director Sam Raimi is able to emphasize the tension and eerie feeling throughout the story by contrasting the black and white environment. This is then supported by the black crows that are always present and seem to be watching the characters all the time. Your life will not be complete without watching this thriller that will show you the consequences of immoral decisions made in life, even when they seem like a simple plan.  "},{"Title":"If I would have been in their place, what would I have done?","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER WARNING!I knew this movie would be about three guys finding a bag full of money, and I knew they agreed on keeping it. I had no idea what would happen after that.The idea applied to me a lot. And because the Bill Paxton character was such a nice, ordinary guy (it could have been my husband, my neighbour, my brother), it wasn't hard to identify with him. You can't help but asking yourself, What would I have done?. Maybe you say I wouldn't keep it, just as Bridget Fonda said as long as she thought the question was just hypothetic. I guess none of us knows what we would do if the question was for real!But then, there was the incident with Dwight, the guy who seemed to have been (accidentally) killed by Billy Bob Thornton. When Bill Paxton discovered that Dwight was still alive, he killed him anyhow! And this is where my identification with his character abruptly ended. No, if I would have been in his place, I would never have killed this man. Not even for 10 million dollars! More people got killed, and there was this subplot with the fake FBI-agent. These twists in the plot were way over the top, I think.While the plot was disappointing, the characters were absolutely great! Lou was so real, it felt as if he wasn't acting, as if someone just picked a guy from a bar and told him to be himself in front of the camera for a while. The way Billy Bob Thornton played Jacob was very impressive as well. His dialogues were really touching, especially when he told about his former girlfriend, and how she still said Hi to him every now and then.This movie would have benefited enormously if the problems the three guys encountered wouldn't have been so big. The greed, the suspicion towards each other, the fear of being discovered, that would have been enough to make this a great movie.  "},{"Title":"it ain't 'Fargo'","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've heard this film compared to 'Fargo' and I want to do my part to dispel that rumor.  While Fargo is an outstanding film, the only thing about 'A Simple Plan' that I found remotely similar is the setting and cinematography.  Story and mood are entirely different.  I found nothing terribly poignant about 'Fargo', which is fine, I think the Coen brothers were going for something else.  'A Simple Plan' on the other hand, will rip your heart out, stomp it into the dirt, then plunk it back in your chest, possibly to never beat the same again.  Okay, that may be a little over-the-top -- but just barely.Bill Paxton does an outstanding job playing the 'responsible one'.  There was plenty of opportunity to over-dramatize that role, but Bill Paxton exercises great restraint, and in doing so he builds a character that we all know.  We know that character, because he resides in ourselves (most of us, anyway).  This identification with Hank Mitchell is what brings us in and makes us believe.  Bill Paxton doesn't show us Bill Paxton's acting ability, he shows us ourselves, and we are hooked.So while it is Bill Paxton that pulls us in and makes us believe, it is Billy Bob Thornton that brilliantly and subtly breaks our hearts.  In this role, every bit as powerful as Karl from Slingblade, he shows us a dolt, and we see a dolt.  But then casually, he pulls back the tobacco stained layers to reveal a painfully human and fully dimensional character.  If a dolt can be elegant, that is Jacob Mitchell.  If Jacob doesn't make you cry (or at least a little misty), check your pulse.Scott B. Smith has done an outstanding job of making fresh a concept that we have all tossed around.  His masterful writing, fine acting and direction, by Sam Raimi, combine to tell a tragic tale that is a joy to behold (in a depressing sort of way). "},{"Title":"After three friends find a fortune in the woods, they devise a simple plan that goes horribly wrong...","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Let's say you're out walking in the woods and you find a bag full of money. Would you keep it?That's the catalyst for the acclaimed new dark comedic thriller from director Sam Raimi. Best known for his stunning visual work on earlier films like Darkman and Evil Dead 2, (and co-writing The Hudsucker Proxy) Raimi tones down his special effects here to tell a tale of greed, deceipt, and crime among three men.Set in a small, desolate Midwestern town, the three central figures are Hank Mitchell (Paxton), his older brother Jacob (Thornton), and Jacob's drinking buddy, Lou (Briscoe). Although Hank and Jacob are brothers, their only similarity seems to be their last name, as the homely Jacob shares much more in common with the his best friend, Lou.Hank is the only one who has a job, and is considered an upstanding member of the community, while both Jacob and Lou are perceived to be dimwitted losers that can't hold down a job. All three men have lived in the same no-name town for their entire lives, and it's apparent that they're running out of time to make any kind of life change.An opportunity for change presents itself one day when the three stumble upon a small plane that has crashed deep in the woods. Inside, they find only a dead pilot and a duffel bag containing over four million dollars. While the unemployed Jacob and Lou have no qualms about keeping the money, Hank raises some serious concerns. They finally agree on a plan to keep the money, but with specific conditions. When the plan starts falling apart, and the greediness and mistrust take over, A Simple Plan becomes a joy to watch, as each character becomes more suspicious of the others.    Without spoiling too much, it should be noted that this is a story of more than just three men. Hank's very pregnant wife, Sarah (Fonda) gets a juicy role as the strategist who calls the shots from the hospital room, and an FBI agent (Cole) adds more tension when he comes snooping around.The ensemble cast deliver memorable performances throughout, but it's Billy Bob Thornton as the misfit older brother who steals the show. Under a pair of hideous glasses and a disturbing wig, Thornton mangages to capture each nuance of his character perfectly. Look for him to be nominated again come Oscar time.A Simple Plan will inevitably draw some comparisons to that other amateur-criminals-in-the-snow film, Fargo, and yes, it's Fargo-esque, but don't hold that against it. I mean, it's not as though it's a shot-by-shot remake. That would just be ridiculous...  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this was a wonderful movie.  It constantly had you thinking about what was going to happen next...what everybody was going to do.  It shows the extremes that people will go to.  The characters worst qualities that they didn't even know they had are brought to the surface when they find the money.  The actors do a excellent job.  You can see and feel what they are going through.  Bill Paxton was especially good as the good guy who tried to keep the peace.  I was completely enthralled by this movie.  It is a shame that most people haven't even heard of this movie much less seen it. Unfortunately, I've only been able to see it once.  If I wasn't such a poor college student, I would buy this movie.  I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"The best film not nominated for Best Picture of 1999","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Easily the best film not nominated for Best Picture of 1999, A Simple Plan is riveting and thoroughly suspenseful. Some of the best performances I've ever seen in any American film.Probably Bill Paxton's best work. The brother played by Billy Bob Thornton is one of the screens most subtle and tragic characters of modern cinema. The outstanding cinematography that place the action in stark snowscapes underline the quiet descent of corruption that eats away the souls of the characters. Sam Raimi also deserved a best director nod. This film is his best showing a major leap of maturity and subtlety in his work. Elfman's score is also effective.   "},{"Title":"A rare movie with an excellent message","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is probably one of the only movies I have seen that actually has a great message to come with it.  I have read that some people find this movie disturbing.  I say to them, Greed is disturbing, and that is the very message of this film.  If you are looking for a movie that is more then just entertainment, I recommend this movie.  It's message is so vitally important to America.  The American dream has turned into more then it should be, it's now called Greed.  This is one of my favorite movies because it touches you and motivates you to not be greedy.  What a wonderful film that I truly think should be given a lot more credit then it was given.I give this movie a 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Excellent book to screen adaption","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I read this book a couple of years ago and was fascinated by the inexorable pull of the protagonist into his actions, step by step. Throughout I kept realizing that as dumb as everything seemed, I completely understood how each decision could be made, causing a good man to do bad things. When I heard about a movie possibly being made, I was not happy, figuring that Hollywood would turn a hard-hitting story to c**p. But, the movie is an excellent adaption of the book. The ending is significantly changed, but the ending stays faithful to the feel of the book and works much better cinematically than a direct rendering of the book's action would. The pace of the movie is slow, but it grips you in the gut and draws you in to the psychological twists & turns.Nothing in the action is simple, so if you're looking for a simple film, with everything completely logical and clear-cut complete with a neat, tidy progression and ending, don't see this movie. If you're looking for complexity, see A Simple Plan. "}{"Title":"Did someone say oscar?","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not sure if anything about this film got an oscar nomination or not (I don't keep up with them), but if not, IT SURE SHOULD HAVE. This is a great story about how greed can turn men into monsters. I loved it. Billy Bob Thorton can work wonders with any role he gets, and this is no exception. Great story, and dead on acting really hold this film together well. Somehow, it all just seems to work. I won't ruin the ending for you, but it was one of the best ones that I have ever seen...the irony of it all. A must see for anyone looking for a little suspense. "},{"Title":"Almost as good as Fargo","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I must say that I didn´t have any expectations about this movie before I put it in the VCR, so I was really suprised two hours later. The story and the acting is brilliant and it is interesting to see how great a film can be despite its made out of a low budget. The film reminds me of the masterpiece Fargo and Sam Raimis directing is as good as Ethan Coen´s. I recommend this film to everyone who likes a good thriller in the evening. > l "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've seen recently","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The cover/poster of this movie looked a bit boring to me so I never watched it, but after I'd seen so many good reviews on IMDb, I decided to watch it and I'm glad I did, because I thought it was superb.After 10 minutes you automaticly ask yourself What if I..., which directly will be answered with Keep it !!!. But this movie is so great that you'll think twice about it. This is a real mind-blower, if you ask me.Respect was dripping of my couch for Billy Bob Thornton (Jacob) who played an outstanding role. Thornton was just fantastic.I highly recommend this movie to everyone.  It's maybe one of the best movies I've seen recently and I'm definitely going to buy it at Amazon.My rating A well deserved 8  "},{"Title":"A moral tale simply told","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"                     What would you do under these                  circumstances your one of a group                 of three individuals, 2 of you are                 brothers. You've just stumbled across                 a big bag of money in a snow-fielded                 forest. The money came from a downed                 plane, the only occupant, a pilot is                 dead. Do you hand it over to the                 authorities and claim the reward?                 What if there is no reward?                 Do you keep it and hope that nobody                 comes looking for it....for that you'll                 have to come up with a SIMPLE PLAN.                  However, as soon as the plan is forged,                 it's broken. Before you know what's                   happening shame, doubt, double-dealing,                  murder, guilt, lying, deceit and                  general mayhem pile up like dead bodies                  smothering out integrity,family,                   friendship, hopes, dreams, ambitions,                  and not forgetting human honesty.                   It's the aspect, human frailty,                  that drives the action along.                  It's the engine being stoked by human                  nature. Can our lucky few discoverers                  hold their collective heads over the                  possibility of splitting $4.4 million                  between them?                   Bill Paxton plays one of the brothers,                  Hank Mitchell, an educated soon-to-be                  family man who has 'good intentions',                  and a 'moral compass' maybe.                  Paxton is married to Bridget Fonda,as                  Sarah, his much pregnant wife.                  Jacob, Hank's brother, played by                  Billy Bob Thornton, is almost the                  opposite, uneducated, boozem buddy                  of his friend, the town drunk, Lou                  played by Brent Briscoe.                 Jacob, to my mind is the most interesting                  character of the four.                  What happens after they find the money                  changes their lives and personalities,                  forever. I particularly liked the                  way they discover the lucre. It's                  highly plausible, believable and                   could happen to anybody. I know                   that if a white cat passes across your                  sight, it's regarded as an unlucky                  omen, what about the lore on foxes?                 This movie is a moral tale (how novel)                  through and through, wearing its morality                  on its sleeve. In fact if the                  screenplay were converted to a story,                  you could easily read it to your older                  children and they would understand.                 Intriguing is the aspect of Jacob                  acting tragically on impulse and                  his brother Hank hiding the                   shocking consequences of Jacob's                   actions.                 There are surprises galore here                  as the whole thing unravels.                  Some shocking, some predicable,some                  sad. Watch out foe a key clue to                  let the audience know that                  somebody other than our adventurous                  'foursome' is aware of their actions.                  It concerns a communications device.                 Finally, to commend the director's                  choice of little or no dramatic                  score. This is tragedy, Greek style.                              There are no heroes, only victims.                  10 out of 10.                                    "},{"Title":"Excellent movie with phenomenal acting","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was great.  I loved Scott B. Smith's book, and I thought he made an excellent screenplay out of it that deserved its Academy Award Nomination.  I have loved Sam Raimi's directing style dating all the way back to The Evil Dead.  Billy Bob Thornton was superb as Jacob, the brother.  I think it is pathetic that James Coburn beat him out for the Best Supporting Actor Academy Award for his role in affliction.  I saw both movies, and thought Billy Bob Thornton was by far the better actor.  I also thought that Raimi deserved a nod for his directing style, and Bill Paxton should have also gotten a nod, but the tough competition this year put him out.This thriller tells the tale of three men, Hank (Paxton), his brother Jacob (Thornton), and Jacob's friend (Brent Briscoe, who also gave a credited performance), who find $4.4 million dollars in a downed plane.  It is the American dream in a duffel bag.  They decide to hold on to the money until spring, and then if there are no reports of a missing plane or missing money, they will separate the cash three ways, and then go their own separate ways.  However greed leads to problems, problems lead to catastrophe, catastrophe leads to murder.All of the acting in this film was some of the best of 1998.  However, I feel easily the performance that stood out in this movie was Billy Bob Thornton and his role as Jacob.  It was somewhat familiar to his role as Karl in Sling Blade, a performance he acted out very well.  I still think he deserved an Academy Award for his performance.  He was robbed.You can see this films somewhat reminiscent and fimiliar to Fargo and MacBeth.  All three were good movies, and you should go out and see them all.I think A Simple Plan was robbed by the Academy.  The two nominations it did get, for Best Supporting Actor and Best Adapted Screenplay, it more than deserved.  I also think it deserved a Best Actor nod for Bill Paxton, a Best Director nod for Sam Raimi, and maybe even a Best Picture nod (who needs Elizabeth?).  But whatever you do, go see this movie.  My grade A "},{"Title":"Remarkable. One of the best and most suspenseful movies I've ever seen.","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan is a movie that effected me in a way that movies rarely do.  It devastated me when I first saw it, and it was all I could think about for weeks. I have never seen a movie that made me say, Oh my Gosh or No! Don't out loud, nearly as many times as this one did.It simply is a flawless movie. The direction,acting, writing, and photography are all brilliant. Sam Raimi is definitely the next Hitchcock; I was in unbearable suspense, and on the tip of my seat threw the whole movie.The film makers pulled no punches when it came to the character of Jacob. They made sure that we felt unbelievably sorry for him. I think he is the most heartbreaking character I have ever scene. Hank's wife is an interesting character too; At first she seems happy with her life, but when money gets involved, she gets greedy and starts counterploting immediately. Even though she has some good ideas, they all turn into disatures. Hank is played wonderfuly by Bill Paxton, this is his best performance.It is too bad that this movie didn't do too well at the box office. I guess that's what you get if you make a movie that isn't cliched and slapped with a happy crappy ending. I am suprised that this movie wasn't as recognized as much as it should have, even though it did recieve a couple of academy award nominations( it deserved MUCH more), and it did very well with the critics.Anyway, A Simple Plan is an unsettling masterpiece. It is the most disturbing and stressful movie I have ever seen and A scary look at what greed can make people do.  "},{"Title":"similarities to other films are misguided","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen many comparisons of this film to both Fargo and Very Bad Things and I am totally baffled. Fargo was a black comedy and very effective as such. Very Bad Things was so black in my view that it sailed right past being humorous and crashed headlong into disgustingly pathetic. I would not even consider calling this film a comedy. Sure, I cracked a smile occasionally, mostly due to an ironic plot turn or a subtle revelation of character, but comedy? No way. My most significant reaction to it was a feeling of anxiety due to the significant similarities between the central characters, myself, and 98% of the rest of the people that I've ever met. That's what I think the film makers had in mind. To make us think about our own possible actions in a similar situation, as unlikely as it may be to ever happen. Neither those totally pure of character nor those totally lacking in character will find anything disturbing or threatening here. Only the vast majority of us good folks will squirm a little as the plot progresses.I thought the acting and characterization were generally very good. I was particularly impressed with the Billy Bob Thornton character as a man of limited intellectual ability with occasional flashes of insight and understanding that are quite surprising and keep him from becoming too cliche.    "},{"Title":"Raimi the new Hitchcock","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  With out a doubt one of the finest suspense dramas of the last ten years. Sterling performances from a top notch cast, Paxton's(the new Harrison Ford) screen charisma is dazzling, Thornton in his slightly retarded but really smarter than he looks role, Fonda played against type as a dowdy wife, who is almost the brains behind the whole thing and the ever brilliant Cole in a far too short appearance. The snowy backdrops add the intended chill to proceedings as a simple plan for a man goes awry. Raimi is the Ernie Wise to the Coen brothers' Eric Morecambe, playing everything straight but still back up with the black humour of the ending. A far cry from the heady days of the Evil Dead series.This is truly the film Hitchcock would have made had he been alive. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Sam Raimi has hit his stride","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sam Raimi is a brilliant director who has finely found the restraint necessary to make him a *great* director.  His ideas are strikingly original (and oft imitated) and his use of these ideas can be likened to a Corvette or Mustang  not a heck of a lot of finesse, but a heck of a lot of showy powerBut with this film, we're entering Lexus and Mercedes territory.  Now he's got the power, but he's also got the style, restraint, and elegance necessary to utilize that power in incredibly beautiful and efficient ways.The actors in this film are equally brilliant and restrained, and I can fault none of them.  This is one of truly rare examples of (near-) perfect American cinema.  And how appropriate that it's film noir. )I won't reveal any of the plot twists, but I will say that this is a film noir worthy of being viewed along side films such as Blood Simple, The Maltese Falcon, and Laura.Excellent, excellent film.  See it!  "},{"Title":"Well written story of greed","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really, really liked this movie.  I've seen Sam Raimi's work before, but I thought this was his best so far.  Great story of the true evil of greed. Loved the script, while serious and touching, also managed to be funny at times. I can't say enough about Billy Bob Thornton's performance.  His character was revealed slowly through the movie and you realized he was the true person, not his brother the accountant.  Several really good, touching scenes between Paxton and Thornton.  Bridget Fonda was convincing as the supposedly sweet but surprisingly conniving Sarah.   "}{"Title":"Superb!!!!!!!!!","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan is a flat out excellent film. Sam Raimi, one of my favorite directors, really shows how versatile he can be. Throughout the whole movie I was thinking This is Sam Raimi?!. I can't compare this with the Evil Dead movies at all. Anyway, the movie gave me chills. It is so realistic. It really can happen to anyone. All the twists in the movie work so well at making a simple plan at stealing $4 million turn into a vicious nightmare which turns two brothers' happy lives bad. The story just gets better and better as the film goes on. I can't see how anyone could of thought it was a boring movie. The best part in the movie is the end. One of the best endings I've ever seen in a movie. I give A Simple Plan a 10 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"A fully believable modern morality play","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film last night and I was really impressed. It is a thoughtful and believable story of how greed and stupidity (and guns of course) do not mix. Bridget Fonda is great as a sort of Lady MacBeth urging her husband on to what become foul deeds. Billy Bob Thornton, Bill Paxton and Brent Briscoe are all excellent. What is also great about it (and what will be unpopular) is the understandable and perhaps more likely ending when the most morally upright character in the story comes back to his senses. I highly recommend this film which is reminiscent of Fargo and has Tarantino-esque elements without the gore. Congratulations to Hollywood for producing this sort of anti-formula story! Just one criticism... how did the guy from the FBI arrive in this small town at the right moment?  "},{"Title":"solid; wonderful","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those rare movies that is solid in every aspect.  The acting, camerawork, direction, storyline- all fantastic.  Every element of this film compliments each other to build up intensity and emotion until it takes over the viewer.  This is drama and tragedy- what films these days don't live up to as much as they should.  My compliments go out to everyone involved in the making of this grand movie. "},{"Title":"Powerful film,  killer ending","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this film! Well acted and directed. You could just feel the wheels turning in Bridget Fonda's brain, she seemed to be the only intelligent person in the movie. The ending was killer, very much a downer. This is one of the few movies I've seen where I wanted the happy ending. "},{"Title":"A brilliant psychological thriller","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Walking out of the theater, I knew I had seen a brilliant film in A Simple Plan.  However, for me, it was difficult to pinpoint what was so great about it.  I soon realized that its simplicity was what made it so incredible.  The plot is not particularly original or incredible, but it is intriguing.  The question of morality that is brought into the film is what makes it brilliant.  It is difficult to make an excellent film when the plot is so simple, but Raimi and his cast do an excellent job.Billy Bob Thornton has been praised for his superior role in this film and I must agree with this opinion.  Yet while his portrayal of the half-wit brother was excellent, it was the fact that while simpleminded, he was at the same time the most level headed of any of the actors in the film.  He was the only one who truly understood the severity of the situation.  One great example of his common sense is during the dinner conversation he has with his brother, Hank, about their father's death.  He knows his father killed himself, and he thinks there is no doubt about it.  The possibility never occurred to his younger, smarter brother, but when the issue is raised, it seems to be the only possibility.  As Jacob says, The man had driven past that way like 8,000 times a year.  Drunk or not, one just doesn't make that mistake.This is one example of the excellent dialogue between Jacob and Hank. Another is when Jacob asks Hank, Do you ever feel evil?  Sometimes I feel really evil.  Other films with murders of necessity, never raise the question of morality as this one does.  It is not brilliant dialogue, but very powerful, and places this film in a higher stratosphere than other psychological thrillers.   "},{"Title":"Subtlety of characters","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I've seen in a long time.  Its strength rests on the subtlety and credibility of the characters.  This is especially true of Jacob.  Billy Bob (where did this guy come from?) plays him very well, of course.  But the layers we see in the character are striking.  He starts off as a total goof-ball loser.  But he's far shrewder and more insightful than we realize, or anybody else realizes.  For example, he knows the father committed suicide. And he entraps poor Lou masterfully.  Finally, he's the character with the greatest understanding of the moral position in which they have put themselves.  The other characters are also well-drawn -- the Lady MacBeth of The North, and Bill Paxton, another in the great tradition of obtuse protagonists.  Even Lou and Carl, the sheriff, are very believable.  The dialogue and the atmosphere of the setting -- Nowhere, Minnesota -- are also great.  Overall this is an excellent movie. "},{"Title":"A Super Film","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan has to go down in history as one of the best everything that can go wrong, does thrillers in film history.Sam Raimi's previous films haven't impressed me too much (though the Evil Dead movies were quite funny). A Simple Plan is directed with calm precision. The movie is grimmer than Fargo, with which it is frequently compared. It is also more emotional.The principal characters are portrayed with compassion and sympathy, in spite of the heinous nature of their crimes. Bill Paxton as Hank is very effective, and I have never really thought much of his previous work. Billy Bob Thornton is awesome. He is even better in his role as Paxton's befuddled older brother Jacob than he was as Carl in Sling Blade, in my opinion. Bridget Fonda is pretty effective as Hank's wife. If you don't have a three-minute attention span and like good psychological thrillers, you'll love it "},{"Title":"Great Movie, What Was Wrong with the Ending?","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was great for many reasons.  First of all, the acting was first-class, except a few times by Bill Paxton, but he made up for them in other scenes.  Bridget Fonda was good, but I never really felt like I knew her character.  Whoever played Jacob's friend(Jeb?) put on a likable performance, and Billy Bob Thornton I don't need to tell you was great. Some things I found a bit unbelievable about the movie. I kept on thinking during the movie this would have made a great book, and turns out it was a great book.  Sam Raimi does a good job of relating it to the big screen. Another thing I liked about the movie was the color of each scene.  It seemed to represent what was going on and the viewer's mood. This is one of the best 20 movies I've probably ever seen, and I've seen A LOT.  It's too bad it didn't obtain Fargo status, because I have to admit A Simple Plan is a lot better. "},{"Title":"Billy Bob Thornton should have gotten the Oscar.","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A guy comes home one night and asks his wife what she would do if he found four million dollars in the woods. She takes the high road and speaks of returning it, but then she finds out it wasn't just a hypothetical question when she actually sees the money.I love this kind of movie. The kind that makes you examine yourself and wonder what you would do if it were you. Paxton is great as the everyman character, Billy Bob Thornton is simply phenomenal as his brother Jacob. Jacob is supposed to be the slow one, but he routinely surprises his brother with astounding truths about their own father and their own past while also being the only one who understands what depths they are sinking to. When he says that he is tired, you feel it with him.Wonderful film that will have you thinking about its implications for days. "},{"Title":"What are you thinking, Leonard Maltin?!","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Lots of filmgoers have given their opinion of A Simple Plan here, and to my eyes and to the eyes of many others here (eyes which look at film as an art form), it's an outstanding work.  The cinematography and acting are exceptional (especially the work done by Thornton), and the script is extremely compelling.  I've spoken with other true film buffs about A Simple Plan, and to an individual, they all thought it was head-and-shoulders above typical 90's fare.  I felt it was the best film of the past year.  This brings me to Leonard Maltin.  Leonard, what are you thinking?!  Leonard Maltin can be one of the most incisive critics around, yet he squanders his reputation by trashing too many brilliant films that happen to contain meanspiritedness or violence.  He lets a few slip through without panning them (he's a big The Silence of the Lambs fan), but he has to understand that most people who purchase his book (or read him here) aren't trying to find out if a film is appropriate for Sunday school. They want to know if a film is well-made, compelling, well-acted, etc.  He refuses to budge on Taxi Driver (* * ?!?), dislikes films such as Cape Fear (1991) (* * 1/2, a film generally more highly regarded) and so many others.  He even trashes Little Shop of Horrors (1986) because the goofy plant turns really mean and monstrous.  Yo dude, it's a cartoonish black comedy-musical.  He's gone too far with A Simple Plan, though.  I thought that, maybe, his occasional inexplicable pans of great films would be over... perhaps he'd gained some perspective.  I can see that this was a misguided notion on my part.  This is not to say that Cape Fear (1991) and Little Shop of Horrors (1986) are great movies, but they're certainly above average.  It's films like Taxi Driver and A Simple Plan that he does the most disservice to.  Is A Simple Plan's plotline unbelievable, something that doesn't hold up to scrutiny?  I've tried to spot the plot holes, but they're simply not there.  Some things happen that wouldn't happen in every case, or even most cases ... but they're not impossible. If it had to ring true, perhaps the film should've shown how the brothers (and their pal) found the money and kept it, taking off to Mexico and buying some race horses.  Perhaps the film should've focused on the experiences of the three after turning in the money instead of keeping it.  Maybe they could've tried to get the farm started again, with the movie focusing on their troubles getting a loan from the bank and/or their problems with the old farm equipment they might purchase.  Wouldn't THAT have made for a more interesting film??  I didn't think so.So people, check out this movie ... it's terrific, everything a movie should be.  And Leonard Maltin  Please try to open your mind.  You're so good most of the time.  You've got one major flaw and I'm not going to give up on you... and I know from past experiences that you DO change your reviews on occasion. "}{"Title":"It's darkly worth seeing - good performances, direction, and appreciation of snow","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was asked if A SIMPLE PLAN is extremely violent or dark. I said it's dark. Violent - not really - unlike FARGO. Emotionally not quite broad spectrum like the Brazilian film CENTRAL STATION - it's essentially one major note it's about $ values - seeping into family values - breaking into human values, with shades of variation between the relationships of husband and wife, two brothers, three friends.It is situational human drama, the storyline may not be as colorful as CENTRAL STATION, nevertheless, it is a well-made, well-directed (Sam Raimi injected his touches, e.g., the repeating blackbirds) and well-shot film (e.g., the snow scene angles).On the topic of greed, the best film of all time is still Erich von Stroheim's GREED, 1925, b/w, silent - it's amazing how a silent film can make such a loud and deep impact (and what spousal influence can lead to such unquenchable $$ desires). This is a MUST SEE film experience.For something more recent, try Peter Medak's ROMEO IS BLEEDING, 1993 - this is the extreme of what greed can do to people. Gary Oldman and Lena Olin (a very fearless, gutsy, relentless role she has here) paired up well. It's NFE (Not For Everyone) - it's definitely raw action-packed. What a daring script.On a lighter note, may be the idea of sharing $$ among a community sounds more appealing, try WAKING NED DEVINE, 1998. Yes, it's Kirk Jones' brisk bliss of an Irish delight!   "},{"Title":"Excellent movie!","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan is a good movie. The cast includes Bill Paxton, Bridget Fonda, Billy Bob Thornton, Brent Briscoe, John Paxton, Gary Cole, and the movie is directed by Sam Raimi! The cast all acted really well. Bill Paxton was really the same as he always is which is great acting! Billy Bob looked different and so did Fonda. Gary Cole was good but I think Brent Briscoe did one heck of an acting performance! The music is by veteran composer Danny Elfman and his music in this film is is very good! Sam Raimi did an excellent job directing this flick. The movie always keeps your attention with it great story. You follow these characters and see them get into one situation after another which this is one of the many things that keeps you wanting find out what is going to happen in the end! Great movie and if you like Bill Paxton and the other cast members then I strongly recommend you watch this film today!  "},{"Title":"Lot more than good little thriller","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is actually not a thriller. It has the elements of thriller, black comedy, (family) drama, character study, etc. It's not a Fargo-ripoff, either. Sam Raimi is a great director on his own right, and this movie is his masterpiece. He has done many good movies (don't count Spiderman), but this one is surely the best. The performances are great. The script is perfect. The direction is superb.It's a lot better than you'd expect.The thing I loved in this one, are the small surprises. No one turn out to be who you thought he/she was.I think of this movie mainly as a character study and drama. Great film.9,5/10 "},{"Title":"Something is missing...","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Most of the elements of A Simple Plan were adequate. The story carried me along and kept me interested. Cold, snowy and occasionally cerulean Minnesota countryside provided a peaceful backdrop that perfectly contrasted the abundance of dirty, greedy, evil goings-on. Performances were very good. Writing was decent enough. Yet the movie never fully took off due to a lot of 'little' things.Firstly, it takes itself way too seriously. Part of the reason why Fargo (a picture that often comes to mind while watching this) was so appealing was its irreverent, unaware-of-itself, off-the-cuff style. In more than a few scenes of A Simple Plan through the frequent use of extreme close-ups, cartoonish makeup and lighting (especially on Bridget Fonda) director Sam Raimi is almost annoyingly shouting at us to sit up straight and prepare to have another ridiculously obvious lesson on morality and human psyche rammed down our throats.Even the movie's tagline - 'Sometimes good people do evil things' - sounds kind of cheesy.Additionally, the ending seems tacked on. The sudden introduction of Gary Cole, the lead-up to the showdown and the ensuing shootout simply feel unnatural. Not to mention the twist by which Hank (Bill Paxton) gets to keep the money but then learns the bills' serial numbers have been recorded by the feds who are now waiting for them to surface. And this is what makes Hank decide to burn the dough? I mean, p-leaseeee!!! Throughout the movie, fuelled by his desire to keep this fortune he found a way out of the most impossible situations even if it required him to lie, cheat, plot and kill and then ultimately this technicality is the detail that does him in and makes him give it all up!?? He didn't get a conscience all of a sudden, we know that. He burned the money not because it reminded him of the carnage he left in his wake in order to keep it or something along those lines, but only because he was looking at this seemingly insurmountable 'obstacle' of bills being marked.I guess the filmmakers or the studio didn't want to show behaviour like this be rewarded or maybe they thought the fact that he lives is enough of a perk. Whatever the thinking and reasoning, it was all very unconvincing.On the other hand, the most admirable parts include excellent performances from Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thornton, Brent Briscoe and several truly great exchanges between them.To put it in simple terms - good enough but I wanted more. "},{"Title":"Fargo-esque? Come on! Not even close","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You know how they describe bad new sitcoms as Seinfeld-esque to get people to watch them? I bet if you made a survey, these are the first casualties of the season. I shouldnt have seen this movie by that rationale - probably wouldnt have if I had known that it shares directors with Spiderman. But I did, and have to admit it's not too bad. But Fargo it is not even close to.First of all, while Fargo captures the essence of a Minnesota winter, and has so many rich characters, here we get just caricatures acting out a play, and the weather is just extra baggage, so to speak. This could have been easily set in any remote township, perhaps in California, coz surely Billy Bob Thornton is trying hard to do his best surf-dude accent. Speaking of which, none of the main characters except Lou, who has more of a guest appearance, look like natives. Also, why is a guy who's done 4 yrs in college and has an accountancy degree dispensing feed in a mill? How can the Thornton character suddenly do or say the smartest things... isnt that just a ludicrous cinematic device? How can he afford to drink in a bar - enough to pass out mind you - when he has no money to buy a little teddy bear for his nephew? What's that cost... 5 bucks? And dont tell me he is doing it out of sentimentality, it's just another unrealistic cinematic device.This movie has a good story line and could have done much better in the hands of a good director. For the story itself, this movie is worth watching, but the rest is just forgettable. I'd give it about 6/10. "},{"Title":"Plot twists kept me interested","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  At first the chain of events that Hank and Jacob Mitchell (Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thornton) find themselves in seems unlikely.  Why would anyone do something so stupid I asked?  However, as the film progresses you are drawn more and more into the mind set of the characters, as they try to erase one mistake by making another.  Eventually things begin to appear more plausible, and that is the magic of this film.This isn't Academy award material, but it is a fun movie to watch, and the ending provides several twists that I didn't expect.  Definitely worth a rental. "},{"Title":"I Don't Understand It's Popularity","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Two critics I usually agree with, James Berardinelli and Roger Ebert, both loved A Simple Plan. I have never disagreed with them more. To me it's just a so-so Fargo knock-off that never rises above average  an average film-noir melodrama with lots of snow. By the end of the movie, I didn't much care what happened to any of the characters. IAs for it still hanging in to the IMDb Top 250 Movies, I've just done my part to change that.  "},{"Title":"great tense thriller","Date":"8 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Hank (Bill Paxton) is a hard worker with loving pregnant wife Sarah (Bridget Fonda) in a small Minnesota town. Hank goes on a drive with his brother Jacob (Billy Bob Thornton) and Jacob's friend Lou (Brent Briscoe). After crashing their car, they go off into the woods and find a crashed small plane. In it, they find a bag full of money. Hank wants to go to the police but he is convinced by the other two to keep the money. Hank comes up with a simple plan. He hides the money until the plane is discovered. If nobody comes looking for it, they will split up the $4.4 million among the three of them.Like the title suggests, this is a relatively simple movie. Of course, Hank's plan is never going to work especially with those two idiot loudmouth friends. Anyways, Hank breaks his promise not to tell his wife almost immediately. The tension builds and builds as these bumbling idiots get into a worst and worst situation. The snowy landscape gives the movie its desolate doomed atmosphere. Billy Bob does a great idiot but Bill Paxton's needy morality is the kicker. He starts out as a reasonable everyday man with morals. Director Sam Raimi fills every scene with a threatening tension. "},{"Title":"Pretty magnificent","Date":"3 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Having heard some recent comparisons to Fargo, I had somewhat of an idea of what the film would be like. And I wasn't wrong. But that doesn't make the film any less effective. If anything, its more straight-forward tone and lack of humor (as much as a lack of humor can exist in some of these situations) works because it places emphasis on the circumstantial events that follow an act of sin. It brings forth that wide-known truth that with a small lie comes more and more lies, bigger and bigger lies. The film's script is exquisite and magnificently developed all around, and its probably one of the finest scripts of the 90s. The entire cast is aces, but it's Billy Bob Thornton that provides the film's heart and true emotional center. He's brilliant in this and he steals the spotlight from anyone else when he's on screen. This is the first time I've seen Raimi outside a blockbuster genre film and I don't think his directorial flair is present here, but that's a good thing because I certainly wasn't sure how it would translate with a film like this. By the end I realized this was a sort of minor masterpiece and it's a shame that it's not nearly as popular as it should be. "},{"Title":"Great performances... Not so great production...","Date":"17 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" All the performances are very good but I thought Billy Bob Thornton was truly excellent in this. He really nailed his performance of this slightly dim-witted man who is, at heart, quite lonely. Also worthy of note were Bill Paxton and Bridget Fonda. Aside from the performances I did find this one didn't quite hold my attention the way I felt it should and I also found it a little over-long. Yes, it's very dramatic and the audience is given plenty of time to engage with the various characters, but even so I did find my mind wandering in a few places. The plot did put me in mind of an old western; 'The Treasure of the Sierra Madre' I think it was; a film about greed when a big gold strike is made. As far as the production goes, well it did feel like I was watching a TV movie rather than a theatrical release. Over all, great performances (particularly BBT) but I felt the production let it down a tad&#x85; Still, worth a look.SteelMonster's verdict RECOMMENDED (&#x85;if a little slow)My score 6.8/10You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog Thoughts of a SteelMonster. "}{"Title":"It was a simple plan","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A Simple Plan is about three men who stumble upon over 4 million dollars in cash and devise a simple plan to keep the money for themselves. However, things go deadly wrong in a hurry. It's ultimately about how greed can turn otherwise innocent law abiding citizens into doing monstrous things they wouldn't ever imagine themselves doing. The acting all around is great, especially Billy Bob, and the story unfolds nicely. We don't agree with a lot of the characters' decisions, but being put in their situation, it's entirely plausible that some of us would do the same things. That's what makes this movie so terrifying and great. Highly recommended if you're interested in a dark character study. "},{"Title":"Money came to disturb a small village","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It is good for ambitious people to see this film, it is a good lesson of ethics and shows to what extent money may kill innocent people including relative ones. Differently to other films, those who were hiding the money found themselves burning it. There is no need to describe the plot of the film, much more important is to see and analyze it.          "},{"Title":"Hard to get over after viewing.","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan is a fine-tuned, first-rate suspense flick about greed and family. It takes place in a quiet mountain town, where everybody knows everybody else, or at least think they do. Three friends come across something that could change their lives, and it does. Just not the way they'd hoped it would. Billy Bob Thornton left an indelible impression on me as Jacob, a loner who is caught in between two greedy people. Jacob becomes the moral center of the film, and everybody else unravels in increasingly bad ways. Hollywood needs movies like this to keep their dignity intact, and the public needs more films that they can watch, learn, and apply to their everyday lives. I was shaken by this movie.   "},{"Title":"eh. it was ok, i guess","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this in my English class last week. I have to write a paper pointing out the similarities this movie has with The Pardoner's Tale, one of the Canterbury Tales by Geoffrey Chaucer. I'm not sure how i feel about this movie, it wasnt great, but it wasnt horrible. It was kind of unrealistic, kind of showy...but i guess thats Hollywood. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie! One of the years best!","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Unlike what the person above wrote, I don't think the ending is a downer. Is it a sad ending? Yeah, sure. But, no matter what the person says, do you think that they'll change the ending? No way! I've read the book and you know most people say that the book is always better that the movie, that would not be right if said about this movie. The movie measured up to the book very well. I don't know why it wasn't nominated for Best Picture, but what are you gonna do? "},{"Title":"One Question","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What is up with the part when Bill Paxton blows away Nancy with the shotgun? The movie is serious and all of a sudden this woman gets blown across the room.  I was watching the movie with two of my friends and simultaneously we turned to each other and started cracking up.  We had to rewind it and watch it again because it was unbelievable.  Even though this part of the movie is mind-boggling and inappropriate, the movie is very good. "},{"Title":"book was beter","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  i'm reading the book momentarilly and must say that it is far better that the film, which i very much enjoyed. It was good to see Sam Raimi direct in a different way that just flinging low angles all over the place, like in his Evil Dead trilogy. Cole's appearance was short, but it was good seeing him perform again (loved him in Raimi's American Gothic). i feel that Scott Smith, the writer was forced to end the film like this, for in the book, Jacob died earlier and far colder than FORCING his brother ro kill him. And after reading the book, i feel the film wat too hollywood. so my recommendation is to read first, then watch. but i give it a 8.0 out of 10... way to go, Sam! way to go, Billy Bob and Bill and Brigit, way to go! "},{"Title":"My comments are, of course, 100% accurate! -)","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You could see this movie as a study in opposites. What looks simple turns out to be complex, for example their 'simple plan' or the wisdom of the simple brother Jacob. The results (offspring?) of the plans hatched by innocent mother figure (Fonda) turn out to be death. The dark side of the all-around nice guy (Paxton), and the symbology of the beautiful snowy landscape that covers the violent plane crash are other examples. What about the FBI guy? See what I mean? Money doesn't equal happiness, beauty doesn't equal benevolence, and what seems the most civilized turns out to be brutal and shallow. This is a great movie as far as I'm concerned. I must've been living under a rock, but I just realized what an absolutely superb actor we have with Billy Bob Thornton. Anyone who wants to bury their head in the sand, who is scared of using their brain to contemplate the human condition can rent Pollyanna or The Wizard of Oz instead. 'Nuff said, right? "},{"Title":"Not such a simple plan after all...","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had me on the edge of my seat, and at times I felt like an absolute nervous wreck in anticipation of what might come next. It will have you wondering what will go wrong next for the characters, how callous and unfeeling the main character's wife can be towards others when eight and a half months pregnant, and who will try to stab whom in the back next. Billy Bob Thornton deserves at least an Oscar nomination for his deep portrayal of his sad, sad character in this movie. The ability of Jacob to think far more deeply than his more successful, college-graduate brother really touches the soul.An altogether wonderful movie, with lots of plot twists and potential twists that would have made it just as brilliant. "},{"Title":"What would u do?","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found this movie very good. I found the acting good,nothing what I thought would happen. It really makes u think what would u do, and how your friends,family  can turn so easy against you. How you think you really like and care for someone and it all changes over money. At the end was kind of  heart breaking, to think all over money and was it all worth it.Don't get me wrong I would love a lot of money but not that way.   "}{"Title":"Superb","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An excellent movie that few have seen. I only have two real complaints, one plotwise and the other technical. I don't really buy the sheriff not checking the supposed FBI agents credentials and the other was when Sam switched to full blown Raimi on the shotgun blast (which slightly degraded from the film). Other than that, it was a really good little film. "},{"Title":"A movie that makes you think!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am disappointed by the people who believed that this downer ending is a point of weakness for this film.  The whole point that this film is trying to get across, is what money and greed do to people. One of my favorite scenes is when Bridget Fonda is pleading to Bill Paxton that he cannot burn the money; her excuse is that she doesn't want to go back to the way things were, and how unhappy they were being poor.  But the whole point is that they were happy before...what did greed do to her i wonder?(hmmm)Something to think about! "},{"Title":"A remote but possible darkside of human nature","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A suspenseful, work that turns three friends and families into something they never dreamt could ever occur. The backwoods, rural setting with its farms, woods, wildlife, and its decent small town citizenry are all a setup to lull the viewer into a preconceived complacency until greed stirs the dark side of human nature. The professional critics in my area downplayed this movie but the regular people rated it high and worth seeing. Some were disappointed by the ending but I don't believe the author could have done better. This whole feature unfolds like a Greek tragedy and the only winners are the laughing gods on Olympus. "},{"Title":"Actually a very good film.Fine photography.Reminded a little of Fargo","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A good,simple story of greed interjecting itself among brothers & friends.Enough Noirish twists to keep ones interest. May be Bridget Fonda's best role. Someone once said a good Film Noir can't have an up-beat ending. Superb photography of the upper mid-west in Winter reminded me of Fargo. "},{"Title":"gritty, grim & gruesome but good","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A truly dark morality tale which also happens to be a superb mystery/suspense movie. Sort of like Treasure of the Sierra Madre relocated from Mexico to some deliberately nondescript wintry northern town. It's horrible and fascinating to watch these three hapless nonentities become progressively more ensnared in the fatal ramifications of their simple plan. A nice change from the mindless blow-em-ups and witless romances we have so many of nowadays. Billy Bob Thornton's performance as the slow-witted Jacob is, as has been noted, superb. "},{"Title":"Oh what a tangled web we weave, when first we practice to deceive.","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Today, my first day of summer vacation, I viewed two films. One was the teen black comedy Jawbreaker which was decent, but the other was the perfect film A Simple Plan. I can not believe what a magnificent film this is. When it was in theaters, it never came near me so I did not get to see it. Had I, it would have been on my Ten Best List, most likely in the top 5. The acting is real and not over the top, the story mezmerizing and unpredictable, and the ending will go down as one of the classic movie endings of all time. It will stay with you, I guarantee it. This is a movie you want to, and should talk about. This is a truly great movie watching experience.PS- For another of films most classic endings, see American History X. "},{"Title":"Evil Dead this ain't...","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My man Sam has gone and went mainstream, and he couldn't have picked a better vehicle in which to do it.The acting is superb, and the direction sublime. You may go into this expecting a Deadite in the cockpit of the plane, but this film shows that the true horrors lurk in the most unlikely of places. "},{"Title":"A refreshing movie - more please.","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's so refreshing to see an American movie without a feel good ending.  I found this move quite stressful at times but it was so intriguing I was hooked start to finish.  The characters were fantastic - particularly Thornton.  Many people may have felt the ending was inappropriate - well in a way I agree, but only on technical grounds - the story was fine.  Maybe the Director could have softened the stark reality a little.The bit where Jacob (Thornton) says I'm tired at the end is the part I will always remember; if I were in his shoes I would have felt the same way.Much better than Fargo.  Best American film since The Last Supper. "},{"Title":"It's pretty good, but watch your IQ","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In Sam Raini's adaptation of Scott B. Smith's novel, 3 friends (2 brothers played by Bill Paxton and Oscar nominee and should've been winner Billy Bob Thorton)are driving and find 4.4 million in a suitcase.  This film has some terrific acting (especially by Thorton and Fonda as Paxton's wife) a good script and plot twists, but fools itself by becoming a comedy.  And after a while we get the lesson learned (be careful what you get) too many times to comprehend.  After having the money, their IQ's are lowered just by the smell of cash.  And in the end they get what's coming to them in the worst way, for the audience as well.  I do recommend this film to fans of the actors (as I am myself) and to see what the film version of the novel is like; but that's the whole kit and caboodle. "},{"Title":"Another film better than Private Ryan","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There were quite a few films from 1998 better than Private Ryan, but I won't talk about all of them here, only this one.  This movie has been one of the most realistic stories I have ever seen (asteroid the size of Texas stopped by TWO space ships?).  The only problem I saw was the audience laughing whenever someone got killed.  The characters in this film come across as actual people who each have more than one side.  If you don't believe me, check out how quickly the wife goes from honest and virtuous to being calculating and cunning.  One of the few true real life thrillers to ever come out of Hollywood. "}{"Title":"Change the ending","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was just like Fargo. It was snowy, the characters were weird, and it had an unsuspected ending. This movie wouldn't accept an award, but it was close. A *** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"Am I the only one who found this movie funny?","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I felt this movie was a dark comedy of errors.  Just when you thought they couldn't be more F'd, they sink even lower.  The absurdity was just hilarious.  Overall, pretty entertaining.  I thought the ending was perfect. 3.5 out of 5  "},{"Title":"An agonizing example of just how dumb people can be when money is involved.","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What is happiness? A Simple Plan is a movie about how four people found everything but happiness in a bag of money. There is the man who has everything a man could want - pretty, pregnant wife, steady job, nice house. Simple things. Happy things. Then there is his brother, who is simple, but happy, sort of. He is not lonely, because he has a friend. And his friend is the third man who found the money, and he is happy and not lonely because, while he doesn't have a job, he has a beer. Then there is the pregnant wife who is just happy as a pig in s***, until her hubby brings home millions. And then she becomes one of the green-eyed monsters of this flick. Greed destroys the lot, one way or another. Greed is indeed a deadly sin. And this is a very disturbing movie, because real people really act this dumb when they are faced with lots of money.  "},{"Title":"Good to a point.","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Enjoyed the plot up to the point when they met the FBI agent.  Why would the kidnapper take all the risk of dealing with police just for the chance that the police had some information.  The story really had me into it until that sequence.  Then it seemed fabricated.Strong movie overall. "},{"Title":"thoroughly cool","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Despite complaints about the ending, the film COULD NOT end any other way. It's a well-crafted story, and the ending chilled me. But I gotta ask, why do all these simple Minnesotans sound like Texans? I know the coasts tend to consider all of middle-America to be the South. Maybe that's why Bill Paxton never put on a hat. Still, I thought somebody would remember that the folks in Fargo didn't sound like the folks in Slingblade.  "},{"Title":"Analogies to Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After viewing A Simple Plan for the second time, I noticed the many analogies to John Steinbeck's short story, Of Mice and Men.  Even though Lennie and George were not brothers in the biological sense, they were linked as brothers similarly to Jason and Hank.  Lennie and Jason were slow and thought to be dim-witted, and relied on their brothers for guidance in life.   Both Lennie and Jason are catalysts for much of the trouble that occurs, and both of them have a dream of owning a farm.  In the end Of Mice and Men, George kills Lennie in order to save him from a lynch mob, and Hank kills Jason to save him from himself which in Jason's mind, is a lynch mob.  A Simple Plan, like the best laid plans of Mice and Men, goes awry and ends tragically.  A Simple Plan is a wonderful moral dilemma and a beautifully acted (kudos to Billy Bob Thornton who had all the right moves,) film with superb cinematography that put me right into the cold and the snow!  The touch of the hovering crows was grand!  "},{"Title":"Good film, but the book was more terrifying","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps if I hadn't read the book I would've liked this film more. The script is faithful to the novel (having been written by the same man) but the differences are interesting and soften the blow of just horrifying wrong things go. There's one whole scene at the end of the book that is left out of the film that makes the main character even more twisted. Billy Bob Thornton is terrific as the pathetic brother, who is grossly obese in the book. In the film they just make him dumb and goofy looking. "},{"Title":"That delicious downward spiral.","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  With shades of Shallow Grave and Blood Simple, Raimi and Smith create a suffocating white Minnesotan winter-world in which all the characters are hopelessly stuck.  Their find of 4.4 million dollars naturally causes events to spiral deliciously ever downward.  The characters are ANYTHING but one-dimensional, and there's an especially welcome, surprising and creative plot twist toward the end.  Dark, funny, and sad -- the script is superb, the acting sensationally low-key.  Bravo to all involved.  "},{"Title":"Who knows what evils lurks in the hearts of men...?","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This one's a real nail-biter, packs a message, and features Bill Paxton actually acting for the first time in his career.  Very effectively directed by Sam Raimi, whose horror-movie experience comes in very handy, A Simple Plan is suspenseful, moving, and amusing -- but not uplifting; the ending is indeed kind of a downer.  I'm always relieved to see films where violence has consequences and -- in this post-Reservoir Dogs era -- isn't played for laughs. "},{"Title":"wow was this movie good!!!!!!!","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am watching it right now, the bar scene,....this is my 2nd viewing. 1st viewing was about a year back and loved it. Turned it on due to a friend of mine watching it last night on my word that it's good and they loved it. So I'm watching it again. It really sucks you in. Coming from a smalltown myself where it snows and the people who define stereotypes to a certain extent live, it really works well for me. The casting is great. Paxton and Thorton could easily be related, and their on screen mannerisms really do this justice. The 3rd guy, whose name I don't know, is great, too. And Fonda, well, her character is one of the catalysts as essentially she is the downfall to the whole scheme. If only Paxton's character didn't tell her(which he wasn't supposed to), everything would have been fine. lol. The acting on Billy Bob's part is great...the mannerisms Add to this a nice visual-great cinematography. Loved how barren it was! The crows! It was nice. Snow and barren landscapes always works in movies for me. As much as Sam Raimi is know for Evil Dead and Spiderman, I think some of his finest work is The Gift and this great thriller A Simple Plan. Really good! "}{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am amazed by this movie from beginning to end....in every aspect acting, character development, plot development, directing, cinematography (excluding the obvious out of sync dialog that occurs...what a shame) It is not often that movies make you THINK and boy does this one sure DOES!! Some movies I would ask questions but EVERYTHING that happens here is CLEAR...there are no doubts or questions. You just have to follow very closely and watching it twice is helpful if you are uncertain on any parts. I think this movie is not only brilliant but very haunting....it sticks with you and if you are lucky enough to find it on cable WATCH IT! I plan on buying it. "},{"Title":"I wish somebody else had found that money.","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A Sam Raimi film with an Oscar-nominated Scott B. Smith script, and a Danny Elfman score. What more do you want? How about an outstanding performance by Billy Bob Thornton (Sling Balde), and a great performance by Bridget Fonda (Scandal, Jackie Brown) and good performances by Bill Paxton and Chelcie Ross.Raimi kept things going and deftly mixed the craziness with humor and sadness as what was a simple plan unraveled before our eyes. I kept getting reminded of the scene in Goodfellas where they started spending the money after a robbery. Like Ray Liotta, Paxton tried to keep things together, but it all came apart.Super ending! "},{"Title":"A Modern Masterpiece","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is truly one of the great films of our time. The cast and crew put everything they had into it, and it shows. Every aspect of the movie, from the camera work to the script to the direction is nothing less than perfect. Equally worth mentioning is the cast, who give dead on performances. While everyone is busy commending Billy Bob for his performance (which he should have won the Oscar for), the rest of the cast, especially Bill Paxton and Bridget Fonda, also should have been nominated (at least). How Shakespere In Love beat out this and Saving Private Ryan is beyond me. Sam Raimi made his best film to date, and one of the best films of all time with A Simple Plan,and should be proud of his achievement. "},{"Title":"What Would  You Do?","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film gave me the creeps from the very opening scenes where all you can see is plenty of fields of snow and and a red fox getting hunger pains looking at chickens in a farmers coup. There is an old farm house with a broken window and a curtain flying outside the window and then you meet the Mitchell Family. Bill Paxton, (Hank Mitchell),Haven,'04, plays a very serious man who is married and expecting their first child. Hank works in a grain and fertilizer store and his wife works in a library. Bridget Fonda,(Sarah Mitchell),The Whole Shebang,'01 is Hank's wife and is very devoted and a sweet outgoing friendly person. Billy Bob Thornton,(Jacob Mitchell),The Ice Harvest,'05, plays a rather simple minded brother to Hank and is really harmless. Trouble seems to start when these brothers take a walk in the woods and start drinking beer and they find something that we would all like to Find! or maybe NOT !! "},{"Title":"A Simple Plan","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A Simple plan is a story of Hank and Jacob Mitchell (Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thornton) who accompanied by a friend stumble across a crashed plane with $4 million dollars inside, 1 dead pilot and all that helpless money. (Bridget Fonda) plays Sarah Hank's wife who is pregnant and poor living in a small town, it all seems so right. A Simple Plan is a very well created film, suspenseful, unpredictable, exciting and just exciting. (Brent Briscoe) plays Carl the old binge drinking, money hungry friend of Jacob's, that accompany's them on there trip to find the money.Pros Suspenseful, Unpredictable, Well Acted, OriginalCons No special effects or much action "},{"Title":"All ingenious - is simple!","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  All ingenious - is simple. The excellent script, is included into my 5 favourite films, the atmosphere - amazing, grasps film from the very beginning, more human drama it is difficult to find. The human factor is at the head of a corner, film has set me thinking, a tower has broken capitally! Money spoil people and at times people do the big mistakes in a pursuit of these. In the chapter of all human tragedies there is a nonsense and abjectness, it is possible to mean abjectness of money. Communication with fargo I do not see, two different films though in both big role play money. Only in a case from Fargo people earned on it and went intentionally. That here more thin picture, about that as usual would seem people can make acts in a cut to the values.10/10  "},{"Title":"Underrated film that shows Rami should be taken seriously.","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While not as good as his(Sam Rami) next effort The gift a simple plan Is a intense morality tale that will not only entertain but spark conversation. In the hands of a less talented director or cast would be rather uneventful. Sam Rami must have thought about that old film adage that half of directing is casting. The cast makes this film almost painful by bringing us into the tension. With less skilled actors it would not have had the effect.Billy Bob Thorton steals the show with a performance that is indeed stronger than sling blade. One scene in particular Billy Bob indeed totally fools the audience into believing his betraying his brother it is painful to watch. I think that is one of the most powerful aspects of this film.As each turn of the story leads Hank further into crisis weather it is his brother opening his mouth or having kill another person&#133;it is painful. Some might see this predictability as a weakness but to me it is the film's most powerful moments. You know when the trouble is coming and it is awful watching it creep up. Rami performed this with brilliant skill  "},{"Title":"A Sad Look at Good People given Money","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I love this movie because it questions the integrity of the people who seem nice enough.  I don't look at A Simple Plan so much for its story, as the concept itself is simple.  It is more of a character movie, which exposes how a good person can react to a golden goose egg. I give credit to Billy Bob Thornton for his work as the sad and confused Jacob.  I couldn't help but feel sorry for him, his shortcomings with women, his yearn for the farm, and his dreams of one day having a beer with Hank, their families living door to door.  Two of his scenes moved me, one being when Hank told him not to mess it up when Jacob went down to help Carl, their cop friend.  Jacob looks back at Hank and says, Mess it up?  Jacob didn't see a victim, he saw his friend.  It struck me hard then what had become of Hank, his ignorance of his actions.  The second scene, actually around the same time, was when Jacob says, I don't want to be here. Immediately, everything that was wrong in his life came back to me, reminded me that there was nothing in that world for Jacob.  He was so sad at that moment, I almost cried myself. I also give credit to Brent Briscoe, who really played the part of Lou Chambers well.  I loved his depiction of a man who was drowning in the sea of his life, and that money being an unexpected life preserver.  Just beautiful, his need is spelled on his red and creased face. Maybe a depressing look at friendly people, but I give it 4 1/2 out of 5 stars because to realize its a character piece and to get inside these people's heads would reveal a very emotional story. "},{"Title":"Chilling Picture of MoneyLust","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  2000 years ago St. Paul wrote to his young student Timothy, ...the love of money is the root of all evil.  The players in A Simple Plan prove that maxim from the very beginning of the story.  The only question is how far they'll go to satiate their lust.Cleancut feedstore worker Hank Mitchell, his stumblebum brother Jacob and their an unemployed friend Lou discover a crashed airplane in the woods.  Inside the plane is $4 million in cash.  So what to do with the newfound windfall?  The answer is not so easy as it seems.Hank and his colleagues have a simple plan, but even simple plans tend to unravel if they're based in greed.  How unfortunate that the characters in A Simple Plan refused to learn the lesson centuries-old lesson of St. Paul.Not a light film, and I wouldn't show the kids, because of the violence. "},{"Title":"Wow!!!","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I finally got around to seeing this film a few weeks ago and I was surprised at how excellent it was.  The whole plot and story was outstanding, and Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thorton were outstanding.  I found myself laughing at all of the dumb things Billy Bob Thorton would do and the way Bill Paxton would react to them.  In other parts the movie gave me chills.  Overall a great film.  I loved it. ***1/2 out of ****. "}{"Title":"A movie with a powerful moral","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"     (Spoilers incoming.)  This is one of the few movies that actually improve on the book.  In the book, Hank goes kill-crazy in defense of his swag, murdering two people in a liquor store that Sarah had given one of the possibly tagged bills.   In the film, Hank becomes more sympathetic; his bourgeois morality crumbles slowly, and the contrast between him and Jakob, the pathetic brother he vaguely despises, is emphasized.    It's a story that had me going what would I do? for a long time.  Highly recommended.     "},{"Title":"the direction was what really made this film","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  well done film all around. sam raimi does a good job of letting the script unfold and building tension at each turn. i think the direction was what really made the film seem well paced and tragic rather than overdone and contrived (see deep end). all the acting was good, including bill paxton who has a tendency to overact. billy bob is a simpleton in real life and that's why his most successful roles (this one and sling blade) are those of simple people. good casting there. in sum, a good story and well-executed. B.  "},{"Title":" Impressions of a simple plan......simple?","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I recently watched  for the fist time this 1998 film by Sam Raimi, Wow!-how did I miss this film?A seemingly uncomplicated story at first glance that rapidly entraps you deeper into it until you are finally released at the end wondering what you would do if you.....(sorry, no spoiler here!). Of course, the fox getting into the henhouse is pretty common in the country.especially during the winter season.Set in pure white it includes some good and evil,wasted lives,the American dream and the good old small town hero who is gonna save the day and do what's right. Well, sort of..........Although what is right seems to change and change until it's not as clear what right is.Bill Paxton is the older brother who knows everything, Billy Bob Thornton is the younger,dimmer,but deeper brother, Bridgette Fonda is .....well,just see it.....what she is......OK-she's a classic,wonderful small-town librarian wife with great small-town hair. There is also my favorite, Lou, Billy Bob's buddy, portrayed energetically by Brent Briscoe.  Why is he my favorite?    Well, he  just is, Lou calls it the way he sees it and I like it!After scenes of almost normal life and its residents,while in the snowy woods we hear a sharp sound after a snowball is thrown and we are on our way,moving slowly and driving fast,events pulling everyone rapidly to the center of the plot.I watched and listened as A Simple Plan unfolded,the director took me where he wanted me to be,and the camera showed me precisely what I was supposed to see.By now involved in the film, I tag along with each character as they interact with each other,showing me more and more of who they really are.This film beckons us into it,hooks,then lures,shocks,and pulls us again into suspense followed by a turn towards mystery and the bad guy before finally setting us right back home as if we clicked our heels three times and woke up thinking it was all a dream. In fact look, things are just as they were!In my opinion,this is a film that needs to be seen. I'm glad I watched it -twice.bgbdesign "},{"Title":"This was a great suspense thriller","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed A Simple Plan. It had a great plot and it kept me glued to the TV. I was so eager to find out what would happen next. Bill Paxton is one of my favorite actors and Billy Bob Thornton does not disappoint. I think Hank (Paxton) and Jakob (Thornton) should've just left the money where it was. If they had then the murders wouldn't have been committed and there would be no problems. They were sweet and decent guys but the fight over the money caused them to become killers. I mean, sure $4.4 million dollars is a heck of a lot of money and it would be hard to just leave it there and knowing that it was just sitting there but I think that they knew it would just cause problems. The ending was so sad. I think Hank should've just went ahead and let Jakob kill himself instead of killing his own brother. I know that's what Jakob wanted but it was his own brother! And I don't think Hank had to burn all the money. That was just sad to watch. Anyways. I thought A Simple Plan was a great movie and Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thornton, Bridget Fonda, and all the other actors gave great performances. Thanks for reading my review and this is definitely a movie you should own.  "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan tells a story of The American Dream in a gym bag and how a simple plan can go very wrong. Three men find something in the snowy Minnesota woods, and it will change there lives for the worst. They found a downed plane with over $4million in a gym bag. What goes on afterwards is murder, confusion and trouble, which makes for a great movie. A suspenseful and troubling film which is both fun and saddening to watch, A Simple Plan contains twists and turns galore. A must see for any movie goer, especially those who enjoy drama and a character driven story mixed with a message that rings true. I give it a 10/10 rating. A Simple Plan is a great movie! "},{"Title":"It's All About the Benjamins","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  On one level, A Simple Plan is a well-done movie. The acting was more than convincing and the scenes were shot beautifully. The plot held your attention and was thought provoking. On another level (the one that I am more in tune with), THIS IS ONE OF THE WORST MOVIES I HAVE EVER SEEN. Now keep in mind that I was quite pleased with all of the aesthetics of this movie, however the story itself has found a special place in my heart where I keep memories of all the movies that have made me wish that I was blind and deaf. For more than ninety teeth-grinding minutes I watched the events unfold. Three small town yokels find a crashed airplane containing $4.4 million dollars in cash. They unanimously come to the conclusion that 1) The money must be from drug dealers and thus liable to be claimed by righteous individuals like themselves, 2) There is too much cash to be marked and from assumption #1, no one would try to look for the money since one would risk getting caught, and 3) It is easy to hide $4.4 million in cash amongst three individuals, one of which is an idiot, one who is a drunken idiot, and one (their leader) who isn't exactly a criminal mastermind. The premise behind the story is the old `money is the root of all evil' morality tale and boy does it ever stick it to you with this movie. Upon deciding to hide the money for a couple of months and wait until the frenzy has died down, patience wares thin as two of the three start to think big and already make plans for the money. Several situations arise that threaten to expose their secret. So how does one keep this web of lies from getting out in the open? That's right! With murder and more lies. And don't even think about blinking. When you are sure that you have already seen the lowest depths that the human soul can crawl to, it gets overwhelmingly worse. Even Hell has a basement. This is a great movie to make you walk a righteous path in its depiction of a morally questionable situation turned into an outright worst-case scenario on an ethical scale.  "},{"Title":"Taut story convincingly told","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Based on R1 DVD 121 minA Simple Plan is a pretty simple story about 2 brothers and a friend of one of the brothers who stumble across 'the american dream' in a snow swept nature reserve.The actors make this movie work none more so than Thornton the older, wiser & simplier brother. If you like character movies and can tolerate some violence then this is worth watching.7/10 well worth watching.  "},{"Title":"What some people will do for money...","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best motion pictures I have ever seen. With that said, let me tell you why. This is one of the most realistic movies I have ever witnessed. It is all very well-acted and shows what people would most likely do in this sort of situation. I do not think I even took a breath at the end of the movie. Talk about a tense thriller, this movie will having you scooting closer to the edge of your seat until you slide off. Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thornton, Bridget Fonda, and Brent Briscoe are absolutely wonderful and all give Oscar caliber performances. It really gives you a view of a small, meaningless thing that turns out to be a good thing. But then that good thing spins out of control until it turns into a terrible thing.The 1996 Academy Award winner FARGO is deftly familiar in this sense that they are both very white and snowy. Another example of a movie of this nature, but not as tense, would be the made for TV movie, ROUTE 9.The end of this movie will have you clenching your fists and sweating while you are wondering what is going to happen. For all fans of thrillers and dramas...YOU MUST SEE THIS MOVIE!!!!!!!! This is one of the greatest motion pictures that I have ever seen. I was shocked beyond comprehension when everything kept on getting worse and how the situation was continually thrilling and scary. This movie is enough to have you thrilled and surprised out of your mind for about a day or two. Let's just say that if movies can get any better than this, then we are in for a promising future.A SIMPLE PLAN gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"An effective film","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Tight suspense thriller that's made better than it perhaps should have been by B.B. Thornton's perceptive portrayal of one of 3 men who stumble on a crashed plane full of cash -- $4 million of it!  They decide to keep the money till spring to see if anyone is looking for it (?).  Of course, this doesn't work out, and Paxton and Thronton end up being involved in a series of murders as funny as they are gruesome and sad.  Paxton is a bit over the top but good mostly.  Raimi proves he can direct actors here! It was a good little noir but, like most of its type, it placed too much emphasis on the gimmick.  OF COURSE power and money corrupts and they're going to end up at each other's throats -- maybe the director should have taken this as a given instead of taking the whole film to unravel such an obvious point.  Still, taken as a human drama, it is quite effective. "},{"Title":"What a silly movie","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *ending and plot spoilers*I rented it expecting a great thriller after seeing it's IMDB score but instead got a stupid movie with stupid characters. The filmmakers expect me to believe that these people find 5 million dollars, and  that they actually HESITATE to take it. Normal people like you and me (well me at least, maybe it has to do with the fact that I'm 19) fantasize every day about finding a bag full of money to finally enjoy life, all of a sudden it happens to these people, and they actually spend half the movie debating wether to turn it in to the police or not. What a load of bull, people like that don't exist! The fact that so many people on IMDB can actually forgive this while they flame nearly every other movie for having unbelievable characters is truly astounding. The only normal character was the wife.And the most insulting part is the ending. An FBI agent reveals that the bills are marked and so you can't use them without being caught, so the moron lead burns the money in a fit of anger instead of flying (or taking a ship to avoid being searched at the airport) to that government-free no man's land province in Brazil or some other place where the arm of the US law can't reach, and launder the money there.Truly, whoever made this movie is still stuck in the 40's. This is probably the only movie I've seen that insults the viewer's intelligence so. I couldn't care about the dialogue, I couldn't care about the acting, the only thing on my mind was how the hell someone could think up such characters.DEFINITELY pass. Rent Three Kings, it has a slightly similar storyline, only with REAL people instead of a bunch of Mary Poppins cast-outs. "}{"Title":"Thank you Raimi for a wonderful movie!","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I recently watched this movie,and I was stunned.This was REALLY good stuff.I bought it on DVD the same day I rented it.Well,it was much similar to Coen brothers masterpiece Fargo,but it doesn`t make it more boring.This is a masterpiece as well! Great acting(especially Thornton),exciting story,believable characters,nice location and extremely tight direction. And when are Bill Paxton gonna get the acclaim he deserves? He`s a VERY good actor with many strong movies in his career.He`s very good here! The cop,though,seemed a bit to slow.He believed everything Paxton said,with no plans for further investigation.But the place(Michigan,I think) was a place with little population,so maybe he took it all for granted. Besides from that,this is one of the best movies I`ve seen in many years.Make more of those movies!I`ll give it a 9 out of 10,well deserved... "},{"Title":"Annoying in a quite good way","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I guess in one way this film was goodIt's characters engaged me in a way that made me shake my head in disbelief and shout MORON! at the TV thoughout the film.In another way, because it was so annoying it was quite stressful to watch.At the end I was releived the pain was over, but left unresolved and saddened ay the conclusion.I think I was quite generous giving this a 6. "},{"Title":"It wasn't as great as I thought///","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple PlanSam Raimi, Director of the Evil Dead and Darkman movies, takes his stab at mainstream fare in this dark tale of choices and the morality that should govern our lives. Taking a step away from the special effects that have dominated some of his previous movies he gives us a relatively quiet character driven movie. But don't forget this is Sam Raimi. You know something dark is bound to happen.	Bill Paxton has the lead role as a quiet hardworking family man in this snow-covered town out in the Mid-West. He has a simple life. He works at the local feed store and his young wife, played by Bridget Fonda, works in the local Library and is about to give birth. His only other family in the town is his older brother, played by Billy Bob Thorton. Billy Bob is a little slow but is mostly together. He goes through life with his dog and his best friend, the town drunk.	One chilly day, the three guys are in a truck heading home when a fox darts across their path. They swerve to avoid it and hit a tree. Billy Bob's dog jumps out of the back of the truck and heads off into the woods chasing the fox. The three men trudge through the snow searching for the dog. They begin to argue, as Paxton's character doesn't get along with the Billy Bob's friend at all. The argument is cut short when they find a plane down in the woods. They crawl into it to see if anyone is alive and find the pilot long dead and a bag with 4 and a ½ million dollars.Now they have a choice to make. They can turn the money in or they can keep it and hope nobody comes looking. They concoct a plan to keep the money and split it in the Spring.  They vow to keep silent about the money&#133;even to their spouses. That vow lasts about as long as it takes to get home. The allure of the money begins to tear at all of them in different ways the longer they have it. The more they try to keep others from finding about the money the more problems occur.	The actors all do a good job in this one. Bill Paxton is one of the most underrated actors in Hollywood. He goes through all stages from being a truly happy man to one who is haunted by the mistakes of greed. Bridget Fonda is surprising as the ruthless wife. Billy Bob Thorton does his usual good job but this character is only a slight jump up from his Slingblade persona.	All this being said&#133;the movie is slow. It takes way too much time going from scene to scene and I began to lose interest after awhile. Also the darkness of it got to be a tad depressing and somewhat predictable. I was starting to guess what tragedy was going to happen before it did. The movie is definitely worthy of a rental but I wouldn't run out and grab it ahead of others. **   "},{"Title":"Get ready for severe depression.","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   Raimi's A Simple Plan is a film that is hard to talk about. When you have it in your house, there seems to be evil spirits around watching it with you. The film is a great example of evil and how it works. It slowly unravels the devil consuming these men and affecting those around them. This is one of the most depressing movies I have ever sat through. First, I must say, The acting is sheerly phenomenal. Bill Paxton is the thespian adhesive of the whole thing and makes it all work through his character's P.O.V. Thornton is good as always, and Bridget Fonda is chilling as the scheming wife of Paxton. There is evil in this film, there is evil in this story, there is evil the rotten characters and subtle tones, and I believe everyone who appreciates stellar filmmaking should view the movie and bear witness to sheer evil. Th experience will stay with you for months on end. A film can do that do a person, contrary to much belief, and A Simple Plan certainly does.    10/10 "},{"Title":"A morality tale","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan is not the most pleasant film to watch. Naturally, there are far worse films out there and this is not at the bottom of the barrel by any means. The performances are first rate, particularly Billy Bob's. However, while viewing the film, you may find yourself saying, No, don't do that. You're going to be sorry later. Although it evolves, the plan is botched from the start, should never have been developed, and the events that transpire along the way as a result of this plan only make you wonder when these people will know when to stop and cut their losses. The point is they don't know, and can't seem to know. Greed turns into futility. A downward trip to the depths of despair. They're in over their heads, and at least to them there appears to be no way out until the inevitable conclusion. Of course, there was a way out... the real FBI would be one source that could have been consulted, but this is cinema after all, not a bastion of common sense. As a morality play, A Simple Plan delivers the goods... (1) greed is not worth the consequences, (2) a conscience can be as lethal to the psyche as an 18-wheeler is to a roadside squirrel, and (3) when you've killed once, it seems that a domino effect is inevitable. The most important message any viewer can take away from seeing this film is to avoid thinking that money will solve all problems. It won't; it can't; and this movie proves it. Also, if you find large sums of money, please be aware that there will be people on both sides of the law looking for it. So don't be stupid enough to think you won a lottery. As a Simple Plan confirms, it just isn't worth it. Overall, 7/10. "},{"Title":"Did you ever feel evil?","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)This is a diabolical tale about the wages of greed. Although it is played straight without intentional humor, the irony is so delicious at times that you might find yourself laughing.Jacob Mitchell (Billy Bob Thornton) is the one who begins to feel evil, and rightly so as the bodies begin to pile up. His presumably smarter brother Hank (Bill Paxton) feels mostly fear as he struggles to cover up one mishap after another. Their problems begin when they and Jacob's buddy Lou Chambers (Brent Briscoe) stumble onto a downed airplane in the woods covered with snow in which they find one dead person being feasted on by crows and a duffle bag full of hundred dollar bills. Lou, who might represent the common man, says, let's keep it. Hank, who could be rational man, says, whoa, this money belongs to somebody and besides we could get into trouble. We better turn it in. And Jacob, who is the natural man, sides with his buddy Lou. Afterall they're country poor and this is probably drug money that nobody is going to miss. And anyway, what can go wrong?Well, as Ben Franklin observed a long time ago, 'Three can keep a secret, if two of them are dead.' As they wait for spring to come and the plane to be discovered before they risk spending the money, the 'simple plan' begins to unravel with horrific consequences.Thornton and Briscoe play country boys to perfection, and Paxton does a great job as a small town golden boy majorly compromised. Bridget Fonda plays Hank's pregnant wife, who turns out to be the brains (as it were) of the group. There are some very nice plot twists as the all too human emotions of the characters begin to crash into one another. Inevitably we have a morality tale in which the wages of sin are fully realized.Sam Raimi's direction captures well the atmosphere of north country America without any obvious straining for effect. He gets great mileage out of a few crows (actually some of them are ravens, I think) and a whole lot of snow. Scott B. Smith's script (from his novel) is clever and morally astute. The characterizations are excellent and the story psychologically satisfying. Particularly agreeable was the very sad, ironic end for Hank and his wife, who find that all the self-created hell they went through led them back to where they began, but without their souls. "},{"Title":"Small but powerful","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan is a quietly terrifying film that examines what can go wrong when basically good people make unquestionably bad choices. It's an engrossing and depressing study of the inverse relationship between money and morality. Granted, most of what's said here has been said before. Sometimes the dumb guy actually knows more than the smart guy, money can trample your ideals, etc. No, A Simple Plan doesn't break much new ground, but it does visit some familiar turf in memorable and haunting ways.One last thought Billy Bob Thornton probably would have won an Oscar for his great work as Jacob had he not already won for playing a mentally deficient man in Sling Blade. That's a shame. His acting is even better here. "},{"Title":"Wonderful and hard to stomach","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have just finished watching this film for the second time.  It's a really good film.  It instills a feeling of helplessness and pain in the viewer as you watch the characters slowly spiral into a hellish nightmare.  You keep wanting to make the decisions for them, but you are transfixed on the screen thinking Aw man! Nooo!.POSSIBLE SPOILERS***********************POSSIBLE SPOILERS BELOWThe direction is superb and the acting is fabulous.  Paxton in particular delivers what could be one of his best performances; particularly that last few minutes of the film...ouch.  Not sure I could've done that if it were me in his shoes.  That particular part of the movie really hurts to watch.  Anyway, gave it a 9 outta 10 for the simple fact that it plagues your mind with guilt that isn't yours.  Wonderfully done! "},{"Title":"Please please please don't bother...","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, a study in human greed and desperation, maybe. But if you've seen the Treasure of the Sierra Madre you've seen it all before.I am sure that if you see this first it will wreck the first great study in greed, and if you look, you will see that that is way up high in the IMDB Top 250, higher than this could ever hope to be.Please.It's a great waste of two hours of your waning precious lives. I deeply regret that trip to the video store and if it had been any worse I would have turned it off but I convinced myself again and again it would get better.Sadly I was mistaken.5/10. Predictable and unbelievable. It only scores that high because I felt for Billy Bob Thornton's character, in places. "},{"Title":"The best film ever","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First of all it has two great actors in the lead. Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thornton. It has excellent script and talented director. Beautiful music from Danny Elfman. Photography is beyond any description. And where are the Oscars? Fact is that this is as close as you ever get to a perfect film.  "}{"Title":"Powerful Parable on the Banality of Evil","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Beautiful acting, beautiful direction and photography, a real movie with real characters we can relate to, and a real plot that keeps you guessing. Weaves together strands of Hitchcock, Shakespeare, and Tarantino into one powerful combination.  Not to be missed.  "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Modern Parable","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the most haunting stories I have ever seen on the screen.  I saw it in the theatre more than two years ago, and it still stays with me.  Rod Serling would have been proud to have had his name on this, and quite frankly it bears his legacy all over it. This is Bill Paxton's best performance, and it might be Billy Bob Thornton's too.  But beyond the performances and the direction, the story itself is a classic.  Just remember to ask yourself  What would you do if you found that much money in the middle of nowhere? "},{"Title":"About the dark sides of human soul","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Raymond Chandler once wrote in the Simple Art of Murder that everyone under certain circumstances would be capable of committing a murder. Hopefully not everyone would act like Hank Mitchell (Bill Paxton) in Sam Raimis brilliant movie. A Simple Plan, based on Scott B. Smiths bestselling novel, is a sometimes frightening character study of two brothers and a friend, finding 4,4 million $ in a crashed airplane somewhere in Minnesota. Their simple plan, to keep the money, ends up in a situation that they cannot control. Watch out for another outstanding performance of Billy Bob Thornton as Hank's stranded brother Jacob. "},{"Title":"I wanted to like it more than I actually did like it","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is just the sort that I like, the actors are good, the direction is good, the cinematography is good, its sort of a small film (i.e. no huge special effects budget) but the script suffers.  The big problem is that the most basic of forensic investigation (that you would have to assume would be carried out with all the deaths going on) would show that none of these incidents actually happen the way the characters say they did, i.e. their stories would never hold up.   Just as one example, the guy who is killed, then put back on his snowmobile and crashed into the frozen river would be seen by even the most junior coroner to have been dead before he hit the ice, not after.  All of them have such problems. The characters are also very stereotyped in that the ethical changes that occur are really obvious.  So i still liked it, but had to sedate myself so as to not think to much while watching it. "},{"Title":"A wasted plot","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I started to see the movie and I was hooked by the story. This lasted until there was the first murder. How stupid it was! It was really senseless ... WHY did Jacob hit the old man? There was no reason to do it! It was really senseless .. even for a dumb character like Jacob, played by Billy Bob Thornton. From that point on the movie goes out of the road, and seems to describe  mentally retarded people. They act really in a stupid way. If this movie was intended to describe conscience doubts  and the good-evil struggle in the human conscience it TOTALLY  fails. If it was intended to be a thriller it also fails because it becomes easily predictable since from the first murder (which is unpredictable but stupid and not coherent to the story). A wasted chance. Unfortunately I bought the video ... it could had been better only to rent it.  "},{"Title":"Very nicely done.","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan has a very good plot, and the underlying principle of what can happen when you begin to doubt even your closest friend's trust. The 3 friends stumble across a crashed airplane with more than $4 million in a duffel bag. They want to split the money, but where would they put it? They were not sure if it was stolen, recorded, or what, and what would they tell people when they find all the money?*POSSIBLE SPOILER* This is a great illustration of what can happen with distrust. Many, many deaths. Deaths of your own friends. And your own brother. And, after all those deaths, no one gets the money. All those deaths for nothing. *END POSSIBLE SPOILER*I gave this film a 9/10. "},{"Title":"It ain't Fargo, but it wasn't meant to be...","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this film last night, and decided to see what other reviewers thought. I was amazed at the polarity of reviews. You either love it or hate it. It ain't Fargo, but...The similarities to Fargo are there, but there's a much darker tone to this film, as it explores the depths that man (or woman)will plunge for greed. The money did not bring any protagonists any joy at all, only misery and in some cases death. Don't get me wrong, this is not a depressing film to watch, as the acting (especially from Billy Bob Thornton) was thrilling.The bleak snowfields seemed to echo the isolation that developed between the three conspirators, even to the point of driving an icicle between Paxton & his wife (who seemed the most evil and greedy character). Comparisons to Fargo for the photography are inevitable but there are enough differences to merit applause.There's nothing too surprising in the plot, but it was fascinating to watch the descent into violence then tragedy that avarice can nurture in the human heart.A good cast (particulary Thornton), spectacular photography and the proper ending. More from Coen & Coen please. "},{"Title":"A Stupid Plan","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie would have been more aptly titled Dumb and Dumber.I enjoyed Shallow Grave, and was interested to see how the same premise would be dealt with by this movie. You find $X million, you decide to keep it, you go insane covering it up and infighting. The difference between this film and Shallow Grave is that almost every decision made by the main characters is totally illogical and stupid. These decisions fairly quickly pile up and you end up with a situation that is not only unrealistic but positively laughable. Example. They kill that cop on the snow ski. The cop doesn't know about the money. Doesn't suspect about the money. Almost certainly would not have found the plane. And even if he found the plane, would not necessarily realised there was supposed to be money on the plane. So why would you then kill the cop? You wouldn't. It's just dumb.As the movie goes on, a whole bunch of other people are killed, mostly people who don't suspect a thing - at least until they are killed or see someone else killed. It's quite ridiculous. Halfway through the movie you end up just shouting at the screen quick - that guy doesn't know about the money - better kill him before he finds out! and the characters oblige you.It valuable to see how a bunch of otherwise nice, sensible, sane people descend into insanity by their greed - ie Shallow Grave. It's not particularly valuable to see how a bunch of dumb guys reacting stupidly end up killing a bunch of people - ie this movie.Unless you are compiling a coffee table books on movies which insult the viewer's intelligence, you might want to avoid this one. "},{"Title":"one great film","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan was one hell of a great movie an instant classic, Sam Raimi is such a great director and he once again shows how great he is. three guys find 4 million dollars, they decide to hold it till spring time if no one is looking for it then split the money three ways. greed and panic take over, and what we have is 2 hours of great suspense. it all comes down to is 4 million really worth it? take a look for yourself and decide Sam Raimi rules i give A Simple Plan 9/10 "},{"Title":"A Dark Movie","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie last night and though it was well acted, I found it so dark, that I did not enjoy it.  There was no humor whatsoever.  I knew that everything was going to go wrong from the beginning.  Billy Bob Thornton was excellent as the elder brother.  I am glad I did not pay to see this movie.  "}{"Title":"A very good example of its genre","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This genre ALWAYS is open to criticism as to plot contrivances- so films belonging to it must be judged on relative criteria. This one is well above average. The stand-out performance in the film is Billy-Bob Thornton's.I didn't even recognize him right away- he completely disappeared into the role. The most well-rounded and non-stereotypical portrayal of a dummy type character that I can ever recall seeing on film. He gave remarkable subtlety to the character. This role and his role in Sling Blade together suggest that this guy is one of the most talented actors in film today.  "},{"Title":"If you think by the cover oh i´ve seen this before, you are wrong","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first minutes of this movie, with the credits, are the best first minutes of a movie ever perfect script, music, performance and cinematography all together make a great start but the ísn´t just the start, the script is really amazing and the climax of this movie is really intense, but the movie goes on and ends with a totally amazing end. This movie for me is one of the bests ever, It just has all you want and more. WATCH IT  "},{"Title":"Are you kidding me?","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan is downright boring. The film's twists are about as exciting as the twists in Double Jeopardy. The acting is good. I'd compare the film to Copycat with Sigourney Weaver and Holly Hunter. Think predictable plot, good individual performances and ultimately disappointing.Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Excellent Raimi movie!","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A simple plan is one of the best psychological thriller of the decade! The screenplay is great ,so are the actors! Raimi's direction is surprisingly restrained to create the tension. A masterpiece!  I however hope that Sam Raimi comes back to his roots to make excellent movies like The Evil Dead trilogy, Darkman and the Quick and the Dead(Because for love of the game was his worst!). Overall, this movie deserves.............................. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Immense, grim, proverbial","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's December in Minnesota, and an honest man, his nee'r-do-well brother and a drunk, hen-pecked prone-to-violence pal stumble onto ill-gotten millions.  Add the spooky brilliance of director Sam Raimi and no one need explain the rest.There are films we classify as capers The Hot Rock, What's Up, Doc?, $, Some Like It Hot, but irony is as close to the tragic as these comedies get.  If there is anything wrong with the caper of A Simple Plan, it is its immense grimness--from almost the first frame we know we are in for a journey into the underbelly of something, and Raimi holds us hostage by cruelly dangling in front of our eyes the hope that Hank, Sarah, Jacob and Lou will not any moment be swallowed alive by the twists of a simple plan never simple to start with and going deadly complicated, and it is exhausting.But you cannot let it go. These people could be our neighbors, our own families, ourselves even, mired in battles not only between good and evil but between the rational and the irrational, between greed and loyalty, of friends against family.  Guess which lose.  On that level A Simple Plan is epic and proverbial, and well worth the lesson. "},{"Title":"An excellent change of pace","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you're like me, and aghast at the standard fare that comes out of Hollywood, then you should definitely take a look at _A Simple Plan_. Provided you haven't read any of the many spoiler reviews here, the plot twists and character development will keep you interested, at the very least; at times I could hardly bare to watch what happened next. There were solid performances all round, especially of course by Billy Bob Thornton.Certainly, the movie did have its flaws - not everything was entirely believable - but compared to, say, a movie involving a maverick cop and a maniac criminal having a climactic fist fight on top of a speeding bus, A Simple Plan shines brightly as genuine art. "},{"Title":"Oh what a tangled web we weave etc.","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie very much deserves the very high ranking it has received by IMDb users. Very well directed, getting the best out of all actors, and also for putting in small details that aren't necessary to the plot such as showing Jake with a small piece of tissue on his face to blot up a nick he must have gotten that morning in shaving. Many other instances like this which adds to the reality feeling of the plot.With this much attention to extraneous details, it is needless to say that the same attention was given to the plot. Editing was excellent as the movie never seemed dull.The main event of the plot is possible enough to easily cause the viewer to ask himself what would I do in that situation? Their weakness and desire for the sudden wealth discovered, leads the two brothers into unending attempts to salvage themselves from the initial deception,with tragic consequences. "},{"Title":"A Tale of Greed","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An outstanding tale, about two brothers and a friend who happen upon millions of dollars in a crashed plane.  Do they keep the money and pretend they never found the plane? The acting of Bill Paxton (Hank) and Billy Bob Thornton (Jacob) is exceptional.  There are so many stand-out scenes, particularly when Hank has asked Jacob to secretly record a conversation with Jacob's best friend, Lou.  Jacob looks at Hank and counters, What's wrong with you? and begins to poke mean fun at his college-educated brother because he is sipping his whisky.  Later, you realize Jacob is a hell of a lot smarter than he makes out to be, because all along, he was cleverly setting up the entire conversation with Lou that Hank wanted on tape, beginning with the sarcastic comment about the whisky.  Paxton's and Thornton's reactions to each other were so natural and believable.  And Bridget Fonda was wonderfully ironic--gently rocking a newborn baby while coldly calculating a simple plan.The entire movie was brilliant; however, I really thought the ending was extremely stupid or maybe Hank was a lot more stupid than I figured.  Hasn't he ever heard of a Swiss bank account?And what happened to Jacob's dog?  With the animal symbols throughout the movie (crows, foxes, etc.), wouldn't it have been poignant to show Hank walking Jacob's dog?  Or do we assume Hank left his brothers' beloved dog in the wilderness? "},{"Title":"Nerve wracking...","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nerve wracking and at times infuriating.  Nice characterizations, especially Billy Bob Thornton as the pathetic simpleton who was at times more wise and discerning than his college educated kid brother. There is a telling scene where Hank and Jacob are in a bar with their partner in crime, Lou, who drunkenly babbles on insultingly about Hank's character and how Hank appears to other people.  Our knee jerk reaction is to think Lou is a drunken boor (and he is) but he is also correct, about both Hank and himself.  I don't want to give away any plot points, so suffice to say that there are some neat twists thrown in, but if you like this movie, see Bound with Jennifer Tilly and Gina Gershon.  It's better.   "},{"Title":"Good movie but the novel was better","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I looked forward to see this movie and must say that the result is quite good.Nevertheless I preferred the novel written by Scott Smith.Anyway the actors were well chosen for the characters they had to play, in particular way the part of Jacop played by Billy Bob Thornton(even if I don't like him very well as actor).Finally I must say that the film brings you a tensed sensation and that's what the author meant to transmit in his book. So the purpose has been achieved. "}{"Title":"Tedious, Fargonian and predictable thriller - not Sam Raimi`s fault","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  * * ½ (Two ½ out of 5)  A Simple PlanDirected by  Sam Raimi, 1998  Dark, moody and sinister small town tale of common folk gone bad. It starts out as a simple plan - yes - but soon everything goes immensely wrong. Somehow we expected it to do so at the same time an insecure family man makes a pact with his slow-witted brother and his loud-mouth and alcoholic redneck friend after they find over $4 million in a crashed airplane.Directed with flair by Sam Raimi (of Evil Dead cult fame) and not without moments (the FBI twist), the movie suffers from predictability and a general sense of everything seeming oddly awkward. The rural atmosphere and the snow covered country landscape as backdrop seems - at first - intriguing. Very soon, though, it goes tedious. The story is shambles. Furthermore, Bridget Fonda (as the wife) never comes across as intended and this counterweight (to Bill Paxton`s lead) is seemingly missing.    Billy Bob Thornton stars as the brother, Jacob, and his performance is nothing short of riveting; he is well worth the trouble alone.  "},{"Title":"A Simple Critique of A Simply Brilliant Film.","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Twenty words or phrases that describe the film... 1.  Methodical. 2.  Well Paced. 3.  Cold. 4.  Frozen Emotions. 5.  Vicious. 6.  A Stab in the Back. 7.  So tense it makes you laugh. 8.  Hitchcockian. 9.  Sly. 10. Intelligent on the subject of stupidity. 11. Lonely. 12. A Morality Fable. 13. Brilliant. 14. Blinding in its lack of color.  It could be a B&W flick. 15. Underlying themes and issues. 16. Great Ending. 17. Original twist on a classic tale. 18. Poetic. 19. Unforgettable. 20. miles to go before I sleep... miles to go before I sleep.98/100     A+ T.C. "},{"Title":"A must see for bummer movie fans","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Since I don't have a lot of time to do a formal review, I'll do the old powerpoint-style bullet point review- A simple, almost clichéd story rendered brilliantly- An extremely tense thriller that will get your heart pumping.- Almost completely without humor.- Could be viewed as a How-To for actors.  Especially Billy Bob - Darn he's good.  you want to talk about range, watch Sling Blade, then One False Move (also with Bill Paxton) then this movie.  It's like watching 3 different guys.  Compare that Tom one note Cruise or even Tom always tom hanks Hanks.- Chilling beautiful to watch and listen to (great snowy desolate scenery and score).On the down side- Some stuff just doesn't ring as plausible, especially some of the choices of the smarter people on the movie.  - Seems like readers of the book have some problems with changes made.  I didn't read the book.Be prepared to watch something like Scooby Doo afterwards to perk up after watching this one. "},{"Title":"Not-so-bad reworking of ancient plot","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a fairly familiar plot structure (decent folks find fortune, become backstabbing animals, crime doesn't pay) done pretty well.  They couldn't quite sustain it, and there are some parts near the end where better solutions are obvious, but the characters choose poorly just to make the plot move.SPOILER PARAGRAPH BELOWFor instance, when the FBI guy shows up, why doesn't Paxton just ask to see his badge?  (For that matter, why didn't the cops ask to see it in the first place?  I'm under the impression that if I walked into a police station and claimed to be FBI, they wouldn't just start handing me case files without asking for some sort of verification)  And why is he so insistent on ignoring his wife's excellent advice to not go into the frozen waste with this criminal?  Why does he pull out his blackmail tape immediately, instead of going home, making copies, and making his threats later?  Unfortunately, the answer is that the movie just wouldn't work that way, so they wrote around it.  Too bad, because they had written it pretty well up to a point.  I thought the final brother scene was a little contrived too, and why would the preceding shootout have been the straw that broke Thornton's back?  They hadn't really done anything illegal that time.Anyway, it was well acted, but it sort of suffered from the same disease as Very Bad Things, i.e. it began to feel like the same scene over and over again (disagreement, things happen too fast, bang bang, oh sh*t what have we done, cold and calculating covering of tracks), and the shock value of sudden violence is overplayed. "},{"Title":"8 on a scale of 10","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A very interesting movie which makes you all the more aware of the evils of money. A few too many idiot characters and a few too many unlikely events and a few too many questions that I wanted to ask, but chose not to.Nevertheless, it was very well acted and I liked the tension and the chemistry between the brothers. Few will dislike the movie. "},{"Title":"Simply Brilliant","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The acting is outstanding, the story well crafted, and the atmosphere is excellent.  This is a movie that takes a harsh (and dark) look a greed, simple life, and family.  The story is well crafted, keeps you guessing, and has the perfect amount of twists.  You can really get immersed in this one. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing on Pay-Per-View.  )","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw the previews and it looked awesome.  Off of the reviews I saw here, I was real interested.  After seeing the movie, I can say it was very good. It did drag in places a little, but it was well worth my money and time to see.8 out of 10 stars  ) "},{"Title":"A superbly acted character study","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's difficult to put my reaction to A Simple Plan into words, primarily because the writers and actors took what could have been a formula movie, and turned it up a couple of notches.  The premise is uncomplicated; three men find $4 million dollars and try to keep it for themselves.  What makes this a superior movie is how true to life the actions and reactions of the characters were written and acted.Most people can identify with one character or another, and  realize that given similar circumstances, their outcome could be equally screwed up. My advice is after you have seen this movie, reflect on how you feel, rather than focusing on the plot.    "},{"Title":"A strong plot with some interesting twists....makes you think!","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a third choice at the video store (other choices were out).  I had not heard much about this movie and I really hadn't been looking either.  I am happy to say that it surprised me with a creative story line and strong performances by Bill Paxton and Bridget Fonda.  Billy Bob Thorton was good, but his character was left a little underdeveloped and left me second-guessing some of his actions.You will need to follow this movie pretty closely to catch all of the subtle personality changes in each character as the movie plays out.  This movie will make you question yourself and how you would have reacted to each of the stories twists.  I would definitely recommend this movie if you are ready to think! "},{"Title":"A Simple Plot Line","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film moved painfully slow and not much attention seems to have been payed to tension building, because I hardly felt any at all.  The only character who really evoked much emotion (which led to tension) at all was Jacob's.  The plot line is a very Chaucerian greed kills type of thing that can be very effective when done right.  However, I don't feel that that is the case here.  "}{"Title":"A Story Retold","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan was filled with great performances by an extremely talented ensemble.  This movie brought about a good moral.  However, for the people who are in tune with Shakespeare, you will realize that this movie is by no means one of a kind.  We see a mirror image of treachery and deceit in Macbeth.  The similarities are uncanny.  Still, this movie comes highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Phenomenal screenplay!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An all-around great movie. Even a monkey could have directed a fantastic film from Scott B. Smith's airtight screenplay. Don't get me wrong- I'm a big Raimi guy, but the star of this movie is the screenplay. Fully-rendered characterizations and dialogue that rings true in every word coupled with an unflinching desire to see how far the characters are willing to go. Awesome. "},{"Title":"What a great movie!","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't really planning on seeing this one, but I'm so proud of myself for doing it! We were only 15 in the dark to see it. A great, compelling, funny and tragic story. Thought it was just another American try to make an European movie. Paxton, Thornton and Fonda are all excellent! Be nice to yourself - see it - it works well on video too! "},{"Title":"Get to your nearest video store now!","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe it's the time i watched it, maybe watching it alone on a somber night,...i don't know. What i do know is that this is well, to put it in the simplest terms, one hell of a movie.   To tell the truth I don't remember seeing Bill Paxton in a movie i really enjoyed.  Here, not only did hey act well, but jeesh, could you believe that evil look, i mean really.  youch!  The acting on all sides was way beyond my expectations.  Both plot and story line worked together very well and i don't remember one dull moment (unlike some of these people).  I actually felt a little sick at the end of this, not being able to believe what i had just seen.   I am thinking quite hard for some type of complaint or critique, but i really am lost for words.  Please people, are you kidding?  Bad ending.  What did you expect, please someone tell me.  What kind of ending were you  expecting, really??? email me. i see no room for error. And yes, i did see a few extremely subtle comparisons to Fargo, as well as Of Mice and Men.  "},{"Title":"This is a superb film","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My wife and I rented A Simple Plan last night, and both agreethat it is perhaps the best film we've seen in the last 2 years. Both Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thorton are tremendously effective in their roles. The story itself was appealing for its originality. Character development was superb. It surprises both of us that this movie didn't receive Oscar nominations--it certainly should have. A must see, and greatly underrated  "},{"Title":"Truly great","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan is just great. It's not packed with special effects or big action, it's just a story about two brothers and a friend who find a lot of money and cannot handle it.Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thornton play the brothers very well. Thornton is magnificent as the less intelligent one who says the stupid things... "},{"Title":"No more Hollywood happy crap","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was great. Great acting, great directing, and the ending. Most people probably won't like the ending, but hey it's real. How many of you are sick of watching Hollywood end movies so it's all  Happily Ever After. It makes me sick. This movie has a real ending. I would recommend this movie to anyone looking for a real movie as opposed to more Hollywood happy crap "},{"Title":"Give us more, Mr. Scott Smith","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Mr. Smith's plot is ingenious.  I'm sure he was pleased to see how well it was treated by Mr. Thornton and Ms. Fonda.  Truly a remarkable story that leads to contemplation.  Director treated this stupendously, but only in brief episodes.  Should have gotten more recognition than it did. Apparently it's too moral for the industry. "},{"Title":"Marvelous production; grim tale","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Extremely well photographed, scripted and acted, this film tells the story of three men who happen upon what is believed to be $4mm in untraceable $100 bills and their subsequent decisions on how to hide the evidence of their findings starting with their simple plan and later in covering one disastrous mistake after another.  This is a personal and gripping tale that is extremely realistic.  Viewers will personally feel what the good man, bad man and sad man go through in the short time their whole plan unwinds. This film is shocking, depressing and substantial.  "},{"Title":"Well-done but done many times before","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  So greed leads to an inevitable downfall.  'Tis a tangled web we weave when first we practice to deceive.  Ka-thump, ka-thump, ka-thump - Edgar Allen Poe's The Tell-Tale Heart.  Some semi-brainless small-town men (including two alcoholics) find a treasure trove and it destroys them.  Where have we heard this plot line before?I admired the movie very much for its craftsmanship, but the suspense was zilch.  My rating of 7 was based solely on the acting and cinematography, although the person who came up with the crow imagery should be banned for life on grounds of obviousness.One exception in the acting kudos Bill Paxton chewed everything in site, even the snow.  He should have watched Billy Bob Thornton for an acting lesson. "}{"Title":"Enlighten Me","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film fell short of being great and just settles for being good.  Am I missing something here?  Why is it that Bill Paxton is college educated and we assume that he has his degree in accounting is working as a clerk at a feed store?  If your argument is that he doesn't want to abandon his brother I don't think it holds.  Paxton could move to an area to get a better paying job in accounting and take his brother with him that is collecting welfare anyway.  How is is that Billy Bob Thorton is slow-witted and blabbers without thinking to the local sheriff that almost screws everything up, but he has sudden bursts of wisdom and becomes smart and calculating into tricking his best friend to confess to a murder on tape that he didn't commit?  I couldn't get past this and it ruined what could have been one of the best films of the year.  I am open to any discussion on this.  If you could change my mind, then please try.  I liked everything else about it!  "},{"Title":"It's Not What The Book Was, But...","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After glancing at the first 20 or so of other comments, I'm surprised no one has mentioned having read the book, which has remained in my head in the five years since I've read it. Highly recommended, BTW So my expectations were a maybe a little higher than most folks.When I read that Billy Bob Thornton was to play Jacob, I knew they were halfway home! In the end, his performance was superb -- just about the only thing about the picture worth raving about. And when Scott Smith signed up to adapt his own book, my excitement increased if they were to make a film from the book as written, it'd easily be another hour longer, with two more corpses and Jacob dead halfway through. As it stands, Smith's script rearranges things quite nicely and is a model of economy.The real problem, friends, is the direction John Boorman was originally slated to do it, but he and the producers (and maybe Billy Bob, too) had a falling out. Enter Sam Raimi while an adequate choice, nothing Raimi's done so far qualifies him for anything more than journeyman status, with the very remote possibility of the Evil Dead pictures.My problems it's entirely too pretty; Danny Elfman's score is miserable (Boorman or any real artisan would have had out for someone more appropriate); and Boorman (or someone like him) could have gotten stronger and better performances from Paxton and Fonda, who are appropriately bland but barely change at all as the bodies and the complications pile up.So, a disappointment, but not as big as it might have been. And for those of you who were bummed out by the downer ending you need to go rent some movies made prior to 1990, back when the studios weren't demanding that EVERY SINGLE FILM end happily as they do now. Might help you appreciate what a truly well-made film is... "},{"Title":"Suspense?  Complex symbolism?  Artistry?  Non sequitur!","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Some people are making the comparison between this movie and Fargo. Strangely enough, while I see many differences between the two, both films had a very similar impact on me.  These films, along with The Big Lebowski, just didn't do anything for me besides alternately bore and annoy me, with no let-up or contrast.I don't know what it is, something about how a film can put on airs, a certain flavor of airs, and then have multitudes falling all over themselves singing its praises.  But there's nothing there.Specific to A Simple Plan, I have these complaintsPredictability there was nothing new or interesting to       discover in the story, nothing that hadn't been done many times before in film, in almost exactly the same way.  No surprises, no doubt (in my mind at least) what would occur from one scene to the next.There was nothing beneath the immediately apparent surface.  No complex subtext.  Nothing to think about.The whole set-up was contrived.  What lesson was I supposed to learn from this?  That big-name Hollywood filmmakers can show us unremitting stupidity and pointlessness through a solid two hour stretch?  Lesson long since learned, folks.  Move on to something else, in the name of all that's sacred!I didn't sympathize in any way with any of the characters.  And every other action a character took, _even in the context of finding this huge amount of money_, seemed completely random and without justification (in story terms).I didn't even find the cinematography to be that great.  I don't know what people are gushing about.  Filming snow doesn't automagically make what you're doing art, to my mind.  You want great lenswork, check out Seven or Heat (for just two arbitrary examples out of many that blow this thing away).  And seeing Paxton's face filling 85% of the screen (not to mention Billy Bob's) for drawn-out lengths of time didn't rub me in quite a pleasing manner.This is just another in a string of movies that has me asking What's the big deal?.  And What's the point?  It's probably just a matter of taste. I've never been much of a one for the random-series-of-supposedly-shocking-events genre.  (No, I'm not shocked, I'm bored to tears!)I used to be a great fan of the Coen brothers.  And so I guess the same thing now goes for Mr. Raimi.  "},{"Title":"Dumb, Dumber and Stupid (working title)","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Terrible, pathetic, annoying, B-A-D....just some of the words that came to mind as I left the theater.I can't believe somebody actually paid money to produce this filth....or even market it.  It's an embarrassment to the film industry and an insult to those who paid good money to see good actors at their absolute worst. Here's the plot in a nutshell  Paxton, Fonda and Thorton are all morons living in a small hick town.  They discover millions of dollars.......and become idiots......with guns.Sam Raimi (can't even type his name without cringing), the mastermind behind Quick and the Dead, Army of Darkness, Darkman, and plenty more box office bombs, continues his gallop towards the Directors Hall of Shame All-Time Hero award.  Am I a masochist??  Maybe, after giving him yet another chance... The sad thing is, I will go see his next flop...just so i can vent some anger to you people.Thank you, and good night. "},{"Title":"Money Money Money","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I rarely find modern movies so fascinating like this one, that certainly remains Raimi's best movie. The Minnesota atmosphere, quite like Fargo, is melancholic and sad but nevertheless endlessly watchable. In its depiction of the win of money and greed over friendship and law is flawlessly filmed. The screenplay by the novel's author Smith is wonderful, with great characterizations and fine dialog scenes. Every character is in fact interesting, the three men who find the money and Hanks's wife most of course.The acting might have been the movie's high point. Billy Bob Thornton has many great scenes and he certainly should have gotten an Oscar for his performance. Bill Paxton is not any less great. Watch his face when he has to use violence for the first time he's great. And Bridget Fonda, an actress by the way I always thought of being just as talented as all other Fondas, should not be forgotten either. Her performance of a woman with a pure and attractive appearance who shows her real self when the chance for the big money arrives, is equally effective.The film is depressing but in showing the development of people who only see greed and money is almost as good as Peckinpah's Bring Me The Head of Alfredo Garcia. Watch the film, it's one of the best thinking men's thrillers of the last years. "},{"Title":"This movie proves 1 Timothy 610 to be valid The love of money is the root of all evil","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lou Chambers, Jacob Mitchell & his brother Hank inadvertently stumble upon a plane with a carcass inside, they are stunned to to find a gym inside that contains over 4 Million big ones. Inevitably both married men tell their wives and only make matters worse; that's when the pic- ture gets very interesting.This is a movie about greed. Bill Paxton plays Hank, a down-to-earth middle-aged man who has a baby on the way. His naive brother, Jacob, is portrayed by the always versatile Billy Bob Thorton, who's only friend is the first one to discover the money, Lou.As the movie progresses it gets stranger and stranger. In the beginning Jacob seems to be a jolly drunk; but half way through the movie in one touching scene he confides to his Hank that he's never even kissed a girl before.All in all, a simple plan is a movie that accurately captures the dark- side of the human race, a side of treachery that all of us could be be capable of....Four stars. "},{"Title":"A rather simple movie with a simple plot...","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Simple Plan is one of those movies where you just know what's going to happen next.  I have always enjoyed watching Bill Paxton in his always well picked roles all the way back to Weird Science, and he didn't disappoint me with this role either.I'm not certain why this movie didn't get very much hype when it played in the theaters, but I can't help but notice a lot of great movies are left with empty seats in your local multiplex, a film named Brokedown Palace comes to mind.Of course Billy Bob Thornton reprises his brilliant role as the mentally retarded, albeit not a real messed up one in this particular movie.  Come to think of it, Pushing Tin and Armeggedon are the two biggest roles that I've seen him act normal, but even in 'Tin he's still a little weird.Poor Bridget Fonda.  You know, Point of no Return is a great movie, but Lake Placid wasn't.  Fonda is definitely not known for her spectacular roles, or great acting abilities, and A Simple Plan is no different.  Her character is rather lacking of any true meaning, and is only there to give the family man feeling to Paxton's character.  She is what I have commonly referred certain actors as being 'there to justify another being there', meaning she has no true connection to the plot, however removing her role would somewhat dampen the feeling we have for anothers (in this case Paxton's) character. Is that clear?Now to the question of whether or not there are actually people on this planet that would feel the way Hank Mitchell did upon uncovering the 4.4 million dollars.  My vote falls within the NO WAY guidelines.  Come on now, you're walking in a pretty secluded area, and by the way the NTSB (National Transportation Safety Board) does not give up very easy when searching for a plane, and that plane was not that hidden from view, and you come across millions of dollars next to a DEAD guy.  Hmm...what to do.  Us Americans reading this know that if you find something, and turn it into the police, after 30 days if unclaimed it will be given to you.  Now this obviously wouldn't affect this case, but I don't understand how Hank could just want to call the police.  But then again, if he didn't, there wouldn't have been a movie.A Simple Plan is not a bad movie despite many plot holes, and a few bad apples casted, it very much is a movie I suggest watching. "},{"Title":"Greed","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A biblical lesson on what happens when greed consumes you.  I get tired of movies that show greedy, evil persons, but do not show the fruits of their evil  That cannot be said of this movie.  Their greed causes them much pain just like it does in real life. "},{"Title":"What a great film","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This one definitely belongs in everyone's personal collection right next to Fargo. As always, great performances by Paxton, Thornton and Fonda. This is the perfect movie to watch when it's snowing outside, on a Sunday afternoon. The irony and twistes of fate can be felt by the viewer, as we all know people just like Hank and Jacob.This one most definitely get's 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Not for empty heads","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This isn't a big budget trendy action movie so if you demand big explosions, sex/drugs/rock'n'roll, and you consider everything else to be arty farty, then this isn't for you. What this is, is a BRILLIANTLY written movie which will keep you on the edge of your seat with suspense and ropes the viewer into deciding what they would do if they were faced with the same moral dilemas. Sad? yes. Depressing? very possibly. Fantastic? absolutely!9/10 "}{"Title":"The total destruction of a man's self-worth","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A wonderfully acted and brilliantly written tale.  Hank (Bill Paxton) has a loving wife, a decent job, and the respect of his friends and neighbors. By the end of the movie, he has destroyed it all.  Jacob (Billy Bob Thorton) makes the most amazing sacrifice.  I cried.  I really, really cried.  As a theatre student I was struck by the parallels that could be drawn between this movie and Greek dramas such as Oedipus. "},{"Title":"The B-Grade Cult Horror King Sam Raimi is back.","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is like a lesser version of Shallow Grave if you ask me. The characters and the acting was great, but the plot was thinly woven. Reminded me a lot of Fargo with all that enveloping pure white snow contrasting with the evil doings going on. It got nominated for a load of awards, but there isn't really anything here we havent seen before there. A big step up from The Evil Dead though... heheh  "},{"Title":"Suspenseful thriller with a weak story.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  By no means was A Simple Plan a bad movie, in fact it was a better than average movie.  Yes the plot was weak, but what Sam Raimi did was intensify it.  The timings of the mood changes in the movie was genious.  A complex movie, not even close.  But a well told one.  It was your typical perfect plan gone wrong but with pure emotion.  I'm not a Billy Bob fan but he was amazing here, totally convincing.   "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie rocks. In a lot of ways this is an old story - greed overcomes sensible people. But, the excellent subplot between the brothers adds texture to the film.  The ending is tough to take but leaves a lasting impression. Also, I can see why Billy Bob Thornton got his nomination - he is terrific. "},{"Title":"Oh, what a tangled web we weave....","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  From the moment you meet the people who come up with the plan, you know everything will go wrong.  Better yet, Bill Paxton's character immediately realizes it and undergoes the greatest degree of corruption.  The fateful retribution of the Furies plays out wonderfully, and along the way, some memorable funny and ironic moments.  A really enjoyable film with a strong morality message. "},{"Title":"Good, but Bad","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just rented A Simple Plan, despite my friends warning me that is sucked. But then I watched it, and found out that it really wasnt that bad. It started good, but regrettfully, ended bad. It had a good plot, and showed how money can influece people's lives so much, even the calmest of people can kill. I think that Billy Bob Thorton did a great job playing his character, and at the end he proved to be noble. The reason it was bad at the end, is because it dragged on, but i think the finalle was very good. They did so much to get that money, but they burned it, and went back to there lives. "},{"Title":"Poor ending","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bill Paxton and Bridget Fonda star in A Simple Plan. Paxton carries the film, in my opinion. Bridget Fonda is under used, as usual. Since 'It Could happen to you', she's appeared in a bunch of movies where she has little or nothing to do. Thornton puts in another decent performance, but this is Paxton's film all the way. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A Simple Plan Go See Another Movie","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad movie - just frustrating. You keep on wanting to scream common sense into the characters. And the ending... well, let's just say they should've passed out Prozac at the exit doors of the theater after this movie. So if you're looking for an upbeat escape from humdrum reality, this film will not bring it. "},{"Title":"Poor acting and slow beginning, but much better at the end","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I heard from a lot of people thsi film was great. But I must say that the acting was lousy but was slowly getting better. It started off a little bit slow and wasn't very original or interesting until the so-called FBI guy came along. From that point on the film was getting interesting and the ending was really satisfying. A shame that the lousy acting and slow beginning made this movie nothing more worth than a tiny 6... "},{"Title":"Excellent acting in a flawed movie","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The scenes between the three plotters are so well acted -- and also the scenes between Paxton and Fonda -- that any criticism seems beside the point.  The only problem I have with A Simple Plan is that it's a black comedy at heart, trying to be a serious drama.  It isn't the director's fault -- what else could Raimi have done with that last scene?  It can't be played as anything but the most heartbreaking tragedy.  But much of what leads up to it is classic country-bumpkin comedy, of the kind that goes back to the Elizabethans and Chaucer before them and all the way back to the ancient Greeks, none of whom would have mixed and confused things like this.  For a modern example of how it should be played, see the movie Out of Sight.  It can be done.  A Simple Plan doesn't quite gel. "}{"Title":"Fargo clone","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Viewers who liked Fargo will like this one, it's about rural hicks in the winter trying to pull off a caper, and moves along at a similar pace as Fargo, although there are more dead bods in Plan.  It's Murphy's Law of crime ... everything that can go wrong does go wrong, with grim regularity. I agreed with another reviewer that he didn't like the ending.  "},{"Title":"Same ol', same ol'.","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The acting is excellent, but it's a story that's been told many times. There wasn't anything new, and that killed the suspense. Also, the relationships between the three guys weren't realistic. "},{"Title":"Too many guns, too many morons, too long","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have read many comments about this movie and feel compelled to add my own. I think many of the people posting did not carefully watch this movie because it was extremely boring. We've seen this all before (and better-anyone remember Shallow Grave?) and perhaps the only reason people found it so symbolic is that it was intrinsically American. The other fault I found with the movie was its complete predictability. What happens when stupid people with guns get very very angry? Every tense scene was telegraphed ten minutes before it happened.Too many guns, too many morons, too long. The hero was adequate, the fool adequate, the evil manipulative force was adequate. The whole movie was adequate 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great Movie... Dumb ending","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw the Movie and I really Enjoyed it. It had a really good story to it and it keeps you on the edge except the ending there was a bad part. You see i was hoping that something cool was going to happen but the way it turned out was bad but the ending was realistic so I have to give that credit but I think that if you are thinking about seeing it GO SEE IT!! It's a really good movie, also if you listen to the music it is really like the type of music they are playing the The Shawshank Redemption.  "},{"Title":"well crafted, but not great","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The film is a well-crafted one, with some good (by Thornton) and not so good (by Paxton) performances. The story is involving, but not believable too many dead bodies around Paxton should have raised suspicion among authorities eventually. Overall a good show but not an Oscar contender, except maybe Thornton's acting job.    "},{"Title":"No one can be as stupid as these guys!","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the raves reviews, I found A Simple Plan to be very disappointing. . . maybe A Simpleton Plan would be a more appropriate title. Director Sam Raimi was trying to illustrate the struggle inside a good man (Hank/Bill Paxton) as he is confronted by bad situations.  The problem is Paxton's character is not good, he's just plain stupid, and the others involved in the plan are dumber by degrees.  Implausible plot twists are followed up by overly predictable results, and the viewer is left wondering how these people made it through the years BEFORE lots of money changed their lives.  "},{"Title":"Too Predictable","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Billy Bob Thornton was the only saving grace for this movie.  Bill Paxton's acting leaves much to be desired while the string of events are just too predictable.  Maybe they tried too hard to be the next Fargo. "},{"Title":"Shocking at times with an unsatisfying ending.","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie but I still have reservations about recommending it.  You certainly will need to suspend disbelief to enter their world because it was filmed in Wisconsin and Minnesota yet Billy Bob has a THICK Southern accent. They never mention where they are but it is set in a Minnesota town and they drink a beer called Schell's brewed in a small town called New Ulm, Minnesota (and hardly ever seen outside the state.) His accent drove me nuts.Like the other reviews said, the ending is unsatisfying.  And, the whole film hinges on a decision made by Bill Paxton at the beginning.  I didn't buy it.  You may.I liked this movie for the shocking turn-of-events which kept me interested at just about the time they were going to lose me. "},{"Title":"Quite Good But a Downer Ending","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just got back from a screening of A Simple Plan in Washington DC.  I enjoyed the film but the ending was a REAL downer.  I saw it with my brother who, even he though liked the rest of the film, absolutely hated the ending.  I think this is what'll really kill the film with a mainstream audience.  But the audience I was with seemed to like it.The was a disclaimer in the beginning stating that the film was a work in progress.  Some of the problems I noticed were no ending credits, the sound was scratchy, and I may be mistaken but a lot of the music sounded very Shawshank Redemption-y.The performances were solid but Gary Cole's role was very small and way underused.  Sam Raimi's directing was quite incredibly restrained .  There was only one small moment that did feel a little over-the-top but the audience loved it.Is it an Oscar film?  I don't think so.  Will it be a big hit?  Not unless they change the ending.  But the critics will like it.  And that's too bad because it really is quite a good film.  "},{"Title":"Very entertaining movie, I just didn't like Bridget Fonda","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was a very well made movie all around, there was no point in the film that I felt bored. One of the reasons I didn't give this movie higher than an 8 is because of Bridget Fonda's character. I found aspects of her character to be a little unrealistic. For example, in the beginning (spoiler) when Bill Paxton asks her what she would do if she found 4 million dollars, without the slightest hesitation she says she would definitely hand it in, no ifs, ands, or buts about it. But then not too long after that, she becomes possessed with these crazed ideas on how to keep the money and deceive other people. And finally at the end, after presumably learning that 1/10 of the bills are marked, she's STILL whining and crying with her insane notions of taking the money and running. I'm sorry, but after you find out that your bills are marked, that's it, plan's over, you do whatever you have to do to get that money off your hands. "}{"Title":"what a tangled web we weave when we deceive","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The reason I like sling blade is that the violence is present but not thrown in your face.  The plot was taut in a simple plan but the violence was too much- how an honest man suddenly becomes a cold hearted murderer is out of character. Bridget Fonda's character also takes on evil proportions I did not anticipate- her character was not developed enough- only billy bob's character seemed moral-- and the ending was a real downer... this morality play is hard to swallow- though well done... proving the love of money is the root of evil.  "},{"Title":"How many plans do we need any way? Change it again.","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Just a simple plan was all they wanted to stick to. But the situation grows deeper and a better plan needs to be in place. Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thornton plays brothers that find a downed plane buried in the snow. They decide to keep 4.4 million dollars found on board. Now paranoia and greed start taking toll on their lives. The ending is very sad and unselfish. Paxton and Thornton work very well together. Bridget Fonda plays her part with no fanfare. This suspense filled drama was directed by Sam Raimi, the same man that gave us EVIL DEAD and ARMY OF DARKNESS. Dark, moody and very worthwhile.  "},{"Title":"characters as plot puppets?","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This must be among the top ten in over-rated movies.  Man, it's hard to get into.  Why?  Well, it's not because of the locale, the cinema, the acting, or even the plot (per se). It's the damn characters--they are unconvincing, arbitrarily motivated, and disconnected. Only, the Brent Briscoe role seemed the least believable to me, and this had the disadvantage of being stereotypical. The others just fail to compel in any way, and seem apart from the movie's world (if it has one).  They are just close-up faces with this or that expression which have about  as much force as the film's juvenile theme. So, what the viewer gets here is a lot of ungrounded, nervous suspense--the kind that never satisfies and enrages (one feels manipulated).    "},{"Title":"you bought this as good?","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, granted there were some cool things in this movie that I have to give it credit for.  Such as the house drinking scene that ends with some fatalities, and Thornton's character in particular.  But these are overshadowed by all the bad parts of the movie.1. Who the heck wouldn't keep $4 million that they found because of ethical reasons?  Not many people, and I certainly didn't believe that Hank was one of them.2. Why does this movie use dumb characters to make dumb decisions to complicate the plot?  I realized I disliked this movie when Jacob hits the guy on the snowmobile and then Hank kills him when he realizes that the guy is still alive.  Can you say Out of character?  Why is Raimi presenting us with such a contrived scene that I've seen countless times before as if it's something ingenious that I've never seen before?3. How can two people (Hank and his wife) go from 1 day not wanting to keep the money, to the next day not really caring too much that Hank killed a guy.4. What stupid idea is it to go back to the crime scene?5. Hello? Coroners can easily tell the difference between suffocation versus death by impact.6. The snow hadn't fallen by the time the cops got to the snowmobile accident.  Why didn't they figure anything out?7. What kind of plot twist is it that the FBI agent didn't show the cop his badge?  That's just BAD, BAD, BAD.8. Wouldn't Hank have put his bullets in the gun while he was alone in the woods?9. Can we get rid of the in-your-face animal symbolism?10. I just don't believe that the characters we were presented with in the beginning would have done what they did throughout the movie.  Yes, the point is that money corrupts people, but nowhere did I see any character development showing that.  All of a sudden the characters were all doing things out of character and I was just supposed to accept it.I thought this movie was pretty boring.  Not only was the story contrived, but it didn't show me anything new at all.  If you're going to pick up a contrived plot, and least do something new with it.  "},{"Title":"Why is this film so dull?","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, it isn't SO dull the story, qua story, held my interest from beginning to end.  So why did I keep wishing that it would end?  Why the nagging desire to get up and stretch my legs?I think there's a shortage of glee.  The premise is simple three men discover a crashed aeroplane full of money in the woods, and instead of alerting the authorities, they make what seems to be the not-quite-morally-wrong decision to keep the cash for themselves.  Their simple plan is just to keep the money at Hank's house until all is clear.  But first one thing goes wrong, then another, and they find themselves committing crime after crime in a hopeless attempt to cover up the crime before.All the twists and turns and fatal errors are presented with such a dreadful earnestness, as if Raimi isn't enjoying the story, and doesn't want us to enjoy it, either.  Odd that this should be so.  Army of Darkness (made just five years earlier) was a masterpiece of over-the-top glee - a tale of treachery, selfishness, incompetence and necromancy presented with joyful, lip-smacking relish.  Here Raimi goes to the other extreme.  The material demands an arch treatment, a sense of humour - I mean, yes, the cruel twists of fate are tragic, but they're funny as well - yet Raimi's direction casts a wet blanket over every scene, and it's hard to have any fun.  Something tells me, too, that the film is too long.  In the hands of, say, Billy Wilder, the film would have been snappier, and all the better for it.  Some directors have the ability to keep the camera running on sparse, drawn-out scenes in such a way as to make them fascinating; Raimi, on the evidence presented here, doesn't.What (considerable) skills Raimi does have often work against the film rather than for it.  Note the scenes in which people get drunk.  Many directors can present people being drunk; Raimi can take is INSIDE their drunkenness - but this was a mistake.  Have you ever been drunk in uncongenial company?  There comes a moment when one suddenly becomes disgusted with everything, unable to bear one's drinking partners, and more profoundly bored than it is possible to be while sober.  That's what several of the characters feel at certain points; and that, unfortunately, is what we feel too.A noble attempt to tell a good story, fitfully successful, but it just isn't much fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Sam Raimi directed a wonderful, awful movie...","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wonderful movie in some respects Acting, directing, production was fine, but.....The characters were horrible.  It reminded me quite a bit of the truly horrific movie this year (1998) called Very Bad Things.  At the end of the movie I stood up from my chair and asked, Who Cares?!?Very Hitchcockian feel to the movie, very dark, oh boy what will happen next, albeit without much of the intermediate buildup scenes of developing madness that Hitch would have added, yet, unlike any of the master of suspense's characters that you really feel for, all of the characters in this movie and the aforementioned go along for the ride and let what happens happen.I would suggest you see this movie if you like suspense, but you will probably leave the theater asking yourself, why, oh, why did they do it, how stupid...  "},{"Title":"Coenesque, but without the Coen brothers' talent","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was really looking forward to seeing this after reading some very favorable reviews, penned by eminent critics. Then I stared at the movie in disbelief.A patchwork of scrambled motifs from Fargo and Blood Simple, with an ample dose of Very Bad Things thrown in, I found it to be an unpalatable mess. The worst offense of A Simple Plan is to present Bill Paxton's character and his wife as decent people, and then make them perform - and strongly embrace - extremely indecent acts. Yes, I would like to have four million dollars, but NO, I wouldn't kill for that kind of money. I suppose most decent human beings wouldn't, either.The only thing that made me endure the whole length of the movie was Billy Bob Thornton's performance, which was simply stellar, and steadily grows upon the viewer towards the end. "},{"Title":"A Simple Plan","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Shallow Grave meets Fargo in this thriller from director Sam Raimi (The Evil Dead, Spider-Man), and it is a good story showing how greed can really change people. Basically in the snowy wastes of Minnesota, three men mild-mannered hardware store manager Hank Mitchell (Bill Paxton), his unemployed slob brother Jacob Mitchell (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Billy Bob Thornton) and friend Lou Chambers (Brent Briscoe), find a crashed plane containing $4.4 million, and hesitantly decide to split the loot once they are sure they won't be suspected. Hank tells his wife Sarah (Bridget Fonda), and as time goes by, it seems she might want the money more than him. Of course, the three men become more and more paranoid as terrible things happen as they hide the loot and cover up their tracks, such as couple of deaths, including Lou. Towards the end we see who the money may belong to, and in a sad twist Jacob sacrifices himself to cover up any evidence of their crime. Also starring Gary Cole as Neil Baxter, Becky Ann Baker as Nancy Chambers, Chelcie Ross as Sheriff Carl Jenkins, Jack Walsh as Tom Butler and Bob Davis as FBI Agent Renkins. Paxton and Thornton do give good performances, the suspense elements are all good, and it really delves unassumingly into the cryptic regions of human nature with a good uneasy mood. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium. Very good! "},{"Title":"Almost There","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This could have been a great movie, however, the holes in the plot were just too big to maintain the tension.  For one, what was the motivation behind the wife's sudden change of attitude?  At first she was totally against keeping the money and then she was the instigator in the whole affair.  However, there was never any explanation of the change. Also, the simple solution would have been to turn the money in from the beginning.  It is common knowledge that money that is not claimed after one year reverts to the finders. "},{"Title":"The story is ok but the film is way too long","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a story about Hank and his brother Jacob and how you change when you get your hands on what they call the American dream (4 million dollars). Unfortunately this movie is unnecessary long, it would have been a lot better if they had removed 30-40 minutes. It is still worth seeing but not if you plan to laugh and have fun. "}{"Title":"a simple movie","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Paxton and Fonda should have went to rehearsals. When it comes out on video edit together all of Billy Bob's hilarious lines --- incl making fun of Paxton. Other than that --it was crap.  BTW --I went to the movie with an open mind and didn't know ANYTHING about it --other than Rick Moranis was on the poster. So when the posters look boring --don't trust it. And the Oscar buzz mentioned on the poster is We'd better not give it an Oscar.-Hondo "},{"Title":"Liked Fargo, hated this","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know how the majority of the people reviewing this movie could give it a 9 or 10 out of 10.  I watched this on Friday, was excited because of the good reviews I'd seen and I normally enjoy Billy Bob's movies.  After 50 minutes I was fighting the urge to turn it off.  Maybe I was in the mood for a movie with a pulse, maybe I was in the mood for a movie with some funny jokes, maybe the movie just stunk.  All I can tell you is that after 70 minutes I couldn't fight the desire to turn it off and I did.  Drop Dead Fred, Captain Ron and A Simple Plan are the only movies I have been unable to watch to the end.The book is likely awesome, so before turning off your brain and renting this, think about watching (or rewatching) Fargo, or go to the book store instead and get the book. "},{"Title":"Wildly overrated","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Good guy, mild-mannered Hank Mitchell (Bill Paxton), mildly retarded brother Jacob (Billy Bob Thornton) and a drunken friend (Brent Briscoe) find 4 million dollars in a downed plane. They decide to hold on to the money, see if anyone's looking for it and then split it. But things slowly--very slowly--unravel...I can't figure out why so many people love this. It is well-directed by Sam Raimi (although he overused the black birds to a ridiculous degree) and takes good advantage of the bleak, snowy landscapes...but I found this a crashing bore. The story rambles on far too long; the point of the movie is laughably obvious (money corrupts everything--well duh!) and some crucial performances don't work.DEFINITE SPOILERS!!! Paxton is a good actor--but his transformation from mild-mannered guy to killer never once rings true. I didn't believe one second of it. Bridget Fonda (as his wife) has the same problem. Her quick transformation rang false. They're both wonderful actors but they can't pull this off for whatever reason. Thornton's character was so pathetic and over the top that I tired of him quickly. Briscoe was just obnoxious. That's another reason I hate this--ALL these characters were just horrible people that you didn't give a damn about. I was anxious to see every last one of the them dead by the end. END SPOILERS!!!The movie was far too slow and way too long. Most of the footage of Thornton's character babbling nonstop got on my nerves. It gets a 6 only because of the good direction and a few good moments that Paxton and Fonda share--those two really clicked as husband and wife. Also good to see Gary Cole. But this movie was too dull, long and unpleasant for me to recommend. "},{"Title":"The Critics saw a different movie","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I simply don't get it. This had to be one of the most unbelievableand pointless movies in a long time. If you are willing to believethat EVERY character on screen is stupider than the audience (orthe popcorn for that matter) then this movie is for you. Otherwisedon't waste your time, watch Fargo again for a good study ofbanality of evil.At every turn, when you think the movie could not possibly pushyour willingness for suspension of disbelief it does. And it getseven worst at the climax.It is however, some of the best shots of snow, crows and trucks ifyou like that kind of thing... "},{"Title":"Hollow film experience","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"14 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A SIMPLE PLAN is one of the most overrated films of all time. The fact that some actually view this film as a serious piece of film-making is truly amazing. Everything about this film is artificial the characters, the acting, the plot, etc. Usually, genre films can get away with such an artificial feel because they mostly deal with things that don't necessarily exist in real life (zombies, monsters, deformed superheroes, etc) but when you transpose the same techniques used in genre films and apply them to actual human beings living in reality, well, the thing becomes forced and artificial. And this is what the folks responsible for this film, whom have experience in making mostly genre films, have done here. I didn't believe this story for one second throughout the entire film. The characters were amazingly stupid. The McGuffin story was uninspired and filled with plot-holes so big that you can fly a jumbo jet through them. And the acting, except for BBT, was unconvincing, certainly Paxton and Fonda playing a couple. Talk about zero chemistry. But what's really annoying about A SIMPLE PLAN is that it's supposed to be a tragedy of sorts and yet the filmmakers obviously didn't want to make the film too gloomy and depressing as to turn off most of the audience. The end product is saddled with a conflicting and contradicting style/tone. It plays like a harmless & bland TV movie, and yet it strives to be John Sayles or Terence Mallick kind of film with its monolithic seriousness.There's only one word to describe A SIMPLE PLAN labored. "},{"Title":"I Hated This Film","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Let's see... we'll make a counting game. (1) Count the number of dumb and dumber people; and (2) count the dead people. I knew things were going to go deadly wrong from the beginning and figured Hank (Bill Paxton) would probably survive.Bridget Fonda cannot act. Period. That was the other thing that I hated about this film. And Billy Bob Thornton! It's as if he's saying, Look at me! I'm ACTing! Can't stand him either.In summary, a very predictable story. Boring. I hate it when a thriller is predictable. Watch In The Bedroom or Dead Again. Now those movies are true thrillers. "},{"Title":"Just a copy of the movie Of Mice and Men","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think this movie is pretty disappointing. Before I saw it, I read comments which said that A Simple Plan is mixture of Of Mice an Men and Fargo. I would rather call it the cold version of Of Mice and Men. Okay, the plot is not bad but the is not much more than a bad copy of the film starring Gary Sinise and John Malcovich. With this knowledge you also know what happens later in the movie.  "},{"Title":"Strong performance by Billy Bob Thornton","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although it was a good idea for a movie, it was poorly finished.  The ending was definitely substandard--  who wouldn't take the money and run?  Who would burn it??  The most redeeming quality of the movie was Billy Bob's performance.  He did an excellent job (as always).  Bill Paxton made a good run of it, but he still wasn't very believable.  The whole ending just made me want to hear him say Game over man, game over! like he did in Aliens. Arguing about what you would do in that situation makes a good conversation piece, but that's about it.  This movie is for renting, not one to see at the theaters. "},{"Title":"An idea borrowed by Steinbeck and tortured by professionals.","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I can scarcely believe that any executive producer would want to front any money for a childish rip off of characters and plot dynamics created in Of Mice and Men. Granted there is little real estate left for an original idea in the story-telling industry, but the incessant make-more-out-it pitch to the studio is what the positive critics must have latched onto when they were being bought off by their fringe-benefit sponsors to write good reviews.Bugs Bunny did a better job as Lenny(?) than Paxton did as the pseudo intelligent/sensitive older brother who was faced with making all the important decisions up until the end. And Billy George(?) Bob Thornton might understand the challenges of the mentally disabled, but he need not agree to portray one whose actions are the sole and unrealistic justification for the murders that artificially drive the story. I wonder if Jane Fonda will ever come to terms with her daughter's incessant teenage struggle for identity--Bridget has no on-screen presence let alone chemistry with Paxton who himself seems to have graduated from the Keanu Reeves School of Expressionless and Constipated Acting (they should have been mimes or gone into weightlifting). The cinematography and editing is juvenile from opening cross fade of the crow and the hit-me-with-a-hammer symbolism of the fox in the hen house through what other critics compare Fargo with right to the horribly uninventive angles during action or character revelation sequences. The camera was too far away for much of the time for anyone to sympathize with any of these numbskull characters. And for the amount of screen time that the police had in the story, don't you think that any one of the crime scene investigations would have revealed unsubstantiated blood spray patterns or weapons with too few and misplaced fingerprints on them? The underlying tension in this film is clearly the audience's struggle to suspend their disbelief in a story that actually moves slowly enough for some characters to actually figure out whodunnit. At least we didn't have put to up with an homage to Straw Dogs and have every dummy gang up on one guy and his bimbo wife and have the town blame the retard.I give this movie a 2 only because of its seed idea, taken so thoughtlessly from John Steinbeck and plugged into most likely a first novel that was adapted just as badly.I recommend you watch this film, so that you can see what an all-round poor quality film looks like. "},{"Title":"A Simple Plot ....","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" .... But a very good one even if it does owe its premise to SHALLOW GRAVE . Unlike the British movie Scott B Smith`s script is very well developed and contains sympathetic characters and is far better paced in a tale of how money is the root of all evil . In fact there`s very little I can criticise about the screenplay except for one thing  If someone is killed in an accident surely they`d be an autopsy in which case the cause of death would be established as not being from an accident . Am I right ? Regardless this is a very intelligent thriller which led me to ask why director Sam Raimi doesn`t make more human dramas like this one  "}{"Title":"boring and cliche","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It baffles me why this film has gotten so much critical acclaim. The story of friendships ruined by discovered treasure is ancient, and this particular rendering of it is unimpressive. The characters are shallow and the scenery is boring. "},{"Title":"Unoriginal, uninspired, boring and bad...","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Let me first say that Billy Bob Thornton did a wonderful acting job in this overhyped, sub-par film.  His bit was virtually the only piece holding the picture together.  The plot is nothing new (three could-use-the-dough types find a lot of money and don't anticipate the problems that follow), the characters are forced (a manipulative wife, a college educated grain worker(?), a drunk and a possibly retarded, middle-aged virgin), and the pace is excruciatingly slow.  The most difficult thing for me to swallow about the film is the blatant omission of any well shot scenes.  All one needs to do is watch Fargo to see the beauty with which barren snow-scapes can be filmed.  I also had trouble with script shortcomings (i.e. Paxton getting the gun in the sheriff's office and the fact that no one checked up on the FBI agent) and still cannot figure out just who decided Bill Paxton is a leading man.  After clearing the abundant and silly raven images out of my bored brain I was left thinking, 'why didn't anyone care enough to try to make this a good movie.'   "},{"Title":"Wow, do I EVER agree with 'Grovecamper'! Come ON Raimi!","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sigh... Well, plain and simple I FULLY agree with the reviewer and poster listed in my 'Summary'... Although I wouldn't be as rough on the visuals and camera-work; I mean that was just about ALL this film had going for it.Okay, here is my primary complaint Now, with this kind of VERY simple story and few characters, the, uh... CHARACTERS are rather important to carry the story, make you care, etc., right? So, when the characters start acting in TOTALLY unbelievable and contrary ways, spouting COMPLETELY plastic and unrealistic dialog, have absolutely no realistic interactions what so ever..., well..., what the HELL is left either to care about or enjoy? One example, and I won't give away any 'Spoilers', I'll 'speak' in generalities, is where up front the wife immediately reacts that keeping the money is 'NOT LEGAL', 'WRONG', 'STEALING'..., right? Okay, so her character is established right away as kind of stuffy, self-righteous maybe, okay? Now, without giving away exactly WHAT happened, but let's just say it was REALLY bad. Now like all of, what, a DAY later her husband tells her that he did this REALLY, REALLY bad thing. Her reaction without blinking she calmly says 'Well, I guess you felt that you had to do that' Uh..., can you say, 'COMPLETELY BLOODY INCONSISTENT!!!!!???' GEEZ...! I admit that going into this film I had VERY high expectations because it was directed by Sam Raimi; but I will tell you that this was some of the WORSE dialog and direction of the CHARACTERS that I have seen from a competent director. The OVERALL direction and look of the film was okay; but the direction of the CHARACTERS sucked BIG HAIRY UWE BALLS!!! Sorry... It wasn't the ACTING that was bad; all the actors are great actors. But it was WHAT they were given to say and HOW they were told to say it.I mean, just the other day I watched 'A LITTLE TRIP TO HEAVEN' which I thought TOTALLY sucked; mainly because of the lame dialog, pacing, etc. But after seeing THIS film, although the actual acting was better, at least in 'ALTTH' the characters were somewhat believable and consistent if not very appealing...HORRIBLE, HORRIBLE...________L@the "},{"Title":"Should have walked out...","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Saw this with my wife in the theater.  About halfway through the movie we were both thinking the same thing This is annoying and I'd really like to walk out, but I don't want to anger my spouse. Little did we realize we were on the same wavelength.An unrealistic and utterly stupid movie. The choices the characters make are incomprehensible...I don't care how much money is involved, nobody is this dumb!  Unfortunately I was dumb enough to sit through the whole thing. "},{"Title":"Congratulations to Sam Raimi on making one of the worst movies of the decade","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is, quite simply, the most ridiculous, most unpleasant, most manipulatively cynical movie I have ever seen. Trying to exploit the ethos of Fargo (a movie I didn't really care for), this movie lacks both its humor and intelligence.Billy Bob Thornton should have gotten some sort of actor of the universe award just for making his character human - because these people are just the result of some hack writer's manipulation of a few weak characters that ride a plot only slightly less obvious (or interesting) than a Disney cartoon. Are we supposed to find it a self-affirming life experience to have watched the false irony of these characters' downfalls?What I find abhorrent about this is not the underlying story or even the characters - for the most part. No. What I object to are the flat presentation, the diametrically opposite dual natures of the characters, the shoved-down-your-throat visual metaphors, and the terrible, terrible screenplay. Good job - I am impressed that a movie could be this bad and still inspire so much admiration. "},{"Title":"A Simply Poor Movie","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am still trying to count all the different ways that this movie was a let downer. I think I will stick to the basics. Raimi should stick to 90 minute movies, because he badly needed some editing help here. Pacing was terribly slow. The other major flaw is that the screenplay has a nugget of an idea, but left us not liking any character. Not even a little. Sure, it is an interesting journey to take when you suddenly find yourself doing the unimaginable...but take my advice, just rent Fargo. "},{"Title":"Another gruesome, exploitation of violence.","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Greed overcomes altruism as a so-called good person, corrupted just a little bit, slides headfirst into an abyss of ethical depravity. One of the most disturbing films I have ever seen. Technically an 8/10, but I rated it a 4/10 because of its societal worthlessness.  "},{"Title":"Hateful movie","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As a southerner I am always offended by Hollywood's constant choice of a So. accent for any evil doer or crazy person. This movie is set in Minnesota and yet all of these people who are evil to each other and others, have southern accents. 'Scuze Me? Minnesota is about as far from Texas or Georgia as Hollywood is from reality. This is a terrible mean spirited movie, a big downer. Human nature is not as dire as all that, there are a whole lot of heroes in this world. Also, the characters lack continuity all through the movie, and I mean ALL of the characters, Bill Paxton's character changes from a kind hearted every-man into a greedy murderer without even skipping a beat. Billy Bob Thorton's character goes from being an innocent simpleton to an angry thug, again without skipping a beat. Don't even get me started on Briget Fonda's character! "},{"Title":"Not a good night out.","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am astonished at the positive press this film has gotten. I viewed the film at Sony Lincoln Center, in an audience of about 200. From half way through, the film was audibly heckled by a large % of the viewers.Bill Paxton, in my view, gave a non-actor non-performance. Flat, unbelievable delivery, no sense of depth of reality to his character.Mr. Thornton has now perhaps played one too many backward characters. Aren't we over this?The benchmark of good story-telling is that each event must be inevitable. In this film, each killing is progressively less necessary, less useful - it just doesn't make sense. If these characters are this stupid, why should we care?Bad writing, bad acting, and a few too many shots trying to look like FARGO. A Coen is a Coen is a Coen. A Raimi is not.The positive press for this film will remain a mystery, along with why anyone liked Titanic.  "},{"Title":"Incredible talents promise more than the film delivers...","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Woefully overwritten, overbaked melodrama from director Sam Raimi, with a familiar but nonetheless intriguing central idea three men in a snowy small town come upon a downed plane in an isolated area and find that it is full of money...should they split up the loot and keep it a secret or should they report their findings? Scott B. Smith adapted his own novel for the screen, however his imagination tends to get the best of him, with a plot that swings wildly from reality right into a horror story. The picture goes around in circles, belaboring all the same points, while implausibilities quickly begin to stack up. Billy Bob Thornton received an Oscar nomination for his solid supporting work, but Bill Paxton and Bridget Fonda are fairly colorless. *1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  great film -- to sink into depression","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Similar to Leaving Las Vegas, the film A Simple Plan is a marvelous film with great acting, a tight and fast-paced plot, which will slowly drive you into a suicidal funk. Ugh.I'm an action movie guy, so I figured a crime thriller would be right up my alley. But instead of being a little cartoony and fun, this movie is deadly serious. Remember when you were a kid and you watched a TV special about kids getting caught being naughty and you felt somehow viscerally guilty and started squirming? This film is like that. It's so gripping that you almost feel as if you are the person going through the hell as the simple plan degenerates.Who should see this film-- action film buffs who can deal with a whole lotta arty and depression-- drama film buffs who can deal with a whole lotta depression-- horror film buffs this one's for you!I'll have to give A Simple Plan an incredibly well-executed 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Talented Director Takes Cast of Notewprthies on Nosedive","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was just bad.  I could tell from the opening credits and the way the list of characters was shot through a shrub that this was an artsy film school project that should have died in film school.  I tried desparately to find sleep in the theatre, but it evaded me.  The characters were all convincingly played, but total idiots.  The storyline was predictable.  The worst part by far was that I felt no connection to any of the characters. I felt no regret when any of them died.  On the contrary, I rejoiced silently in my seat for each mortality, knowing that inevitably, the film would end when the number of surviving characters reached zero.  "},{"Title":"A Simple Failure","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first movie I have walked out of in a long time. And having worked on numerous films I hate to reject any film knowing how much goes into the process. Perhaps it should have been left as a novel. Don't waste your $$ as there is no return on screen. "},{"Title":"Absolutely pathetic","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen many a film in my lifetime and I must say that A Simple Plan is one of the most pathetic examples of a film that I have ever seen. With the incredibly sloppy script, and mediocre acting, this Fargo wannabe is a disgrace to the movie world. More importantly it has violently shaken my faith in the so called movie experts who have called it a great film. Was it just me, or were the murders done so sloppily that any policeman, let alone a real coroner performing an autopsy could have busted open the case an hour into the movie. This movie makes my 10 worst films ever and i was on the verge of asking for my money back. An insult to a person's intelligence and thoroughly unentertaining.  "},{"Title":"hello?  A simple idiot could have ended this movie in 5 min!","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sorry, but this was one of the worst, most unbelievable movies I've ever seen.  There were so many, very logical paths of action which could have been taken, and so many missed chances to bump off the weak link (if you get my drift) that any sane person with that kind of money wouldn't have followed the plot that this movie did.  This movie insults my intelligence. "},{"Title":"Abysmal!","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There are many bad movies. But this abysmal turkey is a bad movie badly done. The acting is high school level. The photography is uninspired. The characters are wooden stereotypes. The script, predictable and simplistic, is rife with contradictions and reveals not a jot of understanding of human nature. However it is not a total write off. Some parts of it actually are focus. The film is so bad I was sure it was a Canadian production. It had all the symptoms. Bad acting and lots of snow. I was surprised to learn it had been done in Minnesota. If the Minnesotans are smart, they'll keep that their own little secret. "}]