[{"Title":"A well-crafted film deflated by the Matrix-sodden expectations of an effects-obsessed audience.","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"187 out of 221 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I feel compelled to speak up for this film against the spoilt ravings of the it-said-it-was-like-the-Matrix-but-I-didn't-see-any-cool-computer-graphics-a nywhere crowd that have dominated these pages.There seem to be two schools of thought on the use of special effects in movies.  The prevalent theory - depressingly common among film goers and film-makers alike - seems to be that a good effect should stand out of a film and make the audience coo like a pigeon.  If you subscribe to that theory, fine, watch the Matrix and be happy.  If you think that a special effect is a means to an end, a way to portray a fictional vista as a believable realism, then watch eXistenZ and marvel at how a grotesque and visceral world can be made so engrossingly real and intriguing.  This film has its fair share of effects, but they are so well grafted into the ethos the film evokes that you just won't notice them on first viewing.  And in contrast with the current trend towards computer-generated effects, Cronenburg knows the value of his tactile world; the physical creativity involved in the gristle-gun building scene is a fantastic example.Okay, so virtual reality has been used many times as a concept - and by films that actually came BEFORE the Matrix too - but the totality with which this film portrays its own organic brand of VR is truly engrossing.  Jude Law and Jennifer Jason Leigh are utterly watch-able and the chemistry between them is the perfect vehicle to lead an audience through the admittedly gruesome situations the film describes.There is an element of old-fashioned escapist fantasy in this film that manages to be strangely endearing despite the gore and I suggest that this is where the film triumphs - a triumph that can be attributed to clever writing, intelligent acting and characterisation, a compelling story, charismatic leads, a vivid and disciplined imagination and the discerning use of effects and visual style.If the Matrix is an `oooh, aaah' sort of film, then this is more an `oooh, eeugh' movie - but don't allow the glare of the Matrix to dull your senses to the darker appeal of eXistenZ.  "},{"Title":"Truly unique","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"160 out of 187 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Everybody seems to compare this to The Matrix and The 13th Floor, and when I first saw it I would have agreed -- I was expecting The Matrix and was a little disappointed.  But upon repeated viewings my respect for this movie has grown immensely.The thing to keep in mind is that The Matrix is a great action movie with some philosophical mumbo-jumbo thrown in.  The 13th Floor is a passable action movie with some slightly more interesting philosophical mumbo-jumbo thrown in.  Existenz is not an action movie at all, and is not (as many seem to believe) about reality or any such deep concept.  It's about the human tendency to intentionally replace reality with an artificial (both in its origin and in its behavior) world of make-believe.The most chilling moment in the movie is when Allegra Geller repeats her scripted line.  It's at that point you realize that the people in the game have voluntarily surrendered their free will in order to participate in a story.  This is made even more frightening at the end when D'Arcy Nader (or rather his player) comments on the possibility of spending one's life in the game.  I sympathize completely with the realist philosophy, that providing interesting worlds in which people simply locate the correct predefined path to the end goal is ultimately a recipe for a soulless existence.  Living in the game is not living at all, but is a tempting way to spend one's time on earth.  As Allegra comments about the real world, there's nothing going on here.  Might as well jack into someone else's imagination, and pretend to be doing something interesting.  (Although I have to ask whether Cronenberg considers this a self-indictment, considering that he himself offers up worlds to be experienced in 90 minute snippets.)Upon leaving the theater after first watching this movie, I thought it was one of those movies that was watchable only to see how it ended.  But having seen it a couple more times (thank you SciFi Channel) I've realized how much deeper it goes.  Seriously, if you've only seen it once, it deserves another viewing. "},{"Title":"an existential psychotropic trip","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"109 out of 134 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  David Cronenberg, much like colleague David Lynch, is an acquired taste. A director who plays with themes like reality, perversion, sex, insanity and death, is bound to get the most extreme reations from audiences. He proved this with films as The Fly, Naked Lunch, Crash and eXitenZ (capital X, capital Z) and more recently, Spider. It's best to see eXistenZ with a clear mind. Try not to read too much about the plot, or it'll be ruined for you. What I can tell you is that Cronenberg takes you on a trip down into the world of videogames that acts as a metaphor for any kind of escapist behaviour. Living out fantasies is something people always dream of, but how far can you go into it, before reality gets blurred and the fantasy takes over and turns into a nightmare? Those are the themes touched in eXistenZ, an exploration of identity, the human psyche, physical bodies being invaded by disease and most importantly, reality itself.The story and directing are excellent. Cronenberg knows his trade very well and succesfully brings to life an artificial world, avoiding the usual pitfalls and clichés linked to stories such as this. The film shows some pretty disgusting stuff, but is unusually low-key in the gore department in comparison to Cronenbergs other work. The shock effects he plays on are never over the top and the plot progression is very intelligent and creative. It's not the most intellectual movie ever, but it will leave you thinking about it, wondering and pretty confused.The acting gets two thumbs up as well. Both protagonists, Jennifer Jason Leigh and Jude Law, play their parts perfectly and cleverly portray their character's shifting moods and identities. The dialogue may seem a little stale and clinical at times, but that is part of the effect Cronenberg was going for, to create a disaffected and alien atmosphere that puts you quite at unease. Supporting actors as Ian Holm, Don McKellar and an especially creepy Willem Dafoe lift the movie even higher with their disturbingly familiar performances.This movie takes some getting used to, but if you can appreciate the dark tone, blood-curdeling imagery and existentially warping story, you'll love it. "},{"Title":"Death to the demon The Matrix!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"153 out of 234 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  'eXistenZ' sorts out the men from the boys. That is, your reaction to this marvellous movie will depend whether you are S.F. literate and familiar with Cronenberg's oeuvre, or a 'Matrix'-loving, Johnny-come-lately. Now I enjoy 'The Matrix' as a superior action movie, but no movie in recent years has been so overrated, and grossly exaggerated as intellectual fare! 'eXistenZ' and Alex Proyas' similarly overlooked 'Dark City' are everything 'The Matrix' claims to be - intelligent, thought provoking, CHALLENGING S.F. This movie is almost a summary of all the themes and motifs that Cronenberg has been obsessed about for the last 25 years or so. Especially the Burroughsian biological horror and the Phildickian questioning of reality. While it echoes many of his previous movies, it especially evokes his masterpiece 'Videodrome'. It may not reach the hallucinogenic heights of that movie - very few have - but it certainly takes you to places most contemporary S.F. and horror movies don't even try to reach.However this movie isn't just Cronenberg rehashing his greatest hits. There are more than enough new and interesting touches, especially the Rushdie-like Fatwah theme, the odd sexual symbolism, and the witty touches such as the bone guns that fire teeth. Helping all this along is the interesting, carefully chosen cast. All are good, but I especially like Willem Dafoe's creepy garage mechanic, and it was also great to see Canadian cult star Don McKellar ('Highway 61', 'Twitch City',etc) as the enigmatic Russian Yevgeny.'Videodrome' has taken many years to find its real audience, and maybe 'eXistenz' will too. But I believe eventually it will be recognised for what it is - a work of great imagination and flair. "},{"Title":"Get ready for one wild ride!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"50 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  By far the most bizarre and inventive films from David Cronenberg, and a film that is sure to become a cult classic. The story cannot easily be summarized in a small review without spoiling the movie completely, so you'll have to see it for yourself.The special effects are well done, but thankfully not overdone. The film relies mainly on the chemistry between Jennifer Jason Leigh and Jude Law, who plug in and out of the game throughout the movie, and what is actually the real world become less clear as the movie goes on. The violence and carnage, which Cronenberg has become famous for, certainly catches you off guard at times. In fact, some scenes will send a shiver up your spine. The acting is superb, with Jennifer Jason Leigh playing a convincing hero, while Jude Law is excellent as the uneasy, often unwilling participant in her mind-boggling game. Willem Dafoe is, as always, a treat to watch as the mysterious, intimidating, and off-the-wall characters he is so good at playing.eXistenZ is the most unusual Cronenberg film to date, and that is saying something when comparing to his earlier movies like Shivers, Scanners, and Videodrome. It has a great script, great direction, and the idea behind the film is pure gold. Cronenberg is definitely one of the most daring and original directors of our time.  "},{"Title":"hyper-reality shocks!","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"61 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  David Cronenberg's `eXistenZ' is a well designed reflection of the philosophy of existentialism. It addresses the problems of a culture that is plugged into technology that it can no longer distinguish between fantasy and reality or between the organic and the mechanical. The movie shocks the audience with its replacement of mechanical technology with organic, metabolismic one. In this context the technology is able to be part of human body. After playing the virtual reality game of `eXistenZ', the real world feels like a game and as a result, human behavior change in order to apply violent game-urges even when the game is over. In eXistenZ, technology has evolved from machinery to biological organisms that plug directly into the human nervous system; an idea that reflects Marshall McLuhan's belief who is a well known media theorist, that computers are extensions of human consciousness. Like telephone is an extention of the ear, television is an extention of the eye, telegram is an extention of the central nervous system high-tech virtual reality is an extention of human consciousness. In eXistenZ, technology is biological and thus more human than it is in our world. But as technology becomes organic, humans become more mechanical and therefore less free, unable to resist their game-urges. eXistenZ is a virtual realty simulation of man's existence. Jean Baudrillard describes a mediated society in his book of Simulacra and Simulation, which all power to act has been transformed to appear. The world has passed into a pure simulation of itself. In eXistenZ it is obvious to see Baudrillard's mediated society with the themes of the invasion of the body, the loss of control and the transformation of the self into other.While you are in the eXistenZ, consciousness slowly replaces with another identity, your role in the game, which is a reflection each individual's real life subconscious. While you gain the control of your hyperreal life step by step, the aura of your real life disappers. For Baudrillard, `.simulations or simulacra, have become hyperreal, more than real.' Our hyperreality, like Cronenberg's world of computer simulation, `.now feels, and, for all intents and purposes is, more real than what we call the real world.' (Baudrillard) The purpose of the game which can basically be called 'experience' is quite metaphorical. Because you can not even know what is experience unless you experience it. As existentialists say that, life without an exact explanation is absurd, the game of eXistenZ is absurd too. Cronenberg, ironically reflects the absurdity of our lives. For instance, in the game, the other roles just stand still unless you ask them a pre-programmed question. And when you put their aimless funny looking state of being into the representation of our lifes, the exposed absurdity really shocks.The theme of the game is to understand what it is for? This hidden metaphorical question creates anguish over the people who play eXistenZ. They have no doubt about their existence, however they do not know the underlying reason of their existence. The essence.Existentialists have held that human beings do not have a fixed nature, or essence, as other animals and plants do; each human being makes choices that create his or her own nature. In the formulation of the 20th-century French philosopher Jean Paul Sartre, existence precedes essence. `Choice is therefore central to human existence, and it is inescapable; even the refusal to choose is a choice. Freedom of choice entails commitment and responsibility. Because individuals are free to choose their own path, existentialists have argued, they must accept the risk and responsibility of following their commitment wherever it leads.' Perhaps I should mention, `eXistenZ' deals with the concept of freedom of choice too. You achieve your final role in the game by taking right decisions. If you don't than the game becomes irrevelant and boring. So, you begin to interrogate the game, your existence rather than your essence. You suddenly become schzopfrenically alianated from the game and realize your position outside the game. Well as a last word, eXistenZ is a well designed reverse simulation of life thus existentialism. "},{"Title":"a wicked head trip","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"61 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Who should watch this film? Anyone who has ever taken acid, read Philip K. Dick, thought the premise of the Matrix was better then the special effects, has an interest in Philosophy, or likes having their sense of reality messed with. I laughed out loud at this film, just because it was so outrageous and so spot-on. This film is great. This film is cool. It is better than the Matrix, by a long shot (I didn't fall asleep in Existenz, for a kick off action/special effects films bore me stupid, and despite a plausible philosophical gloss, that is exactly what the Matrix is). Existenz is gross, it is disturbing, and it is funny. David Cronenberg has done some shonky stuff (Rabid) and some works of genius too (Videodrome is another one worth checking out, as is Stephen King adaptation The Dead Zone). But this is one of my all-time favourites. I can't remember the ending- which is a good thing, cos it means I can watch it again. Or perhaps I never watched this film at all. Maybe it's an implanted memory. Or maybe it 'really' happened to me. I don't know. At any rate, it is now seamlessly stitched into my overall illusion of reality, and I'm glad. "},{"Title":"A Shaggy Dog Story...but a good one","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" We're both stumbling around together in this unformed world, whose rules and objectives are largely unknown, seemingly indecipherable or even possibly nonexistent, always on the verge of being killed by forces that we don't understand. So says Ted Pikul in the film. Which for some people sums up life and 'eXistenZ' probably is a film about existence. What is real and what is unreal and how you tell the difference. Or not. The last line of the film is superbly ambiguous.The film seems like a shaggy dog story (indeed it has a real shaggy dog in it) but it takes you along on an interesting ride, full of provocative Cronenberg touches that will make you look at amphibians, game pods, fish, spines and bones in a new light. Some bits are quite icky. It takes place in a rural setting where the gas station is called 'GAS STATION' and a Chinese restaurant is called 'CHINESE RESTAURANT.'The film has an engrossing texture that is leagues away from your usual big budget science fiction movie.You can read many things into the film and it repays watching more than once.The main actors are Jude Law who is OK and Jennifer Jason Leigh who is great. Some roles don't suit this very talented actor but when she has a good role like this she is unmatchable. Her unconventional beauty and fascinating voice suits the part of Allegra. (Looks great in a short black skirt too.) There are other familiar actors but they are not given much to do. It looks good, sounds good and a Howard Shore score complements the film very well. Cronenberg is possibly the Alfred Hitchcock of the sci-fi/horror genre. No matter what film he makes he is always worth watching. "},{"Title":"Welcome To The Desert of the Real Part 2","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" All reality is virtual. It's collaborative. It's invented. &#x96; David Cronenberg.In retrospect, Existenz is part of a group of films released between 1998 and 2001, all of which examine the fragile lines separating an illusory reality from a supposedly more authentic Real. These films, which include The Matrix, Vanilla Sky, Eyes Wide Shut, Dark City, Existenz, Mulholland Drive, The Truman Show, Fight Club and A History of Violence, all portray reality as a hyper-real simulation in possession of a dark and violent underside.But what separates Existenz from its big budget counterparts are it's biomechanical themes. Marshall McLuhan famously asserted that all technological advancements are merely extensions of the human body; clothing an extension of our skin, binoculars of our eyes, cars of our legs, media of our minds and desires. McLuhan believed that as media builds upon itself, it grows further and further away from our human skin until the limits of our bodies becomes less and less definable.This bodily alienation is highlighted in Existenz. The film establishes a series of layered hyper-realities for the players of a virtual reality game to connect to. In order to enter each new layer of the game, the players must literally plug in using organic looking spinal grafts. These grafts let the players enter the computer generated landscape of the game whilst leaving their physical bodies behind. They are, essentially, wilfully disembodied from their physical reality.The irony of the film is apparent at the end, when we discover that the film's reality only exists when the characters decide to enter another reality (at the moment of plugging in). Since the movie begins at the second plugging in, without referencing the first, Cronenberg suspends all reality to imply that no reality is grounded. In other words, the audience's act of playing the film was the first plug in to an alternate reality. In this way, Cronenberg engages the disembodiment that technology offers and threatens us with. The audience embodies media because media becomes an escape from the body through its prosthetic extensions. These plug in extensions are themselves sexualised, implying that man's virtual escapes are themselves pleasure centric activities, man hiding in fantasy by mind humping his machines. (Importantly, the film's machines become less organic and more mechanical and rigid as we get closer to reality.)But though McLuhan suggests a re-fragmentation of the Self through extensions into media realities, other thinkers suggest less pessimistic models. For example, though our instruments have become detachable organs, they need not displace us entirely. Isn't it possible that our senses, no longer limited to our physical bodies, now become receptors to a wider variety of stimuli and perceptions? Cronenberg acknowledges this, but highlights the complications in returning to our real bodies. Recalibration to a pure reality is becoming increasingly impossible. One can imagine future generations thinking of their own brains as organic computers and not computers as imitations of the brain. In other words, the machine becomes something that our body aspires to or increasingly enjoys being with.On yet another level, Existenz portrays a war between a group of game players and rebels known as The Realists. The Realists want all game designers and games destroyed. They want the simulation to end, and all of humanity to re-enter reality. The great joke (which only Cronenberg and Kubrick seem to acknowledge) is that these Realists who delight in such demystification are operating under the most lamentable and unsupportable of assumptions the idea that you can strip away all fantasy. The reality they defend is, in fact, the ontology of a depressive, shabbily empirical, nothing ever adding up to more than the sum of its parts, nothing worth getting worked up about, nothing connecting with nothing, existence. IE- post modern hyper-real hell. They're defending simply another fantasy level in a game, unable to face the fact that The Real is itself a cosmic ateleological event, completely without design. The Real is purposiveness without purpose. Think the giant conversation at the end of Eyes Wide Shut, Tom Cruise standing over a pool board as everything is explained but nothing actually adds up.Cronenberg is thus a kind of ontological existentialist, believing that the very nature of reality itself, the individual choices of subjects, is radically open. Watch how he has his lead character (played by Jude Law), confront the existential horror of abandonment and despair when he complains to the game designer (who is herself a mere player and not the actual game designer) that the game is without final purpose and that they are forever being assaulted by malevolent forces intent upon destroying them. It's a game that would be hard to market, he moans. And yet, as she smartly replies, it's a game that everyone is already playing.The Realists, however, want to defend their comfortable self-delusions. They want to believe that the particular world in which they find themselves, a mere consensual hallucination, is fixed and determined. What guarantees such pre-determination is of course the functioning of a transcended game designer whose role is basically a metaphor for God.Finally, Existenz makes a distinction between players who are capable of making choices and preprogrammed drones who are nevertheless also players. Unable to act unless triggered by specific lines of dialogue, these drones are reminiscent of so many interactions with real human beings in late Capitalism robot announcers, telemarketers, call centre employees etc. These days, professionalization means becoming as much like a bureaucratically controlled drone as is humanly possible, man losing all signs of autonomy, unable to sensitively engage with situations or people around him.8.9/10 &#x96; This film has aged well. Briskly told, Existenz has an elegance and sexiness which lifts it above its big budget, more action oriented, brothers. "},{"Title":"Another Bizarre and Original Film by David Cronenberg","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In a near future, the Antenna Research and the Cortical Systematics Corporations dispute the market of games. When the designer of the game eXistenZ Allegra Geller (Jennifer Jason Leigh) comes to a lecture to demonstrate and test her game, she is attacked by a fanatic terrorist. However,the marketing trainee of Antenna Research Ted Pikul (Jude Law) saves Allegra and flees with her in his car. When Allegra awakes, she requests Ted to let her connect in his bio-port to check the damage in her pod with the original version of eXistenZ. Ted does not have bio-port since he is afraid of any possible infection, but Allegra convinces him to go to the gas station, where she asks the attendant Gas (Willen Dafoe) to make a hole in Ted's spine and install a bio-port. Sooner she learns that Gas works for the enemy, but Ted and she play eXistenZ, in a bizarre virtual world. When the game merges in the real life, Ted and Allegra question whether they are still playing the game or whether the game has been transported to the real world. eXistenz is another bizarre and original film by David Cronenberg, with a weird and gruesome concept of virtual reality. The twisted story has similarities with Matrix, entwining virtual world with reality, but both were made in the same year (1999); therefore it seems that there is no plagiarization of the idea. Jennifer Jason Leigh and Jude Law show a great chemistry and the plot has many twists. Surprisingly, eXistenz has not been released in Brasil neither on DVD nor in blu-ray. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Not Available "}{"Title":"_The Brood_ redux","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cronenberg's films work best when they root themselves firmly in our world, and then misbehave -- think of the garlanded and psychotic twins in _Dead Ringers_, Jeff Goldblum's geeky scientist in _The Fly_, or even the glacial professionals of _Crash_. _eXistenZ_ reminded me of _The Brood_, Cronenberg's early exercise in gore and would-be psychological terror. If you were scared rather than amused by Oliver Reed and those kids in red parkas, you may like eXistenZ -- but the rest of us will squirm in embarrassment at the setting (a world in which everyone plays computer games which plug directly into their spinal cord) and the self-importance of much of the dialogue. Where the movie should work as horror, it often comes off as farce; and where Cronenberg may be attempting social commentary, he slides into solipsism and pretension.The film's design will persuade some Cronenberg fans of its merit. The game console designed by Jennifer Jason Leigh is an alarming mix of Playstation and kidney, complete with nipple start-button and throbbing (or should that be force-feedback?) game action. The sets are bizarre, especially the 'trout farm' (nope, they sure ain't trout) in which many of the movie's scenes are set. However, none of this weirdness can really compel in the face of some terrible casting (poor Jude Law is really out of his depth; ditto Ian Holm, who's given the year's least plausible eastern European accent) and a wonky script.The movie's biggest problem is that we're never drawn into this other world because it seems so heavy-handedly projected from the opening scenes. Leigh's new game gets its first public try-out in a church (materialism and false idols, geddit?), and that level of inventiveness pretty much characterises the movie from then onward. The tension of the later stages is dependent on our own uncertainty about whether what we're watching is real or part of the game Law and Leigh are playing -- but even this trick fails to grab.The final scenes (assuming they're not re-arranged for the theatrical release) fall apart as Cronenberg tries to have it both ways, to suggest that nothing's really happened and that the world's coming to an end. In sum, it's just a muddle -- and a real shame, given that Cronenberg on top form is one of the most interesting directors working today. With eXistenZ, he's managed to persuade a studio to bankroll his efforts -- it's a real shame, then, that this effort to cultivate a bigger audience should showcase more of his weaknesses than his strengths as a moviemaker.  "},{"Title":"Absolute Drivel!","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe that so many people not only liked this but loved it.  OK the detail of plot is very original but so many other aspects disappoint.Firstly, and most noticeably, the acting is absolutely horrendous, being grossly stilted and wooden.  You could run a bus through some of the cues and I've seen far better on an amateur stage.  Secondly, the screenplay is appalling - the dialogue just doesn't flow.  Thirdly, the direction is woeful - the pace just never picks up and the whole thing just becomes one big frustrating, boring drag.  Even though the effects are decent the acting, script and direction give it a real B movie feel.I consider myself to be somewhat of a film lover - I like virtually all genres.  However, and I may be in the minority on this, but I can safely say that this is the worst film I have seen in a long, long time. "},{"Title":"Play it. Live it. Kill for it.","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"38 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The way you pronounce the name of this film is a little different. The story that is shown is certainly different, and after you have seen it, you will say it is movie that is definitely different in almost every aspect. Of course, I am talking about the 2000 sci-fi thriller, 'eXistenZ', which shows that going into the world of 'virtual reality', can be weird and dangerous. 'eXistenZ' also proves that virtual reality' can be a world that one cannot be sure of being in or out of.During the first closed-door demonstration of an amazing new virtual reality game - called 'eXistenZ' - the system's brilliant designer, Allegra Geller, is violently attacked by a crazed assassin intent on killing her and destroying her creation. Forced to flee into hiding, Allegra enlists the help of young marketing trainee, Ted Pikul, to help her test the damaged system, by convincing him to join her inside a game of eXistenZ. The action then explodes as their world's real-life dangers begin to merge with the fantasy of the game.This film has a most unique and unusual story, but in a good way. I have read on the internet, that eXistenZ 'makes the Matrix look like child's play', and I would have to agree. What I will say about this film's story, is that it gives the impression that its audience will understand where it actually is, and that they will believe who someone is, is truly that person, and that they are on a level par. I guess that is what is most inventive about the film, to make what is seemingly so true, to be actually not true at all. The writer/director of eXistenZ, David Cronenberg (from 'the Fly'), wrote a most inventive screenplay, that I am sure you will not see in along time.This movies lead actors are Allegra Gellar (Jennifer Jason Leigh) and Ted Pikul (Jude Law). The pair share a most unique chemistry onscreen, as we see their game characters doing some very weird and wacky things as they keep going deeper and deeper into the game of 'eXistenZ' they are playing. I love the way that both Leigh and Law turn this movie into a very erotic kind of an experience to watch. Allegra says this is all part of the game and that the pair should not give into any of these so called 'bits'. I must mention that Jude Law suits this kind of movie genre. Law has also been a part of the Steven Spielberg movie 'AI', which was another unique movie that I did not mind.The supporting cast of this film was also good. I like how we get to meet the guy at the gas station who affectionately known as Gas (Willem Defoe). The role that he took on in this film suits him down to the ground. However, I thought that his role of the 'Green Goblin' in the 2002 blockbuster 'Spiderman' was ordinary to say the least. Other supporting cast members include Kiri Vinokur (Ian Holm), the strange man at the trout factory Yevgeny Nourish (Don McKellar) and the Chinese waiter (Oscar Hsu).I also like the way this movie looks. The 'virtual reality' world created for  'eXistenZ' looks so weird and wonderful, that part of me feels that I might be tempted to play the game. Then the creation of the funny creatures in the movie, the funny pods that are used to play the game and the surprise in the 'special' Chinese meal are interesting to see as we go further and further into the film. Then take the great parts of the film. I like how this movie starts, as it is one thing that needs to be looked at carefully, or you could misread what is happening for the entire movie. When the lead pair then start to play eXistenZ the movie becomes all the more interesting, as this is the part where you can start to realise that not everything is what it seems.But here is a clue for you out there that are a little confused by the whole reality vs. virtual-reality parts of the film. The film does point out very subtle clues as to what mode both Allegra and Ted are actually in. However, if you are one person who is clever enough to work out the movie's entire plot, then you are one lucky person, as even I am still thinking up questions that I want to know the answers to (such as was the entire movie just a game? What does the end of the film actually mean? Did those mean streaks that happened in the supposed 'game', turn out just to be glitches in the real life 'virtual reality' game? What should you make of the two lead characters after the end of the film?) I am sure I will think of more questions, but whether I find out there answers is another thing.The whole world of 'virtual reality', is becoming realer and closer in the world that we live in. We can enter into many different aspects of virtual reality at the drop of the hat, thanks to technologies such as computers (the internet) computer games and the movies that we watch. However whether the whole idea of 'virtual reality' is good, that I am unsure of. My opinion is if we enter into a world that is outside of our reality, than we could be giving something of ourselves that we don't actually know we are giving, and could turn us into people that we might not normally be. That being said, this movie makes me so curious about the world that I have just criticised. If you want to experience a film that goes one step further than what the Matrix did in certain aspects, then I can only recommend that you dare yourself to enter into the game which is called 'eXistenZ'.CMRS gives 'eXistenZ' 4.5 (Very Good - Brilliant Film) "},{"Title":"Where do we come from? From virtual reality, sure.","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"58 out of 111 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  David Cronenberg is doubtlessly one of the greatest directors alive and in activity (along with Lynch, Kiarostami, Kitano, Moretti, Oliveira, Rohmer, etc). Having seen almost all of his films (excluding Dead Zone, The Fly and M.Butterfly), I have this somewhat rare opinion that eXistenZ is one of his masterpieces. It seems to me that this film was hugely misunderstood, culminating with the stupid idea of comparing this film to Matrix, a rather worthless and meaningless piece of nonsense. Here in eXistenZ, we have instead a very dense and deep meditation on the mystery of reality, of our inability to apprehend where do things come from. The characters appear and disappear as if moved by some mysterious agent, which remains inhapreenshible. Being Cronenberg a professed atheist, we can only arrive at the conclusion that each world which is presented to us and to the main characters comes from their own mind, which, nevertheless, only constitutes a part of the human body (it is now hazard that the characters have access to the game by means of something - a game pod - which is implanted into their bodies). Cronenberg stated many years ago that all reality is virtual; so, in this film, the use of the plot-device of virtual reality is a huge metaphor to the virtually of reality, as our director sees it.  "},{"Title":"Tame and repetitive Cronenberg","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After his almost disastrous Crash, Cronenberg returns to more familiar terrain with eXistenZ. After Videodrome and Naked Lunch, this is now his third movie featuring different levels of reality which gradually mix with each other until at the end, you don't know any more what reality is. Nowadays, you cannot say any more that this is a novel concept and, in addition, eXistenZ is much tamer, much more mainstream, and much weaker than Naked Lunch and, especially, Cronenberg's masterpiece Videodrome.  There simply isn't anything new which Cronenberg has to add to the subject.Moreover, the fact that the movie deals with computer gaming is misleading. First, the subject was probably chosen to attract a new audience (which isn't familiar with his previous movies). Second, Cronenberg's visions aren't very much based on what modern computer gaming really is, except, maybe, for adventure games. In Cronenberg's movie, the computer game allows you to enter another reality which, however, looks very much  like the reality you know, except that there seem to be other rules. Modern computer gaming, in turn, has already created a new reality which differs in its very characteristics from the world we know. This world is aggressive, fast paced, and the player as individual is reduced to its capability of reacting as fast as possible (this aspect is indeed captured much more appropriately in the - much weaker movie - The Matrix). Thus, Cronenberg's movie is more a surrealist dream than a serious discussion of the dangers of computer gaming. Of course, this is prefectly legal. The game console is a means of changing into another reality, just like the drugs were in Naked Lunch and video tapes were in Videodrome. At other times, the console appears more like a sexual fetish.eXistenZ has some interesting and remarkable scenes such as the whole part in the Trout Farm and the Chinese restaurant, but there are also involuntarily ridicolous scenes such as the character being stuck in a game loop. Overall, the images which Cronenberg chooses do not have the strength and impact of his older movies The central element, the organic console, just looks like what it is a piece of rubber. It is directly hooked up to the spinal chord, an unpleasant idea, but how much more impressive was the scene when James Woods inserted the video tape into his own stomach in Videodrome. All in all, eXistenZ is another trip into the weird world of David Cronenberg but into the more civilized regions which doesn't give you many surprises.  "},{"Title":"A question of eXistenZ","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Known for his great capacity to develop crazy cinema works, David Cronenberg is responsible for titles such as The Fly, Videodrome and others. This time, from his weird and darkly prolific mind, comes a completely twisted version of a computed reality. Allegra Galler is a professional computer game designer, working for a huge company - Antenna Research. Her latest advanced software was named Existenz, probably because it allows the player to have total freedom INSIDE the game! So it was time to publish it, and nothing better to make it sell than a real demonstration of it in front of the public, and so it is done! However, to play Existenz, a Bioport is required. And you ask me &#150; What the hell is a Bioport anyway?. Well, have you ever heard of a hole in the base of your spine? No? Me neither, until I knew this wicked game! Only Antenna is legally authorized to implant a Bioport in every player who wants to be upgraded with the new invented interface, linking a person's body to the game and giving anyone a better and more realistic playability!In the presentation of Existenz, a few people have been selected to try the game and play it for the first time, along with the critically acclaimed Allegra Galler itself! And that's right here that the movie really starts, diving us into a strange world of a new reality, similar to a dream inside another dream! Confunsing? If you think so, wait until you see the movie! Inside the game the player can do everything in mind &#150; talk to characters, kill them, pick up objects, use them and lots of other things. However, as the game goes far and far, we start doubting reality itself, since lots of apparently nonsense begin to happen. Is all this just a game, or is this a dream about an unreal game? Something is wrong with Existenz. Can it be a game bug or are the players true assassins and crazy characters forever lost inside a stupid software? - This was the idea David Cronenberg wanted to give us. A truly confusing and twisted vision of how dangerous can a computer game be. The film constantly takes us back to reality every time the game is paused, but by the way... where is the game, the REAL life and time? Creepy, isn't it? Now add some computed character representations and you'll then doubt of everything else!In my opinion, this is another disturbing cinematographic creation, with a fantastic resemblance to the characteristics of a computer game. The movie ends apparently in a normal way, but is it a real Game Over, or just the start of a New Game? - If you're interested in a weird ride to a computer game world, then give this film a try. Otherwise, forget it to avoid serious brain damages! "},{"Title":"Cronenberg just wants to play with your mind","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  David Cronenberg is one of my favorite filmmakers because he has an unflinching eye for the grotesque and also for beauty. His movies arefilled with pulsating mutations,but more importantly,they are filledwith interesting characters. eXistenZ addresses the concept of reality and is also a brilliant commentary on video game violence,and what can happen when we become one with them. It's also wonderfully icky-lots of blood,deadpan humor,a gun made of bone and gristle that fires unique bullets. The gamepods-and the way they function-are a work of dark genius. Definitely worth multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"Cronenberg and the dry camera","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Croneberg seems not to be a director who has fully understood the filmic basic of expressing the overhanging emotion of a film in its pictures.In this film he tells a bizarre story splicing reality in half but he uses the standard non-expressional camera work of just about any boring hollywood production out there.A film has to mediums vision and sound. You must use them both to make a full emotional impact on your audience. Cronenberg tries to make surreal films without a single weird light, no haunting compositions with lightand shadow, nothing. Just a sharp, clear and very dry camera method that that has the opposite effect.... in the real view of that camera you can see through the unreality of the picture and it looses its feeling.Imagine what Alien had been if it had been shot in broad daylight in an office building instead of the haunting shadows of the spaceship nostromos twisted metal veins? Know what I mean? "},{"Title":"Visual, Erotic, Layered Fiction","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I'm baffled by viewers who compare this to `Matrix.' The story is quite different. The Matrix has real people living in a synthetic world; simple enough. `13th Floor' is much more sophisticated real and artificial people living in many parallel synthetic worlds -- there is not just ambiguity about environment, but over beingness.eXistenZ is more sophisticated yet in this dimension synthetic worlds are not parallel but nested. Some real world exists which creates a synthetic world which in turn creates another synthetic world and so on. More in this film, conspiracies blend levels, reversing and folding roles. This is the stuff of Phil Dick, not the Matrix, or The One, or any of that other juvenile stuff.But there is a more fundamental difference Films like the matrix start with a story concept, then work to tell the story by whatever visual vocabulary is current. Cronenberg starts with a specific strong vision and hangs a story on it. Clearly, his vision here is for artificially living sexual paraphernalia. These have highly erotic exteriors but disgusting, reptilian interiors. The whole film is built around this notion prurient fiction, repellent pudenda.And the whole thing self-referentially encompasses the audience with the final level because the film clearly shows itself to be a creation in the same mold as Allegra's. I love this stuff, if only as an intellectual construction.But what puzzles me is Cronenberg's meekness. He knows he's a cult filmmaker, so why pander to a bunch of kids who will go to `The One' instead? Jennifer has the guts to do whatever is required. Her presence here shows edge by reference, because we know that she would risk all if asked. But she's not asked. I predict that in a decade or so, as a reaction to special effects fatigue, someone with more courage will remake this with an X rating and more of an obvious Marienbad feel. Maybe you, dear reader. "},{"Title":"eXistenZ A weird and challenging world","Date":"10 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film is a masterpiece. Fact. Not by coincidence, David Cronenberg is considered by some a real genius. He shows up here on eXistenZ that he can, at the same time, make a sharp and accessible story with a ton of surrealism and symbolism that perhaps are almost impossible to get through. A good mix of art and a challenging story. Is worth noting, the idea is challenging and provocative, a reflexion about the world we live in. The metaphor of people selling illusions to make other people get out of their lives &#x96; a truth, in fact, in the real world &#x96; and is in my opinion the great and main point of the film. Worth noting as well is the fact that isn't a common film, despite being very accessible. You need to think about every event in the film, otherwise the whole experience will be useless. There are X numbers of explanations about the story, and is subjective of course. A film like this, that really makes people think, is rare. There are a few of the Cronenberg's trademarks here the brightening focusing in the characters, separating them from the scenario, which is always darker, the art direction with Gothic influence, and a bit of contemporary touch at same time&#x85;all of these can be found in most of Cronenberg's works.The acting, isn't a big factor in the film, since that the characters behavior are the weirdest you can think of, but the cast itself is indeed good, full of known faces as Jude Law, Ian Holm, Willem Dafoe&#x85; they just don't try to be more than a weird character. This film is after all a masterpiece, truly underrated, that came out in 1999, one of the greatest years in cinema history. 9.5/10 "}{"Title":"Cronenberg's Twisted Matrix","Date":"9 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What do you get when you combine the reality questioning film trend of the late 90's with David Cronenberg's unnerving, gross bodily horror? You get 'eXistenZ', Cronenberg's masterpiece.A fun, twisted, gross and thrilling masterpiece of the subgenre.Like 'The Matrix', which was released around the same time, 'eXistenZ' deals with a virtual reality that mimics the real world so well, people don't realize or don't want to get out. In here, though, it is a video game; its creator, Allegra Geller (Jennifer Jason Leigh) is targeted by a anti-virtual reality activist group and, with the help of Ted Pikul (Jude Law), they have to get into the game to unravel a conspiracy.But what is real, and what is virtual? Never before was David Cronenberg's organic-like effects so well employed, serving not only to unnerve and gross the viewer but also as an excellent contrast to the sci-fi theme at the story's center. The organic guns, as well as the organic video game and how it connects to the user, are a surprisingly original, interesting and well developed idea.The film is tense, playing the way thrillers are supposed to be. The twists are very good, we are always left guessing what is going to happen next with anticipation, and overall it is all accentuated by Cronenberg's unnervingly gross visual style and well-oriented directing. The casting is excellent Jude Law and Jennifer Jason Leigh are very good by themselves, and have a surprising chemistry when together. The supporting actors, which includes Willem Dafoe and Ian Holm, are very good too.Though often overlooked thanks to the similarly-themed but more action packaged 'The Matrix', 'eXistenZ' is an excellent horror-inclined take on the reality questioning sci-fi subgenre and, to me, Cronenberg's best work (and I'm a fan of his). "},{"Title":"Organic terrorism","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A group of testers holed up in a rustic barn-house are awaiting the possibility to test out the new virtual reality game eXistenZ (capital X and Z) conceived by concept queen Allegra Geller (Jennifer Jason Leigh). After the test-run ends with an assassination attempt on Allegra's life (through the use of a teeth-shooting bone-gun), she and marketing trainee Ted Pikul (Jude Law) escape. Afraid that her baby, her game, may have been corrupted during the attack she decides to play with the the aide of Ted....Almost like an end of an era for Cronenberg, who recaptures many motives used in previous outings, especially in Videodrome (featuring similar techno-organic mind-warping TV becomes reality themes) and then moves on to different subject matter. On some level that proves to be the downfall of eXistenZ, which is incapable of providing the same fresh outlook as in prior works and is on every level inferior to the thematically identical Videodrome. The multi-layered reality can provide an interesting plot conundrum, deciphering what the game is and what it represents adding enjoyment (pure Philip K. Dick stuff) and a sense of satisfaction. However the point of virtual life transgressing into reality rings hollow and unconvincing, albeit the vision portrayed by Cronenberg becomes a striking reality. People now hooked to their eBook's, iPad, iPhone, seem terrifyingly similar to the premise of the movie - gamers connected through an umbilical cord to technological advancement, with the gadgets almost becoming a bodily extension.Interestingly the whole world of eXistenZ, one based on such technological wonders as VR, is crude, rundown, filthy and grimy, full of decrepit petrol stations, shadowy back-alleys, unhygienic chop shops (where organic game-pads are produced) and sleazy operating rooms. Advancement as regress? Instead of bettering out lives the technology makes it more worthless and ugly? Other interesting moments include Allegra and Ted leaving one 'reality' and entering another. Not entirely certain whether they are still in 'virtual' (just another level of it) or back into 'real reality', Allegra laughingly kills a former friend while the mountain hills burn on the horizons, stating It's only a game, isn't it?. No more rules? You can always reload the game, can't you? eXistenZ is almost unanimously frigid in acting and emotion, at times bordering on wooden and outdated (almost as if homaging B-horror performances of the 1980s). The essential problem stems however from uncertainty whether this is a deliberate ploy or a mishit utilisation of talented actors. A scene where Allegra criticises the woodenness of characters in the game suggests the former, but the crass acting proves detrimental to viewing. And that is the base problem with Cronenberg's movie, which is too indulged into the gimmicks spread throughout, that he fails to touch real depth. More focus is placed on slimy constructs and the concept of techno-organic post-reality that context seems to be taken for a ride. "},{"Title":"the only cronenberg film i didn't like","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  as a fan of cronenberg's films i judged this based on the other work and found it lacking. what it lacks is the emotional power of his best movies. i notice this isn't really mentioned in other reviews.intellectual games and speculation and bizarre special effects are interesting but what really makes cronenberg an artist in my mind is the underlying human tragedy he is able to express using the horror/sci-fi/fantasy genre, see The Fly for instance (not to be confused with  john carpenter's The thing) or even less known work like The Brood.existenz has no power.it does have a little philip k dick style charm, but without the heavy spiritual/philosophical impact of dick at his best.compared to your average movie, it's more intellectual but less fun. it has some humor but not much. there are too many references to past cronenberg movies which makes you wonder if he hasn't seen too many of his own retrospectives. also, i am not a gamer and so the game aspect seemed very adolescent, probably moreso than most actual games. then again, this movie is like a real cronenberg movie turned into a video game, lots of tricks and twists and effects, but all the emotion and feeling drained out of it. respect it cuz it's cronenberg, but go watch something else.  "},{"Title":"too far up its own bio-port","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film was a nice (if unoriginal) idea, but it simply did not come across on the screen. Cronenberg was so busy being Cronenberg that the whole making a film concept kind of got away from him; and left the audience wondering, but not really caring as to what the hell was going on.The game within a game theme caused predictable scenarios and disjointed action, despite the reasonable performance of Jude Law and the 'smashed' performance Of Jennifer Jason Leigh.It should be commended for trying a more intellectual tack of the 'Matrix' theme and for co-starring Callum Keith Rennie, who looked as gorgeous as ever. However, if you're not a Cronenberg fan, I wouldn't recommend it. "},{"Title":"Cronenberg has lost the plot","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Whats going on here, haven't we seen this already in Videodrome. What's new here exactly, strange organic squelchy objects, naw! That was in Naked Lunch, fazing in and out of different realities, too many titles to name, ok then,  sexual connotations with holes being fingered with jelly lubrication, do me a favour. Could the plot have been any more predictable, could the acting have been any more wooden, could the pace have been any slower, I could go on. I am a fan of David Cronenberg and usually I am very impressed by his originality and daring but this is either self indulgent nonsense or more worrying a complete loss of the plot, whatcha been doing for the last ten years Mr Cronenberg. It sucks. "},{"Title":"eXiStEnZ","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Existenz is a bizarre film. Though thats probably the purpose the film maker was making it for. It leaves you thinking what you just spend time on. Wondering if you wasted on yet another movie you just watched because you were bored, or a movie that has deep undertones yet you could not figure them out. Itleaves you with a disturbing aftertaste, henceforth you think about, and tell other people about it, who then are intrigued and want to watch it, resulting it not necessarily being popular but often watched. The cast, the producer, directors and composer all give you the impression that this will be a bombastic film, that should be great. Well, its very graphic in its interpretations, and therefore it makes you disturbed, but the idea itself, of people loosing themselves in a game, and loosing the importance in things, is very interesting and one could say, is a delving into the human psychie, but nonetheless, once you have seen it, you wont be sure whether you just wasted time there or if you just saw a good movie, well, I'm doing the makers a favour here by saying, you'll just have to watch it for yourself. "},{"Title":"I think I want my money back...","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although thought-provoking, this film suffers from the same hokey mawkishness that pervades most of Cronenberg's films- in fact, MOST Canadian films! Wished Eccleston's role would be larger.   "},{"Title":"Where did Cronenburg's talent go?","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What has happened to David Cronenburg?  I came out of this film feeling really dispirited and depressed, primarily because none of my expectations for a Cronenburg film were fulfilled.As soon as I saw the organic game pods, I laughed and was pleased, but the kind of development I was expecting of that idea did not materialise.  The gore and the organic props were simply displayed to us, as if that was enough to create a visceral response.  I'm afraid I found the scene in the Chinese Restaurant no more disturbing than actually eating chicken's feet for real.Too many of the action and plot points were set up in advance (such as the bony gun), leading to a lack of suspense.I think the worst aspect of the film is that there was no emotional involvement at any level.  Nothing was done to make us feel empathy with the characters.  The fact that we are in a game, and that game dialogue is trite and inane, is no excuse to use trite and inane dialogue throughout the film. The performances suffered as a result, and I was most disappointed in Jennifer Jason Leigh, who appeared to be sleepwalking through the whole movie.  The love scene seemed to be put in gratuitously just to show us some kissing.  Also Jude Law was completely miscast - his role should have gone to Christopher Ecclestone who, for our American friends who may not have seen him, is one of the most intense and powerful screen actors around. Law failed to convince that he was really scared or worried by developments.  One minute he is phobic about having his body penetrated, the next he is consenting to a spinal operation with scarcely a shrug.  Of course, if he's playing a game, he wouldn't be worried, no more than I am by playing Doom.  But a film has to use fear and uncertainty as a dramatic device to draw the audience into the story, and this is where eXistenZ failed completely.I think Cronenburg likes to think that the world he creates in his movies is existentialist and unemotional, but the fact remains that his best films, specifically The Dead Zone, The Fly and Dead Ringers (I haven't seen M. Butterfly), all work because of their emotional power.  The musical scores for these films (all by Howard Shore) all serve to underline the emotional undercurrent, but in eXistenZ the score is simply trying to create a response which isn't provided by the film, and gives the same impression of hack-work which the rest of the film provokes.  Furthermore, if we take the example of The Fly, the theme of physical transformation is very clearly expressed and deeply explored.  In eXistenZ, I could see from the plot that Cronenburg's theme involved the nature of reality, but I found no deep exploration of this theme, unlike in, say, Videodrome.The whole film suffers very badly from having a small budget.  The various game worlds we are shown are all very small-scale and cramped - not even up to the standard of modern role-playing games.  Also the props and the special effects looked cheap, with only the bio-port in the characters' backs remotely convincing.  I feel that Cronenburg should have made some other film for the money he had, and to wait until he could raise enough money to make eXistenZ on a much larger canvas.  This also affected the ending of the film, which came too quickly, and seemed quite perfunctory. The fact that the world of reality was one in which there is a battle between gameplayers and realists, and that the world of the game was a world in which there was a battle between gameplayers and realists, and so on ad infinitum, seemed to indicate a distinct lack of imagination on Cronenburg's part, and undoubtedly gave away the ending, at least for me.When the film was coming to it's (for want of a better word) climax, I couldn't believe it - nothing had happened yet!  Even when the final twist happened, nothing major was at stake.  I didn't care whether we were still playing a game or whether this was the real reality.  We never found out enough about reality to know if the conflict between gameplayers and Realists was meaningful.  In the end, the entire film could have been made as one of the less intriguing episodes of the Outer Limits (the Twilight Zone has already been cited), and certainly the so-called twist-in-the-tail ending was every bit as predictable as one from one of those programmes.I feel that Cronenburg should avoid writing his films from now on.  In the early days of Scanners, The Brood and Videodrome (similarly emotionless in tone), the films were worth watching because nothing like them had been seen before.  As his career developed, the films were worth watching because he combined visceral imagery with strong emotionality.  Now we are back to just strong images with no emotional involvement, and in 1999 the imagery simply isn't strong enough to excite interest any more.  These same problems afflicted Crash, his last film.  For me, Dead Ringers remains his best film.The film is worth seeing, if you have never watched any of Cronenburg's past stuff, and you have had no exposure to science fiction.  Otherwise, there's nothing new or provocative in this film to make it worth watching.  "},{"Title":"I really hope that didn't really happen....","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Hmm where do I start. good points. ummmmmm....... The premise of this film is at first interesting. Although quickly you realise that it falls into the pit of going no where IT feels like a T.V movie. Its frankly embaressing. by far the worst Cronerberg film Iv'e seen. Law and leigh are given a laughable script to work with. (no one could make those lines sound convincing)This isn't a clever film. Anyone who thinks he matrix is a clever film will probably lap this one up though. Unless they are obssesed with big effects.. Which this has none. The narrative feels bad. Just ad I can't describe it. But one minute they are at a gas station then a chinese restraunt . It just bounces from one scene to th next. No rythm or pace. I really cant think of anything that was....  ah actually I liked the gun with the teeth bullets, nice touch.4/10 "},{"Title":"Astounding, surreal sci-fi from David Cronenberg.","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" With eXistenZ, David Cronenberg once again examines the symbiotic relationship between man and technology and questions our perception of reality, ideas that were first explored by the Canadian director in Videodrome, and which were later flogged to death by the Wachowski brothers in the Matrix trilogy.Cronenberg's plot sees the world of gaming having advanced to the level where biological consoles plug directly into the player via an umbilical cord, delivering virtual reality adventures indistinguishable from reality. After a realism extremist makes an attempt on the life of top game designer Allegra Geller, at a testing seminar for her new project eXistenZ (small 'E', capital 'X', capital 'Z'), she is forced to go on the run, accompanied by marketing trainee Ted Pikul (Lude Law).Unfortunately, during the assassination attempt, the gaming pod holding the only copy of eXistenZ is damaged, and so Allegra and Ted plug themselves into the programme to ensure that it has not been seriously impaired. What follows can only be described as a complete mind-f*!k!Ted and Allegra become increasingly disorientated as they play the game, their characters within eXistenZ plugging into virtual pods that take them into games within games. Eventually, neither they, nor the audience, can tell what is real and what is game-play, and even at the end of the film where events finally seem to make sense, the film's final line of dialogue sows seeds of doubt into the viewer's mind.Gorehounds might be a little disappointed with the level of splatter in this particular Cronenberg effort, with the only gruesome effects being a few bullet hits (some admittedly nasty ones to the face of one poor sap, mind you) and the juicy internal workings of a game pod, but with an excellent cast that includes Willem Dafoe and Ian Holm, and loads of weirdness, anyone who loves intelligent, thought provoking sci-fi with a surreal twist should have a blast.Oh, and Jennifer Jason Leigh still looks fabulous; I'd let her plug me into her meta-flesh pod any day! "}{"Title":"Philosophy, Virtual Reality, Violence","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" An absorbing exploration of virtual reality, although it is not yet clear how much the director himself intended. This film deliberately takes you through several layers of artificial reality, leaving only subtle clues about which layer of virtual reality you are in, positing an ontological confusion for the viewer to ponder. Also can be seen as a satire of video games-- the whole movie though may fall into the fallacy of imitative form here. It seems unable to escape from the video game genre which it imitates; thus the satire becomes problematic. A number of interesting ideas crisscross throughout though the biological mutant is one; the interface of technology and biology, the cyborg urge to transcend reality-- and philosophical allusions such as the title's to Heidegger, along with existential questions i.e., the game characters are partly scripted or determined and yet partly free to alter their fate, and they wonder at how strange that feels in the game. One character then notes that this existential confusion is just like real life, thereby erasing again the distinction between the virtual and the real. Likewise with the observation that it is unpleasant to stumble around in a world where you don't know what will happen next and you're not sure how to play since you have to stumble around just to find out the goal and the unknown rules. A virtual game within the game is titled TranscendenZ. Also a critique of how virtual violence makes us unable to feel the effects of real violence. Even the heroes at every level of ontological existence find themselves confused about violence. They don't like it but it is thrilling and part of the game, which then they fear is real. The game creator, the god of the system, is assassinated in the end; yet that very scenario is played out in direct parallel to a video game we've just witnessed-- and the onlookers believe that it is still just part of the virtual reality. In the end, the film does not resolve the doubt about whether or not this is real but the point is clear (to me anyway). Existenz means Da-sein You are there. You are thrown into a set of rules and mysteries at every level. Ontologically, virtual reality recapitulates reality. And its common game motifs express, like a royal road to the unconscious, our own fascination with violence.Nevertheless, while Cronenberg affirms these philosophical allusions in an interview about the film, he claims that he is very much against the Reality ... underground name of terrorist group portrayed in the film both in the game and in the 'real' level. Seems that Cronenberg himself did not put that much thought into the film, though his impressive education comes through. The interview in Cineaste gives the impression of a middle brow intellectual who's trying to be avant-garde by inclination. Cronenberg is simply on the side of free imagination -- the clichéd bourgeois modernist credo-- despite the acknowledged ambivalence there. (My impression here might be due to one limited interview.) Still, Cronenburg seems to miss the point that his film betrays the fallacy of imitative form (here imitating computer games while doing a satirical critique of them, but a critique that is unable to transcend the same form) probably because he actually thinks that it is imaginative and radical. Yet the film's imaginative world is less bearable, and more jejune, than our own all-too-real world. It remains trapped in the computer game worldview. "},{"Title":"Original and inventive reality-bender","Date":"7 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" eXistenZ is the first original screenplay from director David Cronenberg since Videodrome. This fact is actually somewhat down heartening when you consider how fantastically original those two and his earlier body-horror films are. Cronenberg is a superb director of course and many of his other films are excellent works but I do think that it's the ones where he takes full control of the screenplay as well as direction that are on the whole the most satisfying. The comparison between eXistenZ and Videodrome goes beyond this though, not only do they both incorporate bio-mechanical sci-fi like the bone gun that shoots teeth for bullets but they also both explore the ideas of technology physically shaping human beings in dark psychological ways. The former used the then contemporary technology of video; eXistenZ uses newer virtual reality video games as a means of fusing the director's ideas.Set some time in the near future, a group of people play a new game called eXistenZ. It's a virtual reality game that is organic. It works by accessing the central nervous system of the player and is powered by it. The person plugged into eXistenZ shapes the game itself.Cronenberg seems to be having some fun with this one. Realities fold over into other realities and because we all know that what we are experiencing is not supposed to be real this allows Cronenberg to really go for it and not worry about believability. It allows him to create perhaps his most surreal film yet. The world in eXistenZ is always a little off in some way and this is simply because we are in a game world and films rarely immerse themselves in such. Sometimes the strangeness is because of obvious things such as bizarre characters and strange awkward dialogue or the very odd setting like the trout farm where game consoles are made. But a lot of the other times, it's the less obvious details that create a feeling that something isn't right. The way background characters move and act, the way that places have game-like generic names like 'Country Gas Station' or 'Chinese Restaurant' and also the fact that people wear clothes with flat colours and designs with no intricate details (i.e. more game-like and easier for a computer to generate). So the attention to detail is really excellent. The participants also comment of aspects of the plot or game characters that don't work well &#x96; which was a nice detail and quite comical. The difficulty in distinguishing between fantasy and reality in a convincing virtual reality world is one of the key themes.Because of its reality-bending nature and the way the story arc pans out, eXistenZ is a film that invites repeat viewings. Many of the details only become apparent later on and re-watching it works well. It's not a film that tends to be mentioned much in discussions about the best films in Cronenberg's filmography but for me this is one of his most interesting and original. "},{"Title":"Over-hyped","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was attracted to this movie by the line Makes the Matrix look like child's play on the promotional flyer. What a misrepresentation. Matrix is a vastly superior movie to ExistenZ. In fact ExistenZ is simply a very ordinary movie, which looks like it was made on a shoestring budget.I have really enjoyed a few Cronenberg movies such as Scanners and Videodrome, but this was not even close to being as good as those movies. In fact there was clearly a great deal of influence from another awful Cronenberg movie, The Naked Lunch, in this movie.Jude Law and Jennifer Jason Leigh are both excellent actors, but they seemed lost in this movie, wandering around trying to work out what to do next. There are other heavyweights such as Ian Holm and William Dafoe whose roles are must have been intended to be caricatures. The scenes which depict the civil war are some of the least convincing and low budget efforts I have ever seen in a movie boasting such a good cast.Watch this one with your expectations set very low and, who knows, you may be pleasantly surprised! "},{"Title":"Cronenberg Oozes Into Virtual Reality","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Welcome to the bizarre world of David Cronenberg, and a film in which he considers the implications of modern technology and where it's all taking us as a society-- a  contemplation of hypothetical possibilities that are at once unsettling and exciting.  It's `eXistenZ,' written and directed by Cronenberg; a mind-bender that will have you meeting yourself coming and going, and not knowing which is which before it's all over.  But that's the nature of the game, and there is, in fact, a very real possibility that you're actually not even reading this page right now-- I mean, how can you tell for certain?  And that gives you an idea of where this film is about to take you.Video game maven and designer extraordinaire Allegra Geller (Jennifer Jason Leigh) has created the ultimate virtual reality video game, eXistenZ (pronounced EGs-ah-stenz), and a control group has been assembled to test it out, with Allegra herself as the guide and game-master.  This is not your typical video game, however, not by a longshot; to play, in fact, the participants have to be fitted with a `bio-port,' which is implanted in the base of the spine, and into which the game is hooked up via a connection that looks like an umbilical cord.  The game module itself is like nothing you've ever seen, either.  A kind of erotic-looking latex affair on the outside, the components are actually organic in composition.  From all appearances, this is going to be one wild ride of game, which is exactly what Allegra and her company is promising.The night of the test is ill-omened, however, in light of the fact that rival companies are out to either steal or stifle the realization of eXistenZ.  There have even been death threats, and an assassination attempt on Allegra's life at this juncture is clearly within the realm of possibility; and accordingly, a bodyguard, Ted Pikul (Jude Law) has been assigned to protect Allegra, and most importantly, the game-- the prototype of which is the only one in existence.  And it is in Allegra's personal game module.  And so the festivities begin, with the promise of excitement that just may transcend even all that eXistenZ has to offer.Reminiscent of a couple of his earlier films, `Videodrome' and `Scanners,' Cronenberg has crafted and delivered a thought provoking film, the message of which he presents (as he did with his aforementioned films) in fairly graphic terms.  He plants the seeds of disconcerting shadows in your imagination, then waters them with visual stimuli that encompasses myriad forms of all things creepy and crawly.  In addition, he weighs in heavily on the fear factor, relying on the effects blood, slime and things that ooze will have upon his audience.  And it's all very effective.  He sets a good pace and attempts to balance out story and F/X, but he does enjoy things that gurgle and spill out, and more often than not the F/X tend to take precedence over the story.  But this is Cronenberg's style, and it works well for him in most instances.Having such a definite visual style, however, does not necessarily lend strength to character development, and Cronenberg (it would seem) relies upon the creativity and initiative of his actors to find the tone that will most effectively convey their respective characterizations most accurately and efficiently.  Essentially, the characters are a secondary consideration, if fact, so any depth that may have added considerably to the emotional involvement or impact of this film is absent.  Cronenberg is too intent on suggesting the effects of all of this on `people,' and as such, the individual gets lost in the shuffle of goo.Given Cronenberg's priorities, it's no surprise then that the performances suffer somewhat from it.  Jennifer Jason Leigh looks terrific in this one, and she's certainly convincing to a point, but Cronenberg has written a one-note symphony, and that is precisely what he extracts from his actors-- nothing more and nothing less.  There's just not enough `shock value' to be derived from detail and nuance of portrayal, so Cronenberg simply doesn't bother with it.  Jude Law also succumbs to the maestros style of conducting, but he plays the note he's given as well as can be expected.As Kiri Vinokur, Ian Holm's talents are wasted in a role better suited to the likes of Vincent Schiavelli or Dick Miller.  Furthermore, Shciavelli would have been perfect in the role of Gas, as well, which in the film is played convincingly enough by Willem Dafoe.  But again, for Cronenberg's needs it was a phone-in; certainly not a stretch, by any means, for Dafoe. In fact, it would have been an interesting casting twist to have Schiavelli play both parts (and it would have saved on the budget-- two birds with one stone!).  Also slipping into the portrayal Straits of the Individual Lost are Sarah Polley (Merle) and Christopher Eccleston (Levi).The supporting cast includes Don McKellar (Yevgeny), Callum Keith Rennie (Hugo), Oscar Hsu (Chinese Waiter) and Kris Lemche (Noel).  In retrospect, Cronenberg's film is something of a study in contradictions; while it has a concept that is intellectually stimulating, the presentation is designed for a target audience that will inherently lack the capacity or experience to appreciate the more profound aspects of it.  Interestingly enough, this same year (1999) the Wachowski Brothers explored similar territory, thematically, in the resoundingly successful `The Matrix,' which not only has superior F/X, but pays close attention to characterization, through which a sense of autonomy-- even among the masses-- emerges effectively.  And it is precisely that lack of consideration of the individual human element that makes `eXistenZ' less than satisfying.  Cronenberg has a terrific idea here, at the heart of which is a cautionary tale with a significant moral; and it's a shame that that is not the film he made.  Instead, he delivers a film that is entertaining on a very base and basic level, but which, in the final analysis, limits itself unnecessarily.  6/10. "},{"Title":"Remake of Videodrome?","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Before the other Cronenberg fans jump too high, I've seen almost everything he's done, am one of the few who thought M Butterfly was very much underrated and still think Shivers and Rabid were both fun and fair creepy, and liked him in Night Breed.But, Existenz.  I will say, with reservations, he's better than this.  The movie is good, Leigh is fun and so is Dafoe (as always) but the telling thing for me was I didn't come away saying this was blank's best performance or one of.  Peter Weller in Naked Lunch, Walken in the Dead Zone, Irons in the oscar-snubbed Dead Ringers, Holly Hunter and Roseanna Arquette in Crash--all incredible performances.  But not here.  This really fells like a remake of Videodrome--right down to the 'Death to Allegra Geller' substitution for 'Death to the New Flesh'.I wonder if the production hounds had too much to do with this flick. Certainly the marketing people did with their incessant and wrong-headed allusions to The Matrix.Recommendable, but don't expect classic Cronenberg.  "},{"Title":"Good, but is just Videodrome updated","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yes this was a good movie, the acting was good, the special effects were okay/average and the plot/story-line was clever but by no means unique or ground-breaking. The idea of a fully interactive computer game/environment has been used a couple of times before, for example The Lawnmower Man, Tron (no laughing its true). The idea of getting lost in pseudo realities is also very old, for example Videodrome. I also found a lot of the effects in this film very similar to videodrome, such as 'The Gun' In fact the effects were fairly basic and even poor at some points, eg sitting in a car with a moving background. I know this can all be classed as David Cronenberg's Stylish view on things, but something bugs me about a film depicting the future of gaming without using any of the modern abilities of computer effects. Is it a clever view of todays world or is it just cheap? A similar film would be The Matrix, which I found to be the better movie with plenty of modern 'cyberpunk' style of it's own. eXistenZ is worth watching for the storyline but I wouldn't get over excited and after watching it, watch The Matrix and see how computer effects can be used for more than just laser beams. My final point would be that eXistenZ was okay but disappointing, The Matrix was much better than expected and I would love to have seen a hybrid of the 2 films "},{"Title":"I wanted to like it","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Despite what I thought were great performances by Jennifer Jason Leigh, and in a smaller role, Willem Dafoe, and despite a very Dickian plot, the ending of the film really killed it for me.Without giving too much away, I don't buy the final relationship between Jude Law and Leigh.  Given what had gone before, it was consistent with Law's character perhaps, but certainly not Leigh's, and the whole sequence was just so transparently obvious that it was banal.In some films, a bad ending can be forgiven, but in this one it was especially important to resolve things in a satisfying way.  It didn't, and that is disappointing.  "},{"Title":"I liked it better when it was called Videodrome","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Alas, it seems David Cronenberg has run out of ideas and must now resort to rehashing themes from his old films.  This is basically a Videodrome update, yet it still seems rather passé when you consider that PC adventure games basically went out with the 80s.  Jennifer Jason Leigh does a decent job opposite a very wooden performance by Jude Law and Willem Dafoe's presence is basically a waste of fine talent.  Throw in an extremely predictable plot line and you get the feeling Cronenberg needs to start hiring screenwriters cause he certainly has nothing original left to say. "},{"Title":"predictable","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie should have been made 10 years ago. It now looks hopelessly outdated. It even has a made for TV feel about it. This movie manages to put you on the wrong foot a couple of times, but then you catch on and it all becomes very predictable. The acting is good. Like I said before the visuals are lousy, bordering on camp. Don't bother watching this movie unless it's on TV "},{"Title":"eXistenZdisappointment","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Again for one more time Cronenberg´s filmography comes around from the same subjects.Mutation , sex , future , virtual reality. Unfortunately the receipt didn't work that time. You can easily recognize signs of Cronenberg´s cinema the same ones that had worked in previous movies ( Dead Ringers or Crush) but now something didn't go as before. I believe that all was too much and the movie lost its way. In the second part nothing works. All were confused and messy even commandos appear in the middle of nowhere. All the atmosphere of the first part disappeared in the second. But i am fan of Cronenberg's cinema and i am waiting for the next big thing!!  "}{"Title":"Amateur","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have been in contact with David Cronenberg's cinema and I must say this is the only one of his films that I haven't enjoyed in ANY perspective.  It felt the whole time as if eXistenZ was an experimental film by an amateur(say, the kind of film that creates a buzz around a fresh new director).  While it is not a bad film in the whole sense, anyone that has seen Crash knows that Mr.Cronenberg can be more subtle in the middle of shocking and gross sequences and possesses the talent not to insult the audience by giving them the plot on a silver plate. The plot isn't even that different or original or complex..it is nothing that we have never seen before in order for him to prepare us so much to digest(specially the ending which came out as an easy way out of a dead-end in which he probably found himself while writing the film). The performances lacked humanity and the script wasn't really helping the actors (how can anyone believe that the designer of the game was on a same level as the newbie played by Jude Law all the way...it was so stupid that there had to be something there to explain..something as stupidly convincing as what we get to know really happened in the ending). I can completely understand how some people might really enjoy this film because it looks as if it were directed to a certain group of movie goers and not your average spectator and I must say that the whole anal reference regarding the bio-ports was a pretty good idea as the chinese restaurant sequence has some of Cronenberg's best injected into it.  "},{"Title":"Acting? What's that?","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this film for one reason - Callum Keith Rennie, who is better known for Due South.  He was the highlight in an otherwise awful film.  I went with a group of friends and we were the only people in the cinema, and it was a good thing because the film was so bad we talked though it.  The acting was appalling and the script was even worse, the best thing about it was the special effects.  It was a good idea but came out at a bad time, too close to the upcoming release of Matrix to be seen to be an original idea. The twists in the story certainly added some interest to an otherwise complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"Good? Hmmm........","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, here's the thing interesting story, okay effects, funny but totally gross! I'm not usually the queasy type, but this film kind of brought that out of me. I would recommend it to Sci-Fi fans with strong stomachs (and don't eat beforehand!!) I prefer Jane Austen. This is a far cry! "},{"Title":"If you liked the matrix this will blow you away!","Date":"7 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Some friends and I decided to watch this movie as sort of a Sunday Weird Movie Day type thing. We went into this movie seeing around a 6.5 rating and decided why not. That rating could not be more crap! This movie is mind bending good! I am a huge fan of The Matrix and if you are as well you will feel right as home. The first Matrix not the 2 pieces of crap that followed it. The action in this movie isn't great but this movie paces at a perfect tempo. The greatest part about this movie is that you are always questioning exactly what is going on. It gives you just enough information to figure out the question but strings you on perfectly until the movie gives you the answer. Many movies like this try to dumb dialogue down because the directors of those movies think most movie goers are not intelligent enough to figure out a plot. David Cronenberg treats you like an intelligent person and that is something that is missing in movies these days. If you love Sci-fi movies then this needs to be on your must watch list ASAP! "},{"Title":"a trip into the reality of the virtual you might want to take, with Cronenberg as 'designer'","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I first saw David Cronenberg's eXistenZ when it first was released in theaters in 1999, and as the first that I saw of his (in a sense, I was probably like Ted in the sense of not yet having the 'portal' to his catalog of work). It flew mostly over my head in what it was conveying thematically, though I still thought it was pretty cool- not enough to immediately re-watch, however, leaving it on my VHS shelf to dust. Cut to eight years later, and having seen most of the director's films it seemed appropriate to re-visit this little science fiction oddity, which did (as many critics at the time noted) get underrated thanks to the Matrix. While the Wachowski's made the better movie, it is of note though that Cronenberg probably carries just as much weight with psychology and philosophy in his worlds, if not more so the former for sure. Plus- as was an unintended bonus having waited this long to re-visit the film- getting into Philip K. Dick works didn't hurt either in appreciating the bizarre but palpable world Cronenberg's created here.It's not just the Three Stigmata book, but also A Maze of Death, that could be called into comparison. Cronenberg's characters are either wise to the fact that the world they inhabit, a kind of futuristic time where it seems more like an alternate reality of the present, or they're closed off from it. The basic gist of the plot reads like pure pulpy PKD a video-game designer, the best in the world named Allegra (Leigh) is on the lam after nearly getting killed at the unveiling of her new system of the movie's title, and Ted (Jude Law, at first annoyingly whiny, but it's something one gets used to as he is a good actor above all else), a PR man, follows along to do what he can. Problem is, he doesn't have a portal for the gaming system to go through, as it's all a bunch of intestinal-type tubes and plugs into the base of the spine. Soon they find safe haven to play the game, but are they *really* playing it? Are they suddenly thrown back into reality at a moment's notice? There is even a twist ending, and then a catch on that ending, that has that great sensation of being jolted back, as Dick could do, but in a more visceral manner as only Cronenberg can handle.eXistenZ is crafty as a thriller, and inventive with the special effects it's not without some notice that because of the devices and means of teleportation that there's comparison to the Matrix. But there's also a tendency to overlook how stark Cronenberg is in dealing with the violence- where the Matrix is slick and full of technical innovations to match its alternate universe, eXistenZ is shot and cut in a style that isn't too different from other Cronenberg movies, and in and of itself is probably even more graphic than anything Hollywood could easily cook up. This goes without saying, of course, that either film could, and has been, easy fodder for a philosopher like Slavoj Zizek to deconstruct what is it to suddenly replace what is programed with reality, with free-will, with energy from one's own body (or, as he says, libido) into a new construct? And as Maze of Death also suggested, quite chillingly, how far is the capacity for murder and mayhem and destruction and betrayal when all bets are off? There's a moment when Allegra keeps saying, chuckling about it as the ski-lodge burns down and there's a tense moment between her and Ted, that 'it's only a game.' Is that all? It deserves to make comparisons to these other works not simply to add some puffed-up weight to this review. Cronenberg's film, albeit a little flawed (it's a little tough to get into the flow of the two leads, who don't seem to have chemistry at first, and only as the game goes on does it start to gel completely), has the questions to raise to make it as potent a work as anything Dick could come up with, or at least following along on the path previously treaded. And, on top of this, he makes it a fun and wicked ride, with a great couple of scenes for Willem Dafoe (is it in the script?), a fascinating amphibian mutant, and a guessing game that isn't cheaply manipulative. Taking another look at it all years later, in fact, it's probably one of the better films to come out in 1999. "},{"Title":"So Deeply Inherent And Invertedly Emotional That One Cannot Truly Do It Justice Without Talking About It As If One Were Writing Prose","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" eXistenZ is a crescendo in Cronenberg's style. His films are always emotional, but not in the sense of a tear-jerker or a melodrama. His emotion comes from a vivid portrayal of the more sensual, sensitive, mood-oriented perspective of life, perhaps like life in a dream. eXistenZ explores two people entering a virtual reality game and feeling it like one would a dream if one could remember every nuance of a dream like one can with conscious life. But mysteriously, every scene feels warmly insulated, like there is no such thing as life outside of a particular interior setting or like the characters in the scene are the only ones in the world as far as we are concerned. Cronenberg thrives on extreme sensitivity, and eXistenZ is a perfectly tailored fit for a filmmaker like him.The film avoids every dull cliché of the technological thriller, as even the mechanisms and objects involving playing the game, even guns, are all somehow living. They are made of flesh, they pulsate. The music by Howard Shore, as you can expect from any Cronenberg film, is intensely moving, the personification of moving under dark water. You see, the way I'm describing my thoughts on this film are the only way I can think of to truly communicate what I mean. The film's effect is so deeply inherent and invertedly emotional that one cannot truly do it justice without talking about it as if one were writing prose.Jude Law and Jennifer Jason Leigh are wonderful as the two lead characters, mustering every ounce of duplicity they're capable of to successfully portray the affected archs of their characters in the story. Also, Jennifer Jason Leigh is so incredibly sexy in this film that one almost needs a mandatory towel to wipe away the sweat. "},{"Title":"not enough of everything.","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" My main complaint about Existenz is that there's not enough. In General, there's not enough.You could make en entire movie series, TV show or comic series based on the ideas of Existenz. (Well, maybe not a TV series. The last thing I'd want to see is another Robocop TV series. It'd have to be either really f****** good or forget the whole thing.) The movie contained several concepts and ideas that were not explored nearly enough. Like, the idea of a world where free will is not a big factor. Where the decision to have sex with someone is not your own decision to make. The biological machines and weapons. The Game Urges. The existence of weird genetically engineered creatures used as both game parts and Chinese food.Intentionally, the movie has more questions than answers, and you're never 100% sure what level of reality you're on.The game designer understands the RULES of the Existenz game, but is as surprised as her bodyguard about about the contents of the actual game itself, which suggests that she's played similar games before but not this one. This contradicts the fact that she designed the game... or does it? Basically the movie is a cross between The Matrix and Videodrome. "},{"Title":"You have to play the game to know why your playing the game. I liked it, a lot...","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" eXistenZ starts with a small gathering of people who have been chosen to try the latest virtual reality game from the mind of Allegra Geller (Jennifer Jason Leigh) the best games designer in the world, period. Besides designing games Allegra has developed a new games system to play them on, a metaflesh pod which is inserted directly into the player via a bio-port on the base of their spine. However during the test an attempt is made on Allegra's life by a pro-reality campaigner, lowly security guard Ted Pikul (Jude Law) saves her & they drive off into the night. Allegra says she cannot trust anyone & needs to make sure her metaflesh pod containing the new games code hasn't been damaged & as a consequence they both need to play the game, the line between reality & fantasy becomes increasingly blurred...This Canadian, English, French co-production was written & directed by David Cronenberg & is a top film that I enjoyed on various levels. I personally thought the script was very clever, it thought the twists & turns worked extremely well, I thought it was engaging, enthralling & hooked me. It's a complex film & I could easily see many viewers getting bored or frustrated with it & losing interest but I was glued to it & it really engrossed me. There are the usual moral messages as well which are presented in a strong & intelligent way, the obsession with games in our society, the way we use technology to escape our 'normal' lives, addiction, corruption & trust, hey it's all here. The character's are good, the dialogue not overly complex or full of technical jargon so most will be able to follow it easily & I also thought eXistenZ contained that one element which many films & they're makers have forgotten about, originality. I mean I think I'm right in saying that eXistenZ is a unique film in it's own right that doesn't follow anyones lead, although having said that I am struggling a bit to actually place eXistenZ in a genre as I can't honestly say I felt it was sci-fi, horror, action or thriller. Maybe a bit of all four, it felt fresh & different & I must admit I liked the abrupt 'you decide what happened' ending.Director Cronenberg is a class act all day long, he loves his bizarre imagery & complex stories doesn't he? He's made some cracking films over the years & I think eXistenZ is up there with the best of them like Videodrome (1983), The Fly (1986) & Dead Ringers (1988) all of which come highly recommended by me. He films with style & there's plenty of memorable scenes here. The gore levels aren't as high as in some of Cronenberg's other films so don't expect buckets of blood although someone has the side of their face shot off.Technically eXistenZ is top notch, the look of the film, the locations, the special effects & production values are great. I got the feeling that everything in eXistenZ was carefully thought through & deliberate. The acting was good although I thought Jude Law was a bit flat.eXistenZ is a great film which I liked immensely, it's as simple & straight forward as that. Well worth watch for those who want something a bit different, Cronenberg fans & those who like sci-fi/horror. Definitely recommended. "},{"Title":"stick a fork in it","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  WAY overdone.  First problem, same as the key problem in the MatrixLead actor.  Jennifer Jason Leigh is cute and all, but she's not a brilliant actress.  Definitely did not pull off this one.Second problem  Obviously nobody who had anything to do with the creation of this movie has ever played a role playing video game.  This game didn't allow for any freedom -- EVERY action led up to the inevitable conclusion in that stupid battle scene at the end, of which our main characters took no part and had no real role.  They were acting because the game had programmed them to -- that's not a game.  It's a movie, and in this case, not a good one.Third problem, which I said above  They tried too hard.  There was a decent idea here (been done before in Star Trek and the X-Files, to name only two of many, but a decent idea nonetheless), but the inept script took it nowhere.  The only talent in the movie, Willem Dafoe, was wasted (literally) in far too little time.  And the end -- classicly stupid wake up from a dream with a similarly stupid twist as the credits began to roll.  Come on people.I didn't particularly like the Matrix because Keanu ruined it and it relied too heavily on effects, instead of substance.  But eXistenZ was flat from start to finish.  At least the Matrix kept me busy with nice effects. "},{"Title":"uneXistenZ","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I would like to note that the movie would have been completely unwatchable if it hadn't been for the stunning beauty of Jennifer Jason Lee.  Though I don't think she had a chance to portray her acting skills to their full extent in this movie.  The plot was unoriginal and laughable at best (something I might expect of a cheesy horror flick).  It was worth the one dollar rental but, I don't think I'll ever be watching it again.  On my last note, eXistenZ was by no means the worst movie I have ever seen!  "}{"Title":"Cronenberg in decline","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cronenberg's best years were the Seventies and Eighties, when he was discovering his powers as a comic-horror director. The early schlockfests with local actors in Montreal and Toronto gave way to more thoughtful fantasy films like The Fly, Naked Lunch and Dead Ringers. Now we see Cronenberg desperately cannibalizing his earlier work through repetition of imagery. The organic gun refers to the surgical instruments of Dead Ringers, the bio-port to the stomach-vagina of Videodrome or the anus-typewriter of Naked Lunch (still my favorite of his films). Where are the funny parts for the actors? Jude Law is terrible in a badly written role, Jennifer Jason Leigh should be sluttishly sexy but is just tiresome instead. I thought Don McKellar was going to choke on his hair, or on his fake Russian accent.Cronenberg has used up his capital as an artist. "},{"Title":"eXistenZ is an unviewable mess (possible spoilers)","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I wasted 90 minutes of my life watching David Cronenberg's 'eXistenZ', which has to be one of the most STUPID movies I've ever had the displeasure to watch.The main theme seems to be videogames are evil, all game designers must DIE!.  Perhaps Cronenberg played such a game once and lost, and this movie is his 'revenge'?  (or revenge on all of us?)The subtheme is this reality, or is this still the game? was covered in a MUCH better fashion in 'Total Recall'.Some of the effects in eXistenZ were interesting; the 'bone gun' was an intriguing idea.  But the movie seemed to descend into grossness for the sake of grossness, and that got tiresome quickly.The ending (if it can be called that) was unsatisfying, and provides no closure for the viewer...it leaves you guessing at what the movie was all about, and what the POINT of this 90 minute mish-mash was...Cronenberg has directed _FAR_BETTER_ films...'Scanners', and 'Videodrome' come to mind.  At least those films had actual beginnings, middles, and ends.  eXistenZ was a confused, circular, gross, mess all the way thru, with the characters having no discernable goals, and no discernable changes. The only thing learned in this movie is that Cronenberg's writing and directing skills have gone far downhill, and subsequent movies he works on should be avoided. "},{"Title":"eXistenZ wasted its time and mine.","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" a virtual reality gaming system that taps into the psyche of those who play it. this concept had the potential to be very interesting, so that made it all the more sad that it was executed in a way that was so awful.at the beginning, a PR rep who has never played the game gets convinced to do so. this involves having a hole drilled into his spine to plug it in - a bio-port. there's this large scene where the game designer and her friends explain to him in baby language what a bio-port is, etc.i realize this is supposed to be helpful for the audience, but really. i can't stand films where they make the characters incredibly stupid in order to explain the obvious to the audience. a PR person for a product would already be familiar with at least the basics about what they were supposed to be selling. the plot just goes downhill from there. they try to keep the audience interested by beating them over the head with jennifer jason leigh's sexuality - having her fondle and moan while rubbing her gaming console like it's a sex toy.. later having her shove her finger and tongue in and out of her partner's bio-port... but it was not sexy, not interesting, and just made me roll my eyes at how desperate it was.existenZ takes a subject with the potential to have all kinds of interesting themes and philosophical implications and ignores them all.i feel like it wasted itself and like i wasted MYself by watching it. "},{"Title":"I'd rather watch The Matrix again.","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If there is a benefit to having seen this motion picture, it is that I now have a good word for the feeling of having utterly wasted two hours of my precious life. I was lured into the movie theater by the statement that eXistenZ was similar to The Matrix. Having seen both movies, though, I wonder why anybody would compare eXistenZ to The Matrix, because the only sane conclusion one might arrive at is that The Matrix is by an order of magnitude better than eXistenz. In fact, I can not think of many movies that are not by an order of magnitude better than eXistenZ.The idea eXistenZ is trying to convey is that if you had a virtual computer reality that would be indistinguishable from reality, then you could not distinguish between reality and virtual reality.While this is without a doubt an idea of inherent truth and beauty, it is not very much to fill ninety minutes -- at least if you're trying to get along without any good actors and any recognizable story line.If the two main characters do not slaughter any bizarre life forms, petrol station employees, or each other, they stumble around so pathetically that you immediately realize why Jennifer Jason Leigh never became much more than a B-movie actress. Her display of acting skills in this film is limited to being shy and just being there.Similarly, her partner Jude Law restricts himself to expressing confusion and not knowing what is going on, which is at least consistent with his role as a marketing trainee being confronted with a new technology without second level support staff available.Together, they experience a set of surprising twists and turns in the plot, which surprise the audience not because the plot is clever and unexpected, but because the events are totally incoherent and without the slightest relation to each other or anything else.The most memorable scene is when the two protagonists go down on each other for no apparent reason. As it turns out, there is no reason why they do it. The game just wants them to warm up emotionally for the next scene. Incredible.The problem with this movie is not that it is bad. The problem is that the movie is just totally irrelevant. Weren't it for the time and money I wasted to see it, I would simply have forgotten it existed at all. If you're in the mood for having your concept of reality shaken, I recommend you watch The 13th Floor (which is not a very good movie either, but still much better than eXistenZ) or even better go and watch The Matrix (which is, without a doubt, one of the most amazing motion pictures of the year).  "},{"Title":"Great actor. Bad Film","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There seem to be two rules currently governing Hollywood films at present. The first is you don't need special effects if you have a good story, and the second is you don't need a good story if you have special effects. This film broke those rules by not having either.The film circled around the 'are we/aren't we in the game' scenario that has occurred at least once in every sci-fi series in the past 12 years, which ordinarily you wouldn't mind except that Cronenberg did nothing new with it. There was no depth to the plot, in fact I would go as far as to say there was no plot. By the end of the film the story hadn't gone anywhere. That is if you call the last part of the film an ending, the whole thing stopped dead as if there was a power cut while Cronenberg was writing and he couldn't be bothered to reboot and complete the story.As for the film as a whole, it was boring and predictable. In fact because of the unoriginality of the story I could guess the ending almost before the opening credits had finished. The special effects would have looked tacky 10 years ago, I've seen car tires which look more organic that those game pods did. And what was the deal with that tooth gun, I know this is sci-fi, but there's no way anything like that could exist, the very fact that it did should have been a good indication that they were in a game.Then there's the acting. The majority of the characters were two dimensional and poorly written, and that scene at the beginning where the dying man is saying to Jude Law Trust no one you just sit there and wait for him to finish the sentence Mr. Mulder. The best thing about the whole film was Jude Law's character who seemed to change in each new environment so you got the idea that he's not all he appears. I think you could in all honesty say he carried the entire film.Go see this film if you must, but my advice is save your money and catch it on television.  "},{"Title":"Slime, but no substance","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is an incomplete film, only 97 minutes long, it would be better as an episode of Twilight Zone. The basic concept is interesting; Are we in the game or are we in reality? It's too bad because I was really starting to enjoy Jude Law's portrayal of a PR nerd cum bodyguard, even though it's too bad he hasn't gotten rid of his Canadian accent (he says about,aboot)It seems Cronenberg is more interested in the slimy sound effects for his film, than the actual content. The dialogue is pretty bad and the whole film lacks a real consistent feel.I liked Crash, but maybe Mr. Cronenberg should spend some more time making his next film.  "},{"Title":"This movie was pretty bad.","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When I watched this movie, I was unaware that comparisons were being made to this movie and The Matrix, but I think the chips fell in the right place for both movies The Matrix is universally recognized as an excellently crafted blend of sci-fi and action and this movie is another of Cronenberg's representations of science fiction weird, grotesque merging of human beings and ..whatever. The story itself wasn't enough to pull me in to begin with, but the real deathblow to this movie was the emphasis on hokey, mechanical fleshiness, which doesn't help one immerse themselves into the story but in fact takes away from it as a silly distraction. On the whole, this movie was fail. "},{"Title":"Cronenberg again explores the lines between truth and fiction.","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" After his earlier movie Videodrome, which definitely shows similarities to this movie, director David Cronenberg again ventures himself in the world of virtual reality, in which truth and fiction mix. It's virtual reality taken to a whole other level.eXistenZ is an highly original movie that is well directed and acted out but above all very well written. The movie features a fascination and well thought out concept, which gets greatly executed by director David Cronenberg.eXistenZ is a movie that knows to constantly fool you. Just when you thought you figured things out, another surprise awaits around the corner. Things are never like how you think they are, especially when the line between truth and fiction gets explored. You just never really know what is the reality and what is the game-world, right till the ending. It makes the characters and events all very unpredictable and also provides the movie with a great ending that will leave you thinking even more.The movie has a perfect kind of game-play storytelling, mostly with its character appearances and its puzzling events. They have to complete a certain step or task first before they can continue in the world and find out what their purpose in the game is.The movie knows how to create a perfect balance between realism and surrealism, without ever going over-the-top with either one. The storytelling keeps the movie as simple as possible, though of course the movie isn't always that simple to follow because of its events, dialogs and unusual environments.The movie is not only just weird though. I was actually surprised to see that Videodrome has an higher rating on here, thought it's a far more inaccessible and 'odd' movie. The movie is also still made entertaining and has a good fast pace. It doesn't ever allow the movie to get stuck in its more philosophical moments and deeper meanings. It also makes this movie perfectly watchable for people who normally don't watch this sort of movies.The movie is good looking, with subtle effective special effects a great visual look, that also provides the movie with a certain required 'gaming' feeling.The movie is well cast, with Jude Law in a role you don't too often see him in, that of a shy insecure person. It once more shows how actually versatile Law as an actor is and that he is way more than just another pretty face from Hollywood. Jennifer Jason Leigh also was a great female lead. She hasn't really played ever that many big parts in big productions but with this movie she shows why she nevertheless always have been regarded as a big movie star. The movie also features some other well known actors, in much smaller roles, such as Ian Holm and Willem Dafoe.An highly original movie that is well worth watching, especially if you have seen Videodrome previously.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"You have to WATCH the movie, to find out WHY you're watching the movie.","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The producers of this picture are Hungarians. It's not by crazy artistic momentum that X and Z are capitalized in the titles considering that the word 'isten' means 'god' in Hungarian. - By the way, David, Isten is the word for God in Hungarian... - Hum... Is that so ? Let's consider this movie as 'A History Of Violence' science-fictional sibling. Both films have in common the strength of blowing up respective genres ; thriller and drama in the 2005 one and 'none FX-ed as hell' science fiction in the one we're looking at right now. Everything he does have a meaning and is surrounded by details  The nod to Phil K. Dick (who wrote In The Days of Perky Pat) by creating a 'Perky Pat' fast-food restaurant. The nod to Stanley Kubrick by using 2001's naming pattern ; as IBM became HAL (one letter down in the alphabet) in the 1968 movie, in eXistenZ 'classic lubricant spray' WD-40 becomes XE-60 (one letter up) when Allegra cleans up Pikul's port. The nod to David Cronenberg by using Videodrome's witty kind of formula ('Death to...' & 'Long Live'..) and by taking another medium for central theme of a picture (tv in Videodrome, Video games and virtual reality in eXistenZ In 1983, you penetrated a TV set. In 1999, you're penetrated by a game. Welcome to Canada!)The nod to good taste by getting Peter Suschitzky's cinematography, Howard Shore's music and Ronald Sanders's editing (a team that wins). For everyone born in the early 80's with a super famicom, a genesis or an arcade stick in the hands, this movie rings a bell. Enough with the nods. The plot ? Jennifer Jason Leigh stars as a game designer (Allegra) who creates a virtual-reality game that taps into the players' minds as we can see on the movie main details page. That's the story in the story. To me, this picture is about a 'reality demonstrators' young couple infiltrating the 'brand new virtual game' presentation session to destroy its programmer. I assume that what we see in the last five minutes is reality, if there's such thing as reality. Jennifer Jason Leigh is always playing a game designer in the game they're in and the end of the movie IS the reality, with video games freaks giggles, big hairy dogs, 'Cronenbergy realistic' plastic textures (helmets and stuff) and 9mm handguns. What you see is true. They play transcendenz during an hour or so (in this game, there's a game (eXistenZ) in which JJL plays eXistenZ's genius programmer and Jude -Pikul - Law a marketing trainee associated with Allegra's game), they play eXistenZ because Allegra is very concerned about her pod's health (the thing you plug your nervous system in, in order to play), she has to plug herself and Pikul in then wins the game (Transcendenz) and back in the reality they kill Yevgeny Nourish, TranscendenZ programmer.Playing eXistenZ and TranscendenZ is about facing your essence, face your subconscious while its creating a virtual reality you'll have to overcome in unexpected ways to win the game (by playing the game, the girl playing Allegra, the 'reality demonstrator' turns into Allegra, a 'virtuality goddess').What game would Heidegger have played to feel his abstract da-sein term ? To be truly engaged in the world ?And what about Nietschze (Yes Friedrich, God is dead and you know what ? Willem Dafoe stands for him! - God, The Mecanic -) ??? Yes we do construct a narrative for ourselves, and losing this thread we follow from one day to the next disintegrate people as personalities ; eXistenZ's discusses the fact that reality is the whole perception of itself by anyone who engaged it truly. And we could sometimes get some neat stuff ; a perception of virtuality in virtuality in reality. "},{"Title":"eXistenZ - Do you want to play?","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In eXistenZ, we're told, the title refers to a revolutionary video-gaming system that looks like a fleshy, latex combination between a Sony Playstation and someone's kidney. eXistenZ is unlike any video game before it the device is powered by the player's body, hooked into their lower spine through a bio-port with an umbryocord attached to them (which looks just like it sounds), and the player finds himself/herself in a virtual reality world where their actions seem to modify the programming of the console itself.The game's reclusive developer, Allegra Geller (Jennifer Jason Leigh), is on hand at a testing seminar at a church (a church!) when she and the Seminar Leader (Christopher Eccleston) are attacked by a would-be assassin and she barely escapes with her life with the help of corporate techie and P.R. nerd Ted Pikul (Jude Law). In order to get to the bottom of events, they must actually play the game, and beat it.eXistenZ was directed by the fine, Canadian-bred film auteur David Cronenberg and as you would expect, there's a lot more going on in this existence than you think. But first things first I have to say that if it weren't for its gross-out, reality-bending effects, Cronenberg would be registered somewhere by the MPAA as Public Enemy #1. For this latest effort, which bears a few shades of his previous mass-media indictment Videodrome (1983), Cronenberg dissects reality, virtual reality, and the corporate video-gaming universe.Allegra has spent the last five years of her life developing eXistenZ, its internal programming happening to be composed of the parts of mutant amphibians (which are also made out to be a nutritional delicacy in some quarters). She hugs the device as if it were her baby, and for some reason we're not led to believe that she's faking it when she treats as if it were so. eXistenZ was made to test the boundaries of human perceptions of reality and this it seems, she was successful at doing, since as the film progresses, it becomes harder and harder to decipher if they are playing the game or not.This is what Cronenberg specializes in with this picture, and getting great mileage out of the confusion of the protagonists as they nor we are aware of our surroundings anymore. After the first bizarre sequence of the picture, Allegra and Ted retreat to the relative safety of the countryside, where the bio-port-phobic Ted has one installed by nut-so mechanic Gas (Willem Dafoe) at the Country Gas Station and the two uncover a confusing plot about pro-reality rebels trying to assassinate the pro-virtual reality Allegra. And with help of supporting oddball regulars such as Ian Holm and Don McKellar aligned with them, they seek to beat eXistenZ and the rebels out to get them.It was released a few months after The Matrix in 1999, a similar film about the redefinition of reality and those caught in a battle to destroy it. But while that great, milestone action film is more interested in popcorn effects rather than deep philosophy and questions about reality, eXistenZ goes the extra mile by making sure we are never sure of our perceptions of the picture as a whole. Is the film, eXistenZ, some warped fantasy game, made by an insane genius? Are assassins really on the trail of an innocent programmer? Do flesh & bone guns that fire human teeth really exist (and which can otherwise very easily get past any metal detector)?It's questions like these that make eXistenZ such a fascinating film from a storyteller who knows his stuff. But you know you're in trouble when video games start to spill into your waking hours and consume every aspect of your natural life and making YOU wreak havoc. Mr. Thompson, where are you?8/10 "}{"Title":"One of the most entertaining films from Cronenberg.","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In the near future, there is a new game called eXistenZ. The game depicts a society which game designers are worshiped as superstars. The game players can organically enter inside the game. At the center of this story is Allegia Geller (Jennifer Jason Leigh) who created the game and it been having problems with people playing because it blurs boundaries between fear, desires, reality and escapism.When she forced to flee after a failed assassination attempt, Allegra teams with a mysterious security guard Ted Pikel (Jude Law). Allegta is seducing Ted into playing the game. Once they do, both are into a phantasmagoria world where existence ends and eXistenZ begins.Written & Directed by David Cronenberg (Crash, The Dead Zone, Spider) made a entertaining Sci-Fi Thriller that gets sillier by the minute but it works thanks to a superb cast like the two leads and also Ian Holm, Don McKeller, Callum Keith Rennie, Sarah Polley, Robert A. Silverman, Kris Lemeche, Christopher Eccleston & Willem Dafoe. This Big Budget Canadian/British Production was a Box Office Disappointment by the wake of the release of The Matrix. Which The Matrix has a familiar story to eXistenZ to some degree.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.781) transfer and an strong-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. The DVD has three separate commentary tracks by filmmakers-David Cronenberg, CinematographerPeter Suschitzky (Dead Ringers) and Visual/Digital Effects SupervisorJim Issac (Jason X). DVD has an hour documentary by the Production DesignerCarol Spier and the Original Theatrical Trailer. eXistenZ is a underrated film, while The Matrix is a popular pop culture phenomenon. This film has less logic that most of Cronenberg films but it is fun to watch. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"eXisTenZ - second time around","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I finished watching eXistenZ for the second time last night and I admit I didn't like it as much as the first time.For some reason, I seemed to remember the 'what is reality?' feeling being a lot more confusing; I first saw it several years ago so I'd forgotten a lot of it, but I thought it played a lot more with the 'are we in the real world or are we in the game?' confusion a lot more than it really does, until the end.I was pretty bugged by the 'this is the only copy of the game in my pod and the only way to test it is to play it with someone friendly' angle. Seems *awfully* contrived a setup to make things happen, Has nobody heard of backups? I can't think of *any* company that would trust their IP to something so precarious, and a forced situation of diagnosis that is so dangerous.'Contrived' actually seems an appropriate word. I found myself *really* annoyed that in the game, your game character would be forced to do certain things and say certain things to move the story along; this is little more than a glorified Choose Yout Own Adventure story. As a game, that would really suck. As a movie, it was hard to really have any feeling for the characters because you sorta felt they were just along for the ride and since they had little or no free will in attempting to survive or figure things out, you didn't feel connected to what they were doing.And in the end, the surprise twist was not as clever as the movie would hope. First off, if a movie throws in a twist ending, it should be possible to work it backwards to figure out 'oh yeah, now that makes sense', but their were no real clues and the personalities were so different that you're left more with a feeling that the writer cheated or copped out for the sake of effect, rather than really thought it through with something clever or intelligent to say "},{"Title":"Whoa, wait, what is trying to be presented here?","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" eXistenZ is an exploration of reality and virtual reality, wherein characters run from realm to realm, landscape to landscape trying to beat a game they know not the goal of or exactly where it's leading them. Within that virtual reality game is more layers of virtual reality games, calling into question which reality they arrive from is the real one.Of course it's not spectacular at hiding the fact that it's not going to reasonably answer to a true reality, instead tossing the idea of whether it's real or a video game into question even up to the end. I'm not even sure Cronenberg pretends that twist won't be there, it's so incredibly obvious in a sense it's kind of disconcerting.The problem with this film though is its base nature, in a sense. Cronenberg is questioning reality AND criticizing game play. Yet the same things that he uses to criticize game play makes him revel in it the violence, the discontinuity, the lack of focus and in a sense, the pixellation even if there isn't such pixellation in the film. I have once heard someone state that Cronenberg's violence is actually a criticism of hyperviolence in media, but he hides that well with the fact that he derives such incredible pleasure in ripping new orifices into humans, animals, and amorphous piles of biological sludge.What IS brilliantly written and done about this movie is the use of video game conceits (not being able to say exactly what you want to say during cut scenes, relative lack of surroundings or surroundings that don't make sense, only a few people around where it feels there should be many and vice-versa, all of that stuff) along with the motif of penetration. It definitely deconstructs the video game reality in a way that's nauseating and absurd, but it does it even better by replacing video game electronics with literal pods of biological matter that squirm and shift and are, frankly, disgusting to the one of the most horrifying degrees. For what it's worth, this film causes a reaction in you.But what for? It criticizes virtual reality, but it's a movie it is its own virtual reality. It seems to criticize the banality of video game plot lines and character design, yet it maintains that banality. It definitely seems to worry over whether killing a video game character is more okay than killing an actual human being and how video games can be confused with reality and cause people to not think about the consequences of their actions in real life, and yet I say again, it derives the utmost pleasure from ripping people, objects, beasts, things, and organisms into bloody shreds.So whereas it has a key focus of angst, it doesn't really do anything with it, not really. Only what it does do is present that angst in such an original way it can't really be denied its own moment of splendor.In a sense, it'd be much easier to just hate this movie for being gory and violent, because there's no good reason I can see for loving it and yet I can't disregard it as mediocre or bad. It'd be easier to simply not be able to take it, but since I can, there's nothing I can really do with it. I do believe it is a little excessive, it really didn't need to go as far as it went, but Cronenberg's intentions are so mixed up and confused I don't know if that was Cronenberg's flaw or Cronenberg's point, and I don't think there's really any way to figure it out except maybe ask him directly.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"BoredZzz, capital B and capital Z","Date":"25 December 2010","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Here do you get from a nice idea for a movie to a terrible film? Answer Overcomplicate the whole thing.'eXistenZ' has a good idea for one of those Russian doll movie concepts. A theme within a theme within a theme and the viewer doesn't know where he is. This is exciting and keeps you glued to the screen...unless the second theme is as disconnected from the main theme as it is silly, and this is our case here.Several times I wanted to simply stop watching the movie, but I kept telling myself that somehow everything would end up clicking and I would really get into whatever plot the director wanted me to find out. Unfortunately, that not only never happened, but the movie sank into deeper confusion as it progressed to its final doom The viewer semi-comatose state by pure boredom.Disgusting scenes with animal entrails, a forced and useless sexual tension between the characters, unbelievable (as in sorry I don't believe it) performances, and a predictable ending featuring childish shouts makes this movie's existence definitely questionable. "},{"Title":"One of Cronenberg's weirdest and perhaps most nihilistic","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Set in a presumed near future, eXistenZ follows Allegra Geller (Jennifer Jason Leigh), a game designer who has invented a revolutionary virtual reality game in which subjects are plugged into an alternate reality via ports inserted in their spinal columns. After an assassination attempt is made on her during a volunteer participant game launch, she and Ted Pikul (Jude Law), a meek PR agent who has been assigned as her body guard, find themselves on the run in the countryside, where reality and the virtual world of eXistenZ coalesce as they plug themselves in in order to salvage the game.It had been years since I'd originally seen this film, and I recently re-watched it as an adult with some extra years in me, and the film was in some ways stranger (and in others more logical) than I had remembered it. eXistenZ is a magnificently surreal exploration of virtual reality with notes of Cronenberg's signature body horror and all the makings of a trippy sci-fi exploitation flick.Fans of science fiction, head trip horror, and Cronenbergian splatter will find plenty of enjoyment to be had here. The film's ominous opening frames the surrealistic, ambiguous shifts in and out of reality that make up the last two third of the movie. I feel that some of the disappointment audiences had with the film (both upon its original release and over the ensuing years) has been due to mismatched expectations; for as much of a sci-fi thriller as this is, it's also extremely talky and dialogue-driven. This gives room for some very interesting and nuanced performances, specifically from Jennifer Jason Leigh, whose acting is calculated and simultaneously free-flowing. In retrospect, Jude Law seems miscast here to me to some degree, although he does succeed in drawing out the beta-male elements of his character that evolve into moments of legitimate confrontation as the film progresses.The special effects here are not over the top, and actually are rather minimal; most of the fantastical whimsy of the film comes from its labyrinthine distortions of events, virtual gameplay, and performativity of the self in both tangible reality and the matrix that is eXistenZ. The finale of the film is understated and shockingly macabre, and, though not as inventive as you may expect, is cleverly constructed and in many ways remarkably dour and nihilistic.Overall, my revisiting of this film was quite an experience; for first-time viewers, it is likely to be even more so. Jennifer Jason Leigh's nuanced performance is reason enough to give the film a viewing, but there is plenty more in way of thematic material, surrealism and hyper-realism, and maddening existential questions that Cronenberg frames through a matrix of science fiction and utter weirdness. The film has held up surprisingly well over the years, and is as engrossing today as it was nearly twenty years ago. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Free will is obviously not a big factor in this little world of ours.","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Hee, yet another David Cronenberg picture that divides opinions, not just among the casual film watchers, but also his most ardent fans.Plot is a little nutty in actuality, as it finds Jennifer Jason Leigh as the world's most high profile games designer. While testing her new virtual reality game out with a focus group, an assassination attempt puts her on the run with an ally of sorts, marketing man Ted Pikul (Jude Law). With the prototype of the new game in their possession, the pair must enter the game's realm to unlock the various puzzles and threats that now confounds and stalks them.With Cronenberg back to writing something solely from his own head, eXistenZ finds the Canadian auteur happy to be back making a truer piece of work for his kinked visions. Unfortunately the advent of such virtual reality fare and various realist themes was well in filmic swing come the time eXistenZ was released, rendering it in some eyes as a band wagon jumper. That's unfair, because it's still a unique film, as Cronenberg blends body horror with visual invention to create a mind warp of gaming possibilities, a thrum thrum of futuristic verve. He gets top performances out of Leigh (great hair as well) and Law, while the narrative is constantly tricky enough to demand the viewer pays attention whilst being prepared to, perhaps, be surprised.Not prime Cronenberg, but still smart and funky, twisty and nutty, scary and oblique. So very much a Cronenberg original, then. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Plot Twist, the movie","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The film has so many plot twists, that I stopped caring about the characters 20 mins in. The writers have no concept of what a game is and apparently did no research into gaming community. The confusion which was probably intentional, does not help the constant plot twists and double crossing. While an argument could be made that the confusion, plot twists and complete lack of logic was attributable to the minds of the killers, this does not excuse an over poorly written film. It is possible to tell a story like this without loosing your audiences interest or empathy for the characters. The final 5 mins of the film, which is the only part of the film to occur outside the actual game, does make sense now. Given that the deranged killers are out of the decision making process, this makes sense, to the movies credit, but many will see the final twist coming.The plot is a mess, the characters all over the place and visuals, while intensionally disturbing are not amazing but simply adequate. That said, elements of the film are very well done. The fact that I came away hating the protagonists is understandable given that in reality they were the antagonists. The disjointed plot, and constant illogical decisions of the characters, as well as the constant backstabbing are all explainable by the psyche's of the killers. Despite this eXistenZ is probably a film you will only watch once, which is a pity because it is also the type of film that reveals more of itself with more viewings. "},{"Title":"eXistenZ The Better Videodrome","Date":"18 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I am not a big fan of Cronenberg. I despise it when a director does the same style or theme a thousand times and no one is more guilty of it than he(except for maybe Tim Burton). It gets repetitive though I understand why some might like his type of work. I watched another film of his-Video Drome-and hated it. I thought it was like someone trying to throw every type of food they liked into a blender put forgot to put the top on-a complete mess in other words. EXistenZ though takes all those foods and manages to create an exquisite- though somewhat disgusting-cuisine. The story is about a game designer in a future where game systems are biologically engineered. A bounty is put out on her head and now she must team up with a PR guy to stay alive. But it gets a thousand times more complicated from there. The movies goes through so many twists and turns that it actually almost became disorienting. Yet it stays fixed on the same idea is this reality? Video Drome had a similar set up but an awful pay off unlike what he did with this picture. My only complain is just how graphic and foul mouthed he got. Are ten f-bombs seriously needed for this picture? Still the atmosphere and story are actually strong enough to make me want to watch it again sometime. "},{"Title":"Great existential movie, but has a few downfalls.","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The idea of this movie and the way it was put together to take the audience on a inception like ride was amazing, although it has a couple of things that could have made it much better.To start off, the thing about this movie that really brought it down in my eyes was the acting, and line delivery. The acting was sub- par, it wasn't not bad, but it definitely was not good. Some bits just felt really fake and unbelievable, a lot of the actors reactions to situations, especially in the last scenes, just felt very unreal, as if they weren't really trying, and the director wasn't being firm enough with the actors about how he wanted them to be.The second point was the script, some parts of it just seemed really strange, or unnecessary. The sexual-tension between the two characters made the movie feel comedic and silly at some points. Obviously having two attractive young main characters, there is going to be sexual tension, but the way it played out seemed unrealistic. I think the director did intend for some parts to be comedic, but it really distracted me from what I think the director made me want to feel.The last point is the game devices, it was just plain weird. I don't understand why the director couldn't have made it an electronic device. It was another one of those things that just made it feel strange, strange can be good, but this was just an unnecessary strange.Now for the good parts. This movie really makes you think, and it grabs you from the start. It makes you question how real is this reality we are living in, could it just be a game? Are we just actors in a simulation, playing our role for this lifetime? When a director can make an audience think things life this, I love it.The way the movie takes you through the whole story is really interesting, it takes random turns, it confuses you, makes you wonder what the hell is going, on. But in the end, it all comes together.Honestly, it's hard for me to say much more without spoiling anything. I highly recommend this to anyone into existential themes in movies. Try to ignore the flaws, and let the movie take you on it's journey. "},{"Title":"This is possibly one of the best movies I've seen. Ever.","Date":"6 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is possibly one of the best movies I've seen. Ever. It is incredibly clever how everything is set out in terms of storyline that keeps you always guessing about what's going to happen next and you are so unsuspecting of the final outcome. Great cast. Great appearance, and most importantly, great storyline. Jude Law, for me stands out the most. This being one of his earlier roles, he still shines through, even sporting an American accent. Great supporting roles from Willem Dafoe and Christopher Eccleston who play minor but equally entertaining parts. The creativity that went into this movie is nothing short of spectacular. Overall great movie that should be seen by all. "}{"Title":"Cronenberg's Second Videodrome.","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Existenz (1999) Dir David Cronenberg / Cast Jude Law, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Ian Holm, Willem Dafoe, Don McKellar Stylish thriller with intriguing imagery about a video game where its occupants can plug themselves in via bio-port and enter a fantasy world using a game pod. Full of surprise and shock associated with its director David Cronenberg. Very similar to one of his earlier films, Videodrome, which also dealt with reality and fantasy within technology. Detailed storytelling leaving questions in its conclusion. Jennifer Jason Leigh is excellent as the game creator with a price on her life after a public demonstration concludes with a shootout. Jude Law serves as her protector who goes through the painstaking operation of bio-pod in order to play the game. Willem Dafoe plays Gas the mechanic who can perform bio-pod operations yet he also has a sinister side that is costly. Ian Holm operates on Leigh's pod when it is damaged. He factors in and out leaving viewers guessing as to whether he is friend or foe. Don McKellar plays another strange contact within the game who provides information. In the end it really doesn't matter because the destructive nature of the game seems to rule out. While it doesn't always make sense, it does succeed as superb effects driven entertainment. It is a mind-blowing visual thriller about video games and marketing that is worth plugging into. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"Ambitious, but it falls flat.","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The film was directed by David Cronenberg, who for me is either a hit or miss. This film, (while it had it's upsides, but I'll get to that later) was an, unfortunate miss. Jude Law is usually an incredible actor, and his performance in this is serviceable, but he is god-awful at doing an American accent. Just about every aspect of this film doesn't reach it's potential. The performances are OK, but not great, the directing is OK, but not great, and the script was... not very good. A few plot holes, and by the climax of the film I was not invested in what was happening at all. Also, I've now figured out that David Cronenberg has a strange tentacle/foot fetish. There were a few serious moments involving tentacles that made me laugh out loud. The only upside to the film was the puppetry, some of these puppets/special effects were very realistic looking and pretty gross at that. But other than that, the film was a complete mess. "},{"Title":"more weird organic stuff from Cronenberg","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Antenna Research is testing a new game system eXistenZ created by great game designer Allegra Geller (Jennifer Jason Leigh). An assassin shoots her with an undetectable organic gun. She is injured and marketing trainee Ted Pikul (Jude Law) takes her away from the danger. Her pod contains the only copy of eXistenZ and she has to test it. Ted is forced to get a bio-port installed by underground installer Gas (Willem Dafoe). However he turns out to be out for the contract on her life. It's a long road where reality is questionable and the world is full of danger.It's a lot of ooey gooey organic effects and perverse sexuality. I'm not sure if Cronenberg is actually making a point but it seems to be warning a merging and confusion between reality and game. It's a lot of weird stuff going on. It's not scary or even disgusting. It's just oddly fascinating. "},{"Title":"Contains some familiar ideas but is well-executed and thought-provoking","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The ending left me with goosebumps. I had a strong feeling of déjà vu and felt like the movie had actually stopped to ask me a question directly. It was like an electrical jolt that left me sitting there reflecting on the ideas still floating around in my mind. A nice feeling, exactly what you want from a sci-fi thriller.Much of the movie revolves around the simple question of how do you know if this is reality you're in right now? Maybe you're in a game. You could even be in a game within a game. How can you ever tell for sure? By itself, that question can be a bit dull. A pointless unanswerable question, only asked for the sake of sounding clever. But in the right context, it has a much deeper relevance and can be unsettling.Do violent video games make us violent? Or do we create and play violent video games because we are violent? Or can they be a healthy outlet for us with things we would never do in real life? Can we separate reality and games?In eXistenZ, the characters play games. Games that look and feel extremely real. Jude Law's character is new to them, like us. And naturally, he is a bit uncomfortable at first. It is unnerving how real the game is. I personally find many technologies far too invasive or user-friendly (dumbed down so I don't know what's really going on behind the scenes) for my liking. I prefer transparency and control. So I would probably hate a video-game that was too real. I like to see the pixels, I like to be able to pause and get a drink. If something's going to look real, it may as well be real.Anyway, violence occurs in the games of eXistenZ. I guess it may as well. I mean, if you're in a virtual world, why not do all the things you can't do in real life? Explore weird personal sexual and violent fantasies, or just try things out. What does it feel like to kill someone? For me, this is just a bottomless pit that I have no interest in going down. You have to stay connected to reality. You can always imagine things, think about stuff, read books or watch movies. I love video games but as a form of art. A story told with words, music, images and gameplay. Like a movie but interactive which makes them more dream-like, flexible and personal. I want to always be actively thinking and reacting, not in a trance.Back to the story. What happens when you wake up from the game? How do you know if you've really woken up? You might still be in the game, it could be tricking you. You might start doing some daily chores or work and then come out of the game later realising that all that time and energy you had spent was wasted on a virtual world.Or later you might be in the real world but fall into game habits. Eventually you might think you're actually in the game. What if something bad or dangerous happens and you ignore it because you think you're playing? Or you casually do something violent because you think there are no consequences? Or you gradually find you *need* a regular fix of violence and one day you can't login to the game?Allegra (Jennifer Jason Leigh) herself seems somewhat addicted to the game she has created. She compares it to the boredom of real life. She often seems drowsy, like her real body is getting weak from spending too much time playing (lying down) rather than living. It may sound trite but if you find real life boring, it's probably you that is boring.The ending is very interesting and ironic. It's funny to reflect on the way the movie itself is like a virtual reality game. The actors are the players and the writer/director is the game designer. It also raises the issue of protest and censorship. Does censoring something really achieve anything? Can you ban something just because you think it's bad for people? Or is that simply presumptuous destruction, is it hypocritical? If a game's popular, does that make it valuable, something that should be left alone? The issue is alive and well in 2015 GTA5 was recently taken off certain shelves in Australia which provoked a (semi-sarcastic) petition for Target to change its name.eXistenZ has an effective and fairly unique tone. Most of the movie is in close-ups, we can't escape the characters or their situations. We're in their minds the whole time. The music is suitably moody, a bit ambiguous but generally ominous. Like slow, slushy oceans of thoughts and unexplored worlds. Cronenberg once again shows off a strange imagination - there's a cute little dragon thing, gross food, a creepy futuristic organic gun and ports at the base of people's spines (similar to The Matrix). The acting is good, we feel what the characters feel but often have no idea of their motivations. We start suspecting everyone.There are interesting similarities to Inception, The Matrix and even The Wizard of Oz. Inception is much more ambitious and emotionally richer. The Matrix is more of an action film with some simple philosophical ideas that aren't really explored properly (they conveniently never question the reality of the world outside The Matrix). eXistenZ is more claustrophobic. We're stuck in the minds of two characters as they play a strange dream-like game which we don't know the rules or purpose of (like in real life). By the end, I was subtly blown away. It's both simpler and more complex than what I had anticipated. "},{"Title":"Pretty good but not great","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The idea of this movie is a great one, examining the nature of reality, asking questions about how we accept what we see, and how do we really know what is real and what is not? It is interesting that the movie does not really comment on the rights or wrongs of the obsessive gaming being portrayed, which I believe was a wise choice, as otherwise the movie may have become disjointed by splitting its attention between two themes.The cast were very good. I felt that all actors did an excellent job, especially portraying the changeable personalities necessary to the plot, including the ambiguities that make the audience question whether they are observing a character or a player.I do think the script and plot were flawed. There were holes in the plot that could not always be taken as hints to what is real and what is not.In conclusion, this is an entertaining movie. I would class it as pretty good, but not great. "},{"Title":"Revisiting this one and found I enjoyed it slightly more...but only slightly.","Date":"5 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's been some years since I've seen eXistenZ and I recently decided to revisit it. I wasn't completely wowed by the film when I first saw it in college and I would go on to say that it wasn't my favorite David Cronenberg film I've seen but I wanted to see it my tastes have changed and see if time has made me think differently about the film.It did&#x85;a little bit.The story I always felt was a little strange because the organic pods that were the gaming systems in the movie were a little too far-fetched for me to believe&#x97;considering our next gen systems are really just improving the graphics by a barely noticeable fraction and raising the prices of the systems to levels that are hard for you, your heart, and your bank account to not notice, the idea of organic systems that plug directly into your spine felt like the ideas of a person who has never played a video game in their life. This time around, I was a little more forgiving of the story and the organic pods didn't really grate on me. I think this has to do with the fact that I've seen pretty much all of Cronenberg's work since the first time I saw it and I'm a little more used to his unique body horrors style that is mixed with a hint of uncomfortable sexuality.One thing I really latched onto with my revisit has to be the more subtle aspects that Cronenberg threw in the film that alerts the viewer about what reality the main characters are existing in. I never caught this the first time but this time around I was able to catch it and it even made me pay closer attention to try and find all the clues.The one thing I didn't enjoy the first time and ended up still not getting into on the second viewing was the performances. It's strange seeing Jude Law in this film considering how he acts now but he was passable at best&#x97;I didn't really find him distracting or amazing the first time I watched this. However, like on my initial voyage with this film, I just couldn't get into Jennifer Jason Leigh's performance. I found her to be too hammy and overdoing it in her role as game developer Allegra Geller.While I found myself appreciate the film a little deeper than I did the first time, it wasn't a very noticeable change in depth. The film is still one of my least favorite Cronenberg films and it doesn't feel like it has the same ambition as his other works but it is still a decent film that tells an odd story and gets the old noodle thinking when the credits hit.Greetings, reader! Thanks for reading my thoughts on eXistenZ. My name is Rev. Ron and if you feel like reading more of my rants, ramblings, bad jokes, geek references, and other movie reviews (like a more in-depth look at eXistenZ and other films that involve gaming somehow) you can visit my blog at revronmovies.blogspot.com. If you don't want to do that because you disagreed with my review and that makes you hate me (we love hating things on the internet, don't we?) then you don't need to visit. "},{"Title":"One of the better movies I have seen","Date":"5 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie for my philosophy class, and while it seems like it's a pointless plot with bad acting you have to realize it's all done on purpose. The game within a game theme is very predictable but leads to the excellent question at the end. Are they still in a game? The answer almost has to be yes. The biggest proof of this is a mixture of the stiff acting that tends to accompany games in the movie and in life as well as the reaction of the patrons in the Chinese restaurant when the waiter was shot compared with the reactions of the participants when the two people at the end were shot. In a real life event people would be running and screaming, not looking on with almost bored looks on their faces. Another question is, are any of the people real or all they all just players? If anyone is real it's the Chinese waiter because at the end he's the only one who questions if it's still a game. Game characters would not question Am I in a game? Best movie, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Weird, but good.","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is just my opinion.David Cronenberg, director of the weird, gives us a movie bizarre but good, as always. The question is  the poster says that this movie makes Matrix look like a child's play, is it the case ?Sorry, but no, Matrix is really better (the second and third Matrix do not exist !).The story of eXistanZ is interesting but not as much as the story of Matrix. I think that put this on the poster is tackle stronger that you. For the fans, eXistanZ is about video games, but a bit evolved, the David Cronenberg's style of video games.We have a young Jude Law, very good as usual.We have the Cronenberg's directing. If you don't like this director, do not even think to watch the movie.The main problem of the movie is the rhythm which is not always entertaining but it is a part of the mood.I have got a problem with the end because a character ask the question that the spectator have to ask to himself. I think that it is not a good idea, we can understand the question without a character saying it, it blows the effect.But if you like Cronenberg's style, and weird good films with weird good story, this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"Weirdly brilliant","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I like David Cronenberg's work because in his best films like 'The Fly' and 'Dead Ringers' he is able to something bizarre, something grotesque and something oddly brilliant all at the same time. His last film 'Crash' about people with a fetish for car accidents fell short but 'eXistenZ' finds him right at the top of his game.We are sometime in the future and a game designer named Allegra Geller (ever-reliable Jennifer Jason Leigh) has created a virtual reality game named eXistenZ. This is some game. It runs off of a cord, which hooks, into a bio-port that is implanted into the base of the player's spine. The player squeezes a strange pod (at the other end of the cord) that looks like strangely like a fetus.The game is being marketed by Antenna Research and one of the game's test subjects is a trainee named Ted (Jude Law). Suddenly an assassin steps up and shoots Allegra in the shoulder. What comes out is not a bullet but a piece of bone.Allegra and Ted are by now sure that they are inside the game. Allegra realizes later that she is not only inside the game but can't get out of it. Ted receives instructions that he is to go to a certain Chinese restaurant and order the special. The plate consists of a lot of bone and when put together make up &#x96; you guessed it &#x96; a gun.The rest I have to leave up to you. The movie becomes a clever cat-and-mouse game that gets more and more terminally weird as it goes along.There are twists and turns and more bizarre developments in this movie until you aren't sure if Allegra and Ted are playing the game or not. Sometimes they think they are in the game and sometimes we aren't sure but it keeps you guessing and afterwards my friend and I had a long discussion over the ending, which comes as a complete shock.I saw this movie a few days after I saw 'The Matrix' which is also about the reality of unreality but I found 'eXistenZ' to be the superior film. Both are good but I found the world of this film to be a little more depraved, a little more grotesque and oddly, a little more appealing. The Matrix comes out of the special effects department, eXistenZ comes out of the theater of the bizarre It is difficult to talk about this movie without giving anything away. eXistenZ will not appeal to everyone. It is a strange experience but a strikingly original one. It takes a strong stomach at time, this is after all a world in which the line between organic matter and inorganic matter is at times crossed. If you can't take it on a surreal level you will find it as captivating and involving as I did. And if you have a dead solid theory on the ending, please e-mail me. "},{"Title":"almost  warning","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" interesting script, fascinating idea, good acting. and a powerful air of freedom. that is all. it is not Matrix and, in great measure, it is not a Sci Fi . only ingenious exploration of an predictable if. the fiction as reality. the mixture between fiction and reality. and the challenges. I do not know if it is a remarkable film. but it is beautiful and necessary. as warning. or only as a kind of fairy tale , cruel for its manner to reflect a crisis. and the talent of Cronemberg is not to deliver a huge puzzle of imagination or few memorable scenes but to use the perfect cast. Jude Law does a seductive role and Jennifer Jason Leigh is herself in a special manner. and that makes things more than interesting. "}{"Title":"a nice SF flick","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If you've never heard of the movie Nirvana (1997) this would have been a great movie. Otherwise, you'll know that there are motifs that are plainly copied from that one.I might be too harsh with this thought, since eXistenZ is good in it's own right, yet it is about gaming and virtual reality, which Nirvana tackled a couple of years before.And if we stretch the arguments a bit, we might see that there are similar ideas floating around in the industry. eXistenZ came out in the year in which Matrix changed the SF genre and movie going in general. They were both into virtual reality, although the budget of the latter movie allowed more extravaganza.Jude Law offer ahis standard performance, leaving you wondering how much of that is an act and how much his personality coming through. Jennifer Jason Leigh managed to depict an interesting character with limited means... "},{"Title":"Disgusting&#x85;Daring&#x85;Prescient Black Comedy","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Director/Writer David Cronenberg isn't a Sick Man, He just Enjoys Pondering Things that Make Him Sick. Facing His Fears One would Guess. Once Again, in this Cautionary Tale He Confronts with Full Force and Fanciful Froth, His Scary Aversion to the Body and its Disgusting, Dripping Fluids, Orifices and Outlandish, Organic Displays of Blood and Guts.He Wraps this in Butcher Paper, a Philosophical Outpouring of the Dangers of Escapism versus Reality and the Umbilical Cord that Connects with the Fragility of the Flesh. It is a Black Comedy that is Intelligent and Sophomoric, Artsy and Trashy.It is a Thinking Man's, Pulpy, Sci-Fi that Attempts to Illustrate, through Modern Toy/Machinery the Species Infatuation with Other Realities, like Games and Movies, and the Possible Dangerous Obsession that may very well be the Beginning of the End to Life as We Know It, or at Least Perceive it.With its Gleeful Slimy Imagery of Mutant Amphibians being Dissected and Displayed with Lingering Affection, and Multiple Shots of a Bio-Port that Resembles a Place where the Sun don't Shine, this may be a Tough Watch for the Mainstream, but has been Embraced by Nerds, Misfits, Geeks, Cult Movie Fans, and Misanthropes Everywhere as an In Your Face Masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Best sci-fi movie ever made","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If you watch this movie carefully- very carefully you will get it. Watch all the people- make note of who is in each scene. This is one of the best sci-fi movies of all time. But it takes your attention, like a book. By the way I hated the Matrix-truly boring. You must use your mind while you watch this movie. It compares with 2001 a space odyssey and Vanilla Sky- but better. Don't look for meaning deeper than what is there. People who hate this movie just don't have a clue what is going on. There are so few movies that are any good in my opinion, as compared to books of which there are many excellent ones. Watching this movies feels like reading a book- it means nothing without your attention, but tickles and stimulates your brain if you do pay attention. Wow! "},{"Title":"Weird As Usual For Cronenberg","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" David Cronenberg loves to make kinky movies, and eXistenZ appears about as kinky as the Canadian born helmer gets. This quirky thriller concerns a virtual reality game and the woman who designed it. The surreal action occurs in the near future, but everything looks contemporary until you get to the video game that our heroine has created and the way that it is played. Allegra (Jennifer Jason Leigh of Single White Female) is the world's greatest game designer. She is developing her latest game that her company named Antenna Research has spent $38 million on. The theme of illusion versus reality plays a major part in this thriller.eXistenZ unfolds in a small, backwoods, folksy church where a crowd has gathered to take part in the first test. The Seminar Leader (Christopher Eccleston of Jude) welcomes the spectators to the seminar and appreciates their willingness to participate in testing the game. Although he supervises these seminars, the Seminar Leader explains that Allegra will lead them through the first test. Afterward, the Seminar Leader selects twelve people to serve as testers. A public relations trainee, Ted Pikul (Jude Law of Side Effects), sits by the door to screen spectators so nobody enters the premises with a recording device. After the group has assembled and ported in the system, Allegra addresses them. Now, I'll warn you, it's going to be a wild ride, but don't panic. No matter what happens. Before everything is over with in eXistenZ, you may panic. Allegra's words basically sum up everything that is going to follow when she tells her testers. Existenz' is not just a game, she informs them. It's an entirely new game system. And it involves a whole lot of new toys. Indeed, it does involve 'new toys.' Instead of electronic game consoles, they are using organic, fleshy-looking game pods. The pods themselves resemble human body parts squished together like a trio of nipples attached to an umbilical cord that is inserted in each tester's back in a bio-port at the basic of the spine. The game ports appear to squirm when they are in use. The players are zoned out as they use these game ports. Noel Dichter (Kris Lemche of Final Destination 3) was the last person to enter, and he attempts to kill Allegra with an exotic organic gun. Actually, Noel's gun is made of flesh & blood body parts, and the bullets are teeth. The assassin has concealed his weapon in game pod. Noel hits Allegra in the right shoulder, but the tooth doesn't kill her. Noel shoots the Seminar Leader and kills him. Allegra's bodyguards Merle (Sarah Polley of Spice) and shoot Noel to ribbons. Meantime, the Seminar Leader exhorts Ted to get Allegra off the premises because somebody at Antenna is trying to sabotage the new game. While everybody else is fleeing from the church, Ted helps up and takes her to a vehicle outside. Indeed, this imaginative thriller keeps you off balance throughout its tantalizing 97 minutes. You never really know what is going to happen. Cronenberg wrote and directed this R-rated release with several twists and turns. "},{"Title":"Cronenberg directs as if viewers had minds of their own","Date":"1 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Some of the reviews I've read about Existenz (or eXistenZ to be correct) have suggested that the virtual reality that features in the film is not spectacular enough. The Sunday Times reviewer, whose name escapes me (it should), thought it was more of a philosophy lesson than a film and tells us that Cronenberg forgot to make the film interesting. Are these people nuts? In a word, yes. One it would destroy the whole purpose of the film if the VR was any weirder; two there is more to interest and challenge the viewer in this film than all the other Hollywood fodder produced in the last decade put together. That's how nuts they are.So, everyone has a bioport where you jack in the game console (itself a bio-whatsit). Jennifer Jason Leigh is probably the games designer and Jude Law is probably her reluctant bodyguard. Everyone else is possibly who they appear to be. Leigh and Law have to play the game to see if it has been damaged. Along the way they and everyone else in the film has to try and figure out what is real and what is not real and who is or is not who they appear to be. Your role, constant viewer, is also to figure out what is real and what isn't. Good luck.JJ Leigh, usually the least expressive actress of her generation, is utterly compelling here. Either she just learned how to act or she was so baffled by what was going on that Cronenberg tricked her into this performance. Jude Law is effective in his role but I'm not affected by his boyish good looks like girly cinema-goers might be. There is good support from Willem Dafoe and Ian Holme and, as you would expect in a Cronenberg film, various and sundry twisted body parts and icky gooey things and creatures.Cronenberg lives up to his reputation of being obsessed with the flesh. Not of course with good healthy pink stuff but with internal organs, blood and pus and undeniably sexy bioports which get a good fingering and sucking by all in this film. But he excels in what he is best at &#x96; making the ordinary look menacing and frightening and unbelievably grimy and, well, real. That is why the film does not need a bagfull of CGI effects or flashy set pieces. The scariest VR you could create would have to be one where you are not sure whether it is real or whether everything in that reality is real or whether some characters are real, some events are real, you are really yourself. And how do you know when you have really returned to reality? Now that would be the game of a lifetime and that's what he has given us in eXistenZ.If you have ever enjoyed playing computer games (as opposed to just shoot-em-ups) then I am sure you will love this film. If you have a brain and have ever wondered about the nature of reality you will love this film. If you are sick of seeing yet more Hollywood product and want to see real independent film making you'll love this film. Only people who have failed to arrive in the later part of the 20th century and film critics who ought to be literary critics instead of film critics (that's most of them) will fail to get it. "},{"Title":"Are we still in the game?","Date":"13 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Allegra Geller, the leading game designer in the world, is testing her new virtual reality game, eXistenZ with a focus group.She is attacked by a fanatic assassin employing a bizarre organic gun. She flees with a young marketing trainee, Ted Pikul, who is suddenly assigned as her bodyguard.Unfortunately, her pod, an organic gaming device that contains the only copy of the eXistenZ game program, is damaged.To inspect it, she talks Ted into accepting a gameport in his own body so he can play the game with her.The events leading up to this, and the resulting game lead the pair on a strange adventure where reality and their actions are impossible to determine from either their own or the game's perspective....When I first saw this movie in the cinema, I loved it. Considering the year had some truly dire movies released in that summer, this was a nice tonic, as it seemed very clever and really original.Thirteen years later, I still enjoy it, but have recognised many flaws in the film, is the acting really that bad, or is it some kind of in game thing going on, and the other one is, I really can't believe that this is still a 15 certificate here in the UK. it's very extreme in its ways.More like videodrome than any other of his movies, Cronrnberg appears to have sort of re-imagined that classic for the DVD/Fight Club generation, and succeeds on varying levels.Law is fine in one of his first Hollywood leading roles, and looks comfortable with other big screen behemoths.The story is paced well, and although the film is confusing at times, Cronenbrg does get his 'Brave new world' message across. And he was right.Thirteen years later there are more on line gamers, people walking down the street attached to Ipods/pads/phones than ever before.Cronenberg tried to warn us that we are becoming xenophobic to the earth.Maybe he is right. "},{"Title":"The reality of the flesh","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" eXistenZ is another in the line of movies that question the entire nature of existence. Like the Martrix, Dark City, and News from the Good Lord, this movie asks us the question of what is real. Reality isn't something that we believe is around us and thus things only exists because we believe that they exist, rather reality is a construct by some external force that we are immersed in.eXistenZ is a computer game and it is accessed though a meta-flesh game pod (more on the nature of the flesh later). When one has entered the game, the users entire reality changes to that of the game. To the user, the game in fact seems to be more real than reality itself. Thus through this comes the plot a group of radicals, known as the realists, are attempting to destroy the games and their creator Allegra Gellar.As with similar movies, I cannot go too deep into it as it will destroy the twists and the plots, but what I will explore here is the nature of reality, the malubility of flesh, and then point out a few interesting things.Basically reality in this film seems to be the place you inhabit when you are not inhabiting the game. The whole idea of reality seems to become warped and twisted as one descends into and out of the gaming environment, with Gellar bodyguard, Ted Pikul, not knowing the difference between reality and fantasy upon exiting the game. His comment is this no longer seems real to me. I guess the thing that we are seeing here is the whole idea of immersing ourselves into a fantasy world taken to the extreme.At this time, we have movies, novels, computer and roleplaying games in which we immerse ourselves into to escape from our reality. This movie takes this further where we enter into a completely different reality to escape our reality. But is there a limit on how far we can go before we loose track of our reality? Some people who descend into the realities that we create now have difficulty escaping from them, especially when the reality in which we live just doesn't seem to be all that pleasant. So why not escape into a reality where we are kings and lords and can squash those who upset us? But, there is a time when we should leave and face our realities. If some people cannot differentiate fantasy from reality now, what happens when the technology reaches a level where we can completely escape? I guess that is where we come to eXistenZ.Now there is the idea of the flesh. The flesh is a common element in horror type movies. This is because our flesh defines who we are and to violate one's flesh is the greatest violation that one can perform. When we look at somebody we look at their flesh, and that is how we define who they are. Thus when our flesh ceases to be our defining quality then that is when problems arise. This occurs when somebody betrays us, because the person that we thought we knew is not actually that person anymore.In this movie all of the technology is created from flesh. As such there is a some sort of sickening feeling as we watch these constructs, knowing that they form a part of the human body. The bioport, the hole through which the gamepod is attached, upsets Ted Pikul because he sees it placement as a violation of his body. The further we go into the movie, the more disturbing scenes we see, including the factory where the gamepods are made. Yet by the end we seem to be able to handle it much better. Finally, a few things that I should point out. First of all, notice how sensual Allegra Gellar is towards Ted Pikul. Remember that he is a complete stranger, but she throws a lot of signals towards him. Secondly note the dog. "},{"Title":"The ''grotesqueries'' apparently only exist for the sake of exist","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" No one admires David Cronenberg's outstanding uniqueness in directing more than I. His movies fit like a glove on my personal tastes; they are usually complex, intricate and esoteric science-fictions, with tragic and grotesque characteristics, which are all (in a sense) present in his 99' work eXistenZ. And yet I cannot help but feeling disappointed with the result, irritated by its frugality and frustrated with the outcome.For starters, the ''grotesqueries'' apparently only exist for the sake of exist; they are basically the consoles organic vivacity and one disgusting meal served for the insipid character of Jude Law, nothing that would make any difference if removed from the plot. There is no meaning behind it, no mystery associated and, quite frankly, these moments are not even loathsome enough to at least make an impression. Another aspect worth mentioning is the apparent poverty of scenarios. One could imagine that a sci-fi film dealing with a virtual reality game would provide more than mundane scenarios resembling clumsy sets from comedy sitcoms, the last scenes particularly were responsible for this unpleasant sensation.Nothing, however, could be more frustrating than the final revelation. Leaving aside all the obvious defects, there is always hope that Cronenberg will come up with an overwhelming surprise, or at least some ambiguous ironic denouement that rescues the story from the abominable ostracism. Turns out, the ''game inside a game'' exposure did not prove to be much of puzzle for our humble minds. It was tasteless, predictable and of course, due to that, severely boring.That was probably the most significant disillusion on my pseudo-''film critic'' enterprise. Nothing that could drop Cronenberg from the pedestal I created in my mind, but definitely a vigorous vacillation. eXistenZ is not terrible and not even close to unwatchable, although I can't imagine any sci-fi enthusiast that would totally approve it, let alone the rest of the world. "},{"Title":"David cro beats most crap","Date":"6 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I continue to watch this film whenever it appears through the direct TV. As usual, d.c. does a great job mixing philosophy and action until your not too sure which is witch. Highly recommended for people with brains. The actors are all first rate (as opposed to his earlier works). D.C. somehow makes you feel like you are really in a computer game, while pulling you out? and back in? Is life merely a game and we merelyactors on a stage? Philosophically dense and yet quick moving action. Maybe even stupid gamers will get it.It doesn't matter, though, to d.c. He won't dumb it down, and that what makes it worth multiple viewings. I must insist that anyone who hasn't seen it yet ignore the short attention span idiotic negative reviews. Comparing this to the Matrix is like comparing Apocalypse Now to Rambo. Even if you're not a fan of Cronenburg's old films or his new more mainstream pictures, this a film worth watching and thinking about later. It's so good one can't hope to get all its strange glory until perhaps the third or fourth viewing. How many films can anyone say that about? See it; infect others. "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is the second Cronenberg film I ever watched. I did not know what to expect. I was hugely disappointed by 'Crash', and I gave Cronenberg a second chance only because Jude Law was in this film.Fortunately, this film was much better than 'Crash'. There is a coherent and innovative story, a lot of interesting gadgets, visually effective shockers and thought provoking dialogs. The idea of using bones as a gun was very innovative. Maybe James Bond need to adopt this weapon!When Allegra Geller says she killed a guy because he is annoying, I felt uncomfortable. I guess this is what really happens in America, but it is not a reality I want to dive into when I want to enjoy a film. "}{"Title":"Could have been worse","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Unfortunately, it could have been MUCH better. The story seemed promising when I read the box in the video store, but half an hour into the movie I realized that I no longer knew what the story was supposed to be. I guess for a low budget sci-fi thriller (And I use the word thriller loosely), it wasn't awful. The two main characters where likeable, and the whole organic technology thing was cool. I can't say that I'd recommend it, but if you are going to watch it, just be careful not to think about the plot too much. "},{"Title":"MetaCronenberg","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In eXistenZ, David Cronenberg pays homage to David Cronenberg, and succeeds brilliantly. Jude Law, with enormous eyes and flattened affect, is the paragon of Cronenberg protagonists, wading waist-deep in Freudian symbolism and biomechanical offal. Jennifer Jason Leigh is adorably dysfunctional as his companion on a surreal and morbidly amusing journey to the centre of Cronenberg's mind . "},{"Title":"One of my Favorite Movies","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ, in my opinion, is one of the greatest movies i have seen.  It does not get the recognition i believe it deserves. If you havent seen it yet, do so ASAP! Jennifer Jason Leigh does a wonderful job in this mind twisting movie. If you like movies that mess with your mind, find it and watch it!! "},{"Title":"A first class techno film although not in the classic league","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I am not going to give a plot summary of this film as many others have already done a much better job than I ever could. What I am going to do is discuss a few of the reasons that I enjoyed this film and also some of the reasons I felt it was, in part a let down.Firstly lets get a few things straight, this film was designed to confuse the viewer from the outset and attempts to keep them confused until towards the very end of the movie.  From reading the reviews on this site it appears to have done this pretty well as I think 50% of 'reviewers' missed this point totally by stating 'the plot was confusing'.  This was done deliberately to try and keep you guessing about the conclusion of the film, lets face it how many boring films have you watched where you might as well have cut out 110 mins from the middle and just left 5 mins at the beginning to introduce the players and 5 mins at the end to confirm the inevitable, eXistenZ is NOT like this you actually have to watch it and not fall asleep.The way that in game characters were made to react to keywords and phrases in order to keep players inside the realms of the program was a nice touch as even though the game hardware and software was meant to be advanced it emphasised that even total immersion gaming would still contain rules.A lot of criticism has been thrown at the special effects that you 'can't see them', I personally think that this is much to the films credit as I can assure you that effects were used in this film on a regular basis but are so well crafted into the fabric of the game world as to be believable in the unbelievable context of the film. Effects for Effects sake are more or less totally absent allowing for more subtle props to be used the 'bone gun' being a classic example.  Everything wriggled and squirmed and made the whole film feel 'organic' the only exception to this believability is the two headed lizard type creature which did look fake but again this might have been deliberate.The downsides are in some of the set design, a lot of it was well thought out and well crafted but a few pieces just didn't quite cut it.  And the ending, well there are endings that leave you set up for sequels and this is one of them. It reminded me very much of the 'sequel imminent' feeling i got at the end of Species 1 but this time it also left me feeling a little empty and that so much more could have been achieved with a more definite finale.The acting was first class from all concerned, Jude Law being outstanding. (JJL's performance was meant to be 'dizzy' to give the impression that her character was detached from too many years spent game designing).Overall a first class techno film although not in the classic league.  "},{"Title":"Homo Ludens terrific, typically cerebral and visceral Cronenberg","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cronenberg's films tend to set up a direct link between the most abstrusely intellectual faculty and the literally visceral guts of the cinematic imagination. They mostly bypass whatever lies in between - both rational and emotional - to bring you metaphysical speculation and physical disgust in pure, raw forms.  eXistenZ is a foray into the nature of reality and how we disguise it from ourselves; as ever, it's the reality of the disgusting things that go on in (and between) our own bodies - sex, childbirth, food, disease, anything that requires or affects our innards - as much as the more abstract external reality that he's scrutinizing.The other point I want to make can't be made without a general, vague sort of SPOILER which is at the end of this paragraph.  (See the movie, then come back here!)  I'm writing this a couple of weeks after the release of Peter Molyneux's Black and White (2001), a computer game that offers more than the traditional pleasures of the 'God game' genre it promises to reveal who you really are through the choices you make; a sort of ethical simulator.  Rather than there being a clear dichotomy between game worlds and real worlds, the implication is, our realities are all games, and the worlds of our imagination are real.  Responsibility is as real (or as nugatory) whatever realm you're operating in. This isn't really news - it's over half a century since Huizinga redefined Homo sapiens as Homo ludens. And the most interesting feature of the plot of eXistenZ (THIS IS THE SPOILER!), is that the people who are most radically opposed to the reality-warping power of the game are precisely the people who are best at playing it. "},{"Title":"beautiful but unrewarding","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  existenz is an entertaining movie which deals with the nature of reality. This theme resembles very much Cronenberg`s earlier attempt Videodrome but while Videodrome has a disturbing, enigmatic plot,  existenz offers a rather shallow ending and all in all tells a conventional science fiction story. I had a good time watching it, but I expected more. "},{"Title":"Unrewarding but watchable film","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  EXISTENZ where Jennifer Jason Leigh stars as Allegra Geller, the ultimate game designer, who's testing her latest creation EXISTENZ on a group of willing volunteers .The game is played via a bio port in the body which gives you direct access to your central nervous system. An assassin intent on stopping Allegra and her game disrupts the demonstration. Allegra goes on the run with only a hopeless security guard played by Jude Law as protection.Is it a game or reality? Is it science or human biology....? Cronenberg sicks up another slice of his visceral sexual organic sci fi horror this time utilising the tried and tested formula of virtual reality well actually tired and tarnished formula of virtual reality which suggest that Cronenberg himself may have lost the plot as we are taken through worlds within worlds is it real or is it fake.... fake or real... It's a filmmaker's conceit that lets him literally get away with murder...I love Cronenberg's skewed vision of the world but somewhere after his classic remake of The THING he became somewhat self parodic and ever so slightly corporate in his filmmaking style - EXISTENZ suffers from too many international film star vignettes and too much lighting cameraman soft bury soundstage shot composition....Directed by David Cronnenberg, EXISTENZ was like re watching his classic VIDEODROME, which was the last film he had a hand in with the writing of. So the ideas of penetrating flesh and technology run through both. Although not a patch on VIDEODROME, EXISTENZ is still a good watch as Cronnenberg makes the reality of life seems unreal and the illusion of the game seem real. "},{"Title":"Now this is what 'The Matrix' should have been","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I should begin by admitting a bias here I work in the computer graphics industry, so I've often been through the kind of 'what-ifs' that occur in this movie (and I still don't understand how reality can do 3D geometry and lighting calculations so fast). 'The Matrix' is an amazing effects demo and I love it, but it's little more than that. 'eXistenZ' is the first movie I've seen which really addresses the nature of reality in the same way that Philip K Dick's novels were doing years ago; there isn't just one level of virtual reality here, but so many levels that you can never be sure what's real and what's the game... or even whether the distinction between 'real' and 'unreal' is a useful one. I thought I'd figured out the point where they entered the game early on... and was pleasantly surprised to discover I was wrong.All in all, it's a brilliant movie for gamers and game developers; whereas people who don't live with these kind of issues every day will probably find it confusing, to say the least. But, like it or not, they're going to have to deal with them sooner or later as real games move closer to the realism of the 'eXistenZ' game in the movie; I wonder how long it will be before Realist terrorists begin to appear in our reality?Now excuse me, I have to go watch the DVD again 8-).  "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi for the new millenium","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ is the very first film I saw, which was directed by David Cronenberg, but I heard, that his elder movies like Rabid, Videodrome, The Fly or Naked Lunch are real horror classics. At the beginning, eXistenZ appeared to me like David Lynch had filmed his on version of The Matrix the first half of the film is a pure chaos, the plot seems to be strange and bizarre, the characters behave very inscrutable. You don´t know for a long time which role each person plays in the game... After a while the film becomes more and more disgusting, organs became a main component of the movie one of the most striking scenes is, when Jude Law eats some mutated reptiles and assembles a gun from their bones... And finally, the end is as bizarre as the whole film - but it´s also pretty surprising, believe me..! Reasons why many people could dislike this film are, that the story is told in a totally unusual way eXistenZ is no commercial product like Men in black or Star Wars Episode 1. Here you can´t switch off your brain and enjoy the pretty pictures you see on the screen! Times are over when Sci-Fi was defined that spaceships are zooming through the universe and robots are firing laserguns. The new films happen in the inner mind or the cyberspace, and sometimes both components are the same. It´s a film you have to consider about, even when there´s sometimes some logic lost... Instead of it you´ll get great performances by Jennifer Jason Leigh, Jude Law (Bon appetite!), Ian Holm and Willem Dafoe, who´s one of the greatest actors of our generation! I recommend eXistenZ to everyone, who likes original and unconventional Sci-Fi movies. All others should wait until the next episode of Star Wars is released..! (9.5/10) "},{"Title":"Too predictable","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The idea of the movie was very good and grabbed my attention.  The down side of this movie is that ten minutes into the story I was able to figure out what was going to happen later on.  If it was on cable I would probably watch it again but I'd never spend money on it. "}{"Title":"Where does reality begin?","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The twists of reality in this film are outstanding.  The viewer must begin to define the world that the characters are operating in bit by bit.  The way that insight into what is happening is given, in small bits, is very engaging.  This film is true Cronenburg.  At various points, I was reminded of 'Crash', 'Videodrome', and 'Naked Lunch'.  Comparisons to 'The Matrix' are appropriate, if it is understood that the similarities stem from the treatment of Baudrillard's works on hyperreality rather than from an action standpoint.  "},{"Title":"chaos","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, so some may have another opinion but i can't help this movie is definite one of the worst movies i've ever seen. I watched it in cinema and it was the first time i noticed the audience actually leaving during a movie. The plot is chaotic and not understandable, you never know what's real and what's not. Some scenes are nothing but disgusting. What was it David Cronenberg wanted to say with this movie? The only good thing about it is Jude Law who's acting is brilliant.  "},{"Title":"It's All in the Game","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The highly imaginative Canadian director of &#132;The Fly` draws another (future?) fantasy world where computer games are so highly developed that they improvise reality for their players. The designer of those games, Allegra Geller, is worshipped and well-known like a film star is in our normal world. When one of her newest games, &#132;eXistenZ`, is about to be tried out, a man assassinates her with a strange organic gun and the situation gets out of control.It's not easy to describe how the story finds its beginning and how it developes; it's quite a confusing game. As the story and the game go on nobody, not even the viewer, can separate reality and fiction any more. Strange, static figures appear and disappear, the game is interrupted from time to time &#150; but is it really? What Cronenberg finally wants, is making us insecure whether the whole film is only a game or not. I suppose that's why the settings and figures reminded me more and more of real computer games.This is a nice movie, if you are able to think yourself into Cronenberg's virtual-virtual realities and unrealities. It's a demanding film but I'm sure Cronenberg didn't take it too seriously and he doesn't want the viewers to over-rate it. Although the base idea of &#132;eXistenZ` is more spectacular and fashionable than the topic of &#132;The Fly`, Cronenberg's earlier film is still much more exciting and shocking.  "},{"Title":"Not up to my expectations...","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I found myself ticked off with several things about this movie, which I watched last night. First of all, quite early into the film, I was practically shouting at the screen about the continuity errors with Jennifer Jason Leigh's hair. The hotel room sequence in particular was really slack. I mean, she was upright beside Jude Law and had her little permed wave accents. Then, a split second later as she reclined, they were suddenly gone and she was simply straight-haired. The up again and back to the waves. And down again. Yeah, yeah...I know. What is my damage that I'm paying attention to her f-ing hairstyle. But really, it is quite glaring IMHO.The other thing that really ticked me off about this was it made me want to slap David Cronenberg across the face and shout at him, Alright, Dave...you've done this before! Move on! There were *SO* many familiar elements to this film. More than that even. The whole initial assassination sequence (no, I'm not really giving away anything plot-point-wise here) has been done (see 'Scanners'). In fact, the film referred to in that last parenthetical bit, namely 'Scanners,' made so much of this film redundant it really made me annoyed with Cronenberg's laziness. Come on. Is it so much to ask to at least attempt to come up with some new lines in your scripts?!? I mean really, some of the things that Jen or Jude had to say were so close to verbatim dupes of lines out of 'Scanners' that it really was disappointing.All that being said, if you HAVEN'T seen any Cronenberg flicks prior to watching this one, you might actually enjoy it. Ignoring the continuity gaffs, it's entertaining enough for a Cronenberg newbie. But anyone who's actually gone through even a minor section of his back catalog will find themselves feeling like they've already seen this before. Yeah, this one's got a bigger budget. Hot (cough) stars of the moment (or not). But all in all, been there, done that.So, once again...come on, Dave! Pick up the slack and move on to something new! Stop retreading the same newflesh crap.Best and all that, Erik -/ "},{"Title":"Thinking man's The Matrix","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Despite what some other reviewers here say, eXistenZ certainly does bear comparison to The Matrix. Both have the same premise  A virtual reality, complete and without chinks or telltale flaws, induced by means of a special kind of biological modification to enable interfacing with the VR system.Unlike The Matrix, however, this film makes sense throughout. No inane Oracle, or gratuitous special effects, no unexplained ability of a character to manipulate the environment at will. No, eXistenZ makes good sense from start (once you figure out what the start is) to finish.It's not as much fun to watch as The Matrix, but far more interesting and rewarding to think about afterward.8/10  "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Wow! That's all i could say after i saw eXistenZ... Wow!!! This has been fabulous and David Cronenberg strikes again! I had no idea what this movie was about. One night i was wondering trough a video store and i saw the tape. David Cronenberg director. That's why i decided to rent it. And i sure as hell didn't regret it.eXistenZ is the best movie i have seen since Fight Club (i know it was done before Fight Club but i saw it more than a year after). It's absolutely awesome what Cronenberg did - again. This is why i love this director so much all his films are original, different, special. A feast for both mind and eyes.eXistenZ has the same theme as in Matrix the fight for reality. The way the story is told is completely different. The world of gaming is better than it has always been, sometime in the near future. It even threats to conquer the whole world. This is why a group of rebels start fighting against it, to save reality.After i saw this film i couldn't find any bad point. Only pluses. The action is well written and exciting, but most of all the story is fabulous. In the end of the movie the huge talent of Cronenberg makes you wonder all the time... is this reality? Or is it just the game? These two things (game - reality) fully mix and turn and thanks to Cronenberg's talent in writing the story you never know what's real anymore. The ending is good, unlike many movies i've seen lately.Oh, and one more thing don't watch this movie while you're eating. Lots of filthy stuff. Great artistic impression, one of the best ever. And also check out the gun. Original and spectacular.eXistenZ is a must for all movie lovers out there. This and The Matrix are the best SciFi's i've ever seen. But don't you dare compare one with the other. It's pointless, cause they have (almost) nothing in common.Vote 9.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Still boring the second time around","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have watched this film two times already and it doesnt help. Its still as boring and lifeless as the first timeI watched it.Existenz isn't well crafted it's very predictable,  and doesnt quite live up to the virtual reality plot inthe movie.There are no techno gizmos or computers to be seen. And no cool effects like in the Lawnmower Man or The Matrix.The only effect of the movie, which probably  was the only thing this budget was spent on,  was a small creature that becomes a friend to  Jennifer Jason Leigh. Other than that, it's very boring and it's not the usualCroneberg stuff like The Fly ,Scanners or even Rabid, those films had suspense and scary moments.Existenz had none. Probably the best scene in the movie is where Miss Leigh and Jude Law seem to be getting it on.Only recommended for mindless viewers. lolI saw a recent interview with Croneberg and he looks old and tired. It looks like he might have passed this feeling on to his movies.Check out his past hits but dont waste youre money on this. Luckily I saw it on cable. "},{"Title":"Do your brain a favour, and go out of your way to see this film...","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It is now 2001 - dare to look ahead... You don't have to be a sci-fi fan to enjoy this film. It is the only film I have ever seen 3+ times. I think it's David Cronenberg's most shimmering effort. What is it about Canadian directors that gives them that'EDGE'?Existenz is highly accessible, dares to look ahead, and is full of fresh new ideas that are presented in a convincing way - with a measured (instead of endless) amount of  violence to keep things tense. For my money, it outclasses The Matrix in every way. I'd prefer to have swapped all that shiny black plastic for a script that didn't run out of ideas half way through and resort to a shoot-out-with-music.I always thought that good films - like plays - should ask questions and certainly demand a bit cerebral activity. It also comments on our choices of pleasure, and asks if you had the chance, would you play? "},{"Title":"Very, very strange, but somehow quite enjoying.","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing The Matrix and The Cell first (similar movies dealing with VR), I think eXistenZ is somewhere inbetween. The matrix was not so good (too complicated with too much effects/violence) and The Cell is fabulous (a must-see). eXistenz is indeed a very strange movie with bad acting (only Willem Dafoe stands out), almost no effects (ok, the small reptile with two heads is cute) and a difficult plot. But the movie works. Everytime they plug a pod in their back, you feel your own back shivering. The movie deals with seeking thrills in a computer game e.g. in a Virtual Reality-environment, because real life is kind of boring and you want to escape that. Worth your time. "},{"Title":"Benefits more from a second viewing than any film in recent memory","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ worked well enough for me the first time I saw it. I've always been a huge David Cronenberg fan and his take on the dangers of virtual reality is an interesting film on first view. The second time I saw the film, though, nearly a year later, everything seemed better. The film's twisty, somewhat convoluted conclusion opens the door for a total rediscovery of the film. This comment will first discuss the film and then (after sufficient spoiler warnings) I'll go into more detail on the improvements of the film's second look.eXistenZ may have come out after The Matrix and Dark City and Strange Days, but the film hardly seems influenced by those earlier depictions on the potentially blurred lines between fantasy and reality. Instead, eXistenZ fits wonderfully within Cronenberg's body of work. For a director who has long been fascinated by the melding of technology and the human body, this film is perhaps the ultimate commentary.Set in an indeterminate future time, eXistenZ begins with the beta testing of the latest virtual game from Allegra Geller (Jennifer Jason Leigh), the world's leading game designer. Instead of plastic and metal playstation consoles, eXistenZ (the name of the new game) requires biopods, pulsing living blobs which plug directly into portals in the spinal cords of the players. The game pods only contain the information, the human players provide the energy source. Anyway, just as the test group is about to enter the game, a crazed young man stands up and with a declaration of fatwah, he shoots Geller and several others.Geller is forced to go on the run with advertising trainee Ted Pikul (Jude Law, back before he was Oscar Nominee Jude Law). The two port into her game to see if any damage has been done, but before long, the game designer and the neophyte (Pikul doesn't even have a portal installed) begin to experience confusion about reality. That's all that will be said here.As with the best of Cronenberg's work, eXistenZ is a mood piece. With wonderful dark, brooding cinematography from Peter Suschitzky, the film doesn't attempt to create an exciting looking future. Instead, all of the action takes place in the gaming underground in the countryside outside some unnamed city. The game within the film is similarly minimalist. Working from his first original script since Videodrome (a very similar film in many ways, actually), Cronenberg's film has a wonderful internal logic that works well the first time you see it and only improves.eXistenZ is fairly gross, in a Cronenberg kind of way. As you might imagine, Cronenberg has a field day with the notion of the biopods, which are made from amphibian DNA and also from the portals themselves, little sphincters in the small of the the characters backs into which umbilical cords are inserted. When one character says that he was afraid to get a portal because he doesn't like to be penetrated in that way, you just know that Cronenberg is having a big laugh.(SPOILERS TIME. MASSIVE SPOILERS. STOP READING IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE FILM)(NO. REALLY. STOP.)When the film gets to its end and it becomes clear that even the real life was just a game within a game and the various characters turn out to have just been players, a million things suddenly make sense. Ian Holm apologizes for his horrible accent, which was distracting until you know what it was. Jude Law begins to speak in his native British accent and the Canadian accent he'd previously been doing makes more sense. All of the settings and character interactions from the film's early scenes also take on a new meaning.  Frankly, the new depth is amazing.  It raises the appreciation of every performance and of the balancing act that Cronenberg is pulling off.eXistenZ is fun, frequently funny, and, like the best of Cronenberg, generally hypnotic. I think I may have given the film a 7/10 during a previous visit, but having just seen it again, I'm bumping it up to at least an 8.5/10. Good stuff. "}{"Title":"Staggeringly original...","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  David Cronenberg reaches the peak of his craft with this incredible film.  Yes, the question is reality real? has been explored in films before, but in my opinion never this thoroughly, craftily or skillfully.  The film's originality lies not in the questions it asks, but in the way it asks them.With an incredible cast of characters, outstanding soundtrack and signature Cronenberg fleshiness, this film does for cinema what neon-colored gummy worms do for candy.  If you have an open, reasonably intelligent mind and don't mind facing the very REAL possibility that conscious existence is a sort of dream (something mysticism has been claiming since the beginning and physics has already pointed out -- that chair you're sitting in is NOT solid), don't miss this film.On second thought, don't miss this film no matter what.  You may love it or hate it, but if you don't give it a chance... well, you must be just another virtual character in this game of life, controlled by the movie reviews of others!9/10 (4/4 stars) "},{"Title":"Good plot, but unfortunately it doesnt quite deliver","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Existenz isn't well crafted as a Croneberg fan, said. It is very predictable, and doesnt quite live up to the virtual reality plot in the movie. There are no techno gizmos or computers to be seen. And no cool effects like in the Lawnmower Man or The Matrix.The only effect of the movie, which probably was the only thing this budget was spent on, was a small creature that becomes a friend to Jennifer Jason Leigh. Other than that, it's very boring and it's not the usual Croneberg stuff like The Fly ,Scanners or even Rabid, those films had suspense and scary moments.Existenz had none. Probably the best scene in the movie is where Miss Leigh and Jude Law seem to be getting it on.Oh yeah, a frog gets chopped to pieces too.LOLOh David, you are losing you're touch. "},{"Title":"Original perspective is always welcomed","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Warning contains spoilers.This movie impressed me so much I had to see it twice the same day.  Their are so many subtlies involved.  It is a pleasure to view it again and again.The question of what is real and what is reality is a great philosophical one.  The perspective taken here, a game, is very well examined.The interaction between the players and the programmed characters is superb. One has to remind himself that this movie is not about special effects, but about  an amazingly creative burgeoning of a twisted idea.The scene where the guy stands up and says Existenz pause must be the epiphany of the concepts the writer was trying to show us.  I have rarely seen a scene feel so real, yet unreal at the same time.  As if you could not believe he had just said that, but on the other hand, it made so much sense.The gore was relevant and actually added to the movie.  The story was very interesting and the conspiracy left you thinking and thinking some more.The open-ended ending is also exceptionally helpful in letting the viewer wonder.  A real thought-provocative film. "},{"Title":"Why David Cronenberg's eXistenz cannot give our Da-Sein any transCendenZ ","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  While this recent foray into the realm of Philosophy-of-Mind & Film may indeed appear, to all its well-advised viewers, as if it really Makes THE MATRIX Look Like Child's Play (San Francisco Chronicle), the film-noir trope, of the sinister or forebodingly earnest aspects within the Game of Life, performs a remarkable irony in its cinematic-medial attempts to depict the grounded both in truth and untruth of Heidegger's non-dualistic being-there.  Vastly superior to the very disappointing The Cell (2000), this is a fine first attempt (- as Matrix and Dark City restrict themselves to their premises of singular and dualistic science fictions of dualistic either/or realities -) to convey these complex and very difficult philosophical possibilities of (a) being thrown into matrices of a resonating  discovered/uncovered what which is at (role-)play in its conscious, gradually understanding, responses to a mutable ever-shifting undisclosed who. This is all, here, quite self-reflexively borrowed from the Heideggerian lexicon of course. But the film is, simply said  superb ! "},{"Title":"Truly Special Effects","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I think I have discovered the hidden rule behind Canadian films  They must be devoid of color and have Sarah Polley in the cast.  Fortunately, some Canadian films are directed by the surrealistic David Cronenberg, who never met a gross-out he didn't love and who seems to be obsessed with piercing the body in new ways.The movie is about a computer game creator who is on the run from would-be assassins, and gets trapped in her own game--or does she?   Reading about this plot ahead of time made me think that Cronenberg would use some state-of-the-art, Matrix type special effects. I should have known better.  Cronenberg does use special effects, but with his own twisted signature.  Guns are made out of flesh and bones and shoot teeth.  There are twists and double crosses, and an entirely satisfying surprise ending.Cronenberg has wisely cast the wonderful Jennifer Jason Leigh as the star of the film.  She manages to convey brilliance, vulnerability, sexuality and mystery all at once. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of the year","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Most of the time it's the brilliant works of art that get left behind in the movie business and it's these drama's that don't make much sense that get all the awards.  After watching eXistenZ I couldn't understand how a movie as amazing as this one got such poor ratings at the box office.  When I seen it was a sci-fi I was like well ok, I mean I wasn't much interested in it, I thought that maybe only those kinds of people were going to like it, but I tell you that is surely not the case.  I watched it and all I kept thinking was wow this is so amazing, it's not often I watch a movie that really makes me think.  This movie made me look into my life and see what is real and what is not.  Who knows maybe our world is an eXistenZ.  "},{"Title":"Using the skill of subtraction","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ is an increasingly complex film that deals with every seeming inconsistent or unbelievable fact within it at some point.  That makes it a good story completion.  But the film itself shines with its unique viewpoint of taking away all the trappings of a sci-fi/alternate reality universe.  Cronenberg uses subtraction of icons, of machinery and special effects robotic dogs that fly and do your math homework and instead substitutes organic futurism.  If I was a little smarter, I would point to more of the subtraction throughout the film, but instead I will direct you to The Matrix (of course), The Thirteenth Floor (well-done, overshadowed), and the book Otherland (go Tad Williams).Enjoy what makes you happy. "},{"Title":"Like _The Matrix,_ but with philosophical integrity","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The unfortunate fact that this film came out at the same time as the special effects blockbuster _The Matrix_ has doomed it to obscurity. As far as writing and philosophical sophistication go, however, this film is far superior to its Hollywood counterpart. _The Matrix_ drops the ball in its examination of the impossibility of externally verifying objective reality, shattering one reality but then assuming that the one that remains is the true one. _eXistenZ,_ however, explores the full consequences of this difficult philosophical concept, successfully blurring fantasy and reality and leaving the viewer delightfully off-balance. This is a thoughtful and surreally fragmented film -- not for those looking for a cheap two hours' entertainment. Nor is it for the weak of stomach. As always, Cronenburg's disturbingly organic special effects are truly haunting, imbuing this film with overtones that are both sinister and erotic. A must see for Cronenburg fans, and for anyone interested in the philosophical problems raised by the possibility of immersive virtual environments. "},{"Title":"For those who love games ...","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you like adventure computer games and virtual reality, you really won't be disappointed. Now imagine you're playing your favorite adventure video game and fell in it. You're both the player and the character. The other characters are human too. Therefore, multiple scenarios are possible.Also, as the game is so realistic, the question is it reality ? is it fiction ? arise.  "},{"Title":"One word to describe this Cool!","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cronenberg's take on What is reality and what is not? a la The Matrix and The Thirteenth Floor (all three films, ironically were released in 1999.)  A bodyguard (Jude Law) becomes a reluctant participant in a virtual reality world created by a female computer programmer (Jennifer Jason Leigh). In my humble opinion, the theme is eerily similar to both Matrix and Thirteenth Floor, although the concept is original.  Law and Leigh give great performances and Cronenberg brings his own surrealism and subtle sensuality to the film.  In summary, if you have seen the films mentioned above, then you might want to take a chance with eXistenZ.  Highly recommended!! "}{"Title":"Long live the new mind","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This one seems to be both a re-stating and an expansion of director Cronenberg's previous films, leavened by a little self-deprecating humor. Where to begin?  Naked Lunch's addictions and Kafkaesque settings, the mutating consumer electronics and hallucinations of Videodrome(some scenes made me think eXistenZ was a sequel), the twisted sexuality of Crash...such a buffet of intellectual depravity.It expands on Cronenberg's theme of mutation and displacement.  His early films say My body is freaking out.  In later films, it was My mind is freaking out, causing my body to freak out.  Now we have Reality itself is liquid, and can cause anything to freak out at any time.  Have a nice day.Jude Law and Willem Defoe are great, Ian Holm's having fun, but I wasn't impressed as much with Jennifer Jason Leigh.  She didn't seem to hit the right note for me, but it's still a watchable performance, just not great.This film isn't for everyone.  I can tell by some of the comments on this board that there are some nervous systems immune to the Cronenberg virus. Too bad for them.  This is an incredibly rich and fulfilling picture, one of the best science fiction films of the decade. Cronenberg is one of North America's true visionary artists, continuing to map unexplored territory. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable movie drowned by unfair criticisms of folks looking for a Matrix knock-off","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For the amount of negative feedback it received from the IMDb users, eXistenZ isn't half bad.  Fairly decent and enjoyable actually.  Not as impressive as Cronenberg's other films such as, say, Videodrome, but fairly good nonetheless. It fits quite well along the lines of the above-mentioned Videodrome and even Naked Lunch. The special effects are instantly recognizable, and are used sparingly, which, in my opinion, is a good thing.  Acting, while far from remarkable, works reasonably well. And yes, there is a plot, as simplistic as it may be.  The movie may just be too meditative and inward-looking for the action oriented folks, which brings us to this whole Matrix thing. Comparing eXistenZ to Matrix is COMPLETELY UNFAIR.  Of course all these people who were expecting a Matrix knock-off were dissappointed.  Matrix is a very well crafted sci-fi-cyber- action flick, but whose appeal rests entirely on the non-stop special effects, action sequences and ultra-hip characters. eXistenZ is not quite about that.  In fact, it is completely different. The only reason it was marketed as such by the studio is for commercial reasons.  I am sure it wasn't even Cronenberg's idea. eXistenZ is so much more phlegmatic and introspective, and action and special effects are only a supplement.  And no, this movie is not totally boring, unless all you are used to watching are movies like Matrix or Armageddon.  I guess I shouldn't even recommend directors like Lynch or Tarkovsky to this kind of people.   In any case, while far from great, eXistenZ is an enjoyable little movie.  Just don't expect it to be an action flick because it's not. It's more like a prolonged, modern day Twilight Zone episode focusing on alternate reality, and directed, of course, by Mr. Cronenberg, which should say something about the way it turned out.   "},{"Title":"A good middle ground between Matrix and 13th floor","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen several virtual reality type of movies recently  the Matrix, 13th floor, and now this one.Matrix is for those who like special effects, fast action... 13th floor is for those who like more plot and char development eXistenZ is somewhere in between.I figured out that the reality was fake (probably due to 13th floor influence) pretty early on, so there was no surprising element to me at all.  With the surprise gone, no much can be said about this movie.... "},{"Title":"Not The Matrix, but still an amazing film -) (possible spoilers included)","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  *POSSIBLE SPOILERS*If you expect eXistenZ to be just like the effects-driven films Johnny Mnemonic, The Matrix and Total Recall, then don't watch it.  If, however, you love thoughtful movies about paranoia in the spirit of Naked Lunch, Dark City, THX 1138, etc., this film will rip your head off, spit down your neck and sit there grinning at you for a week. More a film about the perceptions and limits of the human mind than about virtual reality itself, eXistenZ draws upon Cronenberg's fear of the real world (and normal sexuality-- gamers must use bio-electronic game pods made from mutated animals to play the game).  Murder, mystery, surrealism and science fiction all get chewed up, spit out and reconstructed into *extremely* twisted shapes, ala Salvador Dali or Max Ernst.  Watchers who aren't careful (or who don't understand Cronenberg's previous work) will get lost/bored/confused very quickly-- the film requires a *lot* of mental exercise. There probably won't be an eXistenZ II;  but this film has so much in it already, there isn't anything else to say.  "},{"Title":"Couldn't be any better......","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yea, you read the title. I personally don't think this movie could have been any better than what it is. eXistenZ was definatly better than the Matrix could ever be. Don't get me wrong, I love The Matrix (have the dvd), but I think eXistenZ is just better, probably because I like sci-fi movies better than action ones.p.s Gattaca ruled too...Gh_5316 "},{"Title":"Life sucks, then you die.","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a Cronenberg fan but this movie just does not cut it. Yeah I know it's not really about virtual reality, but is actually a commentary about Salman Rushdie's situation, but still... This movie tries to be too clever by half. The Life Is A Game has been done before and to much better effect in The Thirteeenth Floor and Dark City. "},{"Title":"Utter Filth","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw the trailer and was totally unimpressed however this film made Premiere's top ten of 1999 list among films like Eyes Wide Shut, Bringing out the Dead, Being John Malkovich, American Beauty Election among others and above movies like Run Lola, Run The Limey and FIGHT CLUB so I said it had to be good then.First 10 mins into it my brother comments that it is very boring and cheezy and Jude Law does not impress him like in Gattaca but i though he just doesn't know anything about Cronenberg but I too feel this way and the only reason I continue to watch is because I expect it to pick up at some point.It does get a little better during the movie but it is still not very good but nonetheless I continue to watch hoping that the finale will explain everything. Event hough it did have some nice plot twists the ending is very stupid and makes you want to save people from the disappointment(I myself called one Bevon Sin Leong and told him not to waste his time) This is a terrible film and I do not recommend it to anyone. If you want a satisfying Matrixesk movie The 13th Floor is is somewhat amusing. "},{"Title":"Absolute genius!","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Believable characters, strange world, strange plot, and an ending that makes anyone wonder what happened... This is one of Cronenberg's best movies.Unfortunately, people tend to compare this movie with the Matrix. In my opinion, Existenz is more similar to the Thirteenth Floor. Both films are greatly unappreciated by audiences. Mainly, because they are both being compared to the Matrix. No one can deny that the Matrix had some great special effects. But after ID4 and Godzilla, people should have realized that special effects don't make a movie. Existenz lacked the special effects, but it was a great film. It also lacked the action sequences of Matrix. People should try to see this film as something completely different. This is closer to Videodrome (Another Cronenberg movie) than Matrix. Both Existenz and Videodrome deal with strange worlds and what's real or isn't. My advice try to avoid comparing this film to Matrix. It is in a league of its own.  "},{"Title":"What the hell was this garbage about?","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ is by far one of the worse films that I have ever seen, what garbage.  David Cronenberg has made pretty yet disturbing movies from bad (Crash, eXistenZ) to good (The Fly, Scanners).  Cronenberg should go back to the board and think of something to write about other than video games. And I also did not like how the Chinese waiter was treated man, cruelty to Asians.  A Rating system of Hit or Miss, this movie is a BIG MISS! "},{"Title":"gimme my money back","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  the most stupid, boring piece of garbage I have ever seen. I want to sew somebody for lost hour of my life, couldn't even watch the whole thing, it was tooooo stupid. I couldn't believe my eyes, there should be some kind of censorship for bullsh** like this, must have been dreaming. STUPID, STUPID, STUPID, STUPID, STUPID !!!!!!!!!!! AVOID AT A COST OF LIFE !!!!!!! "}{"Title":"eXcellEnt!","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ is one of my favorite sci-fi films of all time. Why? Because it was so damn cool! I loved almost every idea it had going for it. The gristle gun, the bio-ports, the idea of the use of 'game dialogue' to communicate with other characters, if you ask me I'll say this movie has it all. It's also better than The Matrix in my opinion. Very little special effects, but when they come they are astonishing.PLOT 10 DIRECTION 10 SCRIPT 8 ACTING 7 GORE 9OVERALL 9 "},{"Title":"The most unappreciated movie of '99","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It really bothers me that people chose the Matrix (which is a fine film in and of itself) as the one must-see movie of '99. When a much much much superior film like eXistenZ was more interesting and much better.Kudos to David Cronenberg for opting not to take the low road and build a story around CGI. Rather through taking the high road and creating an intelligent and well-thought-out story with interesting and complex characters he created one of the best movies ever made. And the way he messes with your head is amazing.This is one of those movies that'll keep you guessing up until the very end, and even then you still won't perceive what you think is reality as the truth. This is definitely a trip you will not want to miss.I highly recommend this film to fans of such genre fare as DARK CITY, THE MATRIX, GATTACA, A CLOCKWORK ORANGE.I give this ***** out of *****!!! "},{"Title":"never ever compare this masterpiece to the shambles known as The Matrix","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  i freely admit i was attracted to this film because i like Jude Law-but why not when hes been in such films as final cut, gattaca and the talented mr ripley? he gives so much to his films and eXistenZ doesnt differ. His change of character all the way through shows what talent even a perhaps less idolised (matt damon/leonardo di caprio are  majorly idolised, the latter so pathetically-his only good film was whats eating gilbert grape-which was when no mass fan club had eaten his acting skills)actor can produce. I tend to whine about the Matrix a lot and comparing it to eXistencZ only makes me whine more, how can you say there alike how can you watch eXistenZ then enjoy The Matrix-i saw The Matrix before i saw eXistenZ and can undoubtly say why would anyone choose the  Matrix over eXistenZ????????? ok ok ive exhausted that a bit (see my comments on The Matrix!)back to eXistenZ...i loved it so thoughtfully planned and twisted-which is defiantly the strong point in any film-that and Jude Law...great all time classic film  "},{"Title":"Mindboggling!","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is great stuff about reality. The movie makes you guess all the way; is it the game or is it reality? Certainly weird at times, but thats to be expected from Cronenberg.  Great story, great actors and some good special effects make this as good if not better than The Matrix in some ways. Mindboggling! "},{"Title":"Very different","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film was totally wild- it was so weird, but it was good.  There are so many interesting characters in this film, and its a real mind blower.  Cronenberg makes everything look unusually realistic, and seems to use objects that we are familiar with but for a totally different purpose to what they are intended for in our world.  Different as this film is, it is still very interesting, and you are never quite sure what is going to happen next- but then we are not meant to.  This film depicts a not so much a future of ours, but an alternative reality to what it is today.  It really is very well done. "},{"Title":"An acquired taste","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you've read and enjoyed some of Philip K. Dick's finest work (The Man in The High Castle, UBIK, Martian Time-Slip), then this movie will appeal to you.  The arbitrary extra details thrust in incongruously but which everyone in the story takes for granted; slipping between realities; dream logic -- a worthy sci-fi film in its own right.  Don't expect The Matrix and don't expect Total Recall.  Then you'll be OK.   "},{"Title":"so... are we still in the game?...","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  cronenberg's love/hate relationship with technology, humanism, and isolationism just (pardon the pun) oozes from this made-to-laugh-at-yourself film. this is, obviously from other comments i've read here, a cronenberg FAN film. he's like lynch-- if you don't like his films, ya just don't get it. this isn't the matrix and shouldn't be compared to it. let's stick with apples, shall we? compare it with other cronenberg films. he's come a long way since videodrome, but look at the similarities in theme 1. flesh is something to be  taunted and played with, yet something to be disgusted with. 2. technology is evil (t.v-in videodrome, the opiate of the masses in the 80's; vid games-in existenz, the opiate of the masses in the 90's.) 3. self induced isolation is overtaking us all, it is more important than reality.so... are we still in the game?... "},{"Title":"Great film, but not for everyone","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have enjoyed a lot of David Croneberg's films, especially with his fascinating vision of technology and the body as one.  I'm not a fan, but some of his movies are interesting.  He splurged on it in Videodrome (interesting, but OK), and then brought it up (although not as graphically) in Crash.  Crash, unfortunately, did not translate well to celluloid--you need to read the book to get a feel for the Croneberg theme rather than see it.So what does all of this have to do with eXistenZ?  Briefly, a software designer builds a new game and uses a biomechanical, almost living, device that hooks up in people's backs (via an umbilical cord) and puts them in a type of virtual reality.  Unfortunately, some people want to kill her.  The rest you have to see--it cannot be explained without giving too much away. What I enjoyed in this movie was not only the plot (which is interesting, with a cool ending, by the way), but a lot of the visual effects in it.  OK, they aren't the Matrix or Phantom Menace, but they will test your sense of nausea!  As for the plot, I think what Croneberg suggests is that people are getting too dependent on technology to live their lives; they are using it to create a new life, and this is not far from the truth.You will either like it or hate it.  I feel those who enjoyed Croneberg's previous works (especially The Naked Lunch, Videodrome, Scanners, and The Brood) will definitely enjoy this film.  As for the rest, I recommend it just for the experience--you may either praise or curse me, but you will agree that there are not too many films like these.  One of the most underrated films of 1999. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I happened to catch this movie on the Sundance Channel.  I was skeptical at first, but I found it very entertaining.  I read another review that said it was straight to video.  For some reason, NO ONE remembers that this was in theatres, albeit for a short time.  Compared to the Matrix?  Well, the Matrix remains one of my Top 5 movies, and while good, eXistenZ doesn't beat it.  It is, however a good addition to the sci-fi genre.  Also, the ending is beautifully done because it was so obvious, yet it never crossed my mind. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Absolute genius","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  this film is one of Cronenbergs finest films, this and Videodrome, and that is quite an achievement when he has made films such as Scanners, The Brood and Dead Ringers which normal film makers would class as there best work ever Cronenberg just seems to churn them out with ease.The film is based on a game created by Allegra Gella (Jennifer Jason Leigh).Jennifer and Jude Law play the game, but keep swapping backinto reality, this is what makes the film so weirdly brilliant as you don't know whether it is reality or in the game.i cant really divulge into the film in any great detail as it would just give the whole plot away, all i will say is the ending is cool as ****.One of Cronenbergs best a must see film. "}{"Title":"Great, but with some flaws.","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked this film. The bio-tech was fascinating and innovative, and I agree with most the positive stuff people have said about this film.But it had some flaws, too. I didn't mind the plot changing again and again. It was cool, and it went with the style of the film. But I had some problems with the bio-tech. It just was not credible. If we, in the future, invent these bio-gadjets, it will not be tomorrow or next week. It will not be within the next 100 year. In this movie, everything feels exactly like today (clothing, cars, overall feel etc) except that there's a lot of really wierd bio-tech-stuff. Nope. I didn't buy it. Also, the characters popped in and out of the film so fast I didn't recognize most of them in the final scenes. oops, a new person in, he's in it for 2 minutes, he's out again, and I'm supposed to recognize him an hour later?!? Nope... too many characters for such a short film.But I liked it, and I thought this monvie was cool. Thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Naked Lunch in Cyberspace","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Reading the user comments I noticed that nearly everyone compares this film to The Matrix, or 13th Floor. Absolutely wrong. This is a Cronenberg film, so do not expect easily understandable, action heavy, state-of-the-art visuals. However if surrealism is in your book, treat yourself for a wild ride. Just like in the Naked Lunch some people are addicted to a certain mind-enhancer (this time VR-games instead of drugs) so the line between reality and imagination becomes more and more thinner. This is an ideal setup for Cronenberg, master of the bizarre, to do some surprising plot twists in the story.However, the main reason to watch this movie is the invention of cyber-bio-gadgets which is a wonderfully original idea. Having seen The Matrix's awesome techno-worlds to death it was surprisingly refreshing that someone can depict the surrealism of cyberspace without big-budget CGI effects. All you have to do is to replace the machines with some *really* bizarre equipment (ie a game controller, which looks like a giant out-of-this-world latex-vagina - and it wriggles too!). These gizmos are creating a very surreal world and they are just as memorable as the bug-typewriter in the Naked Lunch. This idea really works, and unfortunately this is the only aspect of the movie I really liked.The plot twists mentioned before are quickly becoming tiresome, and hard to follow. Everybody is hostile, even close friends are secret enemies, and so on... It seems to me that Cronenberg pushed the classic my friend is my worst enemy cliché a little too far (even an actor has a remark at the end of the movie complaining about the plot twists). Paranoia in the Naked Lunch had a purpose, unfortunately it is only a plot device here which ends in a violent gun-fight every time.The actors are mixed bag Jennifer Jason Leigh decks into the VR like she was watching a hardcore porn-flick she moans, wriggles in the bed, and does some funny things with the weird-looking game terminal. She even talks to her terminal like to her secret sex-partner (while she is in extreme danger, of course). I understand that she invented the whole thing, but I think it should be more appropriate to emphasize the mother-baby relation instead of a horny woman and her best dildo scenario. Most supporting actors perform quite well (especially Ian Holm, and the wonderful Willem Dafoe), and Jude Law acts his confused role beliveably.It seems to me, that this time Cronenberg is too obsessive to his patent-pending bio-bizarre sets and props than his movie in a whole. It is a shame because this film should be the gold mine for original ideas, but unfortunately the banal plot (if you played serious computer adventures before you know that this plot is mediocre - even from the computer gamer's point of view), some questionable acting, and pointless action elements are sinking  the movie.If you liked Naked Lunch, you should go and see this film to see the evolution of hallucinogens from the 70s drug-inspired fantasies to the 90s cyber-escapism. Just do not expect for something so original.Rating 3.5 of 5  "},{"Title":"yeah umm","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I read some comment, where some dude said, get ready for a wild ride pfft! This movie was terrible, by watching it you'd think that they'd end up in a virtual reality world... Nope, the production was too cheap. And the characters, godawful! This movie was so hard to watch, please don't watch it! PLEASE!! "},{"Title":"Cronenberg's Matrix","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Take The Matrix, add equal part Videodrome, mix thoroughly... But perhaps I'm being pedantic. eXistenZ is a virtual reality movie with intelligence and flair. I love David Cronenberg's movies, and this I rate one of his best. An interesting and I might say slightly offbeat cast, and first rate special effects. This is also one of those movies that you understand better (and possibly enjoy more) on a second or third viewing - if you've seen it, you'll know what I mean. If you haven't, then don't read any reviews or spoilers;  they would certainly take away much of the impact this movie makes - particularly the ending, which I thought fitted events perfectly.  "},{"Title":"A better version of Videodrome","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cronenbergs Videodrome is one of my favourite sci-fi's ever, but his eXistenZ is even better. It is almost as if once in a while he wants to show the people around the world the dangers of new technology - but in a very bizarre way.Swedish roleplayers should notice that the gun used in the film is an exact copy from necro-bio-gun from the early MUTANT R*Y*M*D, published by Target Games in the early 1990's.Few bizarre and strange movies are strong from the beginning to the end. eXistenZ manage to hold on to the story and is almost perfect from the first frame to the last. Even though the ending is a bit mainstream, it doesn't matter too much.The film is well written, but it lacks a bit in the performance of Jennifer and Jude. It is clearly a low-budget movie, but this is not a bad thing.The special-effects are not over-done - they are instead well-done, something we don't see too much of these days.As You probably noticed, I have not included a summary for the film. This film is best when You know as little as possible of it. Don't read on the back in the box office, just rent it and see it. It is worth it. "},{"Title":"Pure Cronenberg.","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A cute little piece of cinema, this. It does seem like Cronenberg borrowed a few ideas from the novel Vurt by Jeff Noon - a book I recommend to those who liked this movie. Nice to see a bit of existentialism in a Hollywood flick, although it's on a somewhat puerile level.The movie has plenty of the organic weirdo disgusto stuff we've come to expect from Cronenberg, and special effect buffs won't be disappointed (except for maybe that plastic waiter head that blew the vision). All in all a nice, amusing little flick, see it. "},{"Title":"Cronenberg fans will love it; others beware!","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Fans will delight in this 1999 addition to the director's increasingly excellent body of work. All the familiar Cronenberg elements are in place pulsing organic lumps, grotesque biomorphic creations, time/reality shifts à la Philip K. Dick. Jennifer Jason Leigh is at her sultry best in a role that is quite unusual for her. My only complaint the film could have been longer!  "},{"Title":"A science fiction movie that confounds reality with several layers of electronic fantasy","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It is not a bad movie at all but it was not what I wanted to see. It warns us nevertheless of the electronic age in which we are living. In this movie Fiction is mingled strongly with reality and one can have some fear that things would develop in our life in this manner. I must only say that the movie had some scenes that were not especially appetizing!! After having seen this movie I hope that people in the future would still be able to play have fun without being connected to some machine! "},{"Title":"quick fix","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Here Cronenberg fascinates and repels us with his sinister vision of a world crawling with disease - the disease of technology. Like a virus, it invades our lives. We are powerless to stop its relentlessness - we succumb to its immediate pleasures like a shot of heroin. We are slaves to the quick-fix of video-violence. As before in The Fly and Videodrome, Cronenberg revels in the nightmare of technology gone wrong and machines that take us over and then eat us from the inside. His view of virtual reality is not one shared by the IT capitalists, rather a stern warning of what we might become in the future. He is a visionary and as such, is often misunderstood by those who only see the surface. I've never believed that Cronenberg's work is intended to shock. He's too clever for that. He simply wants us to appreciate the way he sees the world. "},{"Title":"A fun and trippy thrill ride that's worth your time!","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  David Cronenberg's latest bizarro film is eXistenZ. Why the weird spelling and pronunciation? Why not! The entire movie seems to scream We can't do that?! Watch us! From the loopy plot to the far-out premise, this film is joyous in its unabashed use of imagination.The movie stars Jennifer Jason Leigh as Allegra Geller (yes, her name is Allegra), a brilliant game designer who has created a virtual reality game in which the player must have their spinal cord punctured and insert a weird, fleshy tube into it to play. It is so popular that you can get it done at the mall, just like a piercing. Now, that alone is a bit wacky, but when you actually see the game device...well...let's just say that it looks like a Picasso fantasy come to life. The sexual overtones of the film are REALLY blatant and obvious. They have to be seen to be believed and will definitely make even the most edgy viewer smile or blush.The problem is that some people want Allegra dead. Now it is up to a dorky security guard (Jude Law) and many other characters to protect her...or is it? In this movie, NOTHING is what it seems. I absolutely won't reveal anything because that will spoil the fun, but expect to be surprised many times by the amazing plot twists. Just be sure you pay attention and can keep up!This is one of those movies that defies all logic. The characters live in a world that makes up its own rules. Some of the actions and events make NO sense...but that hardly matters because this is all a virtual-reality, anything goes realm. (Similar films that you may want to see are Strange Days and The Matrix)The third act does get a bit winded due to the constantly shifting plot, but it is all made up for by one of the best endings I've seen in a very long time. Check this film out for a wild, fun, edgy, trippy, ride that you won't soon forget.9 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Fascinating and mind-blowing","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know what I expected when I rented eXistenZ. I knew it was one of those films that I absolutely had to see, but apart from remembering comparisons with The Matrix I didn't know much about it. Apart from the fact that the ever-fascinating David Cronenberg had directed it of course.Brilliant is the word that comes to mind right after having seen the film. I have to tell you that I found the experience of watching eXistenZ mind-blowing. I've always liked stories like this -- even as a child, stories where I don't know what's going on but am desperate to find out. It's a fascinating film to say the least -- like most other Cronenberg-films, though, it's not for everyone -- you are now warned, -).Jennifer Jason Leigh was very good in a very interesting role. But the one who impressed me the most was Jude Law, I knew he was good, but *this* good? Didn't know that. It's always a joy to see Sarah Polley in a film, unfortunately she's only in it for a few minutes (and I sincerely hope that the hair on her head is a wig), but she still manages to make something good out of those few minutes. Brilliant film with a brilliant ending, but also with a few flaws, but nothing too serious. I haven't decided whether I should give eXistenZ an 8 or a 9 here at IMDb -- have to watch it again to know for sure.And as for the comparisons with The Matrix -- don't listen to them. I don't find the films to be alike at all. The Matrix is a sci-fi action, while I consider eXistenZ to be a sci-fi thriller. Both films are brilliant in their own right -- no need for any comparisons. "},{"Title":"A Cronenberg film for a variety of people","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  While early Cronenberg films might have been too bloody and dreadful for some people, and recent Cronenberg movies too kinky or homo-erotic (although explicit sex scenes were always avoided), eXistenZ deals with GAMES. Now who doesn't like a game once in a while? Set in a nearby future things -and games- of course might turn out not to be exactly what one might expect... "},{"Title":"Forget Crash, here comes eXistenZ...","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Did you hate Crash?Don't worry, eXistenZ is far from being a sequel. As a matter of facts, it's probably one of the best canadian films in the last few years. The fact that it rated incredibly high at the box office in Canada doesn't mean it's one of these blockbusters you feel you've already seen twice. It's a one-of-a-kind movie, though some Matrix reminiscence is definitely floating about... A must for all sci-fi fans. And for every movie fan. "},{"Title":"The latest installment in new genre","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Afte viewing eZistenZ, I obviously recalled two other movies that also incorporated the virtual reality - is it real or virtual? plot line - The Matrix and The 13th Floor (by the way, I'm surprised no one else mentioned the 13th floor, another recent low budget virtual reality film).Anyway, it appears we now have a new movie genre - virtual reality movies.  And I, for one, have no problem with this development as long as each movie has a distinctive take on the subject.  I enjoyed each of these movies although the ending of eXistenZ was more confusing than the others. Maybe that's not a bad thing, though.  A movie doesn't have to have a soothing or completely clear resolution.  Unfortunately, these movies will be hampered commercially for the same reason that they excite a cult following - they require a significant amount of attention and a desire to be challenged intellectually.  Not exactly the recipe for big box office.In any event, anyone who likes mind blowing plot line (Altered States, a relative oldie, also comes to mind) will also enjoy eXistenZ.  Its definitely worth your time and the rental cost.    "},{"Title":"Over rated, unoriginal","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was sorely disappointed by this movie. Vaguely similar to Dark City and the Matrix, the plot has been done in one form or another in the Outer Limits and even Star Trek.The acting by both of the leads was convincing, and I can't fault any of the actors. However, for a film that seems to promise depth, it pales when compared to Dark City.It's my first Cronenberg movie, and I'm sorry to say he hasn't impressed me.  "},{"Title":"Curious enough, but Cronenberg without a spine.","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For Cronenberg fans, any new film is welcome, but this one ranks just above his duds, M Butterfly and Rabid. Fine story for his usually capable hands and features great actors, but all fall flat and fairly lifeless. The film amounts to a thriller minus the thrills, a roller-coaster ride that goes straight, flat, and slow.I do love Cronenberg and I think Existenz is a fine movie, but it needs a spark, a good slap in the face, in order to be a great film. The movie has a blankness in tone that worked with keen perfection in Crash but hampers any intrigue within Existenz. The acting by Leigh and Law reflects this. The two are absolutely wooden, too wooden to care about, and I get the feeling that Cronenberg might have been spoiled by the likes of actors (Irons, Spader, Hunter, Weller) that can translate what he desires much easier.Still, Cronenberg always offers a breathe of fresh air and a view film fans dont see in any other directors films. His films are always a welcome addition to a normally trite and obvious film world. At least with Cronenberg (even lackluster Cronenberg) we can find something different and worthwhile. "},{"Title":"David Cronenberg's best yet","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Plot within plot within plot keeps the viewer glued to the screen, but its not until the end where it all comes together.  There's just a few minutes where you can put it all into place about who was who and why things happened the way they did.  But even when the film is over, you're still not completely sure if they were out of the game ... "},{"Title":"What's the next thing?","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In the beginning of the 18th century, we had stories and legends for entertainment purposes.  Then we had songs and riddles to keep us amused. Next there were radios to tell the stories and sing the songs.  Then came the great invention of television.  In the last 30 yrs.  we have been improving television and inventing Video Games for the new entertainment. What's the next big thing? . . . Living the Video Game, and not knowing if you are living your life or playing the game.  That's what made this movie so intense, you never knew who was playing the game.  It was perfect entertainment for me.  "},{"Title":"Kick-ass film--as mind-boggling as Matrix, but that's as similar as they get. (Minor spoiler.)","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  WHOA.I had not even seen The Matrix when I saw this movie, but now that I have, I have to say eXistenZ definitely blows it out of the water.I am not familiar with David Cronenberg's work--I had seen this movie at the constant pestering of one of my friends, who is in love with one of the actors in this movie.  (No, it is NOT Jude Law!!!)  But after seeing this movie, I definitely have an interest in Cronenberg's work.  This movie had me on the edge of my seat from start to finish.  It is a hell of a lot more warped than Matrix and a hell of a lot more exciting!!!  Jennifer Jason Leigh, Jude Law and Willem Dafoe turned in some great performances, I loved the twists of irony throughout the flick, and (spoiler) it was worth it to see Callum Keith Rennie in army fatigues.  (That's who my friend likes--told you it wasn't Jude Law!!!)My brother, who can't get enough of stuff like this, was totally creeped out by this film, which makes it even better!!!  This has to be one of the best, of not THE best, film I have ever seen.eXistenZ is one wild and crazy ride, and I strongly recommend that you go on it, whether you dig David Cronenberg or don't know who the hell he is. This movie will hold you on the edge of your seat before knocking you off it!!! "},{"Title":"Paused.","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You must first understand that Cronenberg is increasingly fascinated with the interaction between man and his creations and the nature of what is real. Given that, this and Crash are very logical steps in that progression. You can love this movie for the twists and turns and the layers upon layers. Or you can love it for the sheer joy of the beautiful cinematography. What you should not do is dismiss the gore and discomfort as gratuitous, they are the means by which you are gently repelled at the idea of so close an association with technology. It's hard to grasp the totality of the vision Cronenberg presents, that gestalt is elusive. His only weakness is the fantastic nature of his brilliance. "}{"Title":"No Matrix, but who says that's a downer, anyway?","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Soon after The Matrix came out, many of my film buddies were raving about another in the sci-fi genre, eXistenZ.  I got around to watching it, and was pleasantly surprized.At times the movie was boggling, and I was left to second-guess at the character's status amidst the chaos of the plot.  Fortunately, Cronenberg was amazingly graceful at giving away just enough to keep the story going, but less than to reveal was is really going on at any given time.Yes, the movie has some in-your-face gore that's less than big-budget studio quality in terms of believability, but looking past that much, the movie has few flaws.As it stands, it's no Matrix.  It lives on a smaller scale, which is by no means automatically bad.  Unlike Matrix, however, this is not truly an Action film, I'd say it's almost more like a Mystery than anything else. The movie was made on a less than infinite budget, that much is obvious, but it focused enough on the performances of its lead actor and actress to outshine any glaring flaws.Tolka's advice see it, and reserve a half-hour period afterwards to simply contemplate the movie's suggestion of our so-called reality. "},{"Title":"In the end I realized it was good.","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Throughout most of the movie I kept asking myself Is this awful or is it really cool? I recognized many inventive and bizarre aspects, but they were all so alien and weird, I didn't have much to hang onto. I was in unfamiliar territory, and I didn't know if it was clumsy film-making or calculated originality.As the movie ended, with on of the most questional closing lines ever, I realized that I had just watched a very twisted, somewhat tongue-in-cheek, very good movie. The low-budget and sometimes corny acting and dialogue are all part of the fun. Despite Hollywood's recent gang-rape of artificial reality, eXistenZ manages to be very original and very memorable. "},{"Title":"Constant suspense!","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Wicked film, if you liked Videodrome then you will love this! The film keeps you on you're toes and it's film not for the dim and slow viewers. "},{"Title":"I liked this movie alot","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have read the other user comments and noticed that they seem to either love this move or hate it. I also noticed that the ones that hated it seemed to love the Matrix. Well, I loved both movies, and own both on DVD. Im not sure what that says about me, but I do know that I am a big fan of David Cronenberg. I loved videodrome, The Dead Zone, Scanners, Naked Lunch as well as others.This movie is definitely not for everyone, and it does have flaws. I agree that the ending could have been better, but it did seem appropriate in a way.The acting on the most part was good, although Jude Law probably stood out as the best lead, with William Defoe as the best supporting.If you like mind trips, this movie is for you. I would give it an 8/10. I would give Videodrome a 9/10. Whats a 10/10 you ask? hrmmm, Brazil, Raising Arizona, Blade Runner to mention a few.enjoy! "},{"Title":"eXistenZ really IS a wild ride...","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have read some of the reviews here and many people say that eXistenZ and The Matrix should not be compared. I disagree with that. Although the simularities aren't as big as you might think before you see them, they both deal with the what's real? question.I have seen the Matrix twice, and it was pretty good the first time I saw it. However after a second viewing it wasn't at all impressing anymore. I discovered some major plot holes and flaws. eXistenZ, however, didn't have that problem. I have seen it three times already and it just gets better for each viewing.It's not at all as predictable as the Matrix and the acting is superior. I especially like how eXistenZ criticizes modern society. You get this weird feeling, kind of like could this really happen with the world? or is this where we're headed?.Compared to eXistenZ, the Matrix is just an empty shell, all stylish and about looks only. If you want something inside the shell, see eXistenZ.I give this movie 9/10.  "},{"Title":"The best movie of 1999!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Now that the twentieth century is over, I just can repeat what I already said since March 1999, when I saw eXistenZ for the first time It's the best movie of the whole year. For fans of director Cronenberg it's even better The story is somewhat a sequel to his earlier Videodrome, and the settings show somewhat a sequel to Naked Lunch. As a whole, it still is an entirely original movie. And it shows that Cronenberg can do better than he did with his rather dull Crash. "},{"Title":"Another intriguing Cronenberg movie","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is not a Matrix clone, you should really have a clue about David Cronenberg to enjoy this movie. The Matrix is a pretty new bike with training wheels that spoon feeds you virtual reality, Existenz is a beat-up Huffy that grabs you by the scruff of your neck and shoves your face into VR. You decide how you want it.It's a thought-provoking movie, and should have you wondering about how deep your friends or kids (or yourself) would let themselves become immersed in their Dreamcast machines or computers. If the millenium has you thinking about the next decade or century, then rent the movie. Keep your brain running while you watch it, and you'll no doubt be stimulated in some fashion.Technically...fine acting, special effects that will make you squirm, and a thoughtful story. Cronenberg fans should not be disappointed. If you're new to Cronenberg, remember this is not a typical Hollywood movie, but it's a fine movie nonetheless. Don't watch it if you're expecting the Matrix. "},{"Title":"Virtual reality+genetics in the future","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well,I've watched all of the Cronenberg's movies and his last movie seems to be one of his best ones.Virtual reality,genetics,technology,sex ...He combines all those with an exciting story,adds a very high action doze. In some part of the movie you can't realize whether this is real or virtual.The taste of the movie resembles David Lynch's Lost Highway,the state of being real or virtual ... Anyway I've rated 10/10 !   "},{"Title":"Disappointing from a great director","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  David Cronenberg is my favourtie director.  I've loved most of films and at least admired what he tried in Crash and The Naked Lunch. Existenz starts very well and is very intriguing and atmospheric.  I liked the performances of all the actors, especially Jude Law, who's been excellent in everything I've seen him in.  The theme of Existenz is virtually (no pun intended) the same as Videodrome.  Where people are caught up in another reality and in time can't distinguish between the two.  With factions trying to control the virtual world and others trying to prevent it's evolution.  Existenz takes a different approach where it tries to say that what actually is reality, reality is only what people choose to interpret as reality hence the name Existenz.Videodrome was excellent and even thought both films have similar endings, Videodrome's worked and Existenz didn't (in my opinion).  As I mentioned I thought the film started very well and created an excellent atmosphere, towards the end it really lost it's way.  I felt the war scene didn't really fit and the ending then made the film feel very flat.  Up to that point the story was building up very nicely and to be honest I don't now how they could have ended the film, but it just didn't feel right.  I was expecting at least anther 20 minutes.A nice attempt, I always have time for a Cronenberg film, but this was no where near his usual standard.  Still worth watching, but not a classic.  "},{"Title":"Give it a Shot","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I bought this on DVD on a whim, since I've usually enjoyed Cronenberg's work and like Jennifer Jason-Leigh and Jude Law.  I wasn't really expecting anything earth-shattering but a friend had recommended it.  He also refused to explain anything about its story - which I also won't do here.  Like others have said, eXistenZ really shouldn't be compared to the Matrix.  I enjoyed both films but they have almost nothing in common.  eXistenZ is a complicated film - if you hate movies that leave you a bit confused at the end or need to have a story completely resolved at its conclusion, this isn't the film for you.  If you DO like these characteristics and films like Jacob's Ladder, Dark City, and the Usual Suspects (though thematically that film is nothing like eXistenZ), give it a shot.  I watched it twice back to back and consider it one of the best movies I've seen this year. "}{"Title":"IT IS NOT THE MATRIX!!!","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I would like to say  STOP COMPARING THIS MOVIE TO THE MATRIX!  I liked very much the Matrix but I can also say that I appreciated eXistenZ as much. While the Matrix explore where VR could lead us, eXistenZ ask us on wherever it is ok to copy reality.  Yes, eXistenZ IS a good movie and the Matrix is also one, but each of them are good in their own way... "},{"Title":"Weird stuff - DC done agin!","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Another fine movie by David Cronenberg, somewhat similar to the fabulous Naked Lunch - maybe not as gripping, but close enough. eXistenZ is a real thriller with reasonable doses of blood and gore, a subtle sense of humor (especially the player's comments on their own acting performances) and a strong message. The movie has some excellent performances by well-chosen actors, good dialogues and weird but strangely realistic situations - all in all it manages to create a wonderfully disturbing atmosphere. Unfortunately, I have the feeling that the end could have been done better. Even though the twist to the story which is meant as a surprise for the viewer works at least partly (you will be likely to assume that you know what is going on at a very early stage of the film, but then there is more...), I was not too happy with the last couple of minutes of the movie. I understand the script writer's urge for explanation, but I have the impression that eXistenZ would have worked even better if it had remained more mysterious. Maybe a different, less revealing ending could have made this fine movie an eight point five or even a nine, the way it is it's only somewhere between a seven and an eight - still way above the crappy mainstream thrillers that get some people filthily rich but fail to satisfy their audiences. If you dig a weird story line with a slight sci-fi touch that is not an insult to your intelligence go watch this movie - you will enjoy the trip. If you're into fantasy role games, this is a must. Recommended. (TM) "},{"Title":"Average film, if you're into that kind of thing...","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this out expecting a feast of action in a weird and wonderful world. Failing that, a storyline that will have me asking questions along the lines of but, what if.... Near the end of the film the only question I was asking was when will it finish?If you liked Naked Lunch you'll probably enjoy this. I personally disliked that film too. The acting was good in this but I never felt I got involved with any of the characters. And the ending was very anti-climatic with the poser are we still in the game? not really hitting a nerve as it was meant to.5/10. "},{"Title":"The Matrix makes this movie look like child's play","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie because the cover of it's box said that this movie made the Matrix look like child's play.  However the opposite is true.  The Matrix was a far more superior and entertaining movie.Existenz is an OK, average movie. The Matrix is superior to this movie in plot and special effects.  I'd give the Matrix a 10 and this movie is only a 5 or 6 score....just average.  The Matrix had suspense and intrigue and this movie has little of that.  It's kind of a boring movie.  Nothing that special.  Go see the Matrix and ignore this movie's claim that it is better -- it's not. "},{"Title":"Should be made an illegal substance","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film affected me in a very bizarre way. The Fly and Videodrome left me in a similar state - slightly disturbed, impressed and thoughtful over what I had just seen. But eXistenZ went further and, for 20 minutes after leaving the cinema, my perception of reality appeared to have taken a bit of a beating.This film creeps up on you, moving along throughout in an increasingly complex and confusing manner, then suddenly pulling itself together in the end to leave you reeling in your seat.I have never had quite such a strong reaction to a film walking back home was a very bizarre experience, with nothing seeming very real. Cronenberg has masterfully created a film that questions reality, and moves its own paranoia into the audience.An incredible experience. Let yourself become totally enveloped in it. Just make sure you remember what is real and what is not... "},{"Title":"Another wonderfully biZarre and twiSted Cronenberg adventure","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Firstly, let me state that I haven't yet seen The Matrix (out of choice), so I have no point of comparison to make to eXistenZ, nor would I wish to if I could.         Secondly, I really enjoyed Cronenberg's latest sci-fi thriller.  So what if the 'car-scene' looked as if it was filmed against a backdrop screen?  Maybe that was the director's stylistic choice?  And to all those people who picked the film to bits and analysed it to the point of vomit, why can't you just enjoy it for what it is?  There's a reason why Cronenberg made it the way he did, and there's a reason why he has become the auteur he is over the past 25 years.  It's his vision, his script, his actors and his realisation - accept it for what it is, but don't try to say what it SHOULD have been like.  If you want to go out and make your own movie, go and apply to get a grant to have your own script developed.  Just don't mess with the masters.      Anyway, that aside, I found the film to be a fantastic wild-ride, with enough twists and turns to still keep me guessing until the very end.  Cronenberg's love of slimy mutant creatures and organic contraptions continues in this movie, as do the themes of fantasy vs. reality (see The Naked Lunch and Videodrome).  Btw, did anyone notice the general similarities between this and Brainscan (anyone remember that one, with Edward Furlong?).  "},{"Title":"A good kick","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just rented eXistenZ last night, and got a huge kick out of it.  It reminded me somewhat of The Game (are we in? are we out?)  The first reason I rented this movie was because of Callum Keith Rennie.  The second was Don McKeller.  The third was because I'm studying existentialism in Philosophy and thought existenz -- existentialism... connection?I was rewarded with happiness on my first two points, although not on my last (one brief reference to free will, but not even in the proper context, really).Rennie was wonderful, and instantly recognizable.  McKeller's accent was amusing, as well as his hair.  Overall, the movie was quite sad (in the sense of not being good). )  But I got a kick out of it.  A big kick.  The acting was amusingly bad in parts. I have a strange sense of humour, I'll admit that, but I found it funny.  Like I said, it's a good kick. "},{"Title":"keeping it real?","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There's no denying that all David Cronenberg's films are a little odd but nevertheless the tend to exhibit a powerful, incisive intelligence. Well eXistenZ (sic) is no exception but it is sadly mired in its own pretensions. Apparently Cronenberg insisted that the cast  (Jennifer Jason Leigh, Jude Law, Willen Dafoe, Ian Holm) read Kierkegard, Hegel and generally swotted up on their existentialist theory in preparation fot their parts. As we can see then, is indubitable that there are some pretty heavy themes behind the movie but, like the Levellers,  they just don't wash. He repeatedly bombards his viewers with The Point in some laughably contrived dialogue which further alienates an already confused average filmviewer (but then D.C.'s film never were targeted at the average viewer).All the classic Cronenberg trademarks are here as well; visceral body horror, oodles of sexual symbolism and the actors' utter conviction in even the most bizarre dialogue.  Sadly, unlike in the even more weird Videodrome, in Cronenberg's eXistenZ amidst its misplaced philosophical rambling and roundabout digs at our increasingly cyber-orientated age, these - usually exciting -  aspects of his work just appear..well....silly.Vaginal holes in people's spines, tiny mutnat amphibians, guns made out of bone that fire human teeth for bullets and lines such as  I have this fear about having my body penetrated...a bioport phobia are definitely original but ultimately just gimmicks that collapse on themselves because the movie just isn't strong enough to support their surreal silliness. At  least with earlier and better works such as Videodrome withs its flesh-gun or Rabid and its armpit penis/barb we have something of substance to uphold the craziness a world that can absorb such surreality. In eXistenZ all we have is a computer game  that, considering its hype, doesn't even look that interesting to play. Give me a text-adventure anyday.The twists and turns leading up to the end mean nothing because any inteeligent viewer knows we'll never get to reality. Cronenberg has absolute control and whip away what we think is real in an instant only to usurp with another version, and another ad infinitum. Oh yes, the themes, The POINT is there. We can hardly miss them because D.C. keeps forcing the Is it reality? What is reality? Is it a game? card down out throats, but surely his talent could have incorporated such red-hot potential into a better film.I have said that David Cronenberg had total control over his alternate reality (the film) at all time. This is true, for he is truly an auteur. Anyone else's creative input, especially a major studio's, would never have let the film get made, so maximum respect to D.C. for keeping it real......or not as the case maybe.  "},{"Title":"Oooh!  That gristle gun!","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After Crash, Cronenberg is back to fantasy and confusion in the spirit of Videodrome and Naked Lunch.  More money to spend, but it's no as good as his earlier work in this theme.  See it, by all means, but Videodrome is much preferred. "},{"Title":"A remake of Videodrome!","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In Videodrome, Cronenberg took us on a disturbing journey into the way that television can influence our reality. In eXistenZ he has done exactly the same thing in terms of games. The strangest thing about Cronenberg is not his biotechnological fascinations or frequent sexual symbolism, but instead his inability to imbue his characters with any sense of empathy whatsoever. If you feel for a Cronenberg character then you must indeed be the new Florence Nightingale. eXistenZ isn't the best Cronenberg film around by a long shot. Nor is it the worst. But it is definitely the most mainstream of his original screenplays. And although it rehashes the overused cliche of is it fantasy or is it real life it still makes you think, and that is something in this day and age. There are nice touches of humour in there too, including a none too subtle dig at the oh so righteous who criticised 'Crash'. Even if Cronenberg has just remade Videodrome for the 90's here, and even if it is so detached that you cannot feel for the characters in it. It still stirs the mind, which is a refreshing change from the majority. Oh yep and take the girlfriend... she'll love it! 1 out of 5 if you didn't like videodrome, 3 out of 5 if you are a Cronenberg fan, 5 out of 5 if you are a warped delusional potential murderer. "}{"Title":"corny ending, but I don't mind","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The lame 'seen that in Red Dwarf' ending didn't make it worse, but better! I mean, the game/program/film is still in the beta testing stage. Perhaps the brilliant programmer/director will release an upgrade.Apart from that, I loved the sense of humour. Especially as I was planning to complain about the accents - he completely got me there! But did the actors try to do the accents badly? Nice subtle sense of kinkiness with the whole hole business, but the film was too short. The acting was very fine, especially as the 'bad bits' were all explained later.And on a shallow note, I must thank the set designer, who painted the set in the last scene to exactly match Law's eyes...  "},{"Title":"decent film","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie and THE DEAD ZONE are probably Cronenberg's most accessible films (though I haven't seen FAST COMPANY).  There are lots of ideas abounding here, but the movie has surprisingly little depth.  The performances are very good, especially considering the game dialogue in play throughout; I sure liked a moment when Jude Law's character begins to act within the game -- suddenly delivering a tough guy line in a back room.  His performance is sometimes wonderful.  Leigh's is terrific throughout; so often in films she is able to flesh out a character whose drives are alien (to me, at least) and make them believable.Congratulations to Cronenebrg, who rebounds from two artistic failures (M. BUTTERFLY and CRASH) to make a pretty decent, if not very challenging film. It's like a good short story -- a circular, insular little piece -- brought to life, thankfully without pretension.  "},{"Title":"Bones that can kill, genetic mutants, and confusion - you've either eaten bad chicken, or you're watching Cronenberg's latest film.","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" eXistenZ - Allegra Gellar (Jennifer Jason Leigh) the diva of game designers has created a new virtual reality game.  While demonstrating her latest game for a select group of devotees (players are linked together through pseudo umbilical cords, which plug into bioports embedded in their spines), there is an attempt on Gellar's life.  Her fate rests in the hands Ted Pikul (Jude Law), a bookish marketing director, who is assigned to protect her. To complicate matters, Pikul learns that the bounty on Gellar's life may have come from her own company and they can trust no one.  The only way to escape is to enter the game.As with every Cronenberg film, expect the requisite blood, gore, and dark, brooding overtones. eXistenZ is, however, more lighthearted than his earlier outings (the Fly, Videodrome, etc), indeed there are several scenes which are played solely for laughs. I was very surprised by the cheap looking special effects,  - the latex creatures were not convincing, and the computer animation had a very amateurish look.The circuitous story within a story begs you to determine what is real and what is a game.  And it is on this point that the eXistenZ fails the movie jumps around too often and I soon lost interest in the characters and their plight.  I recommend this movie only for die-hard Cronenberg fans. "},{"Title":"Jude Law is British you fool!","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Get real guys! Disgusting? No. Inventive? No. Exciting? In parts, yes.Original? The tale of a bio-genetically engineered computer game that you plug into a hole in the base of your spine and have a virtual experience. The VR idea is old and the bio-engineering bits would have been given a lot more credit if they weren't made of the same shade of rubber. As for the sound effects, just laughable.People rant on about Cronenberg as if he is some sort of bizarre film god although I've only seen Crash and eXistenZ they are just plain dull but could seem sickening in a lot of censors eyes. That's all he's doing is playing to your average, sci-fi film sheltered chap.It was exciting in parts but was really only a straight to video quality film at best and didn't deserve all the hype.Thanks must go to Jude Law and Jennifer Jason Leigh for making it bearable. "},{"Title":"The possible future of Computer Adventure Games brought to life.","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Because of the timing of their releases, comparisons to The Matrix are inevitable.  This is unfair to eXistenZ as it is a completely different type of movie.I very much enjoyed the general idea of a multi-user Virtual Reality Adventure game.  I kept thinking, This could be the future of computers. The general story flowed nicely and the movie was never dull.  The problem was that it left me empty in the end.  Without giving anything away, the ending, left me thinking, But WHY did they do this?  What kind of context lead them to take this action?  This kind of killed off the plot for me. I'll admit that I was expecting more out of this after Crash and The Fly. Not one of Cronenberg's best efforts.  "},{"Title":"Creepy - comes together at the end.","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Attended opening in TO last night.  Cronenberg, JJL and producer  R.Lantos left after making little speeches and BEFORE movie started.  Bad sign.Cronenberg king of creeps.  Slow paced.  Iffy dialogue.  Many layers.  Comes together at end.  Lots to think about.  "},{"Title":"Yecch!  Seriously???","Date":"15 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What a waste of 97 minutes! Awkward movie with a very (!) weak plot and with good actors in a no-win situation. This movie tries way too hard to be prophetic and ironic at the same time and fails sensationally on both counts. When I watch a movie, I know I'm watching a good one, when the actors are natural and the story-line draws me in. When I see the actors as just actors, looking for their marks, woodenly reciting their lines and generally just not getting into the moment, I know that the movie is total crap. And it is. Such is the case with eXistenZ. The creators came up with a very lame and almost non-existent plot-line, injected a lot of gory-looking vivisections of poor mutated creatures into the middle, tacked on surprise ending of massively rigid proportions, much aimless coming and going throughout by all the characters with lots of insipid fill dialog, a few decent sexy shots of Jennifer Jason Leigh in unnaturally rigid profile positions that probably made her calves bind up, and Jude Law doing some routine wide-eyed who me scenes that only made one wonder how innocent this guy really could be...?My husband says gaming people are probably the ones who like this movie. But, seriously, I can't see how anyone with a majority of intact brain cells could possibly find this laughable excuse for a story remotely entertaining, never mind riveting... "},{"Title":"Great Film !","Date":"10 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A game designer on the run from assassins must play her latest virtual reality creation with a marketing trainee to determine if the game has been damaged (plot).The story and directing are excellent. Cronenberg knows his trade very well and successfully brings to life an artificial world, avoiding the usual pitfalls and clichés linked to stories such as this, the film shows some pretty disgusting stuff, but is unusually low-key in the gore department in comparison to Cronenbergs other work, the shock effects he plays on are never over the top and the plot progression is very intelligent and creative, it's not the most intellectual movie ever, but it will leave you thinking about it, wondering and pretty confused, the film present many Positive things like video games effects and brilliant question through in this film reality and dream mixed to present the game? why people love this game in the end? long life? no pain? all the time having fun? when the film finished you will ask many questions until you being a philosopher "},{"Title":"About as 'trippy' as ordering Taco Bell.","Date":"12 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw this when it was new, and was sadly sober.It was pretty poorly conceived as a story line, and the acting didn't really help.Think of Police Academy 4 made for Syfy.. with a budget of $20 and a spare assemble-yourself wooden dinosaur.It starts easily enough with people being introduced into a brand new game, of sorts, where you are immersed into it - then it all goes zany-crazy in a way that anyone who has ever watched a copy of Quantum Leap has - only without the sarcastic buddy and magical computer to get through to the next stage.Truly, I think I'd rather watch Series 7 again - it was also fairly poorly acted, but at least the plot had some merit. "},{"Title":"Never again","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I loved the idea, tried to love the movie, but didn't. They say as a gamer you will be amazed in the mazes.Well, as a gamer, movie-geek, and all that could be attached to all the reasons why I should be enthusiastic, I can honestly say I really wish I will never see his movie ever again.I admire Jude Law's work.. And again, I understand that the movie is considered a cult-classic nowadays, but in my opinion it let down in various ways. For instance, the gory bio-weaponry is a very cool concept in animé, but in this case I just found it almost sickening to watch.Again, some people might call this a classic, but to me it was just plain awful. It even makes me long for movies like 'The Matrix' again. "}{"Title":"Really, not that great","Date":"5 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The problem was the whole thing was set up for this twist ending that wasn't much a twist at all. We discover the whole thing was really a game, and then we are surprised when the two main protagonists are actually anti-gaming fanatics? Some of the characterizations are fun, but not really. Willem DaFoe was okay as the gas station guy who promotes illegal transplants, but overall, most of the characters were boring and uninteresting, so you didn't care if they were computer generated or dull gamers playing computer generated characters...Not really worthy your time or mine. "},{"Title":"How to identify how deep they are in the game....","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Well, this is just my observation---pay attention to Jennifer Jason Leigh's hair. The deeper she is in the game, the more crimped her hair becomes. It's just a few strands at first when she is unveiling her game, however, the more often she plugs in & gets lost in the virtual world, the more her hair changes. Interesting also how there are no references to this happening in the trivia or goofs section of the movie title listing. Constant commentary about how microphone booms can be seen, or reflections of props & sets, but, not a reference to her constantly changing appearance? Does anyone else find this odd? Oh, also---love this film. What do you guys think of the headset in the end? "},{"Title":"It's All in the Game","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Sometime in the future, game-pod goddess Jennifer Jason Leigh (as Allegra Geller) has created eXistenZ (spelled with a &#x85;capitol X, capitol Z&#x85;); it's a virtual reality game. During the public introduction of the eXistenZ game, some rival gamers seemingly attempt to assassinate Ms. Leigh. Good-looking, but game shy security guard Jude Law (as Ted Pikul) saves Leigh. While fleeing mysterious forces, Leigh teaches novice Law how to play games. Soon, they (and you) don't know reality from virtual reality.Writer/director David Cronenberg successfully creates an intriguing and imaginative science fiction world; however, his obvious sexual allusions are a little too PG-13 for an R-rated need. Leigh and Law handle the increasingly duplicitous story expertly. Heavily accented Don Mackellar and grease monkey Willem Dafoe have two of the film's more showy supporting roles. Many of the smaller roles, like the one played by Robert A. Silverman, are noticeably fine-tuned. My bio-port would have been more satisfied with a stronger third act; but, Cronenberg is undeniably fun to play with.****** eXistenZ (2/16/99) David Cronenberg ~ Jennifer Jason Leigh, Jude Law, Willem Dafoe "},{"Title":"I would hate to be the guy that had to market this film.","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" eXistenZ Here is a tough sell Ladies and gentlemen I present to you this evening a film that takes place in the near future about virtual reality and computer games only there will be no computers, monitors or any kind of traditional technology as you have come to know it. The virtual reality machines are made of mutated amphibian parts that plug into your spine via umbilical like cords....oh and there are fish guns that shoot teeth. Thank you and enjoy the movie I would hate to be the guy that had to market this film. Add to all that the fact that the film presents to the audience via afore mentioned ersatz world....exadurated accents, violence, dialog...and just situations in general. You get the film equivalent of one huge horse pill to swallow. You know what...I frickin' loved every minute of it too. All movies have those afore mentioned exadurated elements to one extent or another...what eXistenZ does is call attention to them and make you question why is this level of real with in the context of a ficitnalized narrative more or less acceptable than the other. It also doesn't hurth that its a beautiful film, its not often a film is so good looking that it almost distracting. This is certainly one of those...its just pitch perfect combination of perfect shot composition, lighting. "},{"Title":"Are You Game?","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" 'eXistenZ' was released about the same time as 'The Matrix' and comparatively, would best be described as the more indie, strange and surreal. In addition, it is prototypal sci-fi, sure not to disappoint as it raises questions about the nature of reality and technology in such a way that you will most likely leave the film with a somewhat profound idea(s) or thought(s) you didn't have before, and well, that is an admirable goal for a film. Did I say this movie was strange (And that is fine with me.)? Indeed, as players of the organic game system leave existence and enter 'eXistenZ' through a port in their backs connecting to their CNS; finding a Chinese restaurant in the middle of the woods and ordering a dish of lizards, reptiles and other assorted bony oddities and then fashioning a gun and utilizing it from the dish, is standard fare for this game. Of course, at times the viewer doesn't know if they're in the game or not in the game. Or as Character Ted Pikul says, Are we playing the game right now? Well, are we? Or we playing the game within the game? And on and on....An interesting film worth a couple hours. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" My first reaction when I finished the film were, holy **** Fantastic acting as well as a very good cast, mind bending concepts that were put across to the viewer like no way I've ever seen.Though I CAN understand the wanting to relate this movie to the Matrix I STRONGLY disagree with the relation. Even my mother when I first explained the movie to her said Sounds kind of like the Matrix. While The Matrix did focus on a few similar ideas like the distortion of reality eXistenZ focuses more on the idea of where is the line for reality and how do you know once you've crossed it.All in all a very well done movie that I would highly recommend to someone who enjoys the type of movie that keeps you thinking and pushes you to try to further your grasp on what is real. "},{"Title":"A Refreshing, Eye-Opening Experience","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those movies that I just happened upon. I DVR'd it, thinking it might be another cheesy Sci-Fi movie, but I thought wrong. The plot, and it's twists, were confusing at times, but incredible. I felt that the acting was good, and that each actor/actress fit their role well. This is NOT a movie for those of us who would like to relax and have a mind-numbing experience. This is, however, a movie for the thinkers out there. I felt mentally refreshed after watching this film. I left my living room with a good feeling; the feeling that there are still films for thinkers, and not just generic plot lines. The ending (which I won't spoil for you) was almost eye-opening, asking a question that I often wonder myself. If you've got the intelligence to handle it, I suggest this movie. If not, don't waste your time. A good movie, especially for the gamers out there. "},{"Title":"Superbly original","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's basically a thematic sequel to Videodrome. It deals with a lot of the same questions of virtual realities, existentialism, and media culture, only it does so fifteen years later, using video games and cyberculture, instead of television, as its starting point. And it's just as brilliant. The use of nested realities is both intriguing and thought-provoking, and the wonderfully self-aware performances from the two leads only add to this. Cronenberg tackles issues as wide-ranging as technology, sexuality, morality, and reality, and he does so in a much more subtle and effective way than was done in The Matrix, which overwhelmed this film. Plus there's his trademark grotesque imagery, a dark sense of humour that pervades every moment, and even a touch of self-reflexivity. Don't be dissuaded by the similarities to other films of its ilk; this is a superbly original work. "},{"Title":"A taste that's worth to acquire","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" David Cronenberg has always been a great director when it comes to ideas and has been even better when it comes to putting those ideas on screen. Like any great artist, you see his/her work and you can tell who it is. This film is Cronenberg through and through; from first scene to last. The idea of alternate realities in cyberspace was pretty seen by all people in 1999 with The Matrix which is a great movie, but Cronenberg's smaller scale, but no less fascinating film, tackles the same subject, albeit in a slightly different (read very different) way.Cronenberg devotees (like me) will instantly see all the visceral and fleshed out metaphors (pardon the pun) that have permeated his work since Shivers. With eXistenZ the idea of portraying the entry way to cyber-reality with a device that looks not like a bit of electronic equipment, but a working bodily organ that it connected right into the nervous system, the line between what real and what's real gets frighteningly thin. The interesting thing with Cronenberg that he invariably prefers clever shots and set pieces over obvious (if impressive) CGI like in The Matrix. The effects are not quite as grueling as in Cronenberg's previous film Videodrome, but for an effects heavy movie they work great with virtually no hint of excess. On the other hand, those not familiar with Cronenberg's style might find him a bit odd and like other non-mainstream directors he is very much an acquired taste for his visuals. However, as communicator of ideas he is in top form here and that ultimately makes this film work. --- 8/10Rated R for violence and gore. Ages 13+ "},{"Title":"Compelling and thoughtful science fiction","Date":"30 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The plot of David Cronenberg's 1999 science fiction film eXistenZ involves a futuristic video game designer Allegra Geller (Jennifer Jason Leigh) trying to understand why she is being hunted by assassins by playing her game. Allegra narrowly escapes a would-be assassin with the help of an advertising newcomer Ted Pikul (Jude Law) during a demonstration of her newest video game eXistenZ. In this world, the video game systems are made from the harvested organs of mutated creatures and players interact by plugging the organ-like console into their bodies through an implanted bio-port or a hole at the bottom of their spine.eXistenZ is full of all the things that made the similarly themed sci-fi action film The Matrix such a success; alternate reality, themes about existence and free will, and special effects, although the effects in eXistenZ are unlike The Matrix in that they are not used to add style to an action scene, but make the virtual reality world more realistic, bizarre, and grotesque. Jennifer Jason Leigh and Jude Law are both excellent in their roles. Leigh plays a god-like celebrity game programmer who is actually very shy, and Jude Law's Ted Pikul is believably skeptical and paranoid about the video game world. The most memorable performance in the film comes from William Defoe in a small role near the beginning of the film as Gas, the owner of a Country Gas Station.Cronenberg has a style that is distinctly different from Andy and Larry Wachowski's in The Matrix which came out a month before eXistenZ and completely overshadowed it at the box-office. Instead of a slick, clean future Cronenberg creates a virtual reality where bone, flesh and grit are everywhere. The virtual reality world involves plants for the manufacturing of game consoles in which animals are cut open and dissected, guns made out of bones that shoot teeth, and Chinese restaurants that serve unusual and slimy specials. Cronenberg also addresses themes of reality and free will that are present in The Matrix, but his film (like Videodrome and Crash before it) is also fascinated with the strange sexual connections between technologies; in the game eXistenZ Allegra and Ted sometimes feel themselves saying and doing things that they cannot control (Allegra explains that this is because their video game characters need to do or say certain things to move the game's plot forward); the character's bio-ports are vaginal in nature and Ted even says he has this phobia about having my body penetrated surgically. eXistenZ is a highly underrated science fiction film that contains more ideas and inspiration than similar films and is one of David Cronenberg's most interesting and compelling. The main qualities that set eXistenZ apart from many of the look-alike science fictions films of the past few years is its willingness to disgust the viewer with uncomfortable images, ideas and situations and truly challenge the viewer to think about their choices, actions, and freedoms. "}{"Title":"humanity and technology","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cronenberg has addressed these themes in a number of his filmsVideodrome, Crash, here in Existenz, even to some extent in Naked Lunch. These films explore the linkage between technology, the spread of new ideologies, and our own humanity. Like these films suggest, the world is becoming an exceedingly strange place. When purchasing a cup of coffee, we pass people holding conversations with the air, technology sticking out of their ears, oblivious to the world around them, or seated alone staring at screens spewing out information from a world away. Never have we been so connected, yet never have we seemed so lonely. Terrorists blow up buildings or behead people and advertise their acts via the internet. War itself has become mere entertainment, a bloody game discussed by Monday morning quarterbacks. And the biggest usage of the internet? To satisfy our most primal need, for sex. (Whatever happened to conversation, getting to know someone, sharing?) Cronenberg uses his own preferred technology--film--to raise these questions. While his films may not always seem coherently plotted, perhaps that's the point. In our world today, things change but nobody seems to be in charge, nobody seems to understand where we're going, yet we're going there all the same. To paraphrase an old poet, 'What strange beast lurches toward Bethlehem, waiting to be born.' Thanks to artists like Cronenberg who ask us to think about these things. "},{"Title":"What a brilliant film!!","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Fantastic film! The idea is better than the Matrix and this film is really gripping. The first 20 minutes seem pointless and your thinking what the hell is this film about and what is going to happen, and then slowly it builds up and then just explodes towards the end. This film will leave you thinking at the end.This is my first comment on IMDb and this film does deserve the credit.Surely there is should be a 2nd part to this film.It deserves the nominations and awards.This could be reality one day. "},{"Title":"Philip K. Dick world","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" David Cronenburg does Philip K. Dick. Philip K. Dick specialised in writing about people who were questioning the nature of reality or identity. Here Cronenburg takes us on a ride with two characters - Jenifer Jason Leigh & Jude Law. It ostensibly starts out as a meeting wherein a Virtual Reality game called eXistenZ is demonstrated, with Leigh playing the designer and Law a meek technophobic marketing executive. They plug themselves into this virtual world and then within that world plug themselves into a secondary virtual environment. There are numerous recurring themes throughout the movie - the gun, the dog and not least the characters. The one question that is posed throughout is What is reality? Midway through the film, Law in the hotel room is questioning whether the place that he inhabits is indeed real or in fact a game environment. This movie was released well before the fad/fashion for online virtual avatar style environments or MMORPG (Massivly Multipyer On-Line Role Playing Games) such as EverQuest or Virtual Life. This film is a multi-layered questioning of the perception of reality. Christof in The Truman Show put this very succinctly We accept the reality of the situation with which we are presented, it's as simple as that. When we get to a technological situation where people are more concerned with what is happening in their virtual lives than with their real ones - don't worry, be afraid - be very afraid. This film is excellent at distorting the viewer's perceptions of reality - it's just your in-game character, don't fight it (when Law shoots someone or eats visually disgusting food). Sensible people know where the boundaries between the real and the virtual are but when these boundaries do not exist it is cause for alarm. "},{"Title":"eXistenZ","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Should a game exist that distorts your understanding of reality? I feel that is the main question at the heart of Cronenberg's bizarre little film about a video game designer(Jennifer Jason Leigh)who is the target of assassins from a regime desiring for the virtual reality phenomena to stop for they believe it's a breakdown of society and will do more harm to civilization than good. How dare someone create a game so real that we are active characters in it and that all things they see seem and feel so real. Instead of operating characters from your fingers on a joy-stick you have this hole throttled into your back where this amphibious wad sends an umbilical cord into your spine operating the game through your nervous system. Your brain will close to the real life around you as the fantasy takes over..but when this fantasy becomes so real how can you tell where that ends and reality begins again? Leigh's bodyguard is Jude Law, a PC man who has never experienced the game yet wishes to market this product to the world. It's an irony the film plays on as he is introduced to the unique world of eXistenZ. Willem Dafoe has a unique role as a gas station attendant who has the ability to open a bio-port(the opening orifice where the umbilical cord connects in your lower back)and does so for Law. Then once inside the game he has a hard time at first adjusting to how everything works and the way it feels so real to actual life. Something occurs however which creates a bad vibe to both Leigh and Law, the animosity that has surfaced regarding anti-virtual reality is starting to filter into the game's story-line. How is this possible? I really like this film despite it's flaws. It isn't necessarily a successful finished product as much as it has so many grotesque stylings that keep you eyes opened at Cronie's abilities to create that under-your-skin kind of bizarre feeling that can overwhelm. Unlike Videodrome(the films are similar with one film's theme about the allure of sadism and pornography being replaced by over-use of playing video games and virtual reality), this film seems to be an excuse for Cronie to play with his obsessions and this film based in virtual reality allows him that privilege. If you enjoy films that are strange, I say try it out. "},{"Title":"Better than playing Pac Man","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" You'll either love this or hate this. I don't play video games at all, but found it intriguing to the point of fear for the art and its future.The effects were low end by todays standards. Nevertheless, the effectiveness of the acting and atmosphere more than made up for any loss of spoon fed CGI.The cast was all star, in spite its low budget.Obviously, they took a pay cut to indulge in a truly original production.8 out of 10 for the thrill of it all. "},{"Title":"Engrossing, obscure, and worth at least one viewing","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I stumbled on this film by accident sifting through a hoard of movies. I saw David Cronenberg's name on it and had in the past savored The Fly, Videodrome, and Naked Lunch. If your new too Cronenberg this movie is as likely a start as any, though the Fly felt more accessible to me.eXistenZ was able to keep my interest throughout the film and I never found it dragging on. I think the ending was a bit predictable, but still enjoyable to experience and follow. eXistenZ was ripe with odd, grotesque, organic creations that I will forever associate with Cronenberg. (If you've seen Naked Lunch think of how William S. Burroughs typewriters came to life on screen but updated.) The Acting was top notch, I was surprised about the impressive cast due to the movie having a hazy, narrow target audience.If you enjoy a movie that messes with your head a bit, and has an unhealthy dose of surrealism then you will likely find it as pleasurable as I have. If you have already seen eXistenZ and would like to seek out more titles with some similarities I suggest the Cronenberg titles mentioned above and these...- One Hour Photo - Donnie Darko - Jacob's Ladder - Attic Expeditions "},{"Title":"Lick my decals, baby","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" At some point in the past 15 years, David Cronenberg became a respected filmmaker. Once considered a purveyor in gory schlock, he's now invited to Cannes to reveal his latest, often gooey masterpiece; his actors receive Academy Award nominations now. This would not have happened during his peak in the 1980s, when he made four consecutive and inarguable masterpieces (Videodrome, The Dead Zone, The Fly, and Dead Ringers). His track record since has been stellar as well with wonderful, though certainly more mature, films like Naked Lunch, Crash, Spider, and A History of Violence. He also made this little gem of a film. eXistenZ is science-fiction, set, as it is, in a near future of genetic mutations, bioports, and virtual hyperreality. Others have noted its similarities to The Matrix, which appeared in theatres around the same time. There's a crucial difference between the two--The Matrix is obvious and eXistenZ is more oblique. Guess which I prefer? The Matrix is not a bad movie; it's just very average. eXistenZ is not a great movie, but it is a stellar example of science fiction driven by interesting ideas. Throughout, I felt awkward, unsure if I stood on firm ground and definitely unsure of where I was headed. As we follow Ted and Allegra from real world to eXistenZ (the virtual reality game concocted by Allegra and not the movie), we lose sense of the narrative timeline and the sense of location. We become as dislocated as the characters in the film. It's a very strange feeling. I have seen films where I am unable to explain what's happening and why, but I don't know that I've come across anything that makes sense second by second and minute by minute but lacks sense on the whole. That isn't to say that this movie's incoherent or nonsensical--it's disorienting (something hard for a movie to achieve without making its audience walk out of a theatre). eXistenZ, as I said, tells the story of Ted Pikul and Allegra Geller, the woman responsible for creating a game that shares its name with the film. Some people want to kill her, so she and Ted go on the lam, eventually plugging into the game and spending much of the movie there. While in eXistenZ, Ted and Allegra uncover an anti-virtual reality sect and a trout farm that manufactures eXistenZ game pods from mutant amphibians and reptiles. Or something like that...There's intrigue, bone guns, and requisite amounts of gore for the icky-body style Cronenberg film. It's also darkly funny (the scenes with Willem Dafoe are hysterical). Like many of Cronenberg's films, eXistenZ reminds me of a comic book--garish and lurid yet remarkable intelligent. eXistenZ has a lot to say and a lot to do, though I feel it travels some of the same paths traveled by Vidoedrome, a vastly superior film. This movie is wonderful fun and it will make you scratch your head while a giant grin cracks across your face. "},{"Title":"Praise David Cronenberg//may be spoilers","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Mr. Cronenberg makes this film about a topic I have been preaching for years, Video games decay the human mind! Thank you David for mass producing this concept.Nothing is as it seems in this brilliant scifi flick. From the beginning, we are led to believe that Allegra Geller(Jennifer Jason Leigh, in arguably her best performance) is a respected game designer and Ted Pikul(Jude Law, who is very stiff) is her inept bodyguard. As the film furthers itself, the viewer struggles to decide if they are actually living, or are just characters in Allegra's game.The end left my in awe, and I quickly became a Cronenberg fan afterwards. For people like me, who believe video games to be intelligence devouring devices, this is a can't miss movie. "},{"Title":"Good direction and performances can't save this.","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Existenz takes place in some non-specific time and place, and involves a hyper-realistic video game that taps into your spinal cord. The creator, played by Jennifer Jason Leigh, is on the run with her 'bodyguard', played by Jude Law.The premise is interesting, but the film fails to come up with any emotional depth. Because the movie takes place in a game, we don't really care about what's going on. The one area the movie does suceed in is visual, mostly due to the bizarre flesh game consoles and other futuristic apparatus. The film starts to look promising towards the end, but just when we may start to care about the characters, the final ending turns into a complete cop-out. The film only succeeds marginally, thanks to a great performance by Jennifer Jason Leigh. Overall, it's worth a look, but nothing spectacular. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Perky Pat--Homage to PKD","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In case you didn't notice, the two main protagonists pick up some fast-food from Perky Pat's--you can see the logo on the take-out bags. The Days of Perky Pat was a short story by Philip K. Dick published in 1963 (Amazing--Dec. 1963). PKD later used this short story in a fully fleshed-out novel entitled The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch. If you've read this novel, then you realize that this entire movie is simply Cronenberg paying homage to the master, PKD, the quintessential practitioner of `is there really a 'real' reality?' In the novel, instead of using VR, the participants, the entire population of the world, are transported through various degrees of reality by using a new drug called Chew-Z. Of course it's brought to Earth and the Mars colony from the Proxima system by, you know and love him, Palmer Eldritch!Read the novel, it's a fantastic horror tome.eXistenZ = Chew-Z "}{"Title":"just so-so ... not quite what i was expecting","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  i expected this movie to be a deep movie about virtual reality.  instead i got a movie with a rather wacked up plot.  however it does have its redeeming qualities.  Jude Law, who is an amazing actor, has the lead role.  he does a pretty good job doing an american accent, but i'm glad we got to hear some of his natural british voice at the end.  also, the plot in this movie wasn't that confusing at all.  (the ending isn't necessarity a happy one... the protagonists turn out to be the bad guys).  also the movie wasn't too long, a mere 90 minutes, so it doesn't feel like it's dragging on forever.   "},{"Title":"an excellent depiction of Cronenberg's key ideas","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cronenberg's eXistenZ is not my favourite film of his (that accolade would have to go to 'Dead Ringers'), but it is arguably his most interesting, for it succinctly incorporates all of the classic Cronenbergian themes into one ninety-five minute piece.  In many ways it is simply a remake of Videodrome, but I would argue it is an upgrade, an improvement on its 1982 predecessor. Although the story is essentially the same (although eXistenZ's focus is on virtual reality computer games rather than TV and video), eXistenZ is the superior film it has a sleek, more sophisticated look (Videodrome visually has not aged terribly well) and the plot is easier to follow, which enables the film's ideas to be conveyed with greater clarity.eXistenZ is the quintessential Cronenberg film.  It retains the clean but cold, almost metallic look which permeates most of his work.  But most of all, it brings to bear all of the key ideas which run through the whole of Cronenberg's body of work.  For instance, we see the continued emphasis on the breakdown of the division between man and machine.  The pods/consoles in eXistenZ are fleshy, organic, vaguely resembling female genitalia, a metaphor for the fusion of man and machine which characterises Cronenberg's view of modern life.  The chords from the pods into the players' 'bio-ports' resemble umbilical chords, again to further this continued metaphor of the man/machine fusion.  Of key importance in eXistenZ is not only the blurring of the man/machine distinction, but also the eroticisation of this distinction.  The 'bio-ports' on the players' lower backs have a distinctly 'vaginal' quality, much like the slot in James Woods' stomach in Videodrome, which is emphasised further by the groans of sexual pleasure Jennifer Jason Leigh utters when the chords are installed into the ports.  In this respect, eXistenZ deals with the same themes as Crash, but is done to better effect. Crash was, in my view, a profoundly underwhelming film, whereas eXistenZ is infinitely more exciting and intriguing.A further essential Cronenbergian theme in eXistenZ, indeed, the central theme of the film, is the implosion of reality and virtual reality, an idea which again mirrors those in Videodrome.  The main players are in a perpetual state of confusion as to whether they are still in eXistenZ, or have returned to reality.  This is brought to bear most clearly in the final sequence, which hammers home the notion that there is no longer a real to separate the simulated reality of eXistenZ reality and hyperreality have, in Cronenberg's world, imploded.eXistenZ, along with works such as Crash and Videodrome, is essentially an allegorical commentaries on the implosion of meaning in the (post) modern world.  It highlights the way in which we find it increasingly difficult to make sense of anything in a world in which the boundaries between man and machine, reality and virtual reality have imploded.  Cronenberg's world is grotesque, dizzying, schizophrenic and nonsensical, much like contemporary life in the capitalist West, and in this respect eXistenZ is Cronenberg's definitive statement of this.  Those familiar with the writings of Jean Baudrillard will love Cronenberg's work.  "},{"Title":"cronenberg almost has me on this one, C+","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"     ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I remember perusing the dark corners of the Internet, sites provided by unruly warez scenesters(mostly game addicts) offering games and movies for free before the days of anarchist file-sharing programs. And more than a couple of times these gamers hailed it as a philosophical delve into a world where the line between games and reality blurs.  Considering the nature of this particular tech-savvy audience, some preferred the sci-fi leanings of eXistenZ over the stunt-laced, 15-minute plot revealer, CGI-heavy Matrix(**gag** Keanu Reaves was better suited for Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure).  I wondered if this was the movie I was searching for, a mind-altering voyage twisting the perception of the viewer not only in regards to the interpretation of the movie itself, but also our own existence; one that mirrors the enigma of existence and forces us to accept it as bizarre as it may truly be. After a fairly recent rental, I can admit to you that it doesn't appear to be this no matter how much I wanted it to be.  I really appreciated a few of Cronenberg's previous works, especially Naked Lunch.  I also thought Videodrome had quite a bizarre appeal.  Probably what appeals to me most about Cronenberg is that he can be very repelling on several levels.  Not only is he disorienting, he relies on the combination of repulsive organic visuals, sexual themes that bend or transcend typical gender roles, and exaggerated technological integration, a marriage of sorts between Bradbury and Giger.  This film doesn't fail to meet this criteria, however it does fail to hit me with the same magic as Naked Lunch.  At most I considered the movie entertaining, and had not the desire, as I previously did with his films, to intensely decipher the confusion thrown onto the canvas.  That is not to say that it is completely the mindless piece that The Matrix is(enjoyable? yes, lasting effect? no).  I want to emphasize that I enjoyed watching this movie as certain moments stood out as classic Cronenberg, betraying convention and mocking our sensitivities to drippy, gooey, visuals(i.e. Chinese restaurant).  Recommended to hardcore fans of Cronenberg if only for some classic moments that have been a long time coming. To all others who have yet to appreciate one of his works, rent Naked Lunch. Please continue to read only if you have seen the movie and wish to read someone else's interpretation.************SPOILER ZONE**************CommentsI couldn't help but feel that certain holes in plot were too easily explained away by the end and should simply have not been written in to begin with.  In retrospect, it seems that if they were in the game, it makes sense that Allegra didn't make a backup copy of eXistenZ, but the problem therein lies with the viewer's interpretation. I simply thought it was stupid of her not to make a backup copy, especially her being the programmer.  If, somehow, her backups were destroyed at her company or on a network drive, this would make more sense.  Also, what programmer is clueless about how to play his or her own game?  Instead of being clues suggesting that they were on a different plane of existence than they had perceived, they just seemed like plot-holes.  Whether or not this could have been changed I suppose is debatable because the world which Cronenberg constructs is irrational for the very purpose of disorientation. It seems obvious to me that the ending is left up to the viewer to interpret whether or not they are still in the game.  Taking into account the statements of Allegra Geller, since the game is one that we are already playing, I assume that they are still in the game in some other dimension, but then again I may be wrong.Overall grade-C+ Decent acting, bizarro factor low compared to his other films.  I'm waiting for him to hit us with another, but this one could have been closer to the mark.a  "},{"Title":"Odd but refreshing","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen two of Cronenberg's other films, The Fly and The Dead Zone, and I enjoyed both of them, so I decided to check this one out, and I was not dissapointed.  The whole idea of virtual reality is pretty cool, and it was used well in this film.  Probubly the best thing about eXistenZ was the great cast, Willem Dafoe was great as Gas, I really like him as an actor, and little Ian Holm was great as the old scientist.  The film got a little too weird sometimes, but that was made up for with other things.  Overall a great sci-fi, I hope to see more Cronenberg films in the near future. ***1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Not sure about this one.","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Just a few comments.   What's with the gamers? A lot of them looked way too enthusiastic (like a paid audience at an infomercial taping), and tooooo old. Didn't like the organic game pods, but I suppose they had to be that way to work with the rest of the story. Also, I guess it allowed for a way around some techno issues. That bone gun was a mechanical impossibility.   Didn't really give a crap about the characters, even though they were interesting (some). Waited and waited... What was the point exactly? Great concept and execution on a small budget. I'll give 'em that. "},{"Title":"Would you pay to play this game?","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Seriously.  eXistenZ is supposed to be the ultimate virtual reality game, developed by a world-class company, designed by a cult genius (in either guise).  So... would you buy a virtual reality game, something that offered you escape from your dull real life, to become - an abattoir worker? a dog washer? perhaps a carpet cleaner?No, the above is not a spoiler - if you haven't seen the movie, you won't understand me at all, although you'll understand that the premise of the movie is clearly unintelligent.  If you have seen this movie, and didn't like it, you'll agree with me.  If you actually liked this movie, I wonder how much imagination you possess.  Perhaps none at all - or possibly a vast amount, enough to overcome the serious credibility flaws in this movie. Many who like this movie seem to heap scorn on the detractors for being seduced by the CG effects of The Matrix (and lately, Attack of the Clones). Personally, I dislike The Matrix to the same degree I dislike eXistenZ; they were both poorly conceived, although the Matrix obviously fools some people through its glamour and eXistenZ has not the budget to compete on that level.  Given that, in eXistenZ at least we might hope for superiority of plot, of character, of theme, of conception, of resolution... but we hope in vain.As for the actors - a waste of talent.  Jude Law, so fine in Gattaca, simply reads the script for much of it.  Willem Dafoe's character boxes in this fine actor.  Don McKellar is one of the few to have some fun (and usually I'm no fan of his), while Callum Keith Rennie falls back on his reliable geek charm for his tiny part (criminal how some actors are wasted).  As for Jennifer Jason Leigh - I think this is a lesson to casting agents; test your actor in an auditorium as well as in your office suite, and you'll see some actors simply don't have the range for some roles.  I felt sorry for her. Don't tell me she was acting the role of a non-actor - in that case, she should have been blatantly bad, and so should everyone else (which is another in a score of thematic problems I have with the movie - should these people be so seamlessly integrated into their roles?  Does anyone except for the two leads have any free will at all, and if not, why 'play a game' where you have less choice as to how you act than a Pac-Man on a Commodore 64?) No, Jennifer Jason Leigh is just entirely unsuitable for this role.I saw the whole thing done far better in that Red Dwarf episode many years ago - which one was it now? "},{"Title":"An eerie message about virtual reality","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  While David Cronenberg is more  known for his strange and creepy  variety of film, he presents an interesting  dilemma of the future What will be  considered real? All throughout the  movie, this is a constantly asked  question, which isn't even answered  at the end. The differentiation of texture  and reality couldn't help the characters  determine their reality, much less the  viewer. While a lot of people I know did  not like this film, it proves to be a jarring  film, simply because Cronenberg chooses  to use more horror aesthetics to establish  the story (lighting, the weird creatures, the  music, etc.) Jude Law is very good in his  role as Ted Pikul, and Willem Dafoe's role  was short, but sweet. "},{"Title":"Not What I expected!  But good!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For about 2 or 3 years, I blew this off as some kind of crappy alien flick where they come down from space and start taking over a high school or something.  The previews didn't really do the film justice.  Then, I was working at my video store, and heard something good about it from a Cronenberg fan.  So I was kind of like, well, maybe this is going to be OK. Plus I've seen every sci-fi out there, need something.. anything to fullfull my addiction.So, I feel like I am sinking low, and watch this movie.  BUT IT WAS GREAT! Firstly, I had no idea how different it was from what I thought it would be. How psychological and intelligent it was.  It has little bits of genius thrown in everywhere, and the acting is great, the ideas are very original, and the direction... by Mr. David Cronenberg himself.  A very good director, and he even wrote it.  I like that... ideological extremism is good for film.  I've watched his other movies, and this one is by far his best. Maybe THE FLY and NAKED LUNCH were up there too, but this one is just a well made movie.  And goes into my fave movie category.  It's just sooooooo..... weird!!!I reccomend this movie ONLY to big fans of film.  Don't get scared away by the (somewhat) catchy sounding name, or teenage-ish actors.  It's not teenage at all... it's intelligent.  It could have ended a bit sooner... but overall, I didn't mind the ending.  But it would have been more like the old, classic Cronenberg to have ended it just after she blew up the... oops, shouldn't let it out.See it to believe it. A very strong 10.5/10 "},{"Title":"A totally unique and rewarding experience","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A friend once asked me, just because the ending of a film is poor,  should that necessarily make an otherwise good film bad?This is a question you will most likely be asking yourself about eXistenZ. In my opinion, no. Aside froma dodgy ending this is possibly the best film which Cronenberg has created. Not because of the storyline though - that seems as if it was being made up as it went.  But despite this every other element of this picture is sheer genius, and it has a visual style and atmosphere to it unseen in any other picture.The hook for many people watching eXistenZ will be video games and CGI effects, although this film really should not be judged on that basis. Cronenberg places the characters in the least high-tec settings for the entire duration of the film, and instead uses objects  of a more organic nature to propel the story. As another iMDB critic stated, special effects are a waste of time if they do not compliment the rest of the film.  In this case they do.The game eXistenZ does not feel a part of the film until about midway through the movie, and when it is, it is not the Mortal Kombat, Resident Evil experience that you may expect. Instead we encounter guns made out of teeth and bone and would-be playstations made out frogs guts.The one problem as I mentioned before is the ending, or more specifically what preceeds the ending.  Like so many films by this director they are filled with fantastic ideas which seem to run out of steam in the last 20 minutes.To summarise, if you fancy watching something distinctive and extremely creative - do not miss eXistenZ.  If you do fail to heed my warning though and miss the first half, stick around - you'll love the Chinese waiter's demise.  "},{"Title":"A Short Sharing of Personal Thoughts","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ starts out slow with few redeming qualities other than a opportunity to watch the talented Jude Law. Luckily, the film picks up towards the end and finishes with a twist that will make you think. This pre-Matrix film keeps the viewer wondering where fantasy ends and reality begins. Some scenes can be disturbing when you see humans injected with bio-ports and people suddenly killed.  Despite all that this is a movie that requires thinking and full attention. Jude Law and Jennifer Jason Leigh are wonderful together, but the small cameo appearences by Christopher Eckleston, Ian Holm, and Willem Dafoe make the movie even better. This is a worthwhile movie if you can stay with it until the last scene. "}{"Title":"Strange effect","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a movie that gets the most wideranged responses. Either you love it or you think it is crap. At least that is what I have experienced. I think it´s a great movie with some real dark thoughts and fears about the future. The idea that you can lose yourself inside a game. That your mind and actions can influence the outcome of the game. Those fears have always been here, even with the introduction of film and later on television. Virtual reality is scary for most people. And sure it has a dark side. Control. (See the Matrix). Most movies exploit that human fear. And eXistenZ does a great job on it.I read some comments about how the storyline was flawed, but my guess is that those people did not really see the movie as they should. It is a real complicated story-line. And it does add up. There have been whole studies about it. And there will be a whole lot more of them too. "},{"Title":"Death to ALLEGRA GELLER","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Just finished watching eXistenZ and i am pleased to say it was a great Though-provoking film.This film shouldnt be compared to the MATRIX because they are both different, although they delve into subjects such as REALITY and what is real. This film is also quite gory, and knowing CRONENBERGS work, such as THe FLY we should expect so...See this movie is weird but in a good way.. "},{"Title":"Cronenberg did it again","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I always admire for his work, and in eXiztenZ he did what he knows best. Long live the new flesh!!!In this movie we're takin' a trip in a game world. and if you're an adventure game lover, you'll love the details. It's something like to be in your favorite adventure game ( something like sierra's games, or broken sword etc... )the plots are like they're filmed in a game. Everything's give you the emotions you feel when you play your best adventure game. "},{"Title":"Eerie ... Are We Still in the Game?","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just finished watching eXistenZ.To me, it is JUST like Matrix ... ... not because of cool camera angles,... not because of intense martial arts action,... not because of wire-work, ... because I question whether or not what I call reality is really, actually real.I'm still a little spooked.  "},{"Title":"Sheer Cronenberg","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  From the first few minutes of this film, it looks and feels like a David Cronenberg movie. It is a really good expansion of the ideas and concepts which he started off on in Videodeome, but that was almost his prototype of this film. All the actors (especially Jude Law) are great in their roles and by the end of the movie your brain will be working a lot more than it did in The Matrix. Also, the Matrix stole from a lot of movies and mangas. There are a lot of ideas taken from The Terminator and the manga movie Ghost in the Shell. Cronenberg movies are not pretty and always center on flesh or the mutation of flesh as well as disease. His films are not to everyone's tastes so if you've enjoyed his previous effort Videodrome, I'm pretty sure you'll like this. 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"a disturbing story on (virtual) reality","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This sober but brilliantly shot movie tells a superb story of the introduction of a new computergame, eXistenZ (or rather, does it?). In a (near) future world computergames take you to disturbing edges of what's real and what's not. The computergame is supposed to be made up by the players in a virtual reality world, but what is the real world and what is the game... A disturbing and puzzling movie with great shots and good acting, go see it and be amazed! "},{"Title":"A more natural view of virtual reality than The Matrix","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  David Cronenberg has a very distinct style, and the government should spare no expense to keep him away from all experiments involving genetic engineering.  eXistenZ, starring Jennifer Jason Leigh and Jude Law is a very well crafted, and I think much more realistic, view of the implications of virtual reality than the special-effects laden The Matrix.  Don't get me wrong The Matrix is a blast, but eXistenZ is much more near-fetched.  It is a world that could exist if a) we perfect a neural-tap form of virtual reality interface, b) Infocom (makers of such computer adventure games as Zork) gets back in the gaming business, and c) they decide to hire David Cronenberg as their chief game designer.For anyone who hasn't seen Cronenberg's work, this movie is a good introduction.  It gives you a taste of the universe of The Naked Lunch without the suspicion that someone slipped peyote buttons onto your pizza. It gives you a hint of the erotica found in Crash without the worry that someone normal is going to walk into the room and say What the *hell* are you watching?! "},{"Title":"One of the better Sci-Fi films recently.","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It was so refreshing to see a Sci-Fi film that didn't have computers doing things that computers can't do. The plot actually involved designing a new organic games console rather than taking something like an X-box or PS2 and making it do impossible things.The scene in the Chinese Restaurant was truly excellent. "},{"Title":"Another Strong Phil Dick Homage from Cronenberg","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If there's any justice in this world, Cronenberg will someday get to shoot a Philip K. Dick novel (UBIK?) -- recall that he was on the verge of lensing TOTAL RECALL, with his own revision of the script, when the financing fell apart.  In the meantime, we have VIDEODROME, which is probably the greatest PKD movie of them all, even though it's not based on anything he wrote, and eXistenZ, which is not quite in that league but still makes for a very solid evening's entertainment.  The central plot gimmick here is lifted straight from Dick's THE THREE STIGMATA OF PALMER ELDRITCH, with virtual reality substituted for psychedelic drugs -- and Cronenberg wittily acknowledges this with an inside joke (a bag of fast food from a restaurant called Perky Pat's gets several closeups). This is probably a 7 or 8 based on everything but the look and feel of the movie -- if you like Cronenberg's trademark grotesque / erotic take on the organic and mechanical, add a point or two; if you don't, subtract 6 or 7.  Me?  9/10. "},{"Title":"Good. Not great, but good.","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had been wanting to see this for awhile, so I rented it on one of my usual All my friends have made other plans, so Let's Go Rent Movies That Nobody Will Watch With Me trips.What I saw was good. It didn't blow me away or thrill me to any great level, but it didn't sink into the depths of bad-movieness that so many of the films I've seen do. It was like a really good episode of The Outer Limits or something. The acting was good, the plot twists acceptable, the ending allright.Like I said, it was good, but it didn't fire me up or anything. My Personal Rating 7/10. "}{"Title":"You can never guess how it's going to end.","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  An amazing story into virtuel reality.The plot of this movie is so clever thought out,that you can never guess what will happen next. In the leading roles you find  Jennifer Jason Leigh as the game designer Allegra Geller,and also Jude Law as her lifeguard Ted Pikul,or so you think.This movie shows you the darkside of how the future might be,and it is scary to see how far technology has gone in this movie. In this virtuel reality movie everything is possible and nothing is what it seems.One of the few exelent science fiction movies out there. RENT THIS ONE YOU WILL NOT REGRET IT. 8 out of 10   "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  On the scale of bad, good, and great, I would give this movie a good. First, it had two of the greatest actors in this generation working together in Leigh and Law. Second, it had Cronenberg's usual good, dark, attention-keeping vision. The story was good and kept you interested throughout with all it's twists and turns. The whole idea of a virtual reality game such as the one portrayed in the film was also engaging to watch and makes you wonder if such a game will ever come about in the future, and if the same consequences will happen. A good, interesting example of what is to come, I think. The only critcism I have is the use of the love scenes-which had no place in the movie's scheme of things, I feel. It is as if the director or writer simply felt that if such a good-looking and sexy actor as Jude Law was in the film, well then there had to be a love theme going on no matter what, so they just threw that in even though it wasn't necessary. I would also suggest that you not watch this movie while eating a meal, as there are a lot of gross creature decapitations going on!All in all, a definite recommendation for those who like sci-fi action movies! "},{"Title":"Something of a disappointment","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I think Cronenberg has lost what little touch he had with how to get results from his brilliant ideas. Crash was a good example -- perhaps he tackled an unmakable movie in that case. Existenz has so much potential as an idea, but all it ends up doing is teasing the viewer along until a piffle ending. When you say it's all a dream, or is it? Duh! Don't get me wrong, the idea in theory is a very good one, but the movie turns out to be nothing more than Nightmare on Elm Street. If you want to see Cronenberg in good form, check out Naked Lunch or Videodrome. "},{"Title":"Matrix for English Majors (in a bad way)","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie with high expectations (Matrix for intellectuals!).  I was rather disappointed  -- words cannot express the intensely bad taste in my mouth.The story idea itself in not original to anyone familiar with sci-fi, though that in itself is not bad.  Unfortunately, the actual execution of the movie was rather poor. The characters were unbelievably dry and lacking in any perceivable intelligence.  The plot was just as predictable as the ending line.  (Matrix for intellectuals?  More like Matrix for art snobs who are totally unfamiliar with cyberpunk and geek sci-fi.)I'll give some credit for the interesting use of the organic technology idea, but the movie itself is rather uninteresting.Humanities major types will probably like this movie; if you're a techie or are familiar with anything remotely true science fiction, you'll probably disregard it as a soporific piece of inappropriately-dubbed-science-fiction artsy movie.  "},{"Title":"Over hyped rubbish, too be avoided.","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There is very little to say about this movie except that it is to be avoided.The acting is juvenile and hackneyed and the special effects are yech effects. One can see what the director was trying to do - create a tense, futuristic and unsettling movie - but he failed and what he got was a long, disgusting, boring, predictable and badly acted movie.The best thing about this movie was its preview!  "},{"Title":"An accessible, humorous Cronenberg flick!","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I admit I've only viewed a pre-release version, but this movie will be a very popular one for Cronenberg.eXistenZ is accessible in ways that a few of his later films weren't.  The plot is believable, something that is no mean feat for a 'virtual reality' film that has no computers or televisions -- nor even many of the trappings of post-modern life.  The characters are interesting and the actors act well -- given the high caliber of the talent here, this is no real surprise.True, if you think Rabid or Naked Lunch or Crash were simply too off-putting to view comfortably, you probably won't be terribly impressed by eXistenZ. However, the grossness in this film is defused by an almost self-referential humour that is quite refreshing.  This is definitely Cronenberg, but Cronenberg clearly had fun making this film, and had fun poking fun at himself in a way that doesn't ever slip into self-parody.Also, there is none of the slow pace of Dead Ringers or Naked Lunch here, and this combined with the humour (black, yet not serious) will make for a very entertaining release.  "},{"Title":"Maybe it needs a second viewing, I have zero interest to do so though","Date":"21 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I really don't get how there are people that really love this movie. I mean it's not a bad movie, but it just wasn't that good. Perhaps I missed something, but I found a lot of the stuff that happens in this film to be dull and not interesting even with it's twist and turns. The film relates with gaming with gaming stereotypes which I found to be somewhat cool cause I am a gamer myself, but that is practically where my interest in this movie ends. just about everything about this movie is awkward and not because it takes place in a game world either. Maybe it needs a second view for it to grow on me, but have zero interest of seeing it again. It's not one of those philosophical movies which tends to be for movies like this, but it's more about the fake world by virtual reality and how it consumes people. The gaming system is made of these organic live parts that connects to the human spine, and in order to play the game you have to inject something into the spine in order for the controller port to be attached to it. I am a gamer myself, but there is noway in hell I would play a game like that, especially with it's process and the organic live controller and all. If you actually pay attention you get the message of this film and I personally enjoyed how it can be sympathized or agreed from different sides. How gaming consuming a person's life by leaving reality to be wrong, since it ain't a life at all. To how some people that is really into gaming who can relate with it, since it has consumed most of the their life. Overall I didn't want to play, wasn't bad though. It's basically kinda like playing those video games that instantly go into the bargain bin and yet not that bad of a game. None of the character I could sympathize with nor probably majority of the audience and it has this weird B movie feel to it, without it being wacky and over the top. At least some of those over the top and crazy B movies are sometimes entertaining to watch, this just felt like it dragged in many areas. On a positive not, it is thought provoking and I can see how some would love it and some would hate it.5.2/10 "},{"Title":"Can't stop watching it","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This was the film we went to see to keep us going until The Matrix finally arrived at the cinema. On first viewing it was perhaps a little disappointing, as it had little of the instant gratification eventually to be found in Matrix. But since buying it on DVD years ago I find myself still watching it regularly, long after the other film has lost its allure. Not least, it is brilliantly imaginative and on a par with anything by Lynch - DC should have got an Oscar for the bone gun alone. (Not to mention the bio-ports with their outrageous and amusing sexual connotations.) It also has a lot more to say about contemporary society than 'kung-fu can beat robots'. Cool ending, too. "},{"Title":"Very cool movie!","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Great movie, very original especially for the time. Excellent acting and it kept me guessing... I loved it! The first time I saw it I was amazed at how little they needed for special effects to have such a sci fi kind of fantasy movie... the game had device had a really interesting look and it worked. Very innovative, and I felt it very different and unique at the time - pre Matrix - and the cast was perfect. Great acting! I've seen this movie at least 5 times and recommend it to all of my friends. I'd like to see more movies made like this where the subject matter is cerebral and makes you wonder. I bought this movie for my collection of interesting movies that not everyone has seen. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and thought provoking. A great Sci-Fi with a twist","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I always believed that a film that's plot is centred around a virtual reality video game never sounds as though it's going to be anything special but eXistenZ proved I couldn't have been more wrong. This film is unbelievable and, whilst highly entertaining, offers so much more than that. From start to finish, this film has you conceptualising to the point where you can have so many ideas, you can not make a final conclusion. David Cronenberg has a talent for this as he does so many things.eXistenZ is pure Cronenberg; the way it's written and the way it's directed is very unique to his style and that can only be a good thing. Cronenberg set himself a clear target with this film and that was to keep the audience guessing which he did with apparent ease. His fondness for the grotesque is not as predominant in this film as it is in The Fly or Naked Lunch but there are still some elements such as the game pods and how they are made that can make the audience wince. With regards to his earlier work, eXistenZ is more a combination of Videodrome and a less violent Scanners, a pretty awesome combination. Setting the film in the not too distant future was a really good decision as it allowed Cronenberg to be extremely imaginative with the films surroundings and also enabled him to visualise more concepts, allowing for less inhibited writing. It was important that the film didn't become over confusing and Cronenberg avoided this very well by keeping things relatively simple. Besides, if he wanted to make an unwatchable film, he'd know how to do it a lot better than this.eXistenZ boasts an extremely talented cast of character actors and all perform very well. Jennifer Jason Leigh gives the standout performance as the game designer who spends more time out of reality than in to it. Leigh is sexy and commanding in her role as Allegra and she really gets her teeth in to the role. The emotional range she shows in the film is particularly impressive, making her completely believable (if you can believe anything). Jude Law is also good and is very convincing in his character's fear of implantation. The chemistry between these two is very electric and gives the film an extra bit of flavour. Ian Holm and Willem Dafoe are just two of the great actors in support who add further depth to the film with very colourful performances. The cast of the film isn't huge but eXistenZ definitely has the 'quality is better than quantity' ethic which works very well.As well as being entertaining and thought provoking, eXistenZ touches social issues such as control and loss of self. This further demonstrates the film as an intellectual vessel and could also explain why it wasn't a huge Hollywood hit. eXistenZ has so much to offer and although it isn't to everyone's taste, those who like Cronenberg's work or who like science fiction will almost be certain to like this film. It is one of those films that needs to be watched with an open mind but it really is something special. "}{"Title":"Original","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" So let's begin!)))The movie itself is as original as Cronenberg's movies would usually appear...My intention to see it was certainly JJL being one of my favourite actresses. She is as lovely as usual, this cutie!I would not say it was my favourite movie of hers. Still it's quite interesting and entertaining to follow. The rest of the cast is not extremely impressive but it is not some kind of a miscast star array. ;)Recommend with confidence!)))) "},{"Title":"A Matrix Contender","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" eXistenZ is one of those rare treasures, hidden deep in the rough of tired sci-fi themes, stupid action, and attempts at philosophical meaning.eXistenZ achieves all that it sets out to, by incorporating the same philosophical discussions The Matrix raises such as What is reality, with the hideous goop and blood in dime-a-dozen bad sci-fi, along with the quirky filming style one might find in a Terry Gilliam film.Jude Law delivers an excellent performance as a PR Nerd, who is forced to protect a revolutionary game designer played surprisingly well by Jennifer Jason Liegh. In order to escape a mysterious faction set out to destroy Liegh's mind-submerging video games, she and Law must venture through several levels within the game eXistenZ, constantly wondering whether or not they are in the game, reality, or in a game within the game.This bending plot offers a lot to the filmmakers and the audience. The script permits odd discussions and actions that seemingly make no sense but offer insight into past events, future events, and character motivations. The look of the film isn't very dark, but it maintains a creepy, sometimes gut-wrenching atmosphere. The look of the game PODS themselves is enough to make one cringe. And Jude does such a good job conveying his character's discomfort with his body being prodded by the PODS hookups, that it's difficult to watch the tentacle enter his spine.This is all excellent however, in that it puts the audience perfectly in the characters shoes, serving to create a disorienting and frightening world, without actually confusing us to the point where we can't stand to watch.While The Matrix, the first in particular, could be considered a better Movie simply because it adds a more entertaining, more mainstream approach to the question of reality, eXistenZ actually does a better job examining and answering the question...without actually answering it. eXistenZ raises the question and in the end allows the audience member to make up their own mind, something the Matrix preached, and achieved, but had to do so through three films and more action and special effects than eXistenZ required.Simply put, if you like weird sci-fi with a point, and are in need of a breath of fresh air in the genre, look no further than eXistenZ. "},{"Title":"`eXistenZ' - another word for really screwed up.","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  While my initial impression of eXistenZ was more or less `eh,' it took a second viewing to really appreciate the film and come to like it.  It's definitely not a film for everyone, but then again this is David Cronenberg we're talking about.  `eXistenZ' doubles as the name of the movie and the name of Allegra Geller's game within the movie.Film's based on Games generally strike out, and film's about the gaming industry seems to have less material than the arcade rendition of Street Fighter 2 which answers the question, `Why aren't there any good films about how the game industry actually is?'  Why not make a movie about gamers by gamers who understand gaming issues?  As a gamer, I can honestly say . . . we'd rather be playing the game than watching a movie about it.  The closest thing we have are the likes of Tron and War Games and eXistenZ . . . and all show some twisted perversion of `what could be' versus what actually is.But you know, that's okay, because a film true to form about here and now gaming will probably not fly with audiences.  eXistenZ answers this by commenting how games are through a royally twisted and screwed up perspective (note that is not a complaint.)The thing that stuck out in my mind most is how accurately Cronenberg wrote the game characters and game dialogue (though I'm doubtful most gamers will admit it.)  Video game cutscenes and game-cinema-sequences and the like do seem a bit more elegant in their own homeland amidst polygon actors who can't quite get the basic gestures and timing of human expression down, voiced by people reading the script that pops up on screen, but if you were to strip away the limitations of a gaming platform and strip away the double standard reminder that `hey, it's just a game' and you're left with the eerie nightmarish tone of things that never quite click and b-performances from the actors in eXistenZ.Another common-denominator eXistenZ has with its subject, video-games, is the plot.  Like an RPG plot, the only true surprises eXistenZ has up its sleeve come with a roll of the eyes and a `what the insert profanity?!' phrase.  The gaming industry is plagued with writers who think that a plot with enough twists and turns, regardless of how out there/retarded/stupid is a good one, and usually the one good plot twist per game is ruined by the hours and hours of crap you end up playing.  eXinstenZ addresses this, playfully comments on it, then comments on itself for doing it.An amazing film at heart, a very fun film at heart, but not one for everyone.  The beauty of eXistenZ is that it knows what it is, and it knows what it's doing, and that's what gives the film it's sophistication.  It's quite funny and ironic since the film's subject matter, the gaming industry, is struggling to be taken seriously by non-gamers by introducing games with `sophisticated' subject matter, commenting on life, religion, relationships and other major issues and eXistenZ comes along and takes a step back and imitates its offspring.I consider cinema to be (more or less) the parent of the modern game industry, and even though eXistenZ pokes fun at the younger entertainment medium . . . it's never malicious.  It's more playful encouragement than condescending mockery (I mean, it's not like the film-industry is loaded with artistic integrity either).  eXistenZ is a nod to the cinematic quality the games are developing, and to the plots their already exploring. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't understand why this film has got a relatively low rating. It's good, and comparing it to matrix is really dumb... They do have the live in the gam kind of thing in common, but they are totally different movies and they don't have the same goal. Matrix was designed to target actionlovers where as eXistenZ is targeted towards horror. That said, I did like Matrix a lot too, but as I said, it's not fair to compare these two. If we where, we could say that Matrix isn't but a more expensive copy of Tron, which in is days was probably more ahead of its time than Matrix is/was.So, this movie is great, as is almost all the movies David Cronenberg makes. As often with his stuff he portraits pretty nasty stuff as being both quite disgusting and erotic at the same time, as in his movie Videodrome which this one has many similarities to when it comes to the effects.To sum up, I say watch the movie, and judge for yourself. Do not expect a matrix style movie, be prepared for a movie more along the lines of Hellraiser (the first one) but smarter horror.(Note; Hellraiser have similar gore-erotic lines through the story if you remember why Mr Cotton started playing with the cube in the first place) "},{"Title":"This film should be anything but predictable...!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is too predictable. After the first 10 minutes have passed, you think 'oh, dear... I know everything yet...'. And you're not wrong. Total Recall was a wonderful movie, The Matrix was an entertaining movie with a yet used idea... but this one... This one simply doesn't work, despite the special effects and the obvious erotic symbolism behind the bio-port.5-6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Never before have I been sorry I spent money on a movie.","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What can I say?  The first half of the movie was filled with overt sexual innuendo, and the second half led up to the foregone conclusion I came to after 15 minutes.  I should have known there was a problem when it was the first weeknight after it opened and I was the only one in the theatre. "},{"Title":"A Load Of Junk Put Together!","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was extremely horrid, the plot went nowhere, and you didn't know what was going on, one minute reality, the next it's a game, then reality, then game..  The ending was the worst part of the movie, which didn't clarify anything, and didn't even leave me thinking after, there's no suspense, no action just yap yap yap.  I personally think if Elisabeth Shue played the part of Allegra, instead of Jennifer Jason Leigh, it would be much better.By the 2nd hour of this film, You could see people losing attention, and drifting off, I was looking at my sprite more than the movie.  At the end there was no applause, people were complaining and wanted their money back. Another thing why was this even rated R???Don't go see this movie unless you are in for a cheap thrill! "},{"Title":"Invasion of the VIRTUAL Body Snatchers!","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I suppose a lot of difficult and pseudo-intelligent terms can be used to review David Cronenberg's eXistenZ but let's keep it simple, shall we? Anyone remember how the 1956 Sci-Fi milestone Invasion of the Body Snatchers revolved on Pod People and how they transformed into identical versions of themselves that behaved entirely different? Well, the storyline of this remarkable movie is basically the same, only there aren't any aliens involved here and the equipment moved with the times. These people in the not-so-distant future (I think) become pod people voluntarily because it's required to play the next generation of videogames! Through some sort of biological port is your spinal column, games are linked directly to the nerve system and you literally experience the virtual events. Oh yes, once again Cronenberg's world perspective is pretty messed up! eXistenZ is the name such a game and the plot handles about the female designer (Jennifer Jason Leigh) and a random security guard (Jude Law) fleeing from and battling against the opponents of videogames whilst playing it. That's the synopsis is a nutshell, but I can assure you this film comes with a lot of bizarre & complex twists and red herrings. Naturally you have the confusing type of situations in which the protagonists can't tell whether it's reality or fiction, the double-crossing supportive characters and, of course, the various fake endings before the actual denouement (read the most predictable one) is revealed. Needless to say eXistenZ is a truly curious movie&#133; It's grim, depressing and extremely violent, but at the same time oddly fascinating and really full of ingenious elements. Some of Cronenberg's gimmicks are too insane for words, like for example the deadly gun compound of rotten Chinese food (!) and loaded with human teeth (!!). The explosions of violence are very graphic and definitely not intended for people with a weak stomach and/or a faint heart. But what else did you expect, since this is still a David Cronenberg project! THE eccentric film genius that brought us unique horror/Sci-Fi highlights like The Fly, Videodrome, Rabid and Scanners. Watch it, but only in case you're not disturbed easily! "},{"Title":"Barely watchable dreck.","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film was a severe disappointment to me, especially beccuase I've truly enjoyed Cronenberg's other works, and the two leads (Jennifer Jason Leigh and Jude Law) are two of my recurring favorite performers.Not once did I find myself engaged by the characters or the story, and the visuals were consistently laughable. As if to cover for these gaping flaws, Cronenberg keeps switching the plotline, but instead of clever, subtle shifts that keep us guessing, these are unwieldy, and often silly, shifts of reference which do nothing to make up for the other staggering flaws which this movie has.I'm severely disappointed to see people recommending this movie as real science fiction, because it's not. It's pretty much dreck, a good idea gone bad.Rent Dark City, or City of Lost Children instead, for a stunning surreal experience. Or, for a good Science Fiction experience, I'd perhaps suggest The Abyss or Alien or any of another dozen classics, but god, not this. Please, not this. "},{"Title":"Death to this movie!","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Let me begin by saying that I absolutely LOVE strange, surreal movies.  I also very much like the sci-fi and horror genre.  That said, let me also mention that I despise this movie.  It was like The Game with a sci-fi twist.  There was nothing to figure out.  One of the taglines was Where does the game end and reality begin...well I knew throughout the movie where reality was.  Although Cronenburg did catch me off guard once, but only once!!  This film was unnecessarily disgusting. So disgusting, in fact, that I almost vomited and was unable to eat for hours after I watched it.  The comment that there were strong performances from the actors is just flat out wrong.  Jennifer Jason Leigh, while I do like her for some reason, has always been a flat actress.  This was a good part for her because she is supposed to be fairly unfeeling anyway.  Jude Law is usually good but is nothing more than a caricature in this movie.  I very much would like to say what several characters in the movie say...Death to eXistenZ!!! "}{"Title":"Rubbish","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For crying out loud, it was like watching a double episode of The Outer Limits! Total rubbish. This movie has gone a long way in convincing me that, apart form Crash and Videodrome, Mr. Cronenberg's only skills lie in the creation of disgusting objects. The plot was ridiculously bad; who didn't see the surprising ending coming miles away? Anybody? This was just utterly substandard. How I wish I'd bought chocolate or a book instead of this crap...I gave it a 3/10. That's two points for Jennifer Jason Leigh, and one point for her dress. Miss Leigh, you deserve much better than having your name associated with something like this! "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs!!!","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Shame on everyone who gave this more than 3 stars!  I love Science Fiction, but this is one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  The acting is horrible, and the dialog is absurd. This slow movie crawled along until my wife and I gave up on it after 30 minutes.  Don't waste your time like we wasted ours! "},{"Title":"what was this movie about?","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I came across this movie at Blockbuster, and when I saw a critic's quote on the back of the box that eXistenZ makes The Matrix look like child's play, I snatched it up.  The writeup on the box described a wild adventure about a virtual-reality game designer (Allegra Geller, played by Jennifer Jason Leigh) and her pal (played by Jude Law) who have to enter VR themselves to find out who's trying to kill them.  I'm a sci-fi fan, so this was right up my alley, right?Well, that critic must have wanted really bad to get his name attached to a movie.  ANY movie, no matter how pathetic.Simply put, eXistenZ was the worst film I've ever seen.  That's saying quite a bit, coming from someone who's sat through Battlefield Earth, The Blair Witch Project, and The Omega Code.  Those movies, as bad as they stunk, were at least watchable.  This wasn't.I wasn't really expecting it to be better than The Matrix, but I at least expected some good special effects and some semblance of a storyline. What I got instead were game pods that look and act like alien frog creatures and a virtual reality that seems suspiciously like a really boring, dreary version of our own world.  And when Allegra and her friend finally enter this magical game world, what do they do?  Why, they wander around aimlessly, of course!The plot, as far as I could figure out, had something to do with a group of anti-VR terrorists.  But after 45 minutes I was hopelessly confused.  I had no idea who was for Allegra, who was against Allegra, what exactly Allegra was fighting for, or even if I should have been rooting for her or not. And when the movie was over, I still didn't. "},{"Title":"The King is Naked","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Did anyone actually watch this movie? Were they awake while doing so? Was there a room-temperature collective I.Q. of viewers? Has ANYONE read the King's New Clothing? Do you all believe the king is clothed?This movie ranks with FORD FAIRLANE as the worst movie ever made. I actually watched it twice to see if there was any - just a smidgen of - comedy value in the movie. I guess Jennifer Jason Leigh (a great actress)stumbling (literally) around toward the end of the movie might garner a chuckle. And ripping off the fur of a dog to get at the heavy artillery might seem funny. Or eating two-headed faux reptiles could bring at least a groaning smile. Otherwise, this movie was dung-filled.This movie deserves a zero on a scale of 1 to 10. "},{"Title":"I'm just glad that I didn't actually pay to see this remake of Chitty Chitty Bang Bang","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, thankful was I that I managed to see it without having to suffer the indignity of having to pay directly for the privilege. There was very little to to amuse the audience in Cronenberg's latest work. Luckily for us it was relatively early in the day and the volume was quite loud or I may well have dozed off before Law got his plug fitted. I haven't fallen asleep in the cinema since Super Mario Bros.Firstly, it broke the golden rule of cinema, which is to avoid mentioning the name of the film in corny circumstances if at all possible. It broke this one as soon as the shoddy (and boring) title sequence had ended. To exacerbate this already dire situation, the title was uttered by someone who desperately needed to blow their nose.Secondly, the heist pulled by the chap with the organic gun was as predictable as it was uninteresting. We all knew that something would happen, and when it did, it wasn't particularly exhilarating. It must also go down as one of the lamest assassination attempts in recent memory.Thirdly, after the excitement in the beginning we are treated to late night made-for-TV acting for at least half an hour before anything else happens. An empty car journey, filled with banal dialogue and some less-than-clever moves by Law's flawed character. We very nearly walked out. Which would have left the cinema empty.Oh, then eventually, after we are sick to death of these two sappy weaklings we get introduced to another character who seems to be based on a certain long running  playstation advert theme. Nothing original there. Oh, so in the future we go to garages in the middle of nowhere in the dead of night to get cattle prodded in the back by some meat head with a penchant for amateur surgery. Oh really. And meanwhile outside there are silly little bird type latex hybrid reptiles. Are these supposed to help us to become emersed in an imaginary world? I don't know, perhaps this film is just too clever for me.Finally, we get to the part of the film that this hectic introduction had been building up to. THE GAME. She doesn't know what it is, and she made it, he doesn't know what it is, and he's a moron, and we don't know what it is, and we don't care. Great, another computer game, but this one is the basis of a film that has had audiences across America baffled. They obviously never saw Chitty Chitty Bang Bang. They go into game A, get put into game B, they come out of that one and go into another, then they kill everyone and go into another game and win it by killing everyone else. But was that last one a game or real life? Neither, it is a film. And we were well aware of that, so we didn't much care whether they were in it or out of it because either way they were in a film. Something that we were made painfully aware of throughout. If you can't work out whether they were in a game or not is because you weren't supposed to be able to work it out because that was the aim of the film. This movie doesn't answer any questions, as has been suggested, it merely prompts another one why am i watching this?Put simply, this is the poor mans remake of CCBB but without the intrigue or the cunning story line, without any real empathy, or attempt to make an involving film leading up to a reality-questioning end. The parallels between the two films are many from the way it puts us into the fantasy world; the way it takes us out; the way that there is a moment of helplessness for the main characters as they are taken over; the way that characters and events from the supposed real beginning are reused in the make-believe world; and the way that we are shocked when we find out that what we witnessed may or may not be real.I was one of the first in England to see this film, and have actively voiced the following advice to friends ever since to avoid seeing it as it is merely a cheap and unconvincing attempt to fool the audience into caring about whether or not what they are seeing is inthe actual world. At the end of the day it is not real, and there has to be more point in seeing a film than to simply desipher whether or not the end is in an imaginary world. "},{"Title":"Oh dear, oh dreary a film...","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A complete suckfest of a movie, eXistenZ sees Cronenberg in danger of disappearing up his own bioport. A succession of bad sexual innuendo cf. It's always a little tight the first time... compounds what is a very badly observed and sloppily put together movie. The future of video gaming is apparently a particularly lame 1980s text adventure game controlled by a piece of 'fart putty with nipples'. No, I don't think so some how... Actors like Chris Ecclestone and Ian Holm are paraded and wasted, whilst Jude Law unfortunately seemed to be on autopilot - but can you blame the actors if they've been directed to act like 2d cutouts? Plot and story don't develop as instead we lurch from one smug set-piece to another. Like Jude Law I wished that I too could stand up shout eXistenZ is paused! and get the heck out of the theatre.Cronenberg should've realised that if you're going to make a film about peoples' terror at losing their lives and their personality, then you should write some actual characters and more to the point people that your audience can identify or even sympathise with, and contrast that with the gameworld. Personally I could quite understand why everyone else wanted to kill Jennifer Jason Leigh's 'character' and was willing them on to do it, and quickly. Oh, and the ending (if you're not unconscious and still paying any attention whatsoever by that point) is particularly predictable - I saw it with longstanding SF fans and we all expected so much more. What we got was enough to keep the two 11 year old girls behind me giggling for a while.Plus points? The mutant fish are quite good. And if that's all you can say about a movie, then... Expect to see it on Mystery Science Theater 3000 real soon (if they were still making it...) "},{"Title":"It's like a long day with no food","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Do you ever get the feeling you know how bad a movie is after the first 2 minutes?  I did and I almost left, but ended up forcing myself to sit through it.  I don't think I was the only one thinking about leaving at that point either since 2 people actually DID leave after 15 minutes.The movie looked like it was written in about 10 minutes or actually not written at all and instead they winged it during filming.  Nothing made sense and that's not because it was deep, but because it just sucked hard.  At the end they try to step past the fact that the dialog was inane and the acting sucked by claiming that there were still problems with the game.Sitting in the audience I could hear groans all around.  The guy sitting next to me actually started yelling What the f#%k! in the middle movie.I usually love bad movies but this is just barely above publicaccess quality (the acting and plot not the film quality).  I actually enjoy watching the movies that occupy the top 10 position on the IMDB's bottom 100 list because they are so bad they're funny.  eXistenZ (please tell me what the hell is up with the capitalization too, I guess it means we're in the future or something) is not bad, it's something far worse, it's worse than evil, it's eViL.I think the crazy old man behind me summed it up best when he said It's like a long day with no food.   "},{"Title":"A high-brow Matrix - good but not great.","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although not as visceral as other Cronenberg work, this film deals with the concept of virtual relatity worlds like the Matrix did later.  This is set in the world of eXistenZ &#150; the new gaming experience that sets you in your new world. Although the story is sometimes confusing as you watch it, rest assured that everything is cleared up towards the end &#150; although it stills leaves you thinking with a question (the last line in the movie that I  won't spoil for you) that will give you enough to talk about for days with your friends.The acting is OK from most of the cast but really it's the story that carries you along and you don't notice that it's quite short or that some performances are hammy.An enjoyable thought provoking movie, and the lack of the usual body-horror makes this `Cronenberg-lite' and more accessible than some of his other work.  "},{"Title":"Get your realities checked, people.","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Renting this movie, I was expecting something at least somewhat amusing, if not great, as I hadn't seen any movies by Cronenberg, save for his remake of The Fly. Hoping he'd have improved a bit at least, and given the somewhat interesting premise of the story, I went and got the movie. We started watching it with my brother, who, I'm sorry to inform you, left after the first thirty minutes. I only watched the whole movie because of two reasons one was the fact that I had paid money for it, the other that I was kind of hoping for a plot to appear. Surprise - it didn't. What little plot there was were stupid, unimaginative gimmicks. The casting only worsened the already weak characters. Come on, people, Jennifer Jason Leigh as a computer game designer? I wouldn't even buy her as a movie director, something far more mainstream. Goodlooking females are NEVER computer game designers, it's a universal invariant. Sci-fi doesn't need special effects to carry the plot, but when they are used, they should at least look good. The VR machines looked godawful, and the gore looked, well, like oily rubber guts from a cheap slasher movie. Special effects should be used to serve the plot. The only half-decent effect (that didn't make one think 'god, this is bad') was the cricket/dragon thing at the gas station. And what point did that effect serve? Not to mention the the scene following it, wasting Willem Dafoe completely. The pacing was horrible, and the so-called paranoia... You do not build paranoia by having a character state that they are being followed. Ooh, scary. This movie is an utter piece of crap, even The Matrix and about every other Star Trek episode has more to say than this movie, not to mention good science fiction. What if reality isn't reality? Come on, that question doesn't need to be asked just for asking's sake. Total Recall, a Schwarzenegger film for christ's sake, asked that question far better than this fiasco. This movie has NOTHING to say, it seeks to be an exercise in style, yet in that respect it's inferior to the interior decoration of your local McDonalds. And on an end note, as a long-time computer game player... Who the hell would play Allegra Geller's games? They remind me of really crap Roberta Williams games (Phantasmagoria comes to mind). "},{"Title":"even more hideous than the 'game pod'","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" one bored Sunday afternoon i thought i would browse for a film to pass the time, and happened upon eXistenZ, boy do I wish I hadntTotally confusing in its complete lack of suspense, an audible plot, effective script and believable performances by any of the actors. Even Christopher Ecclestone was awful in it, that should give you an idea just how bad this film is.Starting with some kind of bizarre alludes to anal probing (the game pod interface obviously intended to resemble this orifice) whereby Jennifer Jason Leigh seems to derive some strange pleasure from having her interface probed, and Jude Law being compelled to stick his tongue in hers, I was left wondering if this was going to turn into some kind of low rate virtual reality/cyber porn film. Unfortunately nothing as interesting as this was actually realised, and the film just slipped into a 'are we still in the game' convoluted B.S. as it transferred the players (and viewers) from one ridiculously unbelievable scene to the next.The game pods themselves were hysterically funny, and again alluded to some kind of sexual connection to the game playing, as they are animal in nature and have to have their 'nipple' tweaked in order to start the game. Jennifer Jason Leigh also at many times fondles and caresses her pod in a most unsettling way, almost making the viewer say the words 'get a room' Well i wish they had and the film could have ended there.Shame cos I like Jude Law but i have lost so much respect for him as an actor. Surprisingly there are a few very well known actors in this film but don't let that fool you into watching it. This really is sci-fi drivel at its absolute worst. Avoid at all costs!! "}{"Title":"Artificial reality movies are big now, why don't we make one too...","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Why do people make stuff like this?This movie, obviously trying to capitalize on the popularity of The Matrix, had no plot, flat characters, no drama, no suspense, and nothing new to offer.Apparently from the movie and the trailers for it, a big portion of the drama was suppose to come from not knowing what was real and what wasn't.  Unfortunately, this movie was so predictable that I was never in any doubt about what was about to happen next or whether or not the characters were in the real world or a simulation.On top of all the other problems with this movie, we are expected to believe that the greatest game programmer in the world works on a game for five years without ever bothering to make a backup copy (and this is thus motivated to defend her pod sort of like a gooey PlayStation lest her sole copy be lost).I was also severely annoyed by the so-called game they played -- I found it impossible to believe that a game developer that could generate a realistic looking artificial world couldn't program a better game-AI than adventure game programmers of the 1980's could.  Every time the game characters would stare blankly ahead while the main characters tried to say the 'proper' response I wanted to bonk the writer over the head with an Infocom manual.Avoid this movie.  The real/simulation philosophical issues are covered better in The 13th Floor (which isn't the greatest either, but it's much better than this)1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If you are to enjoy this movie you must first throw all criticism out the window. Complete and utter suspension of disbelief is a prerequisite.You must not wonder why a gun made of bone that fires square teeth out a round hole without any form of propellant makes a bang, or how people with an open dime sized hole leading directly into their spine don't succumb to infection or spinal fluid loss. Nor why the lead developer/creator has no idea what her 45 million dollar game is about and only has a single copy on a device that can be corrupted simply by using it on a person who is slightly nervous.These are not inevitable problems in film making like entry wounds looking like exit wounds. This is just bad writing. And before you cry But the ending makes all your points moot because it was all just a game!, no, no it does not. Even taking into account the fact that all but the last 5 minutes took place in a game within a game doesn't negate the fact that any semblance of a coherent plot must have remained in the soiled depths of Cronenberg's mind. Even assuming all these mistakes were foreshadowing doesn't excuse it.I remember enjoying this film when it released, but I must have been extremely high not to pick it apart scene by sloppy scene. "},{"Title":"Invasion of the bio-Pod People Meta-muddle...","Date":"20 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" At some point in his career, David Cronenberg apparently thought he'd become David Lynch he began to make muddled movies that lacked both the flair and imagination of his earlier films. EXISTENZ was the last time he attempted to venture back into the dark territory where he had done his very best work and he came up short. EXISTENZ oozes across the screen at a painfully slow pace, crippled by two of the BLANDEST leads he's ever employed, who are themselves hampered by a lackluster screenplay that offers little (with the possible exception of the bio-ports, which will, in all likelihood, shortly become a reality). Weird for the sake of being weird, EXISTENZ is as bad as the worst of David Lynch. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The only thing that is not ridiculous in eXistenZ is the premise that seemed to possess a certain potential.It is hard to take Cronenberg seriously when everything is distressing and resembles more a parody than a real sci-fi movie, even in 1999. The script is totally disjointed and goes in every direction, lacking any sense of coherence. And what about the universe created for the game, which is completely laughable, like the humanoid pods and the guns loaded with human teeth. This is emphasized by sound effects that contribute to a disgust caused by some pointless crude images.As for the poor actors, starting with Jude Law, they seem completely lost in that ocean of mediocrity, not helped by flat and uninteresting characters. "},{"Title":"eXistenZ (1999)","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Of Cronenberg's series of body horror films, this might be the most fun. Amidst the icky goopy bits of sexualized biotechnology is a tight little action/thriller. I generally don't go for the layers-of-reality shtick as in THE MATRIX or INCEPTION, but this is far more enjoyable precisely because the movie never takes itself too seriously... while also never getting too silly or devolving into self-parody. It's just a hoot to watch, and moves like gangbusters. I'm not a huge fan of either Jude Law or Jennifer Jason Leigh, but they dive into this material with abandon and are pleasant to watch together. They're not award-winning performances, but they don't need to be. A really good time. "},{"Title":"Very clever thrill ride","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'm not sure that virtual reality gaming is a trend that really ever caught on. The video games we play are virtual non-reality games where we control another character, rather than being the character. But in the world of eXistenZ virtual reality gaming is all the rage. eXistenZ is a film about a game designer named Allegra Geller who is on the run from fanatics who want to kill her. The only person she has to protect her is a lowly marketing trainee named Ted Pikul. In order to find out if the her game has been damaged, Allegra and Ted must play the game eXistenZ. In the world of the game it becomes more and more difficult to tell who is friendly and who is not and what is reality and what is not. Virtual reality melds with actual reality in this twisting sci-fi action flick from the always wacky David Cronenberg.eXistenZ is a film that you absolutely have to watch all the way through before you pass any judgement on it. You can't finely critique the film until you know everything and have absorbed the entire plot. The plot moves at a rapid pace and maintains a level of significance, never wasting time with subplots that don't build on the story. Every moment of the film is important, all the way up to the final line. What's even better about the film is its hidden ambiguity. You think you're keeping up and you think you understand everything that is going on. You may even think that you have outsmarted the film with your astute observations that really only scratch the surface of what this film entails. But the plot then thickens and throws you for a loop towards the end with events you will never see coming.eXistenZ has managed transcend conventional laws of storytelling and it has found a way to exploit the traditional methods of telling a mind bending story. This is a very plot twist heavy film and towards the end it gets a little ridiculous, but the film wraps up in such a way that the plot twists were completely necessary to what the film is actually about. It's hard to explain without seeing the movie, so watch this movie. eXistenZ is a truly ironic film. It hides very clever filmmaking under sub-par storytelling. The film is a cop out, but in a good way.The practical aspects of eXistenZ are all decent, like acting, script, direction, etc. But where the film really shines, and the only place it intends to shine, is the way the story develops and unfolds into something unexpectedly brilliant. It is a film that is very proud of its plot and this is very obvious in the last fifteen minutes of the film. Cronenberg indeed pulled a fast one on all of this and he's very happy about it. But I'm not complaining. I really enjoyed eXistenZ and I was pleasantly surprised at how it turned out. If you're looking for something to boggle your mind, I would watch this film. "},{"Title":"Good Film, Not My Favorite Cronenberg","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A game designer on the run from assassins (Jennifer Jason Leigh) must play her latest virtual reality creation with a marketing trainee (Jude Law) to determine if the game has been damaged.This film has a lot going for it, such as being heavily inspired by Philip K. Dick and being directed by David Cronenberg. Only Cronenberg could have made the fleshy game pods in this film as lifelike and revolting as they are (parallels could probably be made to Videodrome, but I will not try right now).This is not Cronenberg's best film, however, and almost seems like more a transition for him between his science and flesh phase of the 1980s and 1990s into his more action-oriented films of the 2000s. Likewise, this is not Leigh's best work, which is sad. More sad is her choice of being in this film rather than Eyes Wide Shut. Choosing between Cronenberg and Kubrick is not easy, but in hindsight it would be a real honor to take part in a master's final work. "},{"Title":"Never has a film left me wanting more","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" David Cronenberg's eXistenZ takes the audience on a tangled adventure into the world of virtual reality. Once more, Cronenberg has accomplished the difficult task of producing a film that is both highly entertaining and intellectually stimulating at the same time. The film will have viewers puzzling over the mysterious nature of human existence while simultaneously delighting in the grotesque 'body horror' for which Cronenberg is famous. The film offers no easy reading and this is part of its charm. It also respects its audience, a trait common across Cronenberg's work. It achieves this by asking more questions than it answers, thus leaving room for the audience to fill in the gaps and complete the cinematic experience in their own way. "},{"Title":"Mind twisting","Date":"21 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The actress was bitchy, I felt like slapping her more than once while watching the movie and hoped that one bullet will catch her straight in her face, but alas! such was not to be.... This was a creepy movie... this belongs to the old school movie along with dark city, the 13th floor, strange days... before the matrix came along ... matrix packaged this very well but eXistenZ (with a capital X and Z) is the raw deal ... this is not an action movie ... it does not try to be in any way ... this is plain old fashioned movie where you use your imagination to fill in the gaps ... it is quite unrealistic and that is intentional to give it a feel more like a scripted game ... the ending is quite predictable, it follows the same line as the 13th floor .... the ending sentence expresses the confusion well ... no one has an answer ..it is upto you to decide .... movies like these are the stepping stones for the big budgeted, mind twisting movies that are coming out one like the inception .... a great sci fi movie ... if you liked inception you definitely should go for it .... solid acting, solid script .... "},{"Title":"eXistenZ is a Masterpiece of Horror/Psychological Thriller","Date":"7 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This nightmarish film from David Cronenberg is so like his other really excellent films such as Videodrome and Scanners. Howard Shore's breathtaking theme song gives a creepy sort of feel to the film as it goes along.Much like Videodrome, eXistenZ seems so weird that it almost doesn't seem true, but like Videodrome it really seems like it could be real, if only, if only it was real...Sort of like Inception, this film has different levels of reality (the real-life one, and the in-game one). That gives a sort of interesting change to the film. While this is a horror film, it isn't strictly horror; I'd say it's more of a psychological thriller/horror film. Watch for some really weird things that only Cronenberg would ever think of such as the look of the bioports (think Videodrome), the weapon (very eco-friendly!), and the nifty new cell phones (bring those into a test and you'll never get caught!). When I was half way through watching this film I suddenly though, Hey I've seen a film like this before.... I realized, however, that this film had brought back the memory of an old nightmare of mine, forgotten for who knows how long. In fact, the whole film is nightmarish; it just doesn't seem real while maintaining a sense of reality.So overall, this masterpiece deserves a 10 out of 10. It is far better than Cronenberg's other films, except, perhaps, A History of Violence (but that is a different genre). Watch it, you will be very, very, very surprised at the film, and it's very strange ending. I highly recommend. "}{"Title":"what the fuckkkk","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" every time i would sneak in the house on LSD in high school this seriously weird movie would be on, it was either that or the first matrix. i have seen the first matrix film to many times to count, but i could always watch eXistenz. being a child of the 90's i always have a soft spot for the box office failures of child actors of the time. this movie to me is like watching The Wall again, even though I've seen it before. if there were to be a candidate for the weirdest late 90's take on virtual reality (remember the Sega Dreamcast commercials?).its thinking. a picture is worth one thousand words says the IMDb, this one certainly is. i asked my science teacher the next day about chemical virtual reality,. she was horrified...which was fun for me. "},{"Title":"Seems like almost everything used to be something else, yes?","Date":"14 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" After the unexpected attack of game designer Allegra Geller at a demo of her most recent game, she and her bodyguard(who doesn't know anything about the video-game world) flee, not knowing who they can trust. They don't know if the game itself, eXistenZ, has been harmed, so they have to play it to find out(there's only one copy at this point). Once they do, we find it to be affected by the individual players, and to be a close simulation of life. This explores the themes of illusion vs. reality(with clear inspiration from Philip K. Dick; R.I.P., you brilliant man... if you haven't read anything by him and what I just described sounds appealing to you, pick up a book of his immediately) and mechanical vs. organic(the game-pods are like living beings, and there is a clear sexual allusion with them penetrating your skin, being wired into your spine for you to play). Existentialism is an important part of this, and the fear of not being able to distinguish between fake and real, of losing touch(that takes precedence in this to the game rules seeming like ones from any game we know). We see a world where activities are all experienced through computers. This is layered and smartly written; it actually holds up to scrutiny, and provides food for thought without being obvious about it. The plot has several twists and turns, and you do have to pay attention... which really isn't difficult, because it's very engaging. This is creepy and, at times, bizarre and grotesque. It's also pretty funny when it wants to be. The acting is good, sometimes great. Characters are memorable and credible, if not all likable. The FX vary a bit; there are magnificent ones, but CGI tends to be underwhelming, if passable. They aren't the focus, though. The dialog is fitting(in other words, intentionally forced here and there). There is a lot of bloody violence and disturbing content, a little perverse stuff and occasional strong language in this. The DVD comes with three(!) interesting commentary tracks(director/writer, DOP, and Special Effects supervisor, respectively), a 53-minute featurette(The Invisible Art of Carol Spier, which I will review on its own page here on the site) and the US theatrical trailer. I recommend this to anyone that finds the concept compelling, and any fan of Cronenberg. 8/10 "},{"Title":"the  movie eXistenZ","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" when life imitates art or when art imitates life, then it is time to find out which one is really a reality. i find it kind of a way to let the living live and the others do what they do best. i guess u can guess what that is-they try to live for the rest of us not knowing that their living is different from the way we live. although i knowingly was not aware that such a thing existed, no play on the title, i do find myself in the middle of it and have the scars to prove it, both physically and technological. i have only one dominating emotion at this time which i rather keep to self. anyway i am aware that David Croneberg's is just a messenger in this display of entertainment, i do find that this goes beyond the concept of entertainment , much bigger than those who feel that it comes down to entertainment rather than another tool for the deviate minds of this century. the emotion is a sweet/bitter one , future expressions of what i do with this will tell just how emotional this can become. from non existing to r u NUts. "},{"Title":"Interesting plot, thoughtful premise","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Very interesting plot.  Things aren't what they seem to be.  While it took a little getting used to some parts of the premise, the plot is well done.Occasionally the special effects were not as big-budget as we're used to getting in block busters from the biggest studios, but I have to say that while I noticed this, I didn't really miss much.  The effects were good enough to make you suspend reality to live in the world of the story.  I felt it had a compelling enough story line that I really didn't miss the special effects.  Make no mistake, many of the effects were very good.  In the end though, it was the story which made this movie well worth seeing... and thinking about later.  I'd recommend this one, especially since it raises interesting questions about our penchant for escaping reality what does it mean? where will it lead? what will it be like when technology advances to a point which allows us to be completely engaged in a video game? "},{"Title":"This is a GREAT movie for anyone with a nice brain! )","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  CronenBERG does his 'bio-fi' thing well, blending as usual his theme-weave of sex, addiction, and freakiness with update themes for coffeehouse conversation.  Coming to this movie with the perspective for which it was intended is key, as if you are looking for cattle fodder this will not deliver the requisite 'pow bang boom' of other more Wal Mart shopper friendly epics like 'Bad Boys II' and so on.  What the BERG does is blend his Giger rip-off thingy with a bit of existential blah blahs instead of the requisite demons n' foes things.  If this movie were cliche it would not be so fascinating.  Uniqueness in cinema is entertaining in itself sometimes (like Eraserhead).  This movie reminds me of Naked Lunch, Videodrone, and that other one from way back with Natalie Wood.  Actually there are a LOT of movies with the V.R. theme, and it is the bit of Hans Giger thrown into the Cronenberg mix, with the perversion and addiction, that make this one unique.  Also the lead chick is tryly Hotty Mc Hot Hot (what an ass!).Oh but it does have explosions and gunfire - near the end - keeping one foot in commercial reality there I guess (plus it is actually relevant to the story and things do burn real nice )This is the ideal movie for a brainy date to take to a coffeehouse theater in Eastern Europe and chat for hours about afterwards - in the cold winter wonderland, then go have hot freaky sex afterwards )  Yeah baby I'll be your game pod wind me up! lol "},{"Title":"Starts slow but in the end turns into a great thinking mans movie","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie starts slow but picks up very nicly toward the middle.  This is a movie you have to sit down and watch from beginning to end to understand everything.  In the end its one of them movies that has you saying what the heck?  I love it I would highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Beware of those video games.","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Here is an interesting film which presents the problem we may face in the not too distant future when video games become way to real. This is not a perfect film, but it's a fun watch and might strike up interesting conversations among the video game fans and their non-gaming friends. Keep in mind that the inventor of the Atari gaming system has admitted he would not have released the game into the world had he known then what video games would become today and how much time people spend on them. "},{"Title":"Sci-fi with a difference","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is another film that somehow failed to get the advertising and publication it deserves leaving it to somehow rely on word of mouth success. This is always bound to fail.The actual film itself is of a new breed slowly coming into the mainstream. It is that of the fantasy world, science fiction and computers.To enjoy this film you need to enjoy these genres.  Without this kind of trust in a film you are bound to start questioning its merits.  That aside, the true sci-fi fan will relish in delight with this one.  The storyline is totally off the ball, the scenes spooky and slightly off centre and the plot totally adverse to the norm.The acting talent is also at the better end of the British market although the dialog might cause some to question that.  The dialog itself is not conventional and might upset some viewers who find it totally unrealistic and non-believable.  This is exactly the point.  eXistenZ is trying to persuade the viewer that this place, this time is totally adverse to ours and people are different and have different ideologies to us.  That is the whole subplot to the film, and is revealed in the end sequence.The storyline revolves around the game with the name eXistenZ which is as real virtual reality can get.  The games writer and beta testers gather at the beginning to play the game, and the story unfolds into a puzzle action adventure.8/10 PLAYS LIKE A DREAM "},{"Title":"Best twists","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Great movie with lots of twists.  Similar in plot to one of my favorite books If On A Winter's Night A Traveler by Italo Calvino, both having a strong theme of the struggle between reality and illusion, and both taking lots of unexpected twists.  It's great even if you know what's going to happen, but it's even better if you don't. "},{"Title":"Good film, somewhat predictable","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ is an interesting alternative reality science fiction film. The story happens sometime in the future where there's the technological possibility to connect a person's body into a bio mechanical device that allows the person to experiment Virtual Reality (VR) characters and actions inside a game. The movie opens with the presentation of the new game, eXistenZ, to a group of people.(possible spoilers)In my opinion this film fails because it is too predictable. The weapon, the people getting ready to plug into the game and other signs show that those people are probably all connected to the system, and are probably a test group like the one in the first minutes of the film, and not simple game characters.In the end there's a nice question... Are they sill in the game? Are they back to reality or just playing their game/VR characters?(end of spoilers)It's a nice film with a simple and interesting mechanic (that could be less predictable) that relies on the question of what's real and what's not.6 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Videodrome for the Playstation","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deservedly one of Cronenberg's worst. The fantastic cast are wasted in a confused storyline that is basically Videodrome all over again but for the Playstation generation. The question as to whether the plot is confusing due to poor editing or an attempt at making it seem profound is quickly forgotten as you leave the cinema feeling ripped-off. Watch it on tv if you must. "},{"Title":"Virtual reality given an oddball look, David Cronenberg style.","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING PLOT SPOILERThe always-abnormal movies of David Cronenberg certainly are an acquired taste. Fans of his earlier films will probably like `eXistenZ', but it definitely isn't one for the squeamish. All of the usual elements are here. A game pod made out of skin (hooked into your back), buckets of blood, a gun made out of bones, and a manic mechanic to name but a few. The result is good in parts, bad in parts, and just plain weird in others. But one thing the film has is undeniable originality. Despite the excessive use of&#133; weirdness it does prove a point- virtual reality games can have a dangerous effect on some people. In the movie, a character shoots someone dead claiming that he was `annoying' (assuming that she was still in the game). But it leaves the question as to whether that really happened or if it was an occurrence in this stunningly life-like game. `eXistenZ' leads to a conclusion that can be responded to in several ways. Despite some extra gadgets and gook, it was simply your classic `it was all a dream&#133; or was it' twist. It is a smart surprise and answers a few questions, but giving that the entire film was leading up to this moment is a bit disappointing. At only 97 minutes it could have went on a bit longer too. In a peculiar way the film raises moral issues but answers them in a violent and rather inappropriate way. Jennifer Jason Leigh appears here in her first big role in quite a while. But her character doesn't have enough qualities to make her jump off the screen or even give her a likeable character. Jude Law on the other hand (equipped with a curious American accent) is good as your average Joe sucked into this abnormal world. We see the film through his perspective.`eXistenZ' is far from flawless but it certainly is a movie experience to remember. There's tonnes of weird characteristics to match the similar styles of David Lynch (what next? - being consumed by a question mark?!?!?!). It definitely isn't for all tastes but it is rewarding enough to recommend. My IMDb rating 6.2/10.  "},{"Title":"Much underrated - excellent fun","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ came out at the same time as The Matrix over here and of the two this was by far my favourite. It has a sketched but fun comic book feel to it that keeps you hooked, and there seems to be an infinate number of possibilities that could happen at any point in the movie. The pods almost become a metaphor for the movie and you become the player. Watch it, you might love it! "},{"Title":"Cronenberg meets Lynch","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ combines director David Cronenberg's traditional love of blood and gore and exploding heads with the more confusing aspects of a reality twisting David Lynch film. And it actually works effectively. I won't bother trying to give even the bare bones of a plot synopsis here because it'll only cause more confusion. All you need to know is that the film is about a virtual reality computer game that is so incredibly lifelike that it becomes difficult to tell the difference between reality and virtual reality. The film almost seems to abandon its technology fearing point at the end, but then it throws in the final twist in the very last line of dialogue.There's also some very gross sexual imagery based around the 'bio-ports' in the protagonists backs, as well as some very gross acting from Jude Law. He manages to come off as naive and stupid and boring and any other annoying habit you can care to think of. Jason Jennifer Leigh comes off much better, and everyone else can be called a supporting character, including Willem Dafoe in a functional, if unspectacular, role as a money-crazed mechanic. Overall, eXistenZ is a very effective sci-fi film about the possibilities technology can present and the possible consequences it will receive. "},{"Title":"Great film, give it a go.","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ was a good film, at the first I was wondering what is going on, organic pods made out of mutant reptiles which connected you and other players to a surreal virtual reality game via a umbilical cord, well it seems a little odd.But once it gets going its a pretty good film, with a few twists with a great open ending and the good aspect of weridness throughout the film is entertaining too see as your not sure whats coming next.Security personnel throw away the metal detectors; they have bone guns ! "},{"Title":"it's real sci-fi, not more thriller/horror","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The bottom line is if you come looking for a sci-fi thriller/horror film, The Matrix is what you'll like.  If, like me, you long for the rare true science fiction film involving characters with depth and provocative thought about where science will take us, then you need to see eXistenZ. "},{"Title":"mind-blowing, a true game fun's movie","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is breath-taking and mind-blowing. But I think maybe it can only be appreciated by die-hard RPG funs. It is like a game. One problem is the plot is too game-like and just has too many twists. The twists are excessive. Jude Law gives a very good performance. I really like him in this movie, just as Jerome in Gattaca and Gigglo Joe in A.I. "},{"Title":"best of Cronenberg","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" eXistenZ is simply David Cronenberg's best movie. All the people compare it to the Matrix. They're not even similar. If you enjoyed Cronenberg's other works just a little bit, you'll love this one... "},{"Title":"Mr Law does it again","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Now being a fan of sci fi, the trailer for this film looked a bit too, how do i put it, hollywood. But after watching it i can gladly say it has impressed me greatly. Jude is a class actor and miss Leigh pulls it off better than she did in Delores Clairborne. It brings films like The Matrix, 12 Monkeys and The Cell into mind, which might not sound that appealing, but it truly is one of the best films i have seen. "},{"Title":"Would have been better if it had had a budget...","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie for a science fiction class, thus I went in well prepaired to analyze philosophical themes and discuss the post-modernist elements in a genre of cyberpunk blah blah blah...I have to say my overall reaction is that I don't like the movie, but I can appreciate it.  It is kind of a cliche Mess With Reality movie (or at least cliche by today's standards) but it does it in such an unusual way.  I was disgusted and intrigued by the organic pods, as well as that mutant-bone gun. I love scifi that deals with the ideas of genetic and organic technology, so was hoping for more. Unfortunately, besides the glowing thingy that Law pulled out of his pocket, there wasn't anything else.The problem that stuck out most to me was that all these futuristic elements are juxtaposed against a regular, redneck-country backdrop with barns, farmhouses, and crappy cars.  It was confusing and jarring.  My guess it that they didn't get much of a budget, or spent it all on the pods, so made do by location-shooting in one town for the entire time.  Many of the extras, expecially the people in the church during the testing, look like just a bunch of locals they hired.I would have been much more engrossed if they had taken the pains to make it a real futuristic society, with plot twists more dramatic than going to a chinese resturant.  It would make the videogame aspect of it mesh more with today's ideas of what an escapism game should be, as well. "}{"Title":"my favorite science fiction, incredible ride through mistrust and the warping of reality.","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" my favorite science fiction, incredible ride through mistrust and the warping of reality. Probably the best performance I have ever seen Jude Law play. Incredibly original with interesting character developments and a story line that twists and turns so rapidly that it takes a couple of minutes after the film to fully grasps its genius. Even more fun watching it again for the end changes the beginning.  "},{"Title":"wait for the end...","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  yes, the beginning sucks ass, kind of disgusting, but by the last 30 minutes I was on edge. You have to be patient "},{"Title":"An indictment of modern video games","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERSFirst, let me state that I liked the atmosphere of the first hour or so of the movie, as well as the whole biotech approach.However, the movie plot itself was an extremely simple circles within circles affair.  Even the end, which tried to be puzzling, wasn't, as other players could easily be seen locked in player loops.  So, basically Some people are playing a game.  Within that game, they are playing a game called transCendenZ.  Within that, they have to play a game called eXistenZ.  That's it.  Convoluted, but certainly not deep.  As some one pointed out earlier, this hackneyed plot device has been done a million times, and even Total Recall did it better.HOWEVER,Where this movie shines is in its condemnation of modern games.  Prescripted events.  Inability to progress without picking the one allowable choice (fake choices).  The inevitability of violence, shooting, cool guns.  Shooting characters who you know nothing about because that's part of the script.  Bad acting.  Unnatural timing.Watching this reminded me of every Final Fantasy game that has ever come out.This movie doesn't bring up any perplexing issues about reality and illusion, free will and predestination.  What it DOES do is hold up a mirror to modern video games and show how, for all the great effects and high poly-counts, the core of the games is simple and uninspired. "},{"Title":"An indictment of modern video games","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERSFirst, let me state that I liked the atmosphere of the first hour or so of the movie, as well as the whole biotech approach.However, the movie plot itself was an extremely simple circles within circles affair.  Even the end, which tried to be puzzling, wasn't, as other players could easily be seen locked in player loops.  So, basically Some people are playing a game.  Within that game, they are playing a game called transCendenZ.  Within that, they have to play a game called eXistenZ.  That's it.  Convoluted, but certainly not deep.  As some one pointed out earlier, this hackneyed plot device has been done a million times, and even Total Recall did it better.HOWEVER,Where this movie shines is in its condemnation of modern games.  Prescripted events.  Inability to progress without picking the one allowable choice (fake choices).  The inevitability of violence, shooting, cool guns.  Shooting characters who you know nothing about because that's part of the script.  Bad acting.  Unnatural timing.Watching this reminded me of every Final Fantasy game that has ever come out.This movie doesn't bring up any perplexing issues about reality and illusion, free will and predestination.  What it DOES do is hold up a mirror to modern video games and show how, for all the great effects and high poly-counts, the core of the games is simple and uninspired. "},{"Title":"Weird movie with a great gaggle of actors","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I would have never caught this movie if it weren't for a friend, because it is very obviously a B-movie effort with a shoe-string budget that tries to rip The Matrix in many ways. But what is so funny is that this thing has so many huge actors in it. William Dafoe is here for a while doing his bad guy/Green Goblin shtick, and Jude Law plays the main man in a sorta monotone way that got kinda boring. He also whined a lot, a character trait that quickly became old and tiring. I digged the insanely organic game pods (switching these things on looks like flicking someone's nipple), and the insanely gross creatures that the characters ate. The actual game world was also pretty cool, and was very realized in a sense that it seems a lot like the entertainment of the future. By the end of the movie, however, the multiple fake-out endings and silly twists just seemed like a student filmaker's way of finishing the film before the running time became too long. And the game fans of the future were also not very realistic. They were all old and wearing country club shorts that were waaaay too high for their age group. Oh, but the tooth spitting pistol was cool and the fact that all people of the future have very 'sensitive' holes in their back is just plain hilarious (check out when Jude Law licks this hole with his gigantor tongue...sick!). All in all, I would give this movie a passing grade. But what was with the continuous gimmick with giving names capital letters where they shouldn't have them? Is that what we will do in the future? Lame. 2/4 "},{"Title":"game and organic","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A bit the movie in the movie case, or as the theme is virtual game here, which is the reality or even more frightening which reality is the real one.As any Cronenberg there are organic things, like the pod and that wonderful ideathe organic gun, a weapon made of bones and tissues that shoots teeth. If there are some slower moments, the sets, designs and ideas are there with some thoughts of revolution. Can be not liked because the way the movie is happening is quite unusual and sometimes disturbing, but it's definitely worth it. "},{"Title":"Weird, Powerful, Smart...","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I do admire David Cronenberg - mostly for what I consider a creepy thriller masterpiece, DEAD RINGERS (plus The DEAD ZONE & THE FLY are very well done also.) Yes, this movie is weird, but Cronenberg always asks a lot of his audience, which is terrific in this day of no dimension, no plot, just blow crap up, woo-hoo, that Hollywood churns out. The movie kinda flounders all over the place but Jennifer Jason Leigh, Jude Law and Ian Holm all give strong performances and I love the issues the film raises about game-playing, checking out from society to escape the troubles of the world and play. And come on, even with the movie's shortcomings, it has A BONE GUN!!!! That is so weird it is brilliant! "},{"Title":"Will leave your brain like a well shaken martini... and you will enjoy it","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a great movie, I would compare it to the movie The Game.  You get to the end of the flick and cant move... your brain has been removed and shaken (not stirred) and put back in your head.  Dont plan anything after this movie, you will need time to think about what just happened.Dont come to this movie expecting the Matrix style multi millions spent on special effects, this movies special effects come from the actors, they keep you involved, no, they suck you in and dont let go for the entire duration of the movie.  Great acting, great plot... very enjoyable film, I cant say enough.  Also very original plot, plenty of twists and ideas that I would have never thought of.  The ending is abrupt and leaves you hanging wondering, was that real?  Is this really the end?  Good ending, not saying that it is bad... just leaves you wondering, and a little frazzled.Great movie for those who like action, like a good plot (dont get up for a bathroom break on this movie, you will come back lost) and like mind games, because thats exactly in a nutshell what this is. "},{"Title":"creepy, yet witty","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  yes, i have noticed that there are 347 other comments, i think that is a good sign for a movie, even if some are negative. i have seen this movie 2 and a half times. i adore it and would watch it again. it is very smart, but i can understand why some people would hate it. they don't get it's appeal. yes, i have a weird taste in movies, but this is a great movie. some of the lines are just so quick, like the whole scene in the chinese restaurant. i started dying laughing. that and when he was in the assembly line talking to the contact. jude law was wonderful, though it was humorous, him trying to cover up his wonderful accent. anyways, i do not consider myself the movie goddess as some critics of this movie and if you have nothing better to do than write pseudo-intellectual movie commentaries about films you hate online, i feel sorry for you. why don't you write about movies you like, like me. i just love how everything ties together, it keeps you guessing, even though you guess wrong. the ending was interesting, and not overdone. it was purely clever. i would not compare it to the matrix, because i think people then get the wrong idea. i went into this movie expecting nothing except jude law and a sci-fi. i was blown away. i have no clue about any other of cronenburg's films, but love this on its own merit. another clever thing was the foreshadowing with the dog. definitely watch this movie.  "},{"Title":"overall review","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Think of this philosophical thriller as Matrix without the plot holes, silly dialog, dumb names, and big budget. I like Matrix. Existenz, however, delivers on a brainier level. Cronenberg is up to his usual tricks blurred personal identity, espionage, sex, machines, and Jennifer Jason Leigh in a tight skirt. Phantasmagoria and paranoia prevail in the video game movie.Anti-game assassins close in on fugitive game designer Leigh and Jude Law, who essay their escape in Leigh's not-so-virtual reality game. To play, you just plug the fleshy gamepod's umbilical cord right into your spine! Features Ian Holm, organic weapons, and Willem Dafoe in a role the would freak out David Lynch. Claustrophobic stuff.  "}{"Title":"Misdirection. What the eyes see your ears hear, the mind believes.","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" YOU DONT NEED A GOOD LIFE, to PLAY EXISTENZ, in its world, anyone can have a better life it will change you!Let me just start off by saying, WOW. This movie rocked on so many different levels.Kudos to the Director, I havent followed any of his work, but GOD BLESS HIM.I only wish I could have saw it at the theaters, but in my case, and many others, I think we were distracted by the, MATRIX, which had a bigger budget and more advertisement money to lure us to see it.I recently bought this movie on DVD, after seeing it on VHS, a year ago.Seeing it for the second time, made me appreciate more of how well structured and thought out this movie really was.If you watch it the second time you will also see there are hidden aspects you can only notice after watching it again, such as one major one, you will pick up by watching it the first time later on in the movie was by in the game, you can only talk to someone by speaking their name.By watching it the second time, you will notice in the beginning they were in the game, Like when the called out, GAS.This works well in this move. The gore, played an important role, and lifted the movie upwords.Expect a lot more violence and gore, than the MATRIX. Such as shooting the chinese waiter, with a bone teeth gun, operating on frogs, lizards, and such.The main theme is Reality vs Non-Reality or Virtual Reality.Many people hear this movie is like, THE MATRIX. Don't be confused it is like, THE MATRIX, along the lines of Reality. What is real and what is not.There is not cool special effect like the matrix, you will not see this hear.You will see in my opinion, a better movie, a clear simple, and very different movie, that does make, THE MATRIX, look like child's play.The plot in this movie was so clear, unlike the extensiveness in , THE MATRIX. Don't get me wrong, I like ,THE MATRIX.If you are into the REALITY vs NON-REALITY watch this movie, and thank me later.Jude Law really did an excellent job hear in this movie. The ending was great, that appealed to me the best. I wouldnt mind a sequel however, the movie was so well structured a sequel wont be necessary,*** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Great surreal movie that delivers!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you like Jude Law, ths is the movie for YOU!  Jennifer Jason Leigh is good to as the computer whiz that goes into this game with Jude law. The director of this movie is known for placing some gross, slimy scenes. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone but a Cronenberg gem","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie but then again I am a big Cronenberg fan.  If you have not seen a David Cronenberg film then this is not a good place to start.  Scanners, The Fly, Rabid would be a place to start and then work up to Videodrome before checking this one out.  This is certainly one of his best and takes the interactive game phenomena one step beyond.In this game the players plug a bio-engineered game pad through a jack inserted into their spinal cord and get into the game directly through their nervous system.  It is very hard to tell you more without giving away the story and the plot but it is enough to say that this is a game you will not forget.  It is full of Cronenberg's slimy body works, dark foreboding scenery all populated by a great cast including Jennifer Jason Leigh, Jude Law and Willem Dafoe who take the situation they find themselves in very seriously.  These people will do what they can to figure out the game and then to win at it.  Like other movies of his there is no shortage of imagination or parts where you sink to the seat but like an auto-accident you don't look away.  If you liked any of the movies mentioned above then by all means go out and get this one.  "},{"Title":"Above Average","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie eXistenZ is about a futuristic video game on a pod system that is almost like virtual reality. The only copy of the video game is damaged when an assassination attempt is made on the designer (Jennifer Jason Leigh). Unless it can be repaired, the many years and 38 million dollars spent on the development will all go to waste. The only way to repair the game however, is to actually go in the game with the only person she feels she can trust(Jude Law).  This movie was pretty good, but doesn't really pick up until very late in the film. The best thing about this film were the twists toward the end. Definitely worth seeing. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Pure Cronenberg","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  David Cronenberg movies are easily identifiable, or at least elements within the movie stand out as his trademarks.  Fetishism, the blurring between the organic and inorganic, squishy throbbing things that shouldn't be squishy and throbbing.  eXistenZ is classic Cronenberg. Briefly, it's about a future generation of computer games, but instead of a video monitor, visuals are supplied by your mind. The game plugs directly into a 'bio port' in the base of your spine and while the game is running, the player can't tell reality from game. Jennifer Jason Leigh plays the game's developer, guiding a novitiate marketeer, Jude Law, through the game's paces.  While in the game they uncover strange goings-on and possible crimes. But are they real, or is it the game? Not even the game's author knows. The movie is quite a treat, keeping the viewer engaged, but in the dark until the final minutes. Another thing I like about eXistenZ is that it doesn't use a heavy reliance on special effects, it's the story itself that propels the movie. Recommended for the Saturday night when science fiction is called for.  "},{"Title":"Let's have scrambled eggs for breakfast!","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen this movie twice and it's theme is an invigorating one. I have been into computers for many years now and this movie inspired me in a technologically sense as does a fresh love which stoked the furnace of my poetic passion in the heat of infatuation. Very original idea,great allurement in the way it holds you as it tells it's story to minds that need a release from the every day realities of this life. "},{"Title":"A Great, Underrated Movie, But Very Weird.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"     eXistenZ is a great film that keeps your eyes glued to the screen from beginning to end. David Cronenberg did an excellent job directing the film. Jennifer Jason Leigh, Jude Law, Willem Dafoe, and Sarah Polley were all amazing.  Okay, the movie is a little violent and strange, but the story is brilliant! eXistenZ makes The Matrix look like it never even existed. eXistenZ is a great and entertaining film. I give eXistenZ a 10 out of 10.  ) "},{"Title":"Has become one of my favorite movies of all times","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a movie I came across by accident.  I was flipping through and saw it was on Showtime so I watched it.  Now i watch it at least once a month. This is a movie that is filled with symbols that might cause some people to trash it.  Don't listen to people that hate this movie, if they want an action movie with expensive f/x they should have rented a movie that promises them.  If you are in the mood for a good sci-fi, i highly recommend. If purchasing on DVD I recommend the Alliance Atlantic edition of the film, it contains many more extras than the Dimension Films edition. "},{"Title":"He (Cronenberg) is up to his old tricks and it still works like a charm.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Fair and nifty little science fiction/horror fantasy thriller about a well-known video game designer, Allegra Geller (Jennifer Jason Leigh) whose latest game - eXistenZ not only draws the attention of people who volunteer to try the game, but one who nearly kills her (and her game, too). Since she forced to stay out of sight, Allegra is stuck with Ted Pikul (Jude Law), a marketing trainee (P.R. nerd) to be her bodyguard even though he only has a gun that's made out of flesh and bone and the bullets are teeth.  Director David Cronenberg has, well, used some bits from his earlier films (Videodrome, Scanners, The Fly, etc.) and placed it into certain parts of the story with some good timing.  Law and Leigh are fine here and so are some of the supporting cast (Ian Holm, Willem Dafoe, Sarah Polley, Christopher Eccelston, and so on) that has an international twist to it.  Dafoe is anything but devilish as Gas, a deceiving garage mechanic. One of the movie's best scenes is witnessing Ted eat (fish and frogs) and construct a gun and admit to Allegra -  I can't help myself.  eXistenZ manages to show that he (Cronenberg) is up to his old tricks and it still works like a charm.   "},{"Title":"Stunning","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is actually the first movie I ever saw in a theatre , where the people didn't leave immediately when the end credits started.  In stead they remained seated for a few minutes , gaping with their mouths open staring in the infinite , trying to understand what they 've just seen.The only thing I can say Try to go watch this movie with as little knowledge about it as possible (so did I)!. I gave it a 10 "}{"Title":"It was just plain... great!!","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Being an all-time David Cronenberg's mega fan, I gotta say that I wasn't deceived at all! I saw that movie for the first time when it first came out in the video stores.... *sigh* living in a very small town I didn't had the chance to see it on big screen... but hey that's life! bCronenberg has this cool crazy wonderful touch in his movies... and that makes the best movies ever! No movies are better than his ones... he's the master!And the cast! Oh what a cast! POWERFULL! GREAT! Jude Law was almost unrecognizable... he was sure as cute as always -) but he didn't had that.... hmmmm how to say.... noble england side... he's just such the greatest actor! from one side to the other... wow! but i sure prefer him all-natural englandly him! he's just too charming! pAnd Jennifer Jason Leigh was as peaceful as always... even though that movie was quite moving on the go woo!! -)If you want to see a totally wonderfull movie made by the greatest and with the greatests, well eXistenZ is THAT movie! Go go go! Go rent or buy it!By the way, I give it 10 on 10! A master-movie!! -)Weehoo! I loved it!!!! "},{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I really had high hopes for this movie, I've never heard of it before, but the name began popping up everywhere lately, plus with a cast like Jude Law, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Willem DaFoe and David Cronenberg directing it sounded like a good one that I must have missed in theaters. Now I know why I never heard of it, this one bit-the-big-one. It was a complete bore and all the actors seemed so unenthused about their roles the only person who actually seemed into this movie was Dafoe or maybe it's just because he's such a good actor he can pull stuff like this off.Yes, I did understand the concept that it completely takes place inside a cyber-game and the reason for all the CHEESY acting is because just like any game; all the characters are supposed to be one-dimensional except of course the hero and heroin of this movie but only up until the end and then for some reason they become flat characters. But it doesn't mean I could handle it, especially if you take in consideration that a lot of the characters where also real people playing the game. The storyline was a pitiful attempt to take something simple and try to make it more deep and heavy, but if you take a step back and look at the whole, it could've easily been done in your standard ½ hour segment of The Twilight Zone or if they really wanted to push it, in a full hour of The Outer Limits, but to make this story a complete, full length movie and then expect people to actually pay for it&#133;. HELL NO!Please, take this review as a warning to all others who see this movie at your local video store, DON'T BOTHER! It's lame, it boring, with a ½ hour left in the movie, my wife turned to me and said this was the worst movie she'd ever scene, she even thought it was worse than Starship Troopers and Pitch Black, and you know what, I felt guilty because it was the truth and we'll never be able to get back that hour and half of hour life.  "},{"Title":"Terribly, terribly dull.","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Never judge a book by its cover, or so they say. I suppose it applies to film posters too, but the makers also did pretty well to produce a convincingly-deceiving trailer too.On the basis of The Fly, Videodrome, and to a (much) lesser extent Crash, I was expecting to at least be moderately entertained and generally intrigued by eXistenZ. Tragically, the smattering of lovely ideas and concepts within the film do little to make it any less of a chore to watch.Based around the release of a new 'Virtual Reality' (and this is the futuristic plug-in-to-your-brain type of VR we're talking about here) game, eXistenZ tries its best to be clever . There ARE some solid ideas there, such as the 'linearity' imposed on the game players that keeps their actions within the confines of the computer program, but these token intellectual gems simply serve to increase the disappointment felt at the end, when you realise that there were (literally) only 2 or 3 good points to the whole film.The effects in eXistenZ are nothing spectacular, but this in itself is not a problem. eXistenZ does, however, have another Achilles heel. A big, red, swollen Achilles heel with boils and eczema (or should that be eCzemA?). For every beautiful prop (e.g. the bone gun from the poster), and for every atmospheric set (the deliciously dark organic factory), there is a plethora of atrociously designed implements and dreary locations that litter the film. I'm sorry, but I find it hard to believe that ANY device will EVER resemble the rubbery splodge that masquerades as the games machine.Jude Law puts in a worthy performance as the game-sceptic, but Jennifer Jason Leigh is utterly dire and (deliberately I'm sure) irritatingly stupid as the game creator. The dialogue is weak, even for a computer game, and the characters stumble through the whole film as if they don't even care what's going on around them.As for the ending, let's just say that Mr. Cronenberg should follow Ridley Scott's Blade Runner example and do a 'no idiots please' Director's Cut. Total Recall anyone?   4/10 "},{"Title":"Total Recall meets The Game","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ takes what could have been a novel and innovative concept and fails to cash in. Jude Law and Jennifer Jason Leigh turn in surprisingly lacklustre performances which leave the viewer with little empathy for their characters. The movie stumbles along in a Total Recall-esque manner attempting to confuse the viewer about what is real and what is fantasy and leaves you with the sour taste of a plot unfulfilled. To compare this movie to The Matrix is to do the Wachowski's 1999 effort a grave injustice, as eXistenZ is nowhere near as innovative or thought-provoking as The Matrix. "},{"Title":"I don't like it","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Personally I didn't like this title from the moment I picked it up, the DVD has Makes  THE MATRIX Look Like Child's Play. written on the front cover. It must be severely good if this title is so much superior to the matrix. I had seen other titles, which expressed themselves in such a way and were much worse. Most of the time the film is in a game and we don't really pick up on this as the transition to the gaming environment isn't at all evident, which kind of degrades the film as the plot has twists and has an unintelligent script. There are some clues but they're minor and the film already has many weird interactions within it.The game environment is a reality and has realities within itself which makes it tiresome, it's gory in a silly way with guns that shoot human teeth, and an unrealistic environment with fish that look like green blobs of silicon. I admit it was a good idea for the story but the way it was expressed was disappointing.  "},{"Title":"Is it a game? Or just a bad movie?","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I tend to side with the bad movie. This movie was a creative waste of time, like all of David Cronenberg's films. He always attempts to freak you out with strange creatures and machinery that takes on living characteristics, but in the end, you just scratch your head and say whatever! I was shocked that he was able to get some of the talented actors that he got to do this movie. Come on guys, read those scripts before you sign those contracts. If you want to be different and pretend that you liked this film, go for it. However, be advised, if someone asks you what you like about it, well, you might be in a corner. Hey David, you are not as creative as you think you are! "},{"Title":"Weird and imaginative","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was frustrated with many components of this film, maybe I harbor expectations of how the film ought to be, and it wasn't.  The film feels like a fantastic voyage inside a video arcade, where virtual reality and virtual film making and virtual bad acting and virtual good acting and multiple layers of realities intersect (perhaps including the reality of audiences' possible confusion and agitations?).  It gave me a very unnerving experience of reality, and it reminded me of younger days when I sit with scifi friends in jr. high school reading weird and wonderful comics and live for a moment in pure fun and unrestrictive imagined world.  eXistenZ is quite unique like that.  If you like new experience and not afraid to be frustrated on purpose, give this a try! "},{"Title":"tErriblE","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This just proves David Cronenberg has run out of ideas.  This movie was at no point creative, original, or entertaining.  Boring, boring, boring!!  William Defoe was billed as a main star in this movie, 10 minutes?  It tries to make itself deep and profound by being weird and surreal, but only succeeds in turning this big Cronenberg fan into a sleepy viewer.  Between this and Crash, I may consider his voice(unfortunately)dead.  Watch The Brood or Videodrome to remind yourself why you want to gave this movie a chance in the first place. "},{"Title":"Confusing sci-fi reality quest.","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In his tenth film Jude Law stars opposite Jennifer Jason Leigh - this promised much as they are both very talented young actors. The result however, despite their earnestness, is a confusing and unconvincing sci-fi look into the future where one can plug oneself literally into games and live different virtual realities.  Parts of the film are quite ugly and gory and it goes on far too long as well as confuses the besjesus out of us just when we thought we'd understood it.  An interesting attempt but ultimately a failure.    Law is good but not exceptional. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Bad, although it's better than Cronenberg's Crash.  Cronenberg's trademark biological obsessions are on full display here, but without a point.  Stiff acting, Jennifer Jason Leigh mumbling, and the last hour accomplishes nothing but rehashing the once-interesting-but-now-boring question Are we still in the game?   "}{"Title":"AHHHHHHHHHHH","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Good lord! What was the point of this? I seriously don't know. it PiSZed me off! I mean come on, this is pathetic. fEaR this movie! it waZ horriBlE. Beware, do NOT RENT this! Do not ever rent this movie, I swear you will regret for the rest of your life. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE WORST MOVIES I HAVE EVER WATCHED!","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoy sci-fi. I enjoy off the wall movies. I enjoy video games. All of that stuff. But this movie, I am sorry to say, this movie was TERRIBLE! I actually emailed friends to warn them to NEVER rent this movie. I have read some comments singing the praises of this movie and I have to ask those people ARE YOU CRAZY? O.K. Maybe I am being a bit hard on people who liked this movie, to each their own, but I just didn't see what was so great about it. Why all of the fuss? It was predictable. The only reason I didn't turn it off was because I was hoping it would get better. No such luck. Naked Lunch was a thousand times better than this and I didn't like that movie all that much. It's a sad thing to see actors with talent doing such a movie when they are capable of doing so much more. Just do yourself a big favor and DON'T WASTE MONEY AND TIME RENTING THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Pathetic attempt at decent sci fi","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sorry to give such a poor rating on a movie that is in a genre which I love, but this flick was crap. The special effects were mediocre at best, which of course does not make a movie. In this case decent effects were the only thing that could have saved this movie from ranking amongst one of the worst ways to spend a Thursday night. The acting was incredibly monotone and the plot was obvious from the first scene. I caught small references to David Lynch's 'Naked Lunch', and until now I thought that the world had finally seen the last of the garbage style of movie that he had put out.Toots,Troger "},{"Title":"poor attempt","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although this film might appeal to hardcore Cronenberg fans, it offers very little to those wishing to see a fully dynamic performance.  The plot had potential, but was spoiled by slow development, poor delivery by the actors and actresses, and too much gore.  Graphic violence is to be expected in a Cronenberg film, but it was overused almost to the point of absurdity, and substituted for interesting events.Some good ideas were presented, such as the use of a biological game pod to play the games, but the materialization was both disgusting and hard to believe.  I don't believe this film to be similar to _The Matrix_ in any way, shape or form.  See this film if it comes on a premium movie service, as it does have a few good moments, but don't shuck out your money for a rental. "},{"Title":"Follow the red herring.","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I guess being Canadian, I should love this movie. Not the case however. There's plenty of gore, slime and fleshy props; but this is expected from any Cronenberg film. It was obvious to me from the start, this was a shaggy dog story. There's even a shaggy dog in the film and at the climax! Rent the Matrix if you like virtual reality films. "},{"Title":"Remarkably Disappointing","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I expect better from Cronenberg...  His obsession with the technological body clearly does not transcend into a cyberpunk sensibility.  Aside from a few neat googahs (the toothgun being the one I'm thinking of), I found this as stilted and boring as the adventure games he was basing this on.  It lacked the psychological fear of Crash and the psycho-chemical despair of videodrome.  Yuck. "},{"Title":"extremely disappointing","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Undoubtedly the worst Cronenberg so far. No comparison to such masterpieces as The Naked Lunch, Dead Zone or Videodrome. The film provides absolutely nothing new about the duality of reality/nonreality, perhaps except the ridiculous notion that the best way to plug your brain is through a hole close to your anus. The battle scene at the end looks terribly cartoonish, but maybe it was supposed to...? The talents of the fine actors Leigh, Dafoe and Holm were utterly wasted. The only performance that caught my attention was that of Don McKellar who acquired a perfect Russian accent.This film has been compared to The Matrix. Although the latter has its flaws, it at least gives you thrills and perfect visual effects. Do not waste your time with eXistenZ, rather watch The Matrix again! "},{"Title":"Will Blow You Away","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a movie that is great beginning to end. You will never expect anything this has movies in movies. It is possibly the best sci-fi of the past 10 years. No matter what u think of cronenberg this is a great movie. "},{"Title":"Very intriguing and interesting","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I borrowed this movie on DVD from a friend I didn´t know really what to expect. I´m not too familiar with Cronenbergs previous work and I had just heard that he has very brutal violence in them, which really isn´t my style. But this movie I have to say is one of the most interesting I have seen this year.Here in Sweden this movie disappeared somewhat in the buzz from The Matrix and Episode 1 so I don´t think a lot of people saw it at the theatre. I have seen comparisons between The Matrix and this movie but that I think is wrong. This movie is not an action movie for one thing, it´s more of a psychological thriller. Also, the way they approach the technology of cyberspace is very different. In eXistenZ a lot of work has been put in to make everything look as low-tech as possible, which I think is very cool. Also the world, the little we see from it, seems to be almost our world as it is today. No post-apocalyptic world which seems like a nice break from the pattern.I was very thrilled by this movie and I can seriously recommend it to anyone wanting a movie experience out of the ordinary. This is definately not your usual brain-dead sci-fi movie, no this one requires quite a lot of thought if it is to be appreciated. Simply a very good movie. I rate it 7/10. "},{"Title":"eXistenZ is the best movie of all !!! 10 on 10","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ is my favorite movie, I saw it about 50 times and I will continue to listen to it. I give 10 on 10 for eXistenZ and David Cronenberg is now the best movie maker I have ever seen. The actors in eXistenZ were so good and I liked the idea for the game pod and the bio-port in the back. I think that eXistenZ is better then The Matrix for that kind of movie. "}{"Title":"Read Lem","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ is definitely not uninteresting as a movie, but the basic ideas of it and far more could be found in Stanislaw Lems Summa technologiea from 1964. 35 Years ago Lem developed or summarized his visions about Cyberspace, Virtual Reality (so called Phantomatik in the German translation) and the biologic and technical evolution.Lem describes the problem of not knowing if you are back in reality or still in a game together with some possibilities to prove it. Its quite the same as awake after dreaming something. How could you know that you have leave the dream? The virtual reality will create a totally new mental illness The lack of knowledge about being back in reality. There will be psychoanalysts to bring those people back to reality.Cronenberg follows Lem in his vision of biologic devices. Lem visions are sometimes funny and bizarre like the agriculture of furniture Tables and chairs on the fields.PS. Cronenberg's idea of enter a game in game in a game is great. While the technical stuff for the first game is more or less comparable with those of our days ( a head mounted device and a glove) the next ones are more biologic (bio port and micro port, called central Phantomatic by Lem).The synchronized version of the movie is a big failure. You could not concentrate on the reasons of the bad acting and the quick and dirty plot at the beginning - the first level game, which prevents you to be really impressed by the end.Read the book and watch the movie!!!  "},{"Title":"A fascinating film in its own right","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  *Warning potential mild spoilers*Do NOT compare this film to the Matrix.  They are totally different movies. eXistenZ is without question one of the most original things to come down the pipe in some time.  I recently bought the soundtrack, Howard Shore really did a hell of a job on it.There are no weak performances in this film.  Yes, Jennifer Jason Leigh seems flat...but when you find out the true nature of transcendenZ it all makes sense.  By the way, she looks great as always.  Jude Law shows a range I didn't know he had.  I was used to pretty boy roles like Bosie Douglas in Wilde.  The guy can can flat-out act.  I look forward to seeing him again. Dafoe is...well Dafoe.  Mr. Testosterone-head.  But it makes sense in the context of the film.  I have only one complaint, casting wise.  That would have to be the complete misuse of perhaps the best young actresses in Hollywood, Sarah Polley.  Her repugnant politics aside, she is a truly outstanding performer and deserves more than three lines in a movie like this one.  Surely she did the film as a favor to her fellow Canadian, David Cronenberg.  Still her role is the biggest waste of a good actor since Robin Williams in Branagh's Hamlet.The trademark Cronenberg creepiness is on full display in this film. Every shot makes you uneasy, no matter how mundane.  The soundtrack certainly helps there too.  David Cronenberg is truly one of Hollywood's unappreciated talents.  This film is not a wanna-be Matrix or a Thinking man's Matrix. This film is something wonderfully original.  Here's hoping studios spend more money on movies like this and less on things like re-making Willy Wonka. "},{"Title":"strange movie","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought as a science fiction movie it could have been a lot better. There some really bad acting and the movie could have spent a little more money on the car scene. The car wasn't moving, the back screen was! I wish I could get my money back for the movie because it was wasted on this movie. "},{"Title":"Better than Videodrome","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ features David Cronenberg's best gadgets and visual inventions yet, better than Videodrome. And it's full of humor too, for a change. The talented Jennifer Jason Leigh (as Allegra Geller) and Jude Law (as Ted Pikul) do their parts with charming grace. Real fun also comes from other characters roaming around the place, e.g. Gas (by Willem Dafoe), Yevgeny Nourish, the mutant amphibians. Viewers who are familiar with quests games like Gabriel Knight and Phantazmagoria will certainly laugh at the idle loop trick. "},{"Title":"One of Cronenberg's best","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't have the chance to see this movie in theatres when it came out but i got me a copy on DVD and watched it a week ago or so.  I waited a week to write this review because i wanted to think about this movie and i'm still loving it.  This movie is one of David Cronenberg's top three best (the other two are Videodrone and The Fly).  A film like eXistenZ will be compared to The Matrix but why i don't know they are totally different movies the only thing they have in common are they take place in an alternate reality and they both are great movies.  I think this movie feels more like earlier Cronenberg films and it's pretty bloody (Cronenberg never shyed away from gore he's too brave a film maker to do that).  I liked how the movie opens with weird matte like art work (reminds me of the opening of Dead Ringers) and the movie starts and never lets up.  The whole Flesh Pod stuff was cool and it was neat how they were made from living tissue's and other organs.  The performances and good and yes i think to an extent Cronenbergs movies and bleak but thats another reason  love his movies so much.  eXistenZ also has humor as well which is enjoyable and not overdone and the last minute or so really leave you guessing.  A great film from a great director...this movie has all the good Cronenberg stuff a 10+  "},{"Title":"Major talents -- major disappointment","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  An interesting plot and the always interesting Jennifer Jason Leigh fail to overcome a tired, unimaginative ending. For someone like Cronenberg to direct this, I'm actually kind of shocked. Maybe he was trying for a 'lite-beer' version of Videodrome, maybe he's just getting lazy. Who knows? Maybe this explains why, in L.A. at least, there was almost no advertising for this whatsoever and the film was in the theaters for less than a month.A waste of Willem Dafoe's time, that's for sure (he's in the film for a total of five minutes). A film that hits and misses -- mostly misses. A pity. "},{"Title":"eXistenZ executed its plot soundly and remarkably","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Remember one of the Star Trek Next Generation episodes where the premise was being trapped in a holodeck within a holodeck? The concept is almost the same. eXistenZ involves gamers that dig deeper and deeper into layers of non-reality and the game's eventual goal is to find out what exactly is real and what isn't real. This question reality plot is certainly no longer original since Star Trek and a few films have already explored it (i.e Matrix), but when this plot is executed well, it can bring a lot of enjoyment through this boggling of the mind. eXistenZ executed its plot soundly and remarkably. I was disappointed by the lack of visual effects; it's not the most beautiful film you will see. However the plot, great acting, and suspense all make up for it. This is definitely a film to check out!Grade A- "},{"Title":"Forget the Matrix, it's all about Existenz!","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Existenz was an excellent film that leads you into a dazzling world of computer gaming where you can never tell where reality stops and the game begins. I watched the movie over a week ago and I am still reeling from the ending! It was exciting, and fun. The Matrix may have had the effects but Eistenz has the story. Jude law and Jennifer Jason Leigh are excellent together! Rent it tonight! "},{"Title":"Don't miss this wild roller coaster ride of a movie","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" David Cronenberg is out there and most of his movies, The Brood and Spider for example I don't necessarily like but The Fly, Naked Lunch and Scanners are among some of my favorite films. This movie beats all of them hands down. At the beginning of the film you can almost hear the harness bar being drawn over your head and the clanking of the wench as you're pulled to the top of the coaster and then suddenly you are released into a world that makes no sense. Hence a computer game. This 'ride' is a visually, fast paced inter-connecting plot line which folds back on it self more than once. It is one of the hottest sci-fi films I've seen in a long time.Why is it then -- that I can't get any of my friends to like it also. I realize David's a hit or miss storyteller. But this film, in my opinion, just couldn't miss because it is an intelligent script with likable characters, and like a computer game (Civilization, Zeus) creates another world. I just saw it again for the 12th time and still I think about that last few minutes of the movie with dread or inner fear.I say to myself, Is this still the game? Just when you think you know what is going on the rules change.Is this still the game? "},{"Title":"Well worth watching.","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  While eXistenZ isn't Cronenberg's best film it's still much more interesting than the usual Hollywood sci fi offerings. The story takes the virtual reality gaming premise into a biotech/organic circuitry dimension. In this arena the director uses a lot of visual effects that are extensions of ideas he filmed in Naked Lunch as well as in the groundbraking film Videodrome(he even throws in some good old fashioned bloodletting reminiscent of Scanners). My only regret is that virtually everything worked well but the story seemed to be scaled down for logistical purposes. All in all, it's a good movie and that's good enough to earn my approval.  "}{"Title":"not for cronenberg virgins","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  if you are going to see existenz, rent videodrome, and a few other cronenberg videos before seeing it.  basically, this is a best of directing job.  i think that existenz is the first cronenberg where he actually knows where he wants the movies to go (don't be scared, fellow cronenberg fans, it's plenty goddamn weird) the plot is still filled with oddities that only cronenberg could think of, and a damn good plot.some might say that it's an update of videodrome, videodrome being about television taking on a vital role in society, and this being the same type of thing (with video games).  this is semi-correct, but they are TWO COMPLETELY DIFFERENT MOVIES!  by these standards, steven spielberg has made about 1 billion of the same movie! (wait a sec...he has! can you say overrated? eh? huh?)this is a brilliant movie with all the what the hell?.. twists and turns you've come to expect from mr.c.  i personally consider this movie a real brainf**k, something that messes with your head enough, that thinking about it afterwards causes lapses in your memory and sense of time.  i don't remember how i got home after the movie. weird, eh "},{"Title":"INCREDIBLE!!","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has been by far Cronenberg's finest movie.  Visually amazing, and often dubbed The Matrix for Intellectuals this movie replaces it's contemporaries dazzling special effects for doubly incredible plot and cinematography.  The plot is complicated and keeps the viewer constantly guessing, and the ending is sure to invoke debate and discussion among the viewers.  Jude Law pulls off the nieve but strong type quite well, and the other characters are funny and interesting (The Chinese Waiter, Gas). Jennifer Jason Leigh's character (a genius game designer) is seductive, intelligent, and sensual.  You are making a big mistake if you pass this gem over! "},{"Title":"It's frightening. Even more so when the final line finally hits you.","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, the acting might have been average in some moments. Yes, the special effects in The Matrix were more spectacular and yes, some of the scenes were a simple appeal to the audience's feelings of disgust at the sight of intestines being ripped out of freshly vivisected amphibia. Oh, and yes, the subject of multiple layers of reality has been explored before. So until now, it's a pretty well done movie on a not-so-uncommon topic.But... Has it ever occured to anybody that the game of eXistenZ (or transCendenCe, for that matter) has a meaning of its own? It's not just that we don't know any longer, what's real kind of game. At one point in the movie, Ted Pikul asks Allegra Geller Oh, and what's the goal of this game? and she answers something along the lines of You have to play for yourself to find out. The movie never explicitly answers that question. However, the answer is there, it's pretty obvious, even. Ted and Allegra are doing it all of the time.It hit me fifteen minutes after I left the cinema, on my way to the tramway station. It was a dark and rainy night in downtown Zurich, probably suitable for dark thoughts. Deeply unsettling, I must say. - You know how a movie can give you that feeling of I don't know any longer, what's real. But the movie tops itself in giving its actors an answer to the question So what am I to do?. Allegra and Ted might not any longer possess a clue, what's real. But they still have their goal, the goal of eXistenZ, the one thing you have to do to win the game. Or any other game within any other of their realities. And they will...Oh yes. Go figure. If you're still lost, ask the waiter. "},{"Title":"Maybe you have to have been there to get it.","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps people who have never played Theatresports just didn't get the point of the badly done accents.  Otherwise they'd have realised what a clever self-parody it was.  Odd how Jennifer Jason Leigh acts better when she's not serious about it....Who said Canadians don't have a sense of humour? "},{"Title":"A great thriller encased in a sci-fi wrapper -- what a ride.","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I found this movie exceptionally entertaining and compelling to watch.  The story line was one of the most inventive plots I have ever seen -- exceptionally well executed -- a real thriller that keeps you guessing. The cinematic style swept me right into movie.  Mr. Cronenberg broke new ground on this one -- accordingly, it will not be for everyone.  The special effects were pure Cronenberg -- I wouldn't recommend dinner too soon before or after this film. "},{"Title":"Cronenberg's Masterpiece","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Quite funny to read the pannings eXistenZ got here.  So my friends and I were talking all through the movie, agreeing it was the worst film we had ever seen.  Damn, dude!  Go see Duh Matrix dude! Dude this made no sense.   I don't get it.  It was stupid!  Finally we have insert old Cronenberg film the > person swore up and down they hated at the time was way better, dude.A film like this will always be attacked.  Of course, I'll concede that there _were_ too many empty seats.  Intelligent people have become such a marginal demographic in 1999 that a brainy art film is a guaranteed commercial disaster.  If you are a thoughtful adult willing to check your baggage at the door, eXistenZ can be thoroughly enjoyed as a comic, sexy, deeply compelling and relevant piece of cinema.  If not, by all means head out and see Duh Matrix, dude, and be sure to bring your dumbass chums with you.  You may have trouble finding a seat, though, because you've got _a lot_ of company.  Elitist?  God damn right.  eXistenZ is brilliant. ........................... "},{"Title":"rather tame","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Much less entertaining and more commercialized than previous Cronenberg movies. The script's idea is far from original and the plot is somewhat predictable; the movie, however, is still quite enjoyable, mostly due to Cronenberg's trademark weirdos dispersed lavishly throughout the film. It's also incomparably more original than The Matrix. "},{"Title":"another must-see","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The most freaking movie I have seen in a very long time, you dunno where you are, you dunno whats right or wrong, it scares you, it amuse you, and most important of all it entertain you.I love it. "},{"Title":"Interesting idea but poor plot and characters","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was somewhat baffled by Cronenberg's latest movie. The Story revolves around the inability to distinguish reality from fantasy in a type of virtual reality game. However the virtual reality game is not an electronic one and the SFX bear resemblance from Cronenberg's Videodrome.The movie makes a promising start with the mysterious murder attempt on the virtual reality game designer (played by Jennifer Jason Leigh). However, the movie never picks up any pace, the virtual reality game itself has an incredibly bad plot and the acting is awful. If the film credits had not stated Cronenberg as the director I would have guessed that this was the first film by some film graduates. "},{"Title":"Philip K. Dick would smile...","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ was a great trip (it made my neck hurt, which only the  best mind-dissolving films can do). Cronenberg even managed to  pay homage to the pioneer of is it real? fiction, Philip K.  Dick. The bag of fast food they picked up early on, read Perky Pat's, a nice reference to the Three Stigmata of Palmer  Eldrich, where off-world colonists escape their monotonous lives  by eating Can-D, transubstantiating into a world where they  play Barbie, and literally become the toys. Tributes aside, this movie glistens with a delicious weirdness  "}{"Title":"hit by a car","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you are a fan of David Cronenberg you will love this, otherwise you'll hate it. It's too self referential for casual moviegoers, and relies on the viewer's knowledge of past Cronenberg films.I loved it, it really involves the viewer actively in a way that Hollywood movies don't. The performances are great, but require a second viewing to understand why they are great.The story is basically an update of Videodrome to the information age, and explores the violence of videogames, without necessarily condemning it, in a much deeper way than any editorialist ever has.My advice is to make sure you have seen Videodrome and Crash before seeing eXistenZ, it will greatly improve your enjoyment of the film. "},{"Title":"Ray Bradbury meets Chris Carter, Outer Limits, type of thing.","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  My main though of eXistenZ was that it was a kind of a Ray Bradbury meets Chris Carter, Outer Limits type of thing.  I personally loved it.  The twists and turns thrilled me to the bone.  I still haven't figured most of it out.  I couldn't believe the movies was actually over and that two hours had past.  I sat in the theater for a few minutes watching the credits roll by just to be sure.I can see how someone might not like the film, especially if they don't like uncertain endings.  But I found it to be one of the best films I have seen and would definitely see it again. "},{"Title":"Not so great","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, having never really seen a BAD movie, I find it amazing how bad it really was.#1 innuendo--O.k, it was pathetic, there was no point to it, it just screwed the movie up further#2 Actors-- other than Jennifer Jason Leigh and Jude Law, no characters had any more than fifteen lines, which I think wold have been great, had the main characters had well developed personalities, which they didn't.#3 the end-- Just when I thought, hey, this is getting kinda good, it ended so abruptly it left my head spinning--as my friend Jonathan said how come the waiter got the last line?! it was a pitiful line, will there be a sequel? God I hope not...On a positive note-- Callum Kieth Rennie, as hot as ever. "},{"Title":"cheap, multi-layer movie with bad acting","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm really sorry for the the filmfans who loves these genre. I think it was a very cheap movie. The crew put a lot of effort (and money) on the mutated animals and less on the acting and scenery. I really think the Landrover drove in front of a blue-screen...The end-shot or cliffhanger was to laugh at, you could see the sequel coming from miles ahead.but... A pretty-(and-sexy-)face is always nice to cover the rotten spots.I hoped it would be better than this, but I can't... "},{"Title":"Definitely not another Arcade","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went into this movie after reading a small description off of a local magazine, expecting to see another Arcade. And boy, was I pleasantly suprised! It's a wonderfully originative movie with a plot that keeps on twisting and an ending that's just plain beautiful!  "},{"Title":"Cronenberg's best a brilliant existential thriller","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is beyond a doubt the best Cronenberg movie I have seen. Within the format of the horror-thriller Cronenberg once again explores the relationship of man towards the world around him, and technology in particular. The people in this movie are in an everlasting existential crisis life is boring, reality is unsatisfactory. In their constant search for new thrills they are willing to go beyond reality (boldly go where no man has gone before, right?). The movie is not just about computer games or virtual reality Cronenberg is obviously also commenting on film itself, on art in general. All this may sound very abstract and utterly boring, but thankfully the film itself is not. It is a funny, sexy and exciting thriller. Jennifer Jason Leigh gives her best performance in years and Jude Law was never better. "},{"Title":"Only for the half-intelligent","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A dark and twisted film. Confusing and mis-leading making this a film for the intelligent ones among us.So-so acting and adequate directing.Jude Law and Jennifer Jason Leigh are o.k but Willem Dafoe stands out as the film's saviour.Engrossing story line and a nail biting ending makes this film survive. RATING=3/5 "},{"Title":"Be confused, be very confused!","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the strangest films I've seen recently. It starts out like a nice SciFi-action movie and you think you know where the story is going.But as it turns out there are multiple layers in the game of eXistenZ. Some more realistic than others, but what happened to reality itself? The movie's open end doesn't answer that question. Asif the last 15 minutes were missing. It left me unsatisfied. I wanted, no needed, to know how the story really ended. Maybe even the writer/director doesn't know how it all ended.  "},{"Title":"a film that works well on many levels","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This isn't a film about virtual reality. It isn't even sci-fi (that's just what sells it). If you go into the cinema thinking sci-fi, sci-fi - you'll just be disappointed by the low tech props and effects. It'll just be a competent re-hash of tv movies that you should never have been watching anyway. STAY AWAY.Otherwise it's a classic slice of (much more accessible) Cronenburg, returning to some favorite themes. Also, there's a great critique of computer games in there that most people seem to have missed (watchout for the adverts in the gimick shop). And there's a great moment just before the end that redefines every character brilliantly (and explains those accents - oh boy).If you like everything in a film to have a reason (you'll be a regularly disappointed film goer) go see it. Everything, even Cronenburg's fixation with dildos (well not his fixation but those game pod leads), has a satisfying explanation that brings fresh insight to the characters (the fundamentalists in this case - the sex/computer game parallels are clear).And finally. Am i just reading too much into this film or is its real message that bad as Hollywood is, you really can't make a film at home that makes more sense, or one with better accents. (You have to have seen it). "},{"Title":"Superb, but possibly too strong for mass market","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's a real shame that this flick did not fare better, but it hardly comes as a surprise.  Gory, intense, and unsettling, Cronenberg's work rarely leaves the viewer with terra firma and this movie reaffirms that tradition. Truly challenging! "}{"Title":"good ol' fashioned Cronenberg","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Leave it to David Cronenberg.  Whenever we need slimy, squishy, fleshy movies back in the multiplex...he always delivers.  eXistenZ is a return to his roots after the not-so-engaging Crash.With it's mind-bending storyline; and inventive use of make-up effects...eXistenZ is a perverse, weird and intensely watchable ride.For those who like Cronenberg...don't miss this one. Now, I must go dig out my laserdisc of The Fly again. "},{"Title":"Lots of questions","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Do you believe that games are the dynamic force behind everything? Do you want to learn how to kill? Do you want to play the money game? Have you ever felt like biting a skyscraper to see if it is real? Do you know the difference between looping and looped? Do you really dig weapons? Do you like icky creations? Do you like scientists? Do you trust anybody? Would you like to plug into Jennifer? Do you love your gristle gun? Can you comprehend teeth as lethal projectiles? Do you like Chinese food? Would you like to be a Luddite? Is Cronenberg a genius or a weirdo? Do you like sex, drugs and violence? Do you think bio-electro-mechanical is the way to go? Do you like to plug things into sockets? Would you like to share a reality with someone? Can you keep your paranoia in check? Can you control a paranoid? Do you believe in cloning? Do you like assembly lines? How far can they go? Is the real battle ground of commerce between game manufacturers and game players? How do you regulate? Do you know how to spot a programed creation? Do you know how to spot a bad actor? Can you tell the difference? Is it real or is it memorex? Do you get an erection in virtual reality? Are there any guides? How do you know if you are dead? Do you get a headache when you think too much? Are we supposed to do spinal taps? When you wake up are you sure? For the answers to these questions and the generation of a hell of a lot more questions I highly recommend that you see this movie. "},{"Title":"Best Film, Worst Nightmare","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Existence really changed my state of mind while watching, blurring my sense of reality. That's why it became as scaring as a real nightmare. What I like most about it, is that Cronenberg takes big risks by making things complex without losing clarity, like the scene where the protagonists first enter the game and find themselves in a gameshop with slightly different looking gamepod's where they also plug into. I think that's why it's so close to a real dream, by transforming little things from reality, and bringing us into a state we experience while we're sleeping, in which we are also characters without a will, playing out a script, not knowing why we're there and what are the rules of (dream)reality. Existence is a very intelligent film, even more convincing than Videodrome which is also an all time favorite of mine. "},{"Title":"Fragmented, but fun and unsettling (which is a good thing)","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You've got to play along with Cronenberg in this one.  With the Matrix's release, this movie might seem a little clunky by comparison.  But if you give it a chance to gross you out and make you go huh?, I think you'll be really satisfied with the result. "},{"Title":"Everything is a game.","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Everything is a game. A watershed in human history was when Big Blue 2 beat Kasparov at chess. Machines and software now rule. The worlds that Jaron Lanier (Father of Virtual Reality) have not even been remotely explored to their potential but I am sure they will be. The worlds of wandering amongst holographic realities is getting closer. Digital creations at the movies are improving as fast as the hardware and software and ingenuity of the people who have mastered them. Vicariously watching actual events from the firsthand viewpoint of the person doing it is very popular. 3D IMAX astounds. People have lost their lives playing Dungeons and Dragons. The military is constantly playing war games. It is very hard to fathom the construct called `reality'. Nothing is as it seems. Cronenberg realizes that people love games, sex and violence. He has no doubt that the people who already abuse their bodies and minds will not hesitate to add a game port to their bodies so that they may explore other realities. They haven't got a clue about the reality they are in but want to be immersed in another reality created by someone else's vision. I always find the creatures in Cronenberg's movies extremely interesting and creative. I believe David Cronenberg has seen the very near future and has displayed it with uncommon acuity. It is a mind altering film. David Cronenberg has created a cult classic. "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ proves David Cronenberg is definitely one of the most inspired, impactful, and creative film makers of the twentieth century.eXistenZ is a wild and entertaining movie -- one hell of a ride.But, do not take my word for it.  Experience eXistenZ for yourself.  "},{"Title":"That´s what movies all about!!","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Leaving the movie theatre and not being able to get back into the real world too soon. That´s whats it all about. isn´t it!! "},{"Title":"My friend said What the F**k.","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You know a film was worth the money you paid when you can't stop talking about it for ages.  Such is the case with eXistenZ.  I can honestly say it was one of the most satisfying films I have seen since David Lynch's Lost Highway.   eXistenZ like the before mentioned Lost Highway needs time for reflection after the end and I wouldn't recommend it to everyone.  The reason for this is that it is more intelligent than most films. It is filled with the usual Cronenberg sexual symbolism (the characters have a hole in the base of their spines that look like a chocolate starfish).  The film has a brilliant linear yet non-linear narrative structure.  I don't want to spoil it for anyone but you will be surprised.  Jennifer Jason Leigh is looking the sexiest I have ever seen her and probably gave every bloke there a semi-on. Jude Law was convincing as a man who had to pretend to know nothing about what was going on, however Cronenberg could have just as easily cast someone more masculine looking it works either way.  Willem Dafoe as always is excellent as a country gas station attendant who will shoot something into your back (Ooh Eer Missus)for enough money.Original storyline aside the next best thing about the film is the great visual effects, I don't usually go out of my way for effects movies but this one actually made you feel sick at times and I have seen some sick films. Cronenberg hasn't made a better film since Videodrome and some of his past efforts have been absolute s***e (Crash, Naked Lunch) but this is a return to the Cronenberg we all know and love.  If you want have a challenging movie experience then watch eXistenZ. "},{"Title":"Cronenberg Is Back!","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For fans of the 'old' Cronenberg, eXistenZ is a welcome relief. Firstly, it's a relief to see that he has gone back to writing his own original screenplays.  Secondly, it's a relief to see that he's gone back to his roots of science fiction (don't get me wrong, I do consider Dead Ringers and Naked Lunch two of his finest films).  Lastly, it's a relief to see that he has not thrown away some of his themes that we have all grown to love so very much technology and its influence on the body.There's no need to bore anyone with the details of the plot; it's best to see it yourself than for me to try and describe the events that take place on the screen.  After all, many of the elements of the film cannot be properly described with words; they must be seen to be fully appreciated (unless you can bring to life through words a hand-gun made from mutant bone and flesh, and a game pod which resembles a human organ that plugs into the players spine).For fans of Cronenberg, this film is a must.  It has all the gore you would come to expect, the intelligent dialogue that assumes the viewer actually has a brain in their head, and, of course, his ability to find the perfectly suited cast.  Jennifer Jason Leigh is perfect Allegra Gellar, the inventor of eXistenZ, and the supporting cast of Jude Law, Willem Dafoe, Ian Holm, and the countless others only add to the magic of the film.  Often times, Cronenberg has created characters that you cannot possibly sympathize with. Max Renn of Videodrome and Bill Lee of Naked Lunch are two perfect examples of characters who endure horrific circumstances, but are such cold, isolated people, it's hard for the viewer to feel sympathy for them. However, in this film all the characters seem authentic and, as a result, you cannot help but care for them and be interested in what happens to them along the way.To give away the ending of this film would be a tragedy, for it has one the best endings in Cronenberg's filmography.  As well, this film has one of the most light-hearted atmospheres to it, or at least in my opinion it does. Therefore, you'll just have to see it for yourself.  If you're not familiar with Cronenberg's past work, you should be warned that many of the images in the film will be shocking and completely unbelievable.  However, if you are familiar with Cronenberg, especially films such as Videodrome, there's nothing that comes as a huge shock; it's the same surrealist, bio-technological-sexuality that we have all grown to love.  "},{"Title":"A catharsis of psychosis","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Director and writer, David Cronenberg is at his best in Existenz. The film takes us through all our fears of the evolving information and biotechnological age, throws them in a blender and serves the viewer a compelling tale that is both simplistic, yet all the more complex.Because so much of the story is exciting character development between Jennifer J. Leigh and Jude Law, it is hard to give a sure shot answer as to what makes this film so great. At one moment you are scared to your rational limits, only to find yourself laughing at Law's obsessive rationale clashing with the adventurous and sexy Leigh. Returning to what has become a signature theme for Cronenberg, free will is questioned over and over on levels of dialogue and plot.  This movie raises many fundamental questions.  It asks the viewer if it is presumed inevitable that we merge with the physical framework of technology.  Does evolution require the dismissal of what is left of our natural environment? Are we creating technology, or is it creating itself?  The story, as a whole, could be a metaphoric illusion. Also, take notice of Howard Shore's score (think Seven). It really pushes you further into the existential angst that is prevalent throughout the course of the film.  His eerie undertones do so much. Before you go out and see it, remember  You have to be friendly to play Existenz--and whatever you do--don't panic.    "}{"Title":"A movie you don't just watch; you get to play, too...","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In reading many of the comments on eXistenZ, I find that the people who don't like it limit their statements to it was stupid or it was dumb or it made no sense.  In these short reviews, I think they give away why they missed the point and didn't like the film.I thoroughly enjoyed eXistenZ, and found myself intellectually (if not emotionally) engaged from the beginning.  Maybe it's just prior experience with Cronenberg.  His modus operandi is to plant hints right in front of the audience all the way along, but never point them out.  It's the audience's job to pay attention, and put the pieces together along the way.Much has been made of a scene in the film wherein Jude Law eats a rather grotesque lunch, then constructs a gun out of the bones from the meal -- and this scene is exactly how the audience has got to watch the film.  Pick through the yucky parts, look at the structure beneath, then construct something meaningful from the pieces.  The question of what is reality and what is part of an elaborate video (cranial?) game is constant in the film, from the first frame to the last.  To Cronenberg's credit, he refuses to state the answer.  Speaking of credits, as with most of Cronenberg's films, even the design of the opening crawl presents the theme of the film.  In this case, we are presented with a multi-layered, constantly shifting combination of what seem to be vivid natural rock formations and forests (and which are probably artificial representations) interwoven with barely visible anatomical sketches; in other words, the artificial presented as real, and the real reduced to the artificial, with each piece obscuring and/or highlighting the other.  It's a quite remarkable job that far too many people won't pay attention to, because they'll still be yacking and munching their popcorn, waiting for the movie to start.  But, much like the game within the film, it starts before you really think it does...The only flaws in the film are Cronenberg's signature weaknesses as a writer; lack of development in Act II and an abrupt finale.  As with most of his movies (Videodrome and Crash being the most blatant examples) just when we get to the point that should be the middle of Act II, we suddenly leapfrog to Act III, blast through it in a scene, then hit the finish. You certainly can't say he lets his movies drag, but this foreshortening has left me feeling a little cheated in many of his previous films.  I didn't feel as cheated this time, because eXistenZ left so many little puzzles and enigmas to consider afterwards -- certainly enough to carry through conversation on the drive home and dinner afterwards.  And, to further bolster the well thought-out complexity of the script, these questions all connected back to possible answers, and brought up further questions, that fed back to other answers, and so on.Finally, I found all of the performances brilliant, especially considering the trick the actors had to face -- they knew when they were playing real or game, but had to portray their own reality without giving it away to us.  Jennifer Jason Leigh continues to be one of my favorite actresses, and a true chameleon.  She doesn't play a part, she lives it.  Also, Jude Law is a real find, displaying a wide range, from vulnerable wimp to hard-edged tough guy.  Willem DaFoe and Ian Holm turn up in what are basically cameos, but give their all to these small parts.In short, eXistenZ won't please the multiplex crowd, who only want big, loud commercial films that offer up everything in a nutshell, explained neatly on page 87 by a character who knows too much -- but it's perfect for people who like to let their movies make them think, who try to stay a step ahead, and who don't give up in frustration the instant they don't catch something.  It left me looking forward to Cronenberg's next effort. "},{"Title":"great movie, as usual","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I _love_ David Cronenberg and not just because he's a fellow Canadian. I see all of his movies because they disturb me. In fact, I prefer to call them great 'art' for that reason. If it makes you think about your own inner fears and failings, and about what turns you on and off, then it's at least provocative. My favourite scenes are the one where Jude is commenting, while eating it, that the special in the Chinese restaurant is disgusting and the other one where he's licking Jennifer's bioport. Mmmm, yummy.  "},{"Title":"Nearly put me off Crispy Duck....","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The evening after I watched this film I went for a Chinese Meal. Looking at Crispy Duck laid out in front of me I was almost sick as I recalled a certain scene in the film. If a film has that much of an impact on you then its doing something right.I thought the film was excellent, it had an obvious twist at the end. Well obvious if you can pick up on all the clues dropped during film. Personally I think thats a good thing it sort of rewards the intelligent viewer, they can say to themselves I saw that coming. I hate films where the twist makes no sense what so ever.The issues it covers are perhaps something we may have to deal with in the future and it also speaks about issues of violence in computer-games today. Its clever how it presents the Game environment with gamers at points forced to say 'scripted lines'.Well worth seeing.Just don't have a Chinese Meal immediately afterwards.  "},{"Title":"The Naked Lunch meets William Gibson","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  organic technology in a dream within a dream make up this latest offering from david cronenberg. definitely watchable although some of the gore can be too realistic (nothing I'd barf at) but nonetheless an intriguing plot. a film that i enjoyed watching but not one i'd think of adding to my collection. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but it stays in the theater","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cronenberg spent more time grossing and psyching us out than giving us anything to leave the theater with.  The bulk of the film surrounded this VR game which -- while visually stimulating -- was only a game.  They could stop when it got dangerous, no one was fighting for truth or justice, and anything morally dubious the characters did they were forced to do by the game to continue the game.  Videodrome also blurred the lines between fantasy and reality, but at least there the choices made by the characters in their fantasy affected their reality. A surprise ending, but that was five minutes out of two hours.  I also felt that this script and its characterizations were beneath this cast, particularly Ian Holm and Willem Defoe, who each appeared for fifteen minutes tops. "},{"Title":"Inventive and clever","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" You can say a lot about the cock-eyed Existenz, but you would never call it predictable. The movie is almost entirely contained within a cutting-edge virtual reality game in which the characters struggle not only to win the game, but to determine if they are even still in the game at all.Fortunately, the audience doesn't know anymore than the players do.Cronenberg certainly has a knack for pointing up our obsessions and then tweaking reality just enough to have them backfire on us. In his flicks, we always see his characters go happily overboard in some pursuit. The pursuit in Existenz is to enter a virtual reality game, where the particulars are just as complicated as in real life, and try to do some good (or bad, as the case may be.) The logistics of the story development here are just dizzying at times, and as with most other Cronenberg films, you are happy he had the courage not to give very much away.The special effects wizardry is dazzling, and it is rare to find effects so sophisticated and at the same time very much played down. Since we have already suspended disbelief, the exotic things we see blend smoothly into the story.Not as resounding and gory as Videodrome or Scanners, Existenz is thankfully free of the tiresome lulls that plagued Crash and Dead Ringers. Like a lot of great movie makers, Cronenberg is a hit-and-miss director. I think he nailed it nicely with this one. "},{"Title":"Levels of Reality","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie.  To be sure, during the first half hour or so, I was bored with it, and wondering how much good could come out of this story. Soon enough, though, the film explodes into a wonderful exploration of the levels of reality, which becomes its best feature.The film continually rips away layers, each time forcing the viewer to change their reality reference point in the film.Their is a sort of carthisis as the film draws to a close, but this is quickly destroyed.  Even to the last moment, when characters played by Leigh and Law point their guns menacingly out into the audience, we have been interacting with the movie in very much the same way as the characters interact with the game.We have come to the theatre to witness a different version of reality, one that is by no means real, simply pictures run across lifeless celuloid. After we leave the movie, it takes us a while to readjust ourselves to reality.  And we pay to have this done to us.  What Cronenburg has done is to work deeper into this theme, developing layers of reality, weaving his way throughout them, and in the end, extending his picture into real life, in the same way that Leigh's character comments, a cheap mechanical method to heighten the level of arousal of the next sequence.Absolutely brilliant.  I will see it many more times.  "},{"Title":"Bio-mechanical","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing this film, I know understand Cronenberg completely. I always loved Videodrome and its bio-mechanical props, like the gun being part of body. Now i see that this is an obsession with Cronenberg.In my opinion, this is a remake of Videodrome (in visuals, not in plot). It succeeds in being a greater film in its own self, being different to videodrome in plot, but taking the bio-mechanics idea one step further.What can I say.Simply Superb. "},{"Title":"A M A Z I N G ! ! !  Cronenberg's Best","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cronenberg really is a genius. This movie is less a story than a symbolic examination of the place of technology in our lives and our desensitization to even the most disturbing elements of our everyday lives. And as such it's smart, funny, entertaining, and engaging. I was totally blown away.This movie is a good double-feature with the Matrix, but it certainly goes a lot of areas The Matrix isn't prepared to go-- the only hint of this sort of thing in The Matrix is when the mirror crawls over Keanu's body until it slides down into his throat.It's also amazing that this film came out at the same time as the Littleton Massacre-- Cronenberg sees the place that violent and realistic video games play in real life violence. He also questions WHY reality isn't good enough for people, why they would want to live in a game. Cronenberg is SO far ahead of everyone in terms of thinking about these things.One of the most disturbing elements of the movie, which I think is an amplification of trends in our world, is the character's blase attitude toward the mutant amphibians that are everywhere through the film, and the LACK of concern or disgust toward machines made out of the body parts of these animals. I loved how mundane it was to stick an unbilical cord into your back. This was most disturbing to me during the scene when the two-headed lizard wanders out from behind the gas pump.One of the most brilliant aspects of this film is to set these fantastic creatures and events in settings that are NON-futuristic, ordinary, and dirty. Cronenberg, the man is a genius.I must also mention the INCREDIBLE opening credits sequence. It was just SO BEAUTIFUL. I have no idea what we were looking at (I was trying to figure it out), but whatever it is was so rich and gorgeous, it was really as if he was using the screen as a canvas. The score is also mournfully beautiful. I'm going to go buy it after work today.Don't believe anything negative you hear about the performances. They are, across the board, amazing. I think people don't understand that the movie KNOWS that these people are speaking dialogue-- we're not supposed to believe that these are real characters speaking real lines. Both leads are incredible-- Cronenberg was so smart to spot Jude Law's intensity in his other, smaller roles. The real challenge of these performances is for the actors to express emotions and states of mind that are completely out of sync with what is happening, and they pull it off incredibly.Also, I MUST say that Cronenberg is the ONLY director I know of who is really delving in a very deep way into homosexual themes (no, I am not saying he is gay, and I don't think that's the main focus of his films). Without being graphic, each of his films since Naked Lunch has explored the issues of being bodily penetrated, absorbing bodily fluids, the meshing of two bodies, etc., in a way that INCLUDES homosexual themes in a way other films shy away from. The bioport looks rather like, and is located rather close to, another hole on Jude Law's body, and you just can't deny that SOMETHING is going on when Jennifer smears vaseline all over it and then shoves her finger inside! I was lucky enough to see this film with a great audience, and there were several snickers when Jude Law say he doesn't like being penetrated. (This is also the only audience that snickers wickedly after the Partnership for a Drug-Free America PSA that preceded the film!).Cronenberg has always been interesting, but I've become acutely focused on him since he's headed into more artful films. This is the most focused and tightly themed film of his that I have ever seen. I think it's his very best, and I'm sad that there isn't more of a literate audience for him. He is one of those filmmaker's whom one is simply thankful for. We love you, David!--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that eXistenZ was an excellent film. Unlike so many films, it was fresh and exciting and best of all, it was impossible to predict! I've lost count of the number of films in which I have guessed the ending in the first ten minutes and then have wasted 2 hours watching it only to find that my prediction was, after all, correct. So, eXistenZ was a refreshing change from this disappointing scenario. The star of the film was the beautiful Jude Law, who played the vulnerable and easily led Ted Pikul extremely well. Jennifer Jason Leigh was also good as the rather strange computer games designer obsessed with her pod, which was an amalgamation of the human body. I loved the way that there were several layers of game play in the film, and the uncertain ending was excellent. The film played with your mind and made you question reality, and I asked several people after the film about how they felt when they were watching it, and most of them said that they all had a moment when they were suddenly unsure of reality. Another clever aspect of the film was that, unlike so many films set in the future, the scenario was not wildly unbelievable, and, although there is a large scientific leap between the kind of virtual reality we have today and eXistenZ, Cronenburg's world did not seem that far away. I liked the changes in the characters. Also, the appearance of the dog gave the film a good sense of continuity. I will definitely see the film a second time, as I thought it was amazing! So anyone who has not seen it yet, I highly recommend it. "}{"Title":"Cronenberg and ExistenZ challenge their audience.","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cronenberg's movies do not have that moment that carries us through a story. We are so used to having the director sweep us off our feet and immerse us in his/her vision. eXistenZ, like other Cronenberg movies, is designed to disturb us and make us think. It is unpredictable and we are left to ponder after every scene, this is why people say that the movie is disgusting. We are so used to watching movies that fully engage us, Cronenberg expects us to play a more active role when watching his movie. There is a scene in eXistenZ where Pikul asks Allegra Geller how the game is played. Allegra responds You have to play it to find out, this is how you watch eXistenZ. Don't expect to be entertained with the usual set of codes that govern film but experience it for yourself by watching the movie.  "},{"Title":"Get to the end before you judge eXistenZ","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It may be hard to get through the first half of this movie, but try. Once you get to the end all of the bad dialog and odd performances make sense. Just keep in mind that everything in eXistenZ is deliberate and the film knows some things that you don't.  This is one of those movies that gets better the more you think about it after you leave the theatre. Do be warned that eXisteZ is kinda gross.  If you've seen The Fly or Naked Lunch then you know how creative David Cronenberg can get with gross-out make-up effects, and in eXistenZ he really lets his imagination go. "},{"Title":"David Cronenberg at his best/most weird.","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Jennifer Jason Leigh plays Allegra Geller, a near future games designer. Or does she?  Instead of watching games on a screen you can plug them directly into your spine through a port and interact with the world directly.  A group simply known as 'reality terrorists' have issued a fatwa against Geller and Toby Pikul (Jude Law) is sent to protect her.  What follows is a game within a game as various crazies chase the two around the real and game worlds.  No one is to be trusted. Cronenberg ramps up the paranoia with every twist of the slightly complex plot.  Be prepared for lots of twitching 'fleshy' bits, without which no real Cronenberg film would be complete.  By far the best bit is Pikul constructing a gun from bits of his lunch. The actors do suffer because of the script being so twisted.  Most have to affect really horrible accents.  A strong English contingent backed by a great cameo by Willem Dafoe manage to turn in some watchable performances. Possibly the best film this year so far. "},{"Title":"Weird but great","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ is a return to the paranoia about technology that appears in lots of other Cronenburg, only from a bizarre new angle.  At first the wooden dialogue and the terrible acting are immensely distracting, but 10 minutes in you realise it's deliberate - he's not taking his subject seriously at all.  It's his comment on the immaturity of most computer games these days. In fact there were a lot of great comments on the state of society, games and film (especially the computer game shop - I look forward to being able to buy 'Hit By Car - you're in the driver seat'!).  The massive over use of violence was also a dig at every computer games body count these days. But the cleverest thing was the way that the movie referred to itself as well - at one point somebody says 'it's so complex - it's going to be a nightmare to market'.In short it's brilliant - biting social satire, a few moments of bizarre comedy and the gore you'd expect from Cronenburg. "},{"Title":"An intriguing metafictional horror(ish) film","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ is an involving, reality-warping movie that plays with the notions of reality, violence, and filmmaking.  This is a thoroughly gruesome movie, with several unnerving (at least) scenes.  But the questions the film raises about what we want in our games (the violence, the gore, the fact that they make reality duller) are involved.  I also laughed at the way the comments about the game reflected on the movie itself (I thought that character was flat and one-dimensional).  If you want something intriguing, if disgusting, see eXistenZ. "},{"Title":"Great even for Cronenberg","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yuck? Are you serious? This seemed tame for Cronenberg. Perhaps Yuck forgot the gynecological instruments for deformed women from Dead Ringers, this film isn't even close. I have to say that I felt that D.C. had hit a slump with his last film, the sleepy and laconic Crash. It was nothing but a complete bore. eXistenZ proves that David Cronenberg still has what it takes. The film seems to revisit the Cronenberg of past (almost paying homage to himself) bringing to mind fond memories of Scanners and Videodrome. Remember, old David Cronenberg is the master of technophobia. Once again his fascination with disease and gooey, globby, fleshy appliances is back and it doesn't disappoint. Yes, the dialogue does seem ludicrous at times, but as I've found with most of Cronenberg's work, it is only hammy because he intends it to be tongue in cheek. It is a film that demands your attention and you do need a brainwave to attend. But it is so worth the 110 minutes in the theater. It is beautifully shot and gives actors such as Willem Dafoe and Ian Holm a lot to do with small parts. It is a must for Cronenberg fans. However, if you are expecting some titillating bit of cyberpunk, well, go see the Matrix again. Or better yet, rent the prequel. I think it was called Johnny Numeric. "},{"Title":"The best I've seen in a while","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A REAL GOOD MOVIEThe story begins right away, no time to get bored as things happen fast, both logically and hard to believe. The film has been made from an original idea and the caracters reinforced the the genius of it. Just a slight warning for people not sure to bear some near-surgical scenes. Except that you won't be able to know where the characters are bringing, but it doesn't matter because they don't know it themselves it is not a movie where you can guess the end right away.THE SCENE I PREFEREDIt's hard to choose but it is the ones with the dog bringing the weapon(s) and its impression of already-seen it leaves, it is just great. "},{"Title":"sCarY","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen eXistenZ by David Cronenberg last week, and let me say I was deceived. The reason is simple to tell a so eXcentriC (s'cuse me, the temptation is just too high... I know it's childish, but I can't resist) story, you have to at least try to use an excentric form. But Cronenberg's director's work was just too classical... He is an excellent writer, an excellent director too, but I just found he did it too by the book this time. Anyway, if you like wild stories -and, I must say, a lot of blood- go see it. But prepare yourself for an aftertaste...  "},{"Title":"Cronenberg returns to his roots in this funny, splatty thriller","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Just a hair shy of greatness, David Cronenberg's oddly-entitled eXistenZ is a gooey, surreal thriller that is set in a future where game designers are superstars. I really enjoyed this movie. It is definitely one of Cronenberg's funniest -- blending sight gags and sly asides with splattery FX and the Canadian director's peculiar aesthetic -- and also one of his more accessible films, on par with The Fly and Scanners (still, the feel good movie of the year this is not). The only thing terrible about the movie is that now that it's been released, I'm going to have to wait another year or two for the next Cronenberg film! Argh! "},{"Title":"good biopunk with a neurotic edge","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Good sci-fi films are hard to find. This one does quite well, mixing a number of current and traditional sci-fi themes. The biotech-gaming is reminiscent of Jeff Noon's Vurt; the psychological aspects of VR immersion are already well-explored but this film at least does justice to the theme and, at best,  approaches Philip K Dick levels of disturbing scariness.A much better film than The Matrix. It's barely worth comparing them, as others have noted - mainly because this film at least has some integrity and suggests hidden depth.I think the distinction between alternate reality and future reality is slightly academic. And who cares....Definitely recommended - the best sci-fi this year. (So far -)  "}{"Title":"eXistenZalist","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ is the best movie I've seen this year, with Go coming in a close second on my list. I enjoyed Jennifer Jason Leigh and Jude Law in their respective roles as Allegra Geller and Ted Pikul. I was surprised by Don McKellar's performance as Yevgeny Nourish. He was very funny and I'm sure his accent was deliberately bad. I'm disappointed with the movie's trailer because it's somewhat misleading. Willem Dafoe and Ian Holm have less screen time than Don McKellar and another great actor, Callum Keith Rennie.I enjoyed the twists and turns in the plot. Without giving much away, I'd say the movie is excellent at confusing viewers about reality. You might walk out of the movie theatre pondering your existence...  "},{"Title":"Not for the squeamish","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps the most disgusting movie I've ever seen.  Whereas Crash was merely unsettling because of the nature of the topic, eXistenZ takes realistic gore to a level I've never seen.  Several parts were unbearable.  However, If that's what you like, you'll love this movie.  "},{"Title":"A Great Addition to Cronenberg's Technological Evolution","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Being the rabid David Cronenberg fan that I am, I went and saw eXistenZ at the first matinee on its release date. There was about ten of us in the theater. After the final credits started rolling I got up and began to walk out and eagerly began listening to people's comments. You can always hear people talking about the film right after it is over. Some people obviously loved it and others hated it. I suspect that people who criticize eXistenZ for being to weird and slow are the same people who criticize 2001 A Space Odyssey for the same reasons. I am amazed at how many people do not like 2001. I overheard one man saying that eXistenZ  was the worst film that he has seen. I don't think he has seen too many movies! It is very clear from audience reactions that David Cronenberg has a very definite and limited cult following of people who think that his work is ingenious. Those who have never liked Cronenberg, never will. He has a very bizarre and unique world-view that is displayed in all of his films, which will not change any time soon. Where do I stand? I am with Cronenberg all the way. He is one of the greatest auteurs in the film industry. eXistenZ is a fantastic addition to his collection of masterpieces.One of the things that fascinates me about David Cronenberg is how his view of technology evolves from film to film. It is evident in all of his films, but I will discuss it in terms of three of them. Beginning in The Fly, Cronenberg metaphorically depicts the unification of man and technology in Brundle's transformation into Brundlefly. In Crash, he went one step further and implied that human beings are so connected with technology that there is an allegorical sexual connection. Technology in itself is seen as being erotic. J.G. Ballard, author of the novel Crash which inspired the movie  states that, ...the ultimate purpose of Crash is cautionary, a warning against that brutal, erotic, and over lit realm that beckons more and more pervasively to us from the margins of the technological landscape.eXistenZ evolves even further beyond Crash in certain ways. In eXistenZ, technology no longer takes the form of mechanical machines. Technology is now depicted as a living entity, just as human beings are. The game pods that Allegra Gellar (Jennifer Jason Leigh) creates, are completely organic in nature. Allegra refers to her game pod containing eXistenZ as her baby. She nurtures it and caresses it, as if it were a child. In one scene, repairs to the pod are necessary. Normally what we would see is a &#145;computer geek' taking apart a computer and replacing or reconstructing various microchips, but in eXistenZ the procedure, conducted by Kiri Vinokur (Ian Holm) takes the form of a surgical operation. What we see, looks quite similar to a dissection of a small animal in a biology class. Oozing fluids are everywhere in this film, as they are in most Cronenberg films. He seems to have a fetish with bodily fluids.It is quite likely that this film will be compared to Matrix another science fiction film that has its basis in the world of virtual reality. eXistenZ is miles beyond Matrix however. eXistenZ makes Matrix look like Wing Commander (one of the worst science fiction films, if you can even fairly call this science fiction). Matrix looks great on a technical level, but its ideas are simply an amalgamation of many existing trends in science fiction. Virtual reality is by no means an new concept, but the way it is conceptualized in eXistenZ is new. The organic game pods are plugged right into the human body by means of a bio-port at the base of the spine. This attachment between the living human and the living game pod further reinforces Cronenberg's theme of man uniting with technology. The film seems to be working toward the notion that man and machine are becoming the same thing, organically. In Blade Runner, man and machine are seen as one in the same in terms of consciousness, but in eXistenZ, man and machine  are seen as one in the same in terms of flesh and bone. Even one of the weapons is created from flesh and bone and shoots human teeth as bullets. Theoretically,  if man and the technology that he creates become the same thing, then they will be fully united.The games that Allegra creates are seem so real to the characters that they still feel like they are in the game when they are supposedly in reality. Then again, we have to question whether or not they actually are in reality. At one point Ted (Jude Law) pauses the game and feels as though real life is a game, and Allegra is just a character. Is this true? eXistenZ certainly presents this as a possibility. For all we know, everything that occurs in the film could be part of a game, at different levels of reality. Allegra and Ted enter different levels of reality after they enter eXistenZ. How are we to know that the events that take place before they enter eXistenZ are not just part of another game designed to get them that far? The games can endlessly build upon one another, just like the never ending links within the internet. David Cronenberg presents us with a world where we are never really sure of anything.**** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie for Cronenburg fans","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It seems that Cronenburg fans love this one, while others are (stupidly) comparing it to The Matrix, or just not getting it.  The thing that irks me is the misconception that eXistenZ takes place in the future --- it takes place in an alternate reality, which is obvious to anyone who payed attention.  A reality where technology evolved along biomechanical lines rather than the purely mechanical.  Pikul's PinkPhone is the most obvious example of that.The only thing eXistenZ has in common with The Matrix is virtual reality, and the two films don't even approach it the same way.   "},{"Title":"You either love it or hate it","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ, like many other of David Cronenberg's films, is one of those movies that people either love or hate. People either get his movies or do not. And looking over the many negative reviews here simply proves that point. I LOVED this film. I personally think the dialogue was pretty close to brilliant, as were the characters' names, the company and game names, etc. I still can't get the refrain out of my head, Death to the demoness! Death to Allegra Geller!  "},{"Title":"Cronenberg gets Virtual","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of movies have this theme right now about virtual reality and what its effect will be on us.  Leave it to David Cronenberg to put his psycho-sexual organic versus machine stamp on the genre.  Basically, think the MATRIX with a brain and a much sicker side even though a lot less violence (well...sort of).  It's full of gross-out moments, but not as cringe-worthy as CRASH or DEADRINGERS if only because the characters are in a game-world for most of the violence.  I like all of Cronenberg's films one way or another, because they have a point of view and they are always unique.  eXistenZ is no exception, and is surprisingly easy to watch.  CRASH was hard for me to watch the first time, but this one clips along at a good pace and has a great plot that will keep you on your toes and the edge of your seat. Smarter than the MATRIX, and kinky in its own way without ever being outright sexual.  Imagine a scene where somebody licks a small hole in the base of your spine that is actually a game-port, or a scene where they stick a vaselined finger in this mechanical orifice.  Sexual? Yes.  Sexy?  You decide for yourself.  Go see this movie with an open mind.  It's Cronenberg 100 %, but it is fun too.    "},{"Title":"David Lynch meets the Twilight Zone...","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know how to tell you about this movie, just that it was one heck of an experience. It is unlike anything you've seen in film recently, or even ever. Weird, thought-provoking, total carnage and gore, like I said it's an experience. The movie rips your mind apart and leaves you with a tabela raza.The film questions reality through the latest in gaming technology. At first I thought this premise was tired, eg- STRANGE DAYS, LAWNMOWER MAN, but this film leaves all predecessors way behind. I am not a real big Cronenberg fan, but after seeing this movie, I'm hooked.eXistenZ is like David Lynch meets the Twilight Zone. Actually it's more like a cross between the Twilight Zone & Tales From the Crypt. Either way thanks to David Cronenberg it's good to see that creativity & imagination is still associated with Hollywood film. "},{"Title":"A waking nightmare","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ is perhaps best seen after 1 am, when it feels likes a conscious nightmare.  The game pod has been described as everything from a kidney to nippled but my mind's-eye saw a baby with its umbilical cord still attached.  Many people had to leave the theatre, and I had to reluctantly join them during the Chinese dinner scene.  It took me a good ten minutes of watching EDTV to recover and go back to eXistenZ. "},{"Title":"Whoo-hoo!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I must stay that I was quite pleased with it.  This one isn't as dark as a lot of his prior work -- he was blatantly prodding a bit of fun at himself -- but it's plenty twisted.  It started out freakin' bizarre, and becomes really freakin' bizarre, as it progresses.I've seen almost all of Cronenberg's movies and as far as this one being off the charts I have no idea what that Boyo2 was watching. eXistenZ is much lighter on the gooey stuff than a lot of Cronenberg's previous works.I highly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Damn good","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  `eXistenZ' David Cronenberg, ahhh David Cronenberg...  How do I love thee?  Let me count the ways...   Coming off the grossly underrated `Crash', Director David Cronenberg comes back with a haunting and gory, yet deeply layered satire/comedy/horror film that easily fits in with the rest of this director's amazingly diverse filmography. While not really meant to make a whole lot of sense, there are things in the awkwardly titled `eXistenZ' that you truly have to seen to be believed.  Things like  handguns made out of flesh and bone that fires human teeth bullets, fleshy metal pods that writhe to life, and the much talked about, anus looking bio-ports.  And this is only the tip of the iceberg.  `eXistenZ' is filled with so much originality that it puts other films to shame.  Half the fun is just trying to figure out what you will see next.  Now what I described isn't too unusual for Cronenberg.  He's assembled a career out of the bizarre and symbolic.  But with every new film, it never seems like he's aping himself. Mr. Cronenberg is a real talent behind the camera (and he's proven some presence in front of it as well, but not in `eXistenZ'). I pray that the foreign financing that he clings to will never dry up. Jennifer Jason Leigh gets the chance to play a real sexpot here, and she ably fills the role.  At times she looks miscast, but when the film's over, she is remembered the most.  That's her asset.  Jude Law I'm not too fond of. He's a very handsome and a clean cut actor, but every time he's forced to show disbelief in this movie, I could think of a hundred other actors who would have been stronger. The rest of the cast is appropriately creepy, with Willem Dafoe returning to his usual bonkers self. Cronenberg's script runs into trouble near the end.  He digs himself a hole that I didn't believe anyone could get themselves out of.  The climax of the movie is very fitting, and I though unpredictable. It makes up for the dramatic flaws that flake off the film now and again. I enjoyed `eXistenZ' a whole bunch.  I doubt there could ever be another film like it. ---------- 8 "}{"Title":"If VR is identical to reality, how do you tell the difference?","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie progressed rather slowly for my tastes, but the ending does provide some interesting twists. And though it lacks the action and flash of The Matrix, if you prefer story over special effects you'll probably enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"The Portable Cronenberg","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  But not for its unceremonious dumping by the brothers Weinstein, eXistenZ could have been Cronenberg's first art-house hit since DEAD RINGERS. Following Allegra Geller (Jennifer Jason Leigh), the world's hottest virtual-reality game designer, and her dweeby PR-flack protector (Jude Law), as they flee a witch-burning fatwa aimed at restoring reality's fabric, eXistenZ is Cronenberg's lightheartedest and most puckishly inventive movie--the director leans back with a cockeyed grin rather than screwing his eye over the microscope.It's also a cheering endorsement of Richard Rorty's maxim, All we can do is find our metaphor and pursue it to the end. Here, all your favorite Cronen-tropes--infection, mutation, mind-body confusions, the yearning towards jacking out of the human form as a poignant parody of transcendence--are elaborated, embroidered, raised to the dizzying nth power. It's as if in middle age (Cronenberg is now 56), the writer-director summoned the untrammeled, carefree imaginative powers of his heroes Nabokov and Burroughs. Images and themes that elsewhere have been used to warp motheaten genres now take on the impossibly dense and extroverted form of baroque music.The bottom line on Cronenberg is that he makes ideation as sensuous as Scorsese makes sensation, or David Lynch makes dreams and nightmares. Here, Cronenberg's two career agendas--taking the meta out of metaphysics, and making the world's greatest pulp art--come together with soaring rather than crashing force. Too bad Gwyneth Paltrow's two big advance men gave this movie the brushoff Cronenberg's grafting of reality-layers would have appealed to Joe Cybergeek and made this one of his all-too-rare hits.  "},{"Title":"Incredibly weird..","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This has to be the weirdest movie I have ever seen, besides Dolores Claiborne (which Jennifer Jason Leigh was also in) and the Cable Guy. But what made this movie great was the dilemma posed in the movie. What is real, and what is just a game? How do we know that we are in the real world, or in a game? How..  "},{"Title":"Yuck!  But I loved it!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is such a fine example of what happens when Hollywood leaves a director alone and lets him do things in his own way.Although the plot sounds very similar to The Matrix, it is quite a different film.  I especially liked how Cronenberg mixes disgusting-looking organic material with sexually suggestive actions -- Allegra Geller's game pad looks like some sort of sex organ.  Could there be a deeper meaning here?  I'm sure there is, but I'm not one for speculating.  This is a great movie - check it out! "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable sci-fi flick","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I recommend eXistenz on many levels.  First, it approaches the currently voguish topic of an altered, virtual reality in an off beat & original way. Secondly, the story, while confusing, is executed well and creates a virtual reality world that is fascinating to watch unfold.  Thirdly, Jennifer Jason Leigh is looking mighty fine and adds a certain sexual edge to the material.I disagree with those who say that this film is really gross and over the top yuckness.  It wasn't that at all.  If the film does suffer from anything I think it was that the running time was too short and the ending seemed too abrupt.Definitely worth a look.  "},{"Title":"Don't like Cronenberg? Stay away.","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Nobody does Cronenberg like Cronenberg, and he's working at the top of his form. A talented cast works from a challenging, underrated (if the other reviews and Ebert's criticism are any indication) script, all framed with the obligatory organic grossouts we demand from Mr. C. I have read in several places (including the column of the usually infallible Ebert) that the dialogue was stilted. Yes, it is, but pay close attention, because it's _intentionally_ so. The fact that the performances sometimes slip into Mametish woodenness is a key plot point. Writing his own script for the first time in 15 years, Cronenberg also manages to transcend the shaggy-dog it was all a dream corniness to which Jacob's Ladder fell prey, staying fresh through the last frame of the movie. Jude Law and Christopher Eccleston continue to prove themselves to be two of the most talented young actors working today. "},{"Title":"Interesting but a little bit too slow in the middle.","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Weird! That is the best word to describe this movie but I guess that I would recommend it for some die hard movie or Sci-Fi fans.  I have never seen anything else by Cronenberg but plan to backtrack now. Is this what the future could be like? See this movie and experience eXistenZ yourself! 7/10, B-, and a thumb up! "},{"Title":"One of Cronenberg's better ones.","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had been looking forward to this movie for a while now.  After seeing a lot of Cronenberg's previous work, I was not disappointed.  He gave the viewer a lot of things to think about the future of technology, he used excellent symbols for sex and the movie industry.  Definitely a movie that provokes thought, once you get past all the interesting creatures that David Cronenberg came up with.  The bone and grissle gun was excellent. "},{"Title":"Unreal, yet real enough to be unsettling.","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Wow.  I found this movie powerful and thought-provoking.  It was definitely a Cronenburg film with the most 'interesting' props since Naked Lunch. While not for those with weak stomachs, the movie makes an interesting point about our acceptance of 'unnatural' technology.This movie delved into the very meat of the virtual reality issue  If the experience is all encompassing, when do you know if you are out?  It also breached the issue of the social and religious implications of this technology; escapism and the fanatic need people would feel to preserve 'reality'.Upon first glance, this movie appeared rife with bad acting.  A closer look shows a spooky similarity to modern role-playing games.  Cronenburg did his homework to perfect the look and feel of the games.Finally, the ending was perfect.  It leaves you wondering, which is exactly the point.  Are they still in a game?  Are WE in a game?  Can you tell? Does it matter???  It's very refreshing to go to a movie that doesn't stoop to the lowest common denominator of deciding everything for the audience. You have many things to think about after leaving this one.Kudos to Cronenburg!  Great movie! "},{"Title":"A Classic.  Vivid.  Intelligent.  Even funny.","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A classic.  Goes where Matrix would have liked to have gone.  Deals with the multiple levels of reality in a recursive, vivid manor, as opposed to the black and white, one dimensional, dumbed-down story of The Matrix.This is equal to, possibly better than, Blade Runner.  And unlike Matrix, it earns its R rating as opposed to simply lobbying for it so it can seem like serious film.All this and manages to be funny, too. "}{"Title":"It's gross.  It's Campy.  It's a must see film.","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's gross.  It's violent.  At times the dialogue is campy comedy.eXistenZ is a must see movie for those of you who contemplate the time space continuum and question the real effect of violent video games on our society.  David Cronenberg takes us on a journey that Nintendo would probably love to recreate.  "},{"Title":"BETTER THAN THE MATRIX!","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, for all of you who went to see The Matrix, you have to see eXistenZ, which is a much, much better sci-fi thriller.  This one delivers on the basis of interesting plot and twists and turns.  While this movie was a little short, and you could guess how it would end, what happens in the middle is quite surprising, and unexpected.  A good movie - 8/10! "},{"Title":"go back to critics' school...","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Having read most of the other viewer comments, I am surprised by the number of comments on disgust and the dialogue. First of all, why is a man eating a (mutated) fish so much more disgusting to people than, say, the ultra-violence we are bombarded with daily on tv? Secondly, much of the dialogue was designed to be lame! There were many comments within the film on the lameness of some of the dialogue. They were still beta-testing the game, remember? Allegra comments on her disappointment in some of the characters. One player later comments `my character's accent was so thick, I could barely understand it.'Okay, rebuttal done. Great film. Fast paced. Kept me on edge of seat etc. Highly Recommended.  "},{"Title":"Very insightful","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I wonder if Cronenberg has read Castaneda's book The Art of Dreaming?This movies is foolish, astonishing, you cannot predict the next move, you can never say what's real and what's a game.A profound truth is that life itself is a dream of the Big Dreamer. So I like this film showing that nothing can prove that what is perceived is real.Have you never dreamt that you dream ? "},{"Title":"Disgusting, but interesting","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cronenberg's latest outing into science fiction, eXistenZ (yes, spelled with capital X and Z) is an interesting journey through a game that can't be made head or tails out off. I was mesmerized by how you don't really know what is going on; when you think you know the truth, something comes up and changes everything. However, one drawback I found was that some of the dialogue is weak, but it is forgivable given the nature of the story. But I must warn you all, there are very disgusting things in this film. You might not want to eat before watching eXistenZ. "},{"Title":"unoriginal","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ is interesting, I'll say that. The creature effects are remarkable, and the concept of the game is promising, if not exactly novel. But the film is deeply flawed. Every few minutes you notice little details that seem designed to disarm and disinterest you in the film, whether it be incongruous lines, shoddy acting or obvious, cheating plot-twists. Luckily it stars Jude Law and JJ Leigh, two actors I can't see myself getting tired of anytime soon. The film itself though, is stylish, different but totally flat and uninvolving. "},{"Title":"Delightful!","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie marks a return to the preoccupations of earlier Cronenberg works - famously 'Videodrome' - while updating the obsessions of the time (VR instead of VCR). It is a lighter piece than many recent Cronenberg films, with a steady stream of jokes and even some cuteness. Not to be recommended for people who would have a hard time - ahh - swallowing the idea of a character eating unrecognizable rotting mutated flesh pieces and constructing a gun from the bones...The acting, and the whole script, does not feel like social realism, but then again, things are not as real as they seem....Obvious references include 'Brainscan' and major parts of the writings of Philip K Dick.The play on reality vs non-reality pervades the movie, with details during the early parts which do not seem significant at first but which later turn out to be part of the framework which holds the film together and makes it an interesting experience. As a very good article (Sight & Sound, April 1999) put it - when you've finished watching the movie, you want to go right back and play it again.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As a game designer, I can't help but like any movie taking place in a future where game design is broadly accepted as an art form. But this film didn't need that little advantage I would have liked it anyway. I found the plot as a whole incomprehensible David Lynch's Lost Highway is easy compared to this. But it doesn't matter what matters is the strange, dreamlike atmosphere, the incredible ideas in the movie, and the beautiful way it is photographed. It has some gory moments, but nothing that I felt was unnecessary. If the idea of watching organic game consoles, gristle guns, dissections of mutated amphibians and anus-like orifices intrigues you, go see this movie. "},{"Title":"Is it still the game???","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, are you ready to play a game as real as possible? So what are your limits, do you know them? That the questions which are asked by Cronenberg...effects of games on people who are playing with them. It's a mirror which we need to watch in welcome to the future! The film is well done, speedy I mean it asks you a lot of questions, but no time to answer them untill the end, you are thrown from reality to the game and from the game to reality, it's not easy to bare this travel... Just see it; are you still in the movie, is it a game , or is your life a game???   "},{"Title":"At last, virtual reality explored from within.","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Videodrome was the sci-fi movie of the 80's, eXistenZ is the ultimate sci-fi movie of the coming century. For Cronenberg, as for Bill Burroughs, There is no 'true' or 'real reality, thus any reality is another form of virtuality. In eXistenZ, there is no reality from which the narrative would start and, at the end, we still don't know if we are back in reality. This very ambitious movie is not only a reflection on cinema, and imagination in general, but also a trip that takes the viewer from the superficial reality of his/her senses to the existential angst of the psyche where dreams, fantasies and abstractions are as real as the so-called real world. It is truly an unique experience in cinema as an art-form, both profound AND entertaining. The acting (J.J. Leigh) is superb. Suddenly, characters are conscious to be characters in a fiction they (perhaps) didn't choose. Cronenberg is miles ahead from the other directors. It is worth it to take the risk of a trip in his company.  "}{"Title":"sIllY, but fuN!","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I got quite a few good laughs out of this.  You really don't care much about the plot, but it's all very entertaining, if not for the squeemish.  It's refreshing to see a movie dealing with the future and gaming where hitech lazers aren't dominant, merely Cronenberg's usual assortment of gross, puss-filled gooey nightmares, along with lots of sticky soundtrack sounds. Not one of his best, but pretty damned fun if you're in the right mood. "},{"Title":"Another Amazing Head Trip","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" David Cronenberg has long been one of my favorite directors. His films are all unique. They are all challenging. He never fails to ask a lot of his audience but offers them massive rewards for the effort.eXistenZ proposed a futuristic world where video gaming has gone from a pastime to an existence. People plug the game pod directly into their spines so that they can interface with their games. Like Christopher Nolan's Inception, which owes a huge debt to this film, eXistenZ asks audience members to consider what is real and what is not. Just as important it asks us how this differentiation is made, an important consideration for a society where face to face interaction has been replaced by computer terminals and tweeting.It is doubtful that Inception could have existed without this pioneering work. eXistenZ has the same reality vs. fantasy resolution and many of the same levels of reality conceits that Christopher Nolan used for the later film.In other words, if you are a fan of Inception you cannot afford to dismiss this picture. It's one of the best mind trips out there and one of David Cronenberg's best pictures. "},{"Title":"Gooey, effective and tense science fiction film exploring themes of identity and the impact of video games on us and our world.","Date":"12 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Would it be too cheeky to reply, if asked what your favourite film based on a video game is, to answer with David Cronenberg's 1999 film eXistenZ? Probably. In fact given the context of the question it could be considered to be just plain wrong. But the film is interesting in this sense, and rather rooted within the world of video gaming in its statements and explorations; this is more of a film about video games or about a specific fictional video game, an all but self reflective piece that at times doubles up as an adaptation of itself and its own video game it contains within this fictitious universe. eXistenZ explores the nature of what video games mean to those that play them, the film exploring the essence of escape they bring to those that play them. At one point, a character is in desperate trouble and running for their life whilst holed up in a motel their answer to unwind from this terrifying premise? Why, play video games of course. If the film struggled to garner much of a crowd on release then it'll have been because The Matrix was occupying people with its action sequences, tauter drama and similar ideas of alternate realities and identities further still within as a simultaneous deconstruction of its own reality played out; I liked The Matrix more, but this is not to say eXistenZ is in any way grossly inferior.The film opens with a large gathering of people at a church somewhere in America, at an unspecified point in the future. Glamorous video gaming expert Allegra (Leigh) has pioneered a new type of gaming which lends its name to the film's title; a game slightly set away from your more bog-standard 7ft arcade machine or household based console entertainment system, and one that allows physical movement and interaction in and around a fully functional universe of buildings; towns; vehicles and persons whom are both other gamers and artificial intelligence. The gathering at the church is symbolic of how the fans of this franchise and the rather attractive for a video gaming pioneer Allegra connect they worship the item; the film situating the drooling audience in the pews watching on as those that sit at the front of the building, as if issuing a sermon, around which the alter is more commonly placed, are observed. Amongst these minions is casual onlooking security guard Ted (Law), virginal to the gaming community he is witnessing getting all excited and later brought into proceedings much more when an attempt on Allegra's life transpires. What follows is a taut and engaging thriller-come-detective story revolving around why it is what happened, happened; with Ted and Allegra at the core of it. There are those that, it would seem, reject the gaming world and the gamers that exist within it. But the film is not a petty dehumanising or demonisation of these people who are quite clearly looking 'in' on a community alien to them. The world of eXistenZ sees a relatively realistic and familiar, if low key, world given to us but with the simplest of everyday objects such as telephones; firearms and games controllers given a gross overhaul in appearance. Here, they resemble something you might dig out of the sewer; as if someone has gone to painstaking length to craft, for a big budget science fiction film, what all walks of life may resemble on a distant alien planet right down to the slugs and bugs that occupy the undergrowth of said planet. Most everyday objects in eXistenZ resemble the bugs and grubs of the undergrowth. In providing us with Ted, eXistenZ invites us to see the world of the film through unspoilt and ill-attributed eyes to the universe the film unfolds within. A point is made that Ted has avoided Allegra's video games, something you need a surgical procedure of sorts done to you if you are to join in; at one point, having had the procedure and able to indulge in eXistenZ's world because duty has called for him to do so, going so far as to quote that everything here's so dirty, absurd and grotesque perfectly capturing our own reaction to what's going on around everyone. But Cronenberg's ability in being able to tie in the absurd; the grotesque and the ugly into his film and linger on them without a sense that the film is coming across as exploitative is a skill that's prominent in most of his films. This inclusion in eXistenZ might be the man veering off down a tangent that sees him commentating on how easy, indeed needless, it is for gross and absurd content to worm its way into a video game which is built around a certain grounded sense of realism, and are lingered on. Ted's very gradual realisation that he is indeed someone and something else in the alternate reality as he adopts a different persona is effortlessly blended into the film as the chase thriller shenanigans Allegra's strand additionally spawns; his study broadly hinted at earlier on in a petrol station attendant's verbal confirmation that in reality he's a nobody pump puller but within the world of the game, he's God. I like to think eXistenZ's plunge into spy territory and tales of double agents, Russian mobsters plus corrupt trout breeding centres as characters with important sounding roles come and go without making much on an impact is the point it's complicated, convoluted and a stark alternate reality they inhabit in which everything's a little bit rubbish. As is, in an original film running on one man's vision, the only way to advance proceedings is to state dull and expositional dialogue to robotic drones doing what their told. Regardless, eXistenZ is an interesting, exciting and smart science fiction; the kind that runs on a nourishing amount of substance in tandem with its room for varying ideas, the likes of which ought to be embraced. "},{"Title":"Really Good Cyberpunk","Date":"7 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I watched this on Hulu, and I would definitely recommend it to other. I'm not sure why I didn't watch it before, other than that I was in college in rural Iowa when it came out. Overall a good disconcerting film about the players of a video game. The way the players play comes off as something between sex and drug addiction. Part of this is due to the fact that players use a bio-port to connect to the game. When you watch them plug each other n you can't help connecting it to sex (one licks another's bio-port), or drug use (IV drug users shooting each other up). It this way the movie will remind you a great deal of Naked Lunch.At any rate it is a fun ride. The basic theme is about people losing, or not losing, their grasps on what is real versus what is not real. There are lots of movies to check out in this genre (which is really both cyber punk, and bodily horror). I recommend (as starters) Naked Lunch, A Scanner Darkly, Videodrome. "},{"Title":"Forget The Matrix, this is eXistenZ","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Forget The Matrix. Now, really forget it. It's a different movie. eXistenZ lives in a world, or really nested realities, all its own. Cronenberg is a master of mixing up reality with non-reality and physical with non-physical. I think one of the beauties of eXistenZ is the ugliness of the Virtual Reality world created by Geller's (Jennifer Jason-Leigh) half-mutant amphibian/half plastic game pod. The icky porting into it with an umbilical cord into the spinal column is so Cronenberg. I liked the way he had the characters (and us) believing they were out of the game when they were still in it... those pesky nested realities. It hearkens back to some of Philip K. Dick's visionary short stories, as well as Cronenberg's own Videodrome (especially with the Death to... sequence). I also liked the use of some of Canada's best actors who have since become more well known, such as Don McKellar, Callum Keith Rennie (by way of Sutherland, England), and Sarah Polley. In fact, Cronenberg played a character in Don McKellar's 1998 film, Last Night, which also starred McKellar, Rennie, and Polley, not to mention Sandra Oh. I liked the way some of the characters in the Virtual Reality did not respond unless they were fed the correct line. That was brilliant, and I have not seen that done anywhere before or since. I also liked the gun made out of a jawbone that fired teeth for bullets. Cronenberg is brilliant. Take a pop over the Amazon's sister site, IMDb.com, and look at Cronenberg's filmography. There isn't a bad apple in the bunch, and you would do well to watch them all. Naked Lunch and Dead Ringers are just two out of many that would stand out if you liked eXistenZ. "},{"Title":"Interesting... although predictable to some extent.","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This must be one of the weirdest films I've seen. Not that it's got a very unique plot or surprising twists but I have to say the presentation is quite... let's say, interesting. At first the story was going way over my head but that's how it is. Although it got quite clear in the middle that the beginning was also inside the game, the suspense and excitement inside the story was never lost. The separate game designs are nicely thought out by Cronenburg.It is a very good performance by Jude Law. He nicely captures the primarily nerdy character Ted and how he evolves with the progression of the game. Willem Dafoe does a very good short role too. But I didn't know why Jennifer Jason Leigh is casted. She is a good actress and she was extremely good in films such as The Hudsucker Proxy etc but here her performance was bland and artificial. This is not a role where actresses of her type should be casted. "},{"Title":"A Smart Little Gem","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's a shame this little gem was released around the same time as The Matrix, a similarly-themed but very different film. The special effects pale in comparison, but what it misses in big-budget special effects and polish it makes up with great performances and a clever plot. Jude Law and Jennifer Jason Leigh are particularly good, and they work well together. The supporting cast is also excellent.The plot is complex and enjoyable, and I was left with many questions. Which is a good thing. By the end of the first half hour, I was completely caught up in the movie's world and didn't mind that there weren't any people running along the walls or dodging bullets.Check this movie out, you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Matrix-lite","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  With shades reminiscent of The Matrix (both were released in1999 and I'm not sure which was first), we are placed in anear-future time in which virtual gaming now incorporates abiological pod connecting directly to the person. A brand newgame `Existenz is introduced, but before it can get started, itscreator (Jennifer Jason Leigh) is attacked by a malcontent orperhaps conspirator. She and an employee (Jude Law) take offand hide, while she tries to introduce her new employee to thegame to save her biopod. What they encounter along the way issuch a mixture of reality and game that neither we nor they can tellthe difference, which is pretty much the point of the film. In fact,when Law's character at one point complains that the game lacksrules, structure, and sense, Leigh's character replies that it notonly sounds like her, it sounds like reality. It's obvious the filmattempted to keep a low budget (although incomprehensibly,Willem Dafoe is used to play a relatively minor character), andthere's probably more emphasis on slime than necessary tomask the lack of more spectacular effects. Nonetheless the film isentertaining and at least lightly thought-provoking, even if thetheme is not all that original. "},{"Title":"Mindless claptrap. Good premise. Bad execution.","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ is a movie that wants to be good because it has an exciting premise, albeit a theme that has been done to death - Virtual reality. However it fails miserably to deliver for a number of reasons, not least of which is a poor script.As a filmmaker myself, I know all too well how much hard work goes into these things. You only have to look at the extras and watch all the work that goes into production design to realize this (which does happen to be the best contribution to eXistenZ, by the way). But just because a lot of hard work goes into something doesn't make it good.Some comments on here marvel at Jude Law's performance in this, but I've seen a lot of his work and this is by far his most wooden. I almost had to cover my eyes when he stepped into the virtual reality world for the first time. He, with co-star Jennifer Jason Leigh, stumble around and converse like a couple of school kids. I grant Mr Law a reprieve solely due to the material he had to work with.I can also deal with blood and gore reasonably well, I have no problem with it. But this movie seemed to relish in gore for gore's sake. I also found the many saliva-lubricated-fingers-into-bioports a bit sexually charged for this type of movie, particularly since Mr Law's tongue also gets a bit of action (and said bioport is only three or four inches above... Well, you can guess).Perhaps it was a mistake watching this in the same evening as Pier Paolo Pasolini's Mamma Roma because I found eXistenZ somewhat lacking in that which draws me to a movie... Having a soul. eXistenZ appears to fumble along with no real aim or directive and there was nothing of substance about it because we didn't care about what happened to the characters in the VR world. I expected more from Cronenberg whose Fly and Naked Lunch seemed to have much more vision and credibility.I do like your work, David, but you can do much better than this.3/10  "},{"Title":"Too predictable, but great style","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Since TOTAL RECALL and MATRIX, we can easily predict the surprises (Wow ? Was it real or not ?) of movies talking about virtual reality.<SPOILERS> As soon as I saw the little two-head monsters at the gas station, I knew that all the story was a dream. And like it has been said  Because the movie takes place in a game, we don't really care about what's going on.. I agree. Even the last surprise was predictable.The only unpredictable thing is Cronenberg style. Bad taste, ugly eroticism, and so on. At each seconds I asked to myself  what hell Cronenberg will find to surprise us ?. I was not disappointed on that.But I was in hope of a better story. In that movie, virtual reality is again (one more time) a Doomlike arcade game (bang bang you're dead !). I'm waiting for a movie which would talk us about virtual reality without gunfights (more like BRAINSTORM by Trumbull for instance).In two words  Too classical story, but unusual and great directing. Well, it's not bad. 7/10.  "}{"Title":"thrilling!","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie takes place in a real-fantasy-game-world. -A weird and dangerous place, but much to interesting to leave...And you connect to it with your own body...A bio-port installed in your spine.This compelling world is a little skizophrenic at times, but leaves you and your fellow movie-watchers with lots to talk about! It can be a little bit difficult to follow, but it is a movie that you can watch twice, without it getting any worse. In fact anyone who likes computer games a little more than what's usual, should take the time to see this movie. Intelligent and philosophic...and action-packed, all in one... Fantastic!I was totally captured by this film from the very beginning!  "},{"Title":"Good Fun Film","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I quite like this film, interesting script, good actors, I really liked Jennifer Jason Leigh. It was fun, however, just as a warning to those contemplating seeing it, it is not an intellectual work out, the story spells itself out requiring little help from the viewer. (Spoilers Ahead) I loved the way it used video games to inform its sets, especially the Country Gas Station with Gas as the mechanic, that had me chuckling. I suppose the best way is to not look at this as a Sci Fi flick and instead look at it as an outgrowth of the kind of thing Cronenberg started with Naked Lunch. Definitely a good way to spend an evening or a slow Sunday Morning "},{"Title":"Bad, but with some cool creature effects.","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  * star out of ****.I thought this was a pretty disappointing film. The plot was silly and has been used before, the gore was over-the-top, the script was no better.However, there are some cool special effects for the various monsters featured in the film, neat-looking creature designs, and nifty monsters. That's the only redeeming factor in this violent, mindless mess. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Boring. It did not happen very much and I was not very intrigued. A bad Virtual Reality-film - the same story and questions as usual interpreted in an uninteresting way. It tried to be a bit mystical in a what is reality?-way but ended with a yawn instead of further thoughts. "},{"Title":"lame.... as","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  don't tell students of philosophy or descartian theory to see this film thinking that they will thank you for it...it is lame, self-referential and uninspired... original in some ways, but none that really countmany other movies that better examine the idea of alternate realities "},{"Title":"Ultimately, a tame and marginally imaginative film.","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ - the title is the most imaginative part of this film. Before I reveal spoilers, below, let me say to all. If you don't watch the entire film, and see the revelations in the last scene, then you don't know anything about the story. It is one of those kinds of films, that uses a gimmick at the end to explain everything. Many reviewers didn't watch the whole film, so thier comments are ridiculous.SPOILERS - Do not read any further if you have not seen the film yet. The film starts with what appears to be a command performance by new virtual reality game inventor Allegra Geller (Jennifer Jason Leigh), who is going to personally bioport a group of 12 volunteers into her new game.  When she walks the very first time, we see what appears to be jerky movements, our first clue that we may not be watching reality. Then, an audience member has smuggled in a gun, made of bone and gristle, and that shoots teeth. Second indication that we may not be watching reality. And, when Ted Pikul (Jude Law, in a pickle?) carries and drives away Allegra after she is shot, they meet a man named Gas (Willem Dafoe) at a station and see a two-headed creature crawl up the gas pump, and we now are positive that what we are seeing is not supposed to represent reality. That Gas installs Ted's new bioport with a dirty mechanic's tool is just to further convince the duller viewers that they are already in the virtual reality game.In the end, we see that Allegra was not really a game inventor, simply a participant, as was her accomplist, Ted. We see that the biopods were inventions of their imagination, they are wearing more conventional plastic and electrical gaming appliances. We learn conclusively that at the start of the film, we see participants after they had already begun the game. The bioports, the gristle guns, the strange creatures, were all creations of their imaginations within the game. When it ends, Allegra and Ted really do shoot the real game inventor.An interesting film, but it has to use the gimmick. If we had known for sure who was who at the beginning, it would have been a pretty dull movie. The only interesting part is that it makes us guess what is going on. And, if Ted and Allegra really wanted to kill the game inventor, did they really have to experience the game first? I think not, but it would have been a 5-minute film otherwise.Conclusion - an interesting experiment, and fairly entertaining, but nowhere near as innovative as Sci-Fi films like Back To The Future or The Matrix, just to name a couple.  "},{"Title":"Twisted reality done right","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In the post-Matrix world, where a sci-fi question both as sublime and compelling as What is reality? inspires not a well-written science fiction story but the banality of Keanu Reeves jumping through the air and firing off slow-mo bullets at refugees from some MIB spookshow, a movie like eXistenZ is remarkably refreshing.The story involves highly popular immersive virtual games which almost perfectly simulate reality, and whose existence is opposed by violent reactionaries who believe that it distorts reality. The newest of these games is called eXistenZ. The twist in eXistenZ is that the story of the game involves a highly popular immersive virtual game which almost perfectly simulates reality, and whose existence is opposed by violent reactionaries who believe that it distorts reality.Cronenberg essentially creates simulations inside of simualtions, and lets us feel the mounting paranoia of not knowing where the real world ends. The transitions between various levels of reality in the film are so frought with uncertainty that our trust in the fake world versus the real world completely dissolves... we feel more comfortable seeing the characters in the game-world, because there, at least, we know for sure that their surroundings are simulated. That Cronenberg can make us distrust the real world by dint of its authenticity speaks volumes he is trying to mess with our heads, and it is working wonderfully.The usual wonderful Cronenberg stylistic touches are here, most notably his characteristic love of biomechanical items the video game system which is itself a living thing, the cell phone that looks like a glowworm, the gun that shoots teeth. Jennifer Jason Leigh is magnificent in her perverse repulsion from the real; Jude Law is excellent as the clueless little real-world man out of his depth; Willem DaFoe, as always, has freaky teeth.The close of the movie is one that is both wonderfully haunting and gleefully tricksterish. If you find yourself glancing around hoping for something to unplug yourself from, you will find yourself out of luck... "},{"Title":"BRrrrrrr","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is playing at dutch television at the moment that I am writing this. After 50 minutes I have to say that this is one of the worst films I have ever seen. The story so far is so strange and makes no sense at all. Ehmm who wants to play a game(!) where you have to be BIO-PORTED to get in? Have a large thing shooted in your back?? And this VR game is made by a supermodel pfffff...c'mon people this story is just sooo bad. The casting is bad, very very very bad...brrrrIts a new technology they say in the beginning of the movie, no one may know about it because it's worth lots of money was said. Later on in the movie everyone knows about the game!? Even people say the game has changed there lives but the game was just going to be beta-tested in the beginning?? Strangeee Strangeeeee! The beta testers from the beginning where they BIO-PORTED to?? 12 people where chosen to test the game so all the other people where BIO-PORTED for nothing????? And this kind of faults in the story go on the whole movie.. (it has not ended yet,.. but I am not going to look any longer)  "},{"Title":"How bad is THIS!!","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought THE MATRIX was great.  I even thought THE THIRTEENTH FLOOR (1999) was ok.  Less recently, I have been impressed with films like BRAINSTORM, etc...  But such a blatant ripoff as eXistenZ should at least have something to make it interesting.  Okay, it starts off well enough, I'll grant that...but it rapidly falls into meandering, meaningless drivel as it loses itself in its own storyline.  What was there to like about this film?  I notice this one gets an average of 6.8/10 from over 3000 voters...there must be something I missed!!  Or maybe it's the other way round...CUT (2000) only got 4.3/10, and INCIDENT AT RAVEN'S GATE 4.1 I would give both these films at least 6. EXISTENZ gets 4, at the very most. "},{"Title":"A Clever Masterpiece, must better than the Matrix!","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In my view, this film is much better than the similar Matrix, most people who have seen this film have only seen it after seeing the Matrix and so believe its copied it but I on the other hand saw this film on the TV even before seeing the Matirx which I watched recently.As the critics say, this film makes the Matrix look like child's play. The amount of thought that has gone into this film is vast and the huge twist at the end of the film finishes it off well. Its just a shame that this amazing film was over-shadowed by its more popular choice The Matrix which although was good, didnt keep me talking about it after it finished! A true classic! A must see! "}{"Title":"A one trick pony","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You don't need to make reference to the M word to find fault in this film. You don't even have to chastise it for not using state-of-the-art effects.You can, however, berate this movie for being completely hollow. Once you know it's about a computer game which mimics reality, you can be pretty sure it's going to feature some sort of hey, is this real or part of the game? shenanigans. But who could have predicted that's ALL the film would offer?I glanced at my watch just the the main characters were starting to play the game. Finally, I thought, we're just getting started!. The film was 2/3 of the way through. All I had to look forward to was 30 minutes of Hey, is this real or part of the game?tHanK gOd mY oWn eXistenZ iZ mOre enTerTaininG  "},{"Title":"Making a film confusing does not make it the Matrix...","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Nor does it make it good.  I really do not think that the cover boxes for eXistenZ should have compared it to The Matrix, since it doesn't come close to that.  The confusion level is high...the confusion made the film enjoyable at first, but there were just too many twists or non-twists to really care about it at the end, and there was no framework laid upon which to base the situations. And if this film depicted this actual, advanced video game, I'm probably going to stick with Battlezone for my fun, since the game in the movie (or the movie in the game) was just plain boring. "},{"Title":"When is a game not a game? When it's reality.","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When is reality not reality? When it's a game. eXistenZ is a terrestrial science fantasy flick which can be described as a 2-D Mobius strip with one side being reality and the other virtual reality. This dark and plodding film gets off to a slow start, grows interesting in the middle (for those who are interested in this stuff), then collapses with a predictable conclusion. In general the film is an earnest effort though the story makes no meaningful human connection and the audience is taken on an abstract voyeuristic comic-book ride through what mature adults may regard as cinematic drivel and what teenagers and sci-fi junkies may regard as fascinating substance. "},{"Title":"Not better than a good x-files or star trek episode","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know if it's just me but when I saw eXistenZ I felt as though it should have been on TV not on the big screen. The acting was very average and the storyline a bit dated (even though some of these outdated concepts belong to Mr Cronenberg). Some of the creatures were nice and there was a lot of disgusting visuals going on to keep it fun but I'd have to recommend The Matrix over this one if you are after an alternate reality sci-fi experience. eXistenZ was okay but I think more should be expected from someone as talented as Cronenberg. "},{"Title":"Weak, really","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw eXistenZ on the reputation of its director as a fairly intelligent shockmeister/schlockmeister, who can make a pretty thoughtful film on occasion. I haven't seen much of his other stuff, however (I've seen *The Fly* and *Crash*, but I was unable to give either of them my full attention at the time, and one or two of his acting gigs, if these count), and thus came into this with relatively few expectations or preconceptions.The verdict I was entirely unimpressed with eXistenZ. It came across as uninspired, tedious, unremarkable. I remember it as a generic, monotonous little B-grade sci-fi picture with nothing much to recommend it.Now I like to think I have more than a little affinity for odd little films meant to make you think. I used to read science fiction/speculative fiction voraciously in my teens, and the basic question driving this film -- *the* epistemological quandary -- how do we know what is real, and how well do we know -- has always held some fascination for me, as I expect it does a great many people. The ramifications for technology in accentuating alienation in human society are also, normally good, fertile ground for intriguing drama. I'd have thought prior to seeing this work that you couldn't easily make a film on either subject (let alone both) and not leave me with *something* about it I appreciated.eXistenZ demonstrated otherwise.It's partly, I'm supposing, the rather cold, kinetic style of the thing. It's really one long chase scene, and you never really get to know the two central characters. Beyond this, their interplay is workmanlike, unremarkable, unrevealing. I found it pretty hard to believe the actors in their respective roles, so it's hard to care at any point what happens to them.The writing was flat, uninteresting. Excessive reliance on the same, rather overused devices; yes, we get it, it's hard to tell in this virtual reality world what's real, what isn't. Oh look, a plot twist, based on this conundrum. I'm pretty sure I've seen that one once or twice before. Oh, and another plot twist. I think I've seen that one too -- and actually all of five minutes ago, in this very movie. The attempts at dark humour aren't entirely unfunny, but seem to labour under pretense; they sound forced. The denouement is worse than merely cliche; I literally groaned (yes, out loud) at the last line.If I'm allowed a little dimestore psychoanalysis, I rather wonder if it was something about Cronenberg's awareness that the concept was getting a bit overused/overdone that lead to the real trouble here. At some point, Cronenberg got to thinking, okay, this story's been done a few times. How can I give it a twist, keep it interesting? So he twists, and he twists, and he twists, and it all just winds up... well, really kinda shapeless.I'm suspending judgement for now on Cronenberg himself, for lack of having really properly watched any of his better-known pictures as yet, but as to eXistenZ, my vote is skip this one. "},{"Title":"Later reasons no excuse for first hour of annoyance","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Rather mild spoilers...The film starts off excessively bad -- the lighting is bad, the main characters don't look good (JL's hair is ghastly, so is JJL's makeup, or lack thereof), and JJL's performance seems limited to repeated incantations of, Hey marketing guy who I won't even address by first name, aren't you my bestest friend ever?  You'll let us drill a hole into your spine so we check up on my multi-million dollar game that I was stupid enough not to make backups of, right? Not to mention that once they enter the game she herself designed, she seems to be surprised by every single thing in it. The game itself is unspeakably crappy and railroads its characters more than early adventure games do -- would you care to play a game that makes the decision who you have sex with for you? Does it get any better? Well, people shoot tooth-bullets out of fishbone-guns (What's the charge, or does everyone have explosive teeth in the future?), so you be the judge. Admittedly, apologies/reasons for some of these shortcomings will be given later on, but that won't change the fact that you'll likely spend one hour thinking, wow, I didn't know movies could be this bad.In other words, if you don't expect movie-length entertainment for your money, but are quite content with a two-second pseudo-surprise, by all means go for it. Be warned though that neither is the surprise terribly original by today's standards, nor do other movies seem to have comparable trouble keeping the hour(s) leading up to the big surprise entertaining.On a side-note, yes, the gun looked fancy (but if even the director dwells on it like it were the movie's only redeeming feature, that should be warning enough), and the gore was semi-amusing if badly done -- maybe it comes out better on the big screen.Lastly, all the immersion and addiction depicted can be had /today/ if one is any good with words -- just log onto a MUSH of your choice... "},{"Title":"...zzzz.. huh?  what?  who?","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In order to convey my true feelings about this movie, i feel the need to quote someone else for just a brief moment..When I watched this movie, something odd happened. Almost half of the audience remained seated after the film was over. For at least two minutes a lot of people were temporarily paralysed. A movie which can make you react like this, deserves a ten.Did anyone check for a pulse?????  Were they awake, let alone alive???  Did they not die of boredom?Attack of the Killer Tomatoes was definitely more entertaining. "},{"Title":"This film is the one I mention when...","Date":"3 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ... I want to give an example of a truly rotten film.It's is the only film where I was tempted to walk out halfway through. By the end wished I had.People say it is original. It isn't. It's a direct rip-off of Videodrome and there's not a single original idea in there Or at least not one that was worth having.I could imagine Blair Witch Project being worse, but since I haven't seen that, eXistenZ ranks as the worst film I have ever seen. By some distance.Am I up to 10 lines yet? Because I'll just start getting rude if I have to talk about this film any more. "},{"Title":"More a nightmare than a virtual game.","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Not meant pejoratively.Generally I do not go much for the Cronenberg stuff.I hated crash (and James Spader)the brood ( in spite  of OLiver Reed)Scanners or the naked lunch.The less pretentious works are more my cup of teathe fly was a commendable remake which did not betray George Langelaan ,the dead zone had Christopher Walken and dead ringers had J.Irons and G.Bujold.What's amazing in the 1999 movie is the contrast between what seems to be a high technology and the archaism of the settings.The film begins in some kind of lousy village ball (this recalls sometimes Richard Brook's Elmer Gantry)And what follows does nothing to change this first impression.The gas station attendant (well played by W.Dafoe) and his garage are simply impossible and it reminds me some of my nightmares in which reality is slightly altered,but enough to make you shiver..Dafoe's operation is at once grotesque,cruel and unusualbut in a nightmare we admit it,we are not surprised even if we fear it. The same goes for the trout farm or the restaurant,which are close to reality,with some dissonant noteseverything seems old and dusty,the work Law is doing is disgusting,so is food,but nobody seems to care.And ,like in a nightmare,there are escapes some scenes on location are a relief before we discover that even in the purest cool clear water,monsters run rampant.The script is not very clear but the atmosphere makes up for it,and I'd rather put existenz among the good Cronenberg. "},{"Title":"Wow, this really, really sucks!!!!!!","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the absolutely worst movies I have ever seen! Bad effects, bad actors, bad story.....everything is bad!!!! God, I really hated this movie! The poster says The new Matrix! I say If this is Matrix....where´s the cool effects, the cool story and the decent actors.I have one advice for you all! If you´re over 14 years old, have at least a half functional brain and do not like movies or things that make you want to throw up.....THEN DON´T SEE THIS MOVIE!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"Are you kidding?","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A crappy movie and a boring concept. The movie is clearly intended to constantly keep the viewer speculating Is this real but you really just don't care. The actors deliver such a terrible performance that I haven't seen anything like it since House of the Dead, and that's saying a lot. The virtual reality theme has been done before, but NEVER this lame. I get the whole Escape from real life to an alternate reality with a soulless predefined destiny is bad mm'kay message, but the fact of the matter is that watching this movie is about as much fun as falling off your bike. Don't waste a Tuesday evening on this movie. Do the dishes instead. That will be more rewarding.And the poking in the holes in their backs is really, really gay. "},{"Title":"Potential, but little more","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" eXistenZ is a peculiar sci-fi thriller from David Cronenberg, the man behind the classic Scanners and The Fly. I put thriller in quotes because this movie is not very thrilling at all.The film focuses on Alegra Gellar, an ace game designer, and Ted Pikul, her nerd-turned-bodyguard due to recent attempts on her life. The film deals with a subject that was also dealt with in another film that came out in the same year, The Matrix-namely, alternate/virtual reality vs real life. Alegra and Ted decide to port into her new video game(whose pod looks like a stomach with five nipples) to see if it has been damaged. What follows is a journey that is as confusing as it is useless.The theme is prevalent throughout the film. The characters, especially Pikul, are nervous about integrating themselves into the game. The game is essentially a glorified version of The Sims, only with adaptation capabilities. The game is so realistic, however, that it's hard to distinguish real life from the game. There is little semblance of plot throughout the film, however, because the plot of the game is a non-plot. As Allegra says it, You have to play the game to realize what your playing for, or something like that. The two just meander around doing what they suppose the game is directing them to do.I suppose this is an idea film. All the film does is state an idea, and add some sci-fi gloss, and try to pass it off as cinema. It's boring and tedious, with little action or thrilling moments. Essentially, the film is one of those pictures that is a picture of a picture. Then that picture also has a picture, and so on and so on. The whole film is the equivalent of some guy sitting in his room wondering if life is real.Cronenberg could have had a gem here, only if he had gone past the idea stage and put more effort into a larger scale plot and character development. Much like Shyamalan's The Village, all this movie is wasted potential. "},{"Title":"Like a bad nightmare","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I like this movie a lot, watching it feels just like experiencing a bad nightmare. I was fascinated how it went great lengths to create grotesque creatures and environments, although it could be repulsive, it's still a fun adventure, like playing with worms with your friend as a kid. Strictly speaking, the film is a computer game satire, but to me, I love this film because it's like a study of dream landscape and the appeal of nightmares. Really frightening, embarassingly erotic, ridiculous, and unable to wake up---a complete nightmare.  I guess i was dissapointed at the ending when I was first watching it because I expected a grand and awesome resolution, possibly positive, but I forgive it now. This film is much more entertaining than many of David Cronenberg's films. "},{"Title":"eXistenZ, Why, and See!!!","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This could've been so much better, if the pacing of the film was tighter.  It had such a great premise, using JJL as a video game superstar of the future.  But her acting was so wooden and bland - unbelievably!  Although, Willem Defoe's cameo is excellent, a great cast was underused, Ian Holm especially.    It could've been as good as the remake of Invasion of the Bodysnatchers, if the scary tension was built up a bit more, but ol' Dave has let us down methinks, the way John Carpenter has done so often recently.Still worth a look though, as JJL has never looked so gorgeous in a movie to my knowledge. "},{"Title":"Enemies of Reality","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You can look at this movie against 'the Matrix' in the simple realm of style versus substance.'The Matrix' is all stolen style.  The trench coats and slow-motion are John Woo's.  The judo is Bruce Lee's.  The color scheme from Jean-Pierre Jeunet.  The plot stems from Schwarzenegger movies.  It's 'Alice in Wonderland' with guns.This is your only spoiler warning...If Cronenberg had the same budget allowance of the simple-minded Wachowskis then eXistenZ could have been the science fiction piece of the 90s.  He does what he cans and masks the gaps in the productions values with the script.The depth is great.  There is the reality => tranCendenZ reality => eXistenZ reality => micropod reality and it almost gets to a fifth concrete level of the diseased pod, but halts before that can happen.Granted, part of the story is 'Total Recall', but the pacing and reality is more efficient than Verhoeven's adolescent load of bullets and blood.  The characters can't control themselves and are bound to scripts and code words.  Glitches abound.  Some of the most absurd biology I've ever seen has been concocted for this movie.Overall, this is not a science morality play.  It has substance.Final Analysis = = Learn from this... "},{"Title":"decent Sci-Fi flick","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say, I ended up seeing this movie by chance. The DVD was suddenly giving to me by a friend of mine and the only thing I knew was that it was about some kind of a computer game. I wasn't even sire that I wanted to see it since I had never heard of it prior to that, but after going through some of the reviews a decided to give it a try.I don't think that there is a way to explain in a few sentences what eXistenZ is about and even if I could I don't think that will do the reader of this review any justice for the story of this movie is open to different interpretations. When does the game end or does it end at all is somewhat unclear. What I like to point out here is the magnificent play by Jude Law; I would go even as far as saying that he played too good for the purpose of this movie. Looking in retrospective-from the final twist backward-we could conclude that he acted into his own act, a role into his role. I don't know whether I make myself clear, but he was more of an actor in this movie than the character he was supposed to play. Whatever.The movie took off very strong up to the moment the Law's character paused the game. From that moment on the film lost its inertia and tension. Overall, I would say I liked the movie. Recommended. Between 7 and 7.5 stars out of 10.  "},{"Title":"An overlooked and thoughtful work","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film was probably the most underrated and overlooked film of the year it was released.  While many filmgoers of that year were in awe over the special effects, action and inconsistencies of The Matrix, another, more personal (and interesting) exploration of virtual worlds took place in Cronenberg's eXistenZ. While there is some familiar ground that he had explored in Videodrome Cronenberg creates a wonderful companion piece.  In the same era of computers that are designed to look more organic and softer (see the iMac of that year) Cronenberg's eXistenZ game system looks like a cross between a Playstation and genitalia, mobile phones that resemble seed pods, and a true umbilical cord between the game system and a users spine.  Although a substantial part of the story takes place in a virtual realm, Cronenberg also comments on the zealousness of the software industry and shifting allegiances that ignore authorship.  While the grotesquerie that makes up a lot of Cronenberg's imagery may turn some away keep in mind that this film was made with the same deliberation that it asks of its audience. "},{"Title":"Standard existentialist sci-fi fare","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Not an exceptional effort from Cronenberg, who is actually a director capable of much better movies than this one.  The stars are not the problem; I was actually very amused by Dafoe's performance as a regular guy doing a damn good job ACTING like a psycho killer in the context of the film's virtual reality game.  However, the plot does not hold as many twists as it seems to want to have, and as far as I could tell there's nothing here to make us like any of the main characters or to care what happens to them.  The existentialist sci-fi ideas it recycles can only be recycled once per generation (a la The Matrix), so eXistenZ strikes out here as well. Cronenberg would be better off mining some new ideas, rather than hanging around his stomping ground. "},{"Title":"XML nesting problem","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Possible spoiler; gives away the shape of the plotAt the start of this film I was all fired up about the icky, squidgy special effects and the idea of playing with levels of reality.By halfway through I was giggling at the icky, squidgy special effects and getting fed up with the paucity of the game-within-the-film. I've had far more fun watching my housemate play Tomb Raider. Somehow, this one just didn't engage my interest.By the end of the film I was still giggling, but had had enough. Are we or aren't we? endings get on my nerves. I spend my working life keeping XML and HTML well-formed, so running the compiler and placing the missing tag (so to speak) was just one more piece of debugging.A good laugh if you've had enough beer not to think too hard. "},{"Title":"Horrible, no good, very bad movie.","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The video box claims, Better than The Matrix!  It's right, except for the better part.  Two hours of meandering, pedestrian fluff are lowlights, with the only plot devices consisting of high-tech spinal taps, denture cannons, and Jude Law acting nervous.  Pile on as many techie neologisms as you want; it's still just one big, steaming pile. "}{"Title":"predictable and gory","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  yea yea i get the moral but way too gory and blahblahblah terrible Jennifer Jason Leigh was great but incredibly needy and although fitting to her character it made me not like it at all yukyukuyuk I would not recommend it and think that it is not even nearly as good as the matrix like it claims to be "},{"Title":"Bad, Boring, Bulls***","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is THE most boring, and timewasting piece of garbage that has ever come thru my retina! What the heck was I thinking when I rented this movie!? Makes The Matrix look like childsplay! was one comment on the box....Wilder than The Matrix was another...I wouldn't even put those two in the same category! The Matrix is a kick-ass film with good special effects, good story, and everything you'd want from an action-movie! But eXistenZ???? NO, STOP and DON'T rent this movie PLEASE! The actors are bad, story is boring, the special effects are just not there and I didn't flinch once, no suspense, no action...I was just waiting for it to get better, which it did NOT!On a scale from 1 - 10, I give this a -10 .... simply because it sucks! The money I spent on it may come back .... but the time I wasted watching it will NEVER be!Oh the humanity.... "},{"Title":"Good idea, badly worked out.","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The idea behind this movie was good, it takes the Matrix and thirteenth floor theme from a completely different perspective.What a bad surprise you get than when you go and see the movie. Bad acting performances, a plot that is WAY too complicated to be realistic. To me seein this movie was a desillusion. Therefor I am now waiting for a director or playwriter who can take this theme, which on itself is excellent, to a higher level. I rate this movie 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A brilliant idea with a bad implementation","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although the idea for the plot development is very original, the film makers have shown too many unnecessary gruesome details that don't seem to add value, and rather distract from the main line. I believe that a similar set up could be exploited with a bit less unpleasant photography without lessening the focus. "},{"Title":"2/10","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ must be the worst piece of junk I have ever seen. I have been a fan of Cronenberg for several years now, so I was very exited to hear about this new sci-fi-flick. The cover says 'Makes THE MATRIX look like child's play'. I spend a lot of time afterwards figuring out, how these two movies could ever be compared. I never came up with any solution. None of the actors seems to do much of a job. Especially Willem Dafoe is a disappointment. A predictable and boring story doesn't make my rating any better either. "},{"Title":"It was really quite terrible.","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I loved the Matrix...I saw very few similarities between these two movies. Talk about a rip-off! Maybe people who just like Cronenberg movies might like it, I guess...but I could see NO REDEEMING VALUE to it. A horrific attempt at a modern movie. If I am not mistaken...the only special effect I saw in the movie was this really stupid-looking two-headed insect-mutant-thing, which had no plot value. Poor acting, poor writing, poor (sorry to say) directing...just plain poor. Please don't waste one dollar on this movie (okay, you can spend 1 Lira, but that's it...or maybe 1 Peso). "},{"Title":"Pure c**p.","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't like the film.  The good idea was totally ruined with amateur acting and mindless plot.  All the great special effects were light years from any movie of the 90's.  This movie had been cool if it was made in the beginning of the 80's.  All the scenes were like the movie was filmed in a small studio with a budget of $100.  I don't recommend to anyone. "},{"Title":"Post-modern fatigue.","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  David Cronenberg does David Cronenberg.  Again.  At least there's a plot this time, picaresque/road movie, which gives the film a stuttering momentum in between talking jags.  Iconoclastic in dowdifying the previously impregnable Jude Law; reality/illusion, man/machine, computer freedom/control dialectics rarely stray from well-trodden ; profusion of possibilities in this case means we care about none.  The film could be subtitled 'Death of the Author' - our director is still hesitating on the trigger (artistically speaking!! Of course). "},{"Title":"uneven thriller with an almost redemptive ending","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  David Cronenberg's eXistenZ  is one of those films that falters badly during much of its running time, but which redeems itself with a cleverly revelatory ending that explains and justifies some of the seeming nonsense that has come before it.Joining an increasingly long list of thrillers dealing with the concept of virtual reality, this latest Cronenberg effort raises an increasingly disturbing question  will cyber reality ever advance to the stage where it becomes indistinguishable from true reality?  In an earlier time, this theme usually developed along the lines of dream vs. conscious reality, wherein characters would become caught in dreams within dreams with the hapless victim ultimately left in a state of perpetual confusion and desperation.  Now, this theme has moved into the realm of cyber reality (i.e. The Matrix) but the essential question still remains - only now the issue is a more complex one because, unlike dreams which exist beyond the control of the dreamer, cyber reality is a conscious outgrowth of mankind's quest for ever increasing technology, employed in the purpose of achieving more leisure time gratification.  Soon, novels and movies will become passe as ordinary citizens take on the virtual reality roles of daredevil adventurers or irresistable romantic heroes.  In many ways, this theme was touched upon as long ago as 1983 in the film Brainstorm, which, in retrospect, seems to become more and more prescient in its view of a world laying just a few decades down the road.Unfortunately, eXistenZ works mostly in retrospect itself.  Too much of the film borders on the ludicrous and incomprehensible and Cronenberg needs to begin to shed his junior high level obsession with goop and gore. However, when the reality of the film is finally revealled, much of what has occured previously begins to seem justified and the audience does leave the film with some food for thought.  Also, Cronenberg continues to explore the motif of bizarre sexuality he exploited to the full in his last film, Crash.  Here, sex is as simulated as all other virtual reality activities, with the computer game plug-ins and receptors functioning as substitutes for the more traditional sexual organs.eXistenZ may provoke more giggles than gasps during much of its running time, but it is a film worth sticking with to its rewarding conclusion. "},{"Title":"Supplemental (I might be taking this personally when perhaps I shouldn't, but anyway...)","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't follow the rationale that says that a film that has only adequate direction and okay acting and then gives it 3 out of 5. I agree that Willem Dafoe gives one of the better performances, but you cannot hang a movie around one role, and one that is effectively a cameo at that. The sexual innuendo is puerile and lends the whole thing the air of a grubby schoolboy fantasy, somewhat like the Bored of the Rings spoof computer role playing game in the 80s. That seems to be the best explanation for JJL and Jude Law's sudden outbreak of lust during the film; that they satisfy some pubescent urge, rather than adding to or advancing the film and its narrative. The film is not misleading or confusing; it's simply very badly structured and the ending predictable and unsatisfying. It doesn't challenge the intellect; rather it insults it.I've seen a lot of Cronenberg's earlier work and at times this seems like a pastiche, when I had expected considerably better things of him.The themes of technology, reality versus fantasy and the loss of identity are rich for exploration in film (perhaps the most efficient warping of reality), and the subject of many a paranoia, but they have not been well served by this film.Dark City was dark and twisted but that managed not to alienate and irritate its audience. Even The Truman Show managed a better stab at the topic than our Canadian auteur. For a better consideration of these themes then I would suggest consulting the works of Philip K. Dick and for a better directed version than The Matrix, which has just opened in the UK. Oh, and if I choose to use the term 'suckfest' then it is because I consider that the movie deserves such a low colloquialism. "}{"Title":"Dire","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cronenberg did make a good film, once. The low-budget, stark 'Shivers' was a chilling, insidious examination of the fear of bodily infection, and the paranoia of enclosed groups.Rather than take his obvious talents into the mainstream, however, as others have done (principally David Lynch), Cronenberg appears to have preferred to indulge himself in his obsessions. The results have been disappointing ever since.eXistenZ has all the trademarks of Cronenberg's oeuvre a script which alternates between cliche and non sequitur; a jerky narrative which never plays fair with the viewer (does anyone else remember how atrociously edited 'Scanners' is?); English actors doing funny voices (particularly badly on this occasion); less than wonderful SFX; dreary sets; and emetic content, which seems designed purely for the sake of being emetic.Jude Law performs very well in this one, giving his character a rounded dimension which the film doesn't deserve. Jennifer Jason Leigh is on another planet at the best of times, but seems especially unengaging here. And I was embarrassed for Ian Holm, one of our best character actors.The only thing that makes eXistenZ barely watchable is the comedy, which is why I'm pushing it up to 3 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"The Matrix on the cheap","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was the second movie I've ever almost walked out on...  If you're into low-budget, B-movie effects and a plot with more holes than a pasta strainer, this movie's for you.  Otherwise, try the brilliant _The Matrix_ which takes the same philosophical ideas and does them really well for the first time, as far as I know. "},{"Title":"Too confusing","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Only six of us were in the movie theater at the time, and we all agreed it was the worst movie we had ever seen.  Its far too jumpy, too complicated, and the 'twist' at the end isn't even worth waiting for.Really disapointing.  I should have left half way through. "},{"Title":"game designer escaping from Realists out to kill those who warp reality","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Awful, particularly being released so soon after the Matrix.  The blood and organs were just for Cronenberg's obsession with anatomy and does nothing to further the weak plot. Low production value, weak story, weak sets, weak acting, contrived.  "},{"Title":"sUckY","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ridiculous.  What a grotesquely stupid movie.  It's so stupid.  It's like a bad episode of Star Trek voyager.  It's just so stupid.  What a ridiculous and stupid movie. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What a lousy movie. I never cared a whit about the main characters, so nothing that happened to them was interesting. Nevermind that it was completely predictable. Ack! "},{"Title":"Create a shitty movie, then compare it with the best of the best ...","Date":"3 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Create a shitty movie, then compare it with the best of the best, and perhaps it gets a decent review? No this has nothing to do with Matrix, absolutely nothing. Im really, really amazed that this junk movie gets like this one gets a IMDb-rating of almost 7, far better then movie Alexander by Oliver Stone!Has the incidence of brain tumours risen dramatically amongst IMDb-users or how can this discrepance even exist? Sure my taste may be different, but this is ridiculous.And comparing this movie with the Matrix? What kind of sick joke is that! Matrix has it all, this movie has nothing! I repeat nothing. No acting, no story, no visual effects. Even Jude Law makes a at most mediocre act, his partner really awful act! Its all wrong.David Cronenberg made some really interesting movies in the past, and sure I'm all for that psychedelic gore, for instance i really liked Naked Lunch, but that movie had so much depth in comparison with this movie which had like .. nothing.Sorry to be this harsh but its needed to make a demonstration against this movies bad quality, in opposition to IMDb excellent score which is 6,8 at present. I will henceforth have a certain amount of doubt while taking IMDb-rating into consideration. "},{"Title":"Virtual reality or absence of reality?","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" An interesting science-fiction idea from writer-director David Cronenberg, working (perhaps a bit too exhaustively) to create a scenario which is built upon an abstract foundation, and then layering it with various states of virtual reality until the viewer doesn't know where he stands anymore. Jennifer Jason Leigh plays a hotshot game designer in the not-too-distant future whose organic game pods can be shared by any number of players, putting everyone involved in a combined state of suspended reality; Jude Law is a mild-mannered marketing trainee who becomes Leigh's companion in a violent adventure wherein assassins and bounty hunters want the lady dead. It is almost impossible to judge the film on any merit except its technical qualities, seeing as we in the audience never know what's real and what isn't. In this instance, Cronenberg goes too far in the splatter department, giving less attention to vital story detail in an attempt (one presumes) to create a slimy, squirting shocker (with a fetish for bodily penetration). Leigh and Law are an acceptable combination (and Leigh has never been sexier), but the movie's low-keyed tone is so stultified that some viewers may end up in their own dream state--unintentionally. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Good premise but bad implementation","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What can be said about this movie? Overall I didn't like this for two reasons1 - The pace of the film is really disturbing. It starts in a very interesting and introductory pace. You start to understand what is going on, the characters involved, and so on... But then as if there was no more time or money to make it a decent flic the pace feels like David Cronenberg was in a hurry for lunch. Everything just starts to get really fast-paced and rather ailing.....2 - Jude Law's interpretation is disappointing. Considering his work in other sci-fi films like Gattaca or AI (Brilliant interpretation) one can see that Cronenberg didn't take the most of this good and rather promising actor. It's a shame and tells us that a good actor sometimes commits the mistake of participating in a bad movie....Too bad such an interesting topic ends like this. I have the feeling that this topic in the hands of a director like Darren Aronofsky or maybe Riddley Scott (remember Bladerunner) would yield much better results and acclaim.... I gave it 4/10CheersMiguel  "},{"Title":"Clever Plot, But Did It Need To Be So Disgusting?","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  EXistenZ has a clever plot, as it mixes reality with game; the new main characters (Jeninifer Leigh and Jude Lo) are constantly moving within the two worlds, and the film cleverly plays with sudden changes of the viewer's perception of what it is true and what is not. Add that to the fact that the actors perform quite nicely, and the film looks that it would deserve a better grade than the 5/10 I have given it. So why is it so?The answer is simple Cronenberg has pulled together so many ugly and disgusting scenes (people eating things whose even their view is sufficient for someone to throw up, game pods that look like ugly organs-especially when they are being cut wide open, mutant reptiles that are Leigh's favorite pets, etc) that the film ends up becoming an unpleasant experience. In my opinion, if these unbelievably ugly elements of the film where not present, the movie would be a very interesting piece of work. Unfortunately, it isn't. "}{"Title":"One Big Bore","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I watched eXistenZ on network cable today, and i thought I'd give it a try, I did hear a few good things about it from some friends of mine a few years back.  I admit, I was drawn into the movie at the beginning. The idea of a group of people playing a virtual reality game in which the object is to FIND the object of the game, intrigued me.But that's where the fun stops.  Lo and behold, there is no object of the game.  Our fearless heroes wonder throughout the game, having no idea what to really do or where to go.  Sure, they get a mission here and now, but there is no clear objective or goal.  This is maddening for the viewer of the movie.But Jude Law and Jennifer Jason Leigh take it all in stride.  Both of their monotone conversations and lack of inspired acting make it seem that there is no real danger, and that they seem to know what the hell is going on. One will think that after unlayering mystery after mystery, that their true object would become clear at the end.  Alas, it doesn't, and leaves one to ask Why in the hell did I watch this?To put it plainly, there is no plot.  The idea of a game within a game within a game is intruiging, but after watching this movie it is a game I would never partake in.  Are these people insane?  How in the world would they think this game fun??  Why would somebody want to subject themselves to a game where they have to eat two headed lizards (even AFTER Jude Law says, This is disgusting, but I can't help myself!!)  What is wrong with these people?  And why would anybody in their right mind hook them selves into a VR maching that makes them question reality and their very own existence? Don't you think that would have a tendancy to mess with people heads? Wouldn't there be a law against it?I really do like movies with similar plots.  The Game, Tron, Mulholland Drive, the Matrix etc. . .This is definately the worst one of the genre. With the combination of uninspired acting, non-existing plot and nonsensical character motives, this movie gets (a very generous) 4. "},{"Title":"Worst of all","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There are movies in my lifetime that I actually left the movie theater since they so horrible. Existenz is one of them.So long, stupid, boring and totally off as far as entertainment. Give me 500 $ and a camera and for sure I could do better than that.I would even watch it again if someone would pay me to see this worst movie of all "},{"Title":"Waste of my own reality","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I wanted to enjoy this film but from the start was prevented from doing so due to unrealistic characters and plot development.  The game itself does not work as it needs to - many players networked together need to interact have make many choices, even if they don't know the nature of the game. This does not happen.Spoilers...Why carry the only new game pod around in a ski boot? The PR guy with a phobia to implants, suddenly decides to let a mechanic hot wire his spine. The game designer knows little of what the game is doing and she was only supposed to join the game to check if the pod was working ok. Not much testing going on when the game starts.The film tries to be clever but fails due to many unrealistic dialogues and character decisions.  In order for virtual reality to work the plot, characters and theme all have to work together.  This was just another game within a game rehash which completely fails to entertain.Final verdict  Boring and over manufactured - 2/10. "},{"Title":"ho hum","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I much preferred Virtuosity to Existenz.  Plot is okay, but the cameos made the movie. Look for Willem Dafoe, Christopher Eccleston (Shallow Grave, Jude, Elizabeth), and Ian Holm (Cornelius in The Fifth Element).  Worth looking into, but some parts are very graphic and slow. The box refers to it being much like the Matrix. Since I didn't like that, it's no surprise that I wasn't really blown away with Existenz. "},{"Title":"That´s it! I finally found the one movie","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie just HAS TO BE the WORST movie ever made. I thought Troll2 or Vanilla Sky is a bad movie but this just tops it easily on any level.The acting Jennifer Leigh is a non-actor in way that Captain Janeway-actor appears like Susan Sarandon compared to.The story It´s boring. Boring. Oh, did I mention BORING? No suspense at all. No pace at all. No setting, Nothing.The game oh, yeah. Would become a classic! Come home from work and just try to relax and play a game. And you will find yourself in factory ripping some sort of animal. EVERYBODY dreams of that! It´s like Myst but disgusting! They invented a game (not to mention a bioport that can be installed into your body in any gas station by a guy named Gas!) but they still drive around with cars from 1997.Stay away from this crap! You´ve been warned!Macaulay J. Connor 1/10 "},{"Title":"A cheap B-movie.","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had pretty high hopes for this movie, perhaps its therefor it dissapointed me so much.The idea of the movie is that virtual games, can get so real that its hard to tell differnce between a game and the real world.But the plot is thin and you can figure out the whole movie from the beginning, but before we get to the end of this B-movie, were taken on a absurd jorney without thrills and suspence just totally unsuspected turns that seem to have nothing in common with each other. The virtual vs real theme in the movie is totally missplaced with, boring gore effects ala 1985 lowbudget movies. As for the acting only william dafoe stands out, but his part in the film is small. So if youre not a hardcore David Cronenberg fan i advice you to stay away from this rubbish, wished ive had. "},{"Title":"cruel and unusual punishment","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I said I'd watch it and I did.  But I couldn't do it in one sitting. There is only so much cheap gratuitous gore one can take, especially when it's all accompanied by a plot that tries to be Deep and Important but comes across as non-sensical and pretentious at best.To be fair, the core idea is worthwhile, but what they did with it is, well... I want my tax dollars back.Much overrated.    "},{"Title":"Tries to be Matrix like, which is always a mistake","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Obviously I'm the only person on earth who thought The Matrix was a pile of cack.  It seems heresy to say such a thing in polite circles.This tries to be just like that in many ways, which is never going to impress me.Law and Leigh the actress of the B grade movie of the 1990s are good enough, and there are some believable performances from Defoe and the ever excellent Christopher Ecclestone, but this just doesn't make it.Leigh, as Allegra Gellar, star game designer, designs a new game that lets people escape from reality and people want to kill her for it.  The rest of the film you can actually work out from this sentence alone -- bad sign.OK, but not worth seeing again. "},{"Title":"like the matrix? - ha","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie because a friend told me that it was like The Matrix, but better.  After seeing the film - I can say that I have no clue what my friend was talking about.  The closest this movie gets to The Matrix is on the front of the box of the movie - which says 'makes The Matrix look like child's play'.  This is laughable at best.  If whoever said that was talking about the special effects then they are somewhat misguided as the effects in existenz are nowhere near as nice as those in The Matrix.  If they are talking about the story - then they are still wrong - I'll just say that there is a reason why people are not rating eXistenZ as highly as The Matrix.A better description of this movie would be that it is a cross between The Game and The Thirteenth Floor, however, both of these movies are much better than eXistenZ.  Why?  Well - the ending of eXistenZ is horrible and predictable.  If you've seen the other three movies I've mentioned - then the story and ending will not be a big surprise at all.I'm not saying that this movie is awful because it is similar to two other good movies (it is not very similar to the matrix), but rather is bad because it raises expectations that it is similar to a great movie - it is a let down as soon as you come to the understanding that it is not what it makes itself out to be.On the acting - Jude Law does a great job by duping you pretty much the entire movie.  William Dafoe did a great job as Gas the mechanic- probably the best character in the movie although he was in perhaps only 10 minutes, but if you want to see a great movie with William DeFoe doing another great acting job - then rent the Boondock Saints.  Not much to be said about anyone else in the movie - just mediocre acting for the most part.Just one last thing to say about the movie - if the last line was left out of the movie - it would have made the movie tens times better than what it was - but could they leave it out?  No - they had to ruin an otherwise decent movie. "},{"Title":"The suspension of disbelief collapsed in a heap.","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Until this movie came along I was a Cronenberg fan. In Existenz, the acting is good, the settings are nice enough and the special effects are suitable. Sadly, it's the premise and story that collapse as if written by a Luddite bent on defaming the computer game as a growing force in our society.As important to good science fiction as it is to good games, is the ability of the writer/designer to walk that fine line required to maintain the suspension of disbelief while manipulating the audience. a.k.a. entertainment.Everything works fine until we are presented with the stunning face of future computer VR graphics.... sadly accompanied by the game's artificial intellegence, groveling at the level of the toaster in Red Dwarf. This view of the future is like asking us to believe that film has achieved amazing levels of cinematography, while still unable to attach sound to the film stock.... D'oh .... It's hard to maintain disbelief while laughing at what isn't meant to be funny.Dumbing down the AI of the future struck me as a lazy way through a writing dilemma. The sad part, is that with a little effort, this film could have worked. "}{"Title":"Probably the worst movie ever!","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's a pity that IMDB rating system does not have a 0 because this movie deserved one. Completely pathetic! I thought Dude, where's my car? was the worst movie I ever saw, but this tops it by far. Just stay far away from this one. "},{"Title":"Just plain horrible","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Out of all the movies I've seen in my life so far this one would probably be the worst.  It's so boring and horribly disappointing that I could hardly follow the plot.  I must have dozed off at least three times while watching it!  From what I could tell, the movie is about a video game creater who is trying to escape death from assasins.  Her game is damaged so to inspect it, she talks her bodyguard into going inside the video game himself.  I know the story doesn't sound that bad but trust me, it's worse than that bad. From reading this, if you are just curious to see how bad this movie really is, don't!  Even if you to chain me to a car and drive me naked through a dozen miles of broken glass you could probably never make me see this one again.  Avoid Existenz at all costs. "},{"Title":"Just plain horrible","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Out of all the movies I've seen in my life so far this one would probably be the worst.  It's so boring and horribly disappointing that I could hardly follow the plot.  I must have dozed off at least three times while watching it!  From what I could tell, the movie is about a video game creater who is trying to escape death from assassins.  Her game is damaged so to inspect it, she talks her bodyguard into going inside the video game himself.  I know the story doesn't sound that bad but trust me, it's worse than that bad. From reading this, if you are just curious to see how bad this movie really is, don't!  Even if you to chain me to a car and drive me naked through a dozen miles of broken glass you could probably never make me see this one again.  Avoid Existenz at all costs. "},{"Title":"What a steaming pile of crap!","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I think I killed a few million brain cells as I watched this movie. I had hoped it would be interesting, boy was I wrong. This film is a movie equivalent to a severe head cold. Stuffy, puffy, gooey, and all around annoying. The plot (if you dare call it that) is lame and unimaginative, I mean really people... In the future we have bio-ports that let us plug into lifelike video games full of 1 dimensional characters who stand there until you say the right thing to them. Some people hate the goddess of games so much there's a 5 million dollar reward to kill her, why? In the future all our cars and lifestyle items will either be A) techno-organic super bioelectronics or... B) Crappy trucks and homes that were antiques when FDR was president. Save you money and your sanity go find a film that doesn't require heavy drugs to make sense...  "},{"Title":"Brilliant if you haven't been shaving very long.","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  An unpleasant film in all respects. The script pretends to insights that may appear brilliant if you haven't been shaving very long. Devoid of interesting characters or setting. The action here is stilted with laughable gross-out attempts with the biotech elements. Commits the unforgivable sin for a sci-fi effort the story is internally inconsistent. It is impossible to suspend your disbelief from the very first scenes. As an entry in 'the world is a sham' sub-genre of film, the film noir 'Dark City' and ultra-cool 'The Matrix' far outclass eXistenZ in concept, style, and execution. "},{"Title":"Are We Still in the Game?......Who Cares!","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  ExistenZ is one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  Cronenberg's films often provoke many different reactions but boredom isn't usually one.The pic's narrative features two main characters played by Jennifer Jason Leigh and Jude Law as players of a futuristic virtual reality game.  The plot, such as it is, quickly turns into the tired and predictable `are we still in the game scenario'.  Each new plot twist is more likely to provoke a yawn rather than a gasp from the audience.  This is despite the gratuitous gore that is a common thread throughout most of the film.Jason Leigh and Law do as well as they can with the script.  Apart from the two leads, the other actors are used sparingly and are only required to speak with terrible accents and get shot.  In view of this it seems stretching credibility when they all announce `what a great game' it was at the pic's end.  In their shoes I think I would have much preferred a nice game of snakes and ladders.The film climaxes in its all too predictable `surprise ending' which you just knew was coming.  By this time, the plot had so many twists you wonder if it ever had any shape to begin with.  One for Cronenberg fans only. "},{"Title":"A Dull Film.","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  eXistenZ is a low budget , staight to video move...and it shows! I would imagine this film first started out as a book and the screenplay was taken from that because it was so confusing nobody would have thought of this story just for a film. The acting is poor and the accents are worse , even the so called special affects(what there was of them) were rubbish. And what was the ending all about? i would expect the director would say it is up to the viewer to work that out but that would be a cop out on his part. This film stank. 4 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"An immature, boorish attempt at something?","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The only movie I have ever walked-out on in my entire life.  I have sat through some very bad movies, but this was simply unwatchable.  I gave it a full-hour and then gave up.  I like Cronenburg at times (ie. Dead Ringers). This is not in his practise of contraversial movie-making. I have no idea what this is.  It made Crash look Oscar-worthy.    "},{"Title":"HoPelesS","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This entire movie can be summed up in one word HoPelesS.The characters are caught up in a hopeless reality vs. fantasy situation. What's real? What's a game?  Who really cares?  The plot is hopeless.  The dialog is hopeless.  The ending is hopeless, and even the Chinese cuisine is hopeless.I usually love Jennifer Jason Leigh, but liking her in this movie was ... well, ... hopeless.  If you're looking for a good flick, don't waste your time or money on eXistenZ.  It would be hopeless. "},{"Title":"Uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuugh","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'd rather be tied to a chair and be forced to watch Romy and Michelle's high school reunion over and over and over again, then even have to watch the opening credits for this movie again.There was no plot.  The ending was predictable, like in the opening scene.  You know the ending right there. Oh, look, it's another one of those, it's this real or isn't it type endings..Were they so low on cash that they couldn't use REAL scenery when they were driving down the road or was that supposed to add to the whole appeal.  IT wasn't even aligned right. I can't even comment on the acting.  There was none to comment on.  I'm sure someone was following the actors with a cue card, they sounded that wooden and monotonous.  I like artsy movies.  This wasn't artsy.  It wasn't even entertaining in a black humor sort of way.  This is, by far, the emptiest movie I've ever had the displeasure to see.My only consolation was, I didn't pay to see it in a theatre, and I didn't pay full video rental price for it, however the little bit of money I did spend on it, I felt like asking for it back.   "}{"Title":"I've never been closer to a coma ...","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is truly the worst I have ever seen. I'm afraid that it is quite incomprehensible to me that someone could possibly find anything good, entertaining or thought-provoking about it! Mind-numbing yes, but there was absolutely nothing I could merit about eXistenZ. The plot was disjointed and lacking in any coherence even if you were to view it from an entirely non-linear perspective.   The acting was dull and certainly went no way to compensate for the lack of direction and plot.  As for the effects, well they were ill-perceived and pointless unless you get a kick out of seeing bad actors playing with what looked like the intestine of a cow after being run over by a fairly large truck.  To me eXistenZ is cheap, shabby and dragged me to the depths of boredom. I have never been closer to a coma in my life. I could go on but I'll just end up ranting and raving about how astoundingly awful this pathetic attempt at a movie is! It's certainly different, but different doesn't make it any better when you are enduring the torture of watching this..... thing.  "},{"Title":"Absolute dross. To be avoided.","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I am amazed at how much people on the site seem to like this. It's awful.Unbelievable characters who are either badly acted or hammed up, and I don't mean unbelievable in the sci-fi suspension of disbelief way I mean poorly written barely 2 dimensional characters.The excuse for the deliberately bad accents and idiotic story line is that we are in the game and the game designer has done these badly, it isn't the film that is bad it is the game in the film that is bad. That is a feeble excuse that would only work if the bad writing in the game was contrasted with good writing in the rest of the film, that doesn't happen here. The plot is nonsense, it goes nowhere and lacks any original thought or anything interesting.The Matrix covers similar ground with a lot of the same flaws in terms of the writing but it is played as an action film and so you can allow for bad characters and dialogue and still enjoy the film as mindless entertainment with good style and visuals, this isn't an action film or anything else except bad sci-fi. I read and watch a lot of sci-fi and this has all the quality of one of those low-budget films the Sci-fi channel shows late at night, when almost no one is watching, except with some added pretentiousness. "},{"Title":"What?","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Are you people from the same planet? How can anyone like this film? I'm no Meryl Streep fan but this movie was just weird, disjointed, and overall very boring. I didn't realize this movie was by the same guy who did Naked Lunch, another film I've had the unfortunate experience of seeing (partly). I suppose this film might appeal to fans of anime, role-playing games, trading cards, and other alternative hobbies which I cannot for the life of me fathom to be interesting in any remote way. Bah, this movie was a total waste of time.  "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One of my top ten worst Sci-Fi flicks ever.  Dialogue is weak and disjointed.  The scenes do not flow at all.  What special effects there were were amateurish.I feel sorry for the primary actors in this movie, not out of sympathy with their characters, but for how much damage a film like this can do to their careers.Bottom line  you'd be better off spending your time playing Pong. "},{"Title":"Psych-fi not Sci-fi","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"12 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When I unearthed a bargain price VHS copy of eXistenZ I had no recollection of having even heard of the film. At that price and with a cast that included Sarah Polley, Jennifer Jason Leigh, and Ian Holm I figured, why not experiment? Unlike most of my video experiments I fell immediately into the story and really enjoyed the film. It is easy to watch and while Polley and Holm have small parts, Leigh is one screen for almost the entire film. Which is probably why she elected to do this instead of Eyes Wide Shut. Her co-star is Jude Law in what I would rate his all-time best performance.Although I was very impressed I don't recommend eXistenZ for everyone. It could be described as an anti-Matrix. Not in an intentional sense since they were being made at the same time, but rather in their respective target audiences. So if you seek it out because you really liked The Matrix, you may be disappointed.It has a fairly narrow target audience and because of this it was not aggressively distributed in the U.S. and did much better in Europe. Generally those who really connected to The Matrix will find it insufficiently manipulative (requiring too much viewer self-analysis and participation) while those who hated The Matrix will hate it for being too manipulative. So if you found Matrix generally intriguing but did not go ga-gah over it, you should make it a point to check out eXistenZ.It is not really sci-fi or action adventure but a psychological thriller (just as The Hole is not a horror film but a psychological thriller). It places Kurt Vonnegut's theme you are what you pretend to be so be careful what you pretend to be into an allegorical tale of shifting reality. Do we ever actually exercise free will? Does escaping from reality contribute to reality getting worse, in actuality or in our perception? You are meant to internalize this theme and to ask yourself these questions.My only real complaint is that the final twist (unlike the earlier twists) does not click into place when you first see in or later as you work backwards to find clues and foreshadowing elements that support this element. Without these the twist is silly and unnecessary. While it does not ruin all that has gone before it does seem like just a lame attempt to prepare the way for a sequel. "},{"Title":"I'm sorry but... did we watch the same movie?","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie from start to finish and don't understand why people scored this so high and gave it awesome reviews. I admit the concept was, alright... This movie didn't give any reward for watching it, there was no excitement, action or unpredictable events... the acting was horribly poor and just random at times.I am a fan of the Matrix series and find it somewhat insulting to even compare this to it. Matrix mixed at the time an original concept with so much more.I would suggest to avoid... "},{"Title":"Can't they spell it correctly?","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The 3rd 'virtual reality' thriller of that year (after The Matrix and The Thirteenth Floor), this time courtesy of David Cronenberg, who works in his usual fixation with the possibilities of mutilating the flesh to enhance its functions. Here, game-players actually hook into game modules via bio-plugs built into their spines - nice. The game modules are 'living' pulsing pods of flesh - Cronenberg is getting tiresome with these recurrent themes. And, it's all too clever for its own good as the repetitive 'is-it-real-or-virtual?' motif crumbles under its own onslaught by the climactic surprise, which undoes the whole progress of the film. Many of the images seem designed to disgust - and they do - to what end? (The scene where Law builds a gun out of his foul food comes to mind). The whole thing comes across as a big joke - on the audience. But, you may be intrigued by a 1st viewing. "},{"Title":"Not quite a load of crap, but getting there","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Let me just say that I've seen (parts of) movies which were VASTLY inferior to this sorry offering, so this doesn't deserve the one star that so many of you weak-stomached/short attention-spanned people have given this crapper-than-average film.Never heard of the lead actress or seen the actor before, but they tried; or at least they seemed to try. I can't believe Doctor Who err I mean Christopher Eccleston was in it, t'was funny seeing him with hair! The guy from Hostage was wasted in this movie, as was the other two famous guys.I've read the comments from both the lovers and the haters, and both have some good points. At the start I had relatively high expectations of this movie, from the plot summary given on sky; but I was to be disappointed. I especially love the Hate comment which refers to people sitting in the cinema 10 minutes after it ended, GO YOU!! A blithering, drunken, vomit-encrusted druggie would have spouted more intellectually challenging nonsense than this excuse for a film. No wait, I think the director was that unfortunate fellow, so I take back that previous comment about a higher intelligence.Although I must say that it didn't quite a bore me to death/render me paralyzed from the neck up, it was just about watchable. It wasn't as bad as, say, Space Fury and Total Reality. Have a gander at those if you REALLY want to be bored to tears of frustration seeing absolute pap/garbage.HEY LOOK NO SPOILERS!! Oh yeah, it ends when and at the point you most expect it.I'm so lucky I didn't pay for this movie. Thank you SciFi channel. "},{"Title":"I Don't Like The Movie","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Some people take this movie seriously and claim it to be a must see sci-fi movie. As far as I concern this movie is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. I was really surprise to see a 6.7 rating. Though this movie consists of many talented actors, it doesn't make this movie anything more sophisticated or anything. Most of the stuff is hideous looking starting from the game (console) itself making of some living tissue with hideous design that connected to the spinal cord. To all the stuff that lying around.But it is not the hideous stuff that actually the worst part of this movie. It is everything about this movie that not very much appealing to watch. To me, the whole movie is very much predictable, though the ending is not that bad, I don't think I will be seeing it twice.Recommendation Avoid It. Rating 4/10 (D-) "},{"Title":"just... awful. incredibly awful. and boring.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  if you think this money/time-waster had anything unique or original about it, you'd probably think showgirls was deeply thought-provoking and intellectually stimulating.you should never make a claim you can't actually back up; people were left disappointed by this monstrosity of a movie not because they didn't see any over-the-top CGI or any super-human effects. they were left disappointed because the characters sucked, despite an honest effort from jude law, and the story itself wasn't remotely original or new or dimensional. you couldn't care what happened to anyone, and the total lack of a plot was by no means a big brainiac massive attack on your ability to discern a story from sutured-together messes of skeletal ideas for a story. by the end, you're left wishing you'd rented something far more intelligent; something like, say, disney's bubble boy.this movie blew, and it blew hard. in fact, it blew so hard, it makes moulin rouge look good. "}{"Title":"eXistenZ is craP","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie for the first time today, and it was pretty terrible. I had no Matrix-esquire anticipations of the movie, so wasn't disappointed in that regard. Basically, I just thought it was a bad movie overall. Bad writing, and terrible acting by usually talented actors like Jude Law. They didn't have much to work with when it came to the script Death to the she- demon! What was that? Although the film did pose interesting questions in terms of human consciousness and what it is to be really alive/awake, the low budget acting, script, and overall feel of the film left me wanting for more. I'd say avoid this film. "},{"Title":"Oh dear, what a dismal waste of film stock","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  All I can say really is that all copies of this exceptionally poor piece of work should be quietly destroyed.It is utter rubbish.At least David Cronenberg has made some other excellent movies that redeem his reputation.Please be warned, you will be wasting your time if you watch this travesty.Minus 10. "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie was so ridiculous, I was inclined to switch my TV off and ask the video-store for a refund. Unbelievable that some people compare this piece of crap to something like The Matrix. A story with loads of loose ends, the silly idea of a second butt hole in your spine (*laugh* yeah, sometimes it can get infected, sometimes it is safe to lick or plug.... well, who cares - it is all a game, so why bother with details) and actors who disappoint all the way through this movie. My favorite turn-off was the oh-so-scary scene in the glibber-mutant-fish-farm (remember the tooth-gun?). Ugly for nothing. These shock-effects were so absurd, they made me laugh when I was supposed to be scared or at least disgusted. This movie makes you sick - avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"WARNING DO NOT WATCH WHILE EATING. DO NOT EVEN WATCH IF YOU HAVE EATEN IN THE LAST SIX TO EIGHT HOURS. IN FACT, TAKE SOME TUMS IN ADVANCE.","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  ExistenZ is an exercise in bad taste combined with a reasonable budget, which was acquired despite an almost total absence of any sort of interesting story. Actually, before I go that far I should say that the story is, in fact, fairly complex and operates on several levels, but it is executed so badly and downright grotesquely that the story is often completely irrelevant, as though each scene is trying to outdo the last in distracting the viewer from what the whole movie is about in the first place.Jennifer Jason Leigh plays the part of Allegra Geller, a star video game programmer who is just about to come out with the most technologically advanced video game ever created. Evidently, the game is able to tap into players' minds so that they actually LIVE the video game in virtual reality. Needless to say, that fine line between reality and virtual reality becomes more and more blurred until all sorts of crazy havoc ensues. The danger of the game is first hinted at in an early scene where Allegra is conducting a closed-door demonstration of her new game and some nutcase attacks her with an alarmingly ORGANIC weapon (for lack of the NEED for a better word, as it turns out), which initially seems like some crazed weirdo raised by video games but, after a moment's thought, is probably more likely someone who has had contact with the game. Sort of like Vincent Grey in the Sixth Sense.At any rate, I would say that the movie takes it's first precipitous plunge when we see the video game controllers which, like the weapon that nutcase used to try to kill Allegra, are not only disturbingly organic to the point that they are more like creatures than controllers, but they are operated through the use of equally disturbing fondling motions, as though the players compete with each other by trying to pleasure their controller better than their opponents. And don't even get me started on the bio-ports. Very few times have I ever seen such things in a movie, although it's not necessarily new from director David Cronenburg, who has a history of putting weird sexual things in his movies (see Crash, which he directed just before taking on eXistenZ). In my personal opinion, a lot of things in eXistenZ were unappealing simply because they were not necessarily offensive, but simply distasteful in a pretty literal sense. Consider, for example, the scene where our heroes, Allegra and Ted Pikul (another great performance from Jude Law) are eating in a suspicious restaurant, and Pikul gradually discovers that the hideous piece of meat that he is eating can be assembled into a greasy gun much like the one used to attack Allegra near the beginning of the movie. Maybe I was just completely put off by that scene because I was eating barbecued chicken while I was watching it. I was absolutely horrified, I almost had to turn the movie off. Interestingly enough, the video game plot is complex and simplistic at the same time. It reveals either a deep understanding of Allegra, the main character, or an excessively weak script, or both. Maybe the former was a lucky byproduct of the latter. While inside the game (which gradually becomes increasingly difficult to determine), they follow a rather childish path, following cues that sound like something a little kid would make up while writing a story for a homework assignment. A creepy country gas station attendant named Gas tells them to look for a Chinese restaurant in the forest, and order the special, while turning down such immensely appetizing dishes as mutants and reptiles. But then, of course, we have scenes like the one where Ted performs cunnilingus on Allegra's bio-port. I think it's safe to say such things don't turn up in many homework assignments. Clearly, the movie's message is mostly about the dangers of extensive video gaming and the addictive nature of the way they detach us from reality. Movies do the same thing, but good movies cause you to use your mind, to think about things (much like good video games, and both are unfortunately rare). So this is not a new idea, but where the movie really suffers, aside from a lot of its stomach-turning imagery, is in the fact that it is lost in the wake of the massively superior Wachowski brothers film The Matrix, released the same month. Big movies have a tendency to arrive in pairs, and one always seems to be hugely superior to the other. Independence Day and The Arrival, Armageddon and Deep Impact (the latter being the vastly superior, obviously), Antz and A Bug's Life, Volcano and Dante's Peak, etc. There was a big difference in likability between Antz and A Bug's Life rather than in quality, but in this case, while it has been hailed by many critics and fans alike, I found eXistenZ to push the envelope of bad taste past the breaking point and into the realm of weirdness with its often revolting mixture of ham-handed, graphic sexual imagery and what Roger Ebert described as showing `characters eating things that surgeons handle with gloves on.' "},{"Title":"Just About the Worst Film Ever","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When I saw the famous Thumbs up from the famed Ebert, I expected to be presented with something that resembled a film. Unfortunately, I was given a video that was poorly structured, if not completely unstructured from the beginning.The basic idea behind the plot presents promise, but the execution was fundamentally flawed. I must say that most any high school kid with a camera could have made a more riveting presentation than the one that was thrust upon me via this film.Plot circles and confusion was the most prominent element of the show which didn't leave me with a big 'reveal' at the end of the film, but another corner around which nothing substantial could be found.I'm sorry Robert Lantos, you failed me. "},{"Title":"Big failure...","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Recap At a small seminar in a rural church, a new game, an entire new concept is introduced to a few testers. But suddenly the test is interrupted by audience member that draws an odd looking gun and fires at the game designer Allegra Geller. She survives and along with assistant Ted Pikul flees out into the countryside. They can trust no one, and a contract on her head makes every stranger a possible murderer. Is the answer in the game? Comments Apparently a try for a movie that tries to be mysterious, deep and with several layers. Unfortunately the story is a complete failure, illogical, irregular and sketchy. Events happen without cause and as characters enters games within games; the plot does not become deeper, not more mysterious, and absolutely not better. Instead it becomes almost incomprehensible. When scenes don't connect to each other it is very hard to become interested and engaged in the movie, and I was not. And it does not get better when I sometimes felt that the movie was just an excuse to show blood and gore. Not from humans, no, but i form of living game pods. And I find it peculiar that a movie that sometimes show really good effects sometimes show some really bad, for example the pods.As for the cast, I think that they do their best, but when their characters change between themselves and forced game characters with it is hard to get some continuity and character development, or for that matter any unique identity.A movie that reached for the stars, but never left ground.3/10 "},{"Title":"Yuck","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Even for David Cronenberg, this one is off the charts.  Most of it is really disgusting.  I suggest you develop a strong stomach beforehand, or else.  There was laughter at the inane dialogue, and I can speak for everyone in the theatre when I say the best part was when it was over. I like several of Cronenberg's movies, but not this one. "},{"Title":"Unintentionally Hilarious","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" eXistenZ is one of those films that makes you laugh. It's not a comedy, though. In fact, it wants to be taken very seriously. I wanted to take it seriously, but I couldn't. I just couldn't. If you watch eXistenZ, you'll know why, and if you don't know why, then you should.First of all, let me be fair and start out by saying that the opening credits sequence is very cool. It may even fool you into thinking that you're watching a decent movie. Appearances by Jennifer Jason Leigh, Jude Law, Willem Dafoe. Music by Howard Shore. Directed by the vaguely familiar name of David Cronenberg. Then the action begins, and you're ready for something cool to happen.But it doesn't. Okay, maybe there are a few scenes that hold your attention and that remind you that you're supposed to be watching a mind-bending thriller, and not a repeat from the first season of Farscape. From the very beginning, the viewer understands that there's nothing hip or stylish about this film at all. Instead, the new technology in the film involves mutated reptile body parts. Sounds funny, right? Oh, it is.The plot of the film involves a newly created virtual reality game that must be injected by some kind of umbilical cord-like mechanism into one's own back. The game cost millions of dollars to make, and the first testing begins, only to interrupted by an attempt to kill the game's creator, who also is at the game's first testing. The plot to kill the creator goes awry, a technician becomes the creator's protector, and the pair must enter the game to save the creator's disabled pod, a mechanism through which one enters the game. In other words, there is no plot. Then, after a short (thankfully) 90-some minutes, the film ends, and the ending tries to cover up any holes left in the plot.The acting is poor from the first scene to the last, with only a few scenes where any talent is displayed whatsoever. The talent is mostly provided by Jude Law, but his acting inexperience is obvious. Reactions seem forced, and every scene is either under-acted or over-acted with hardly anything in between. The screenplay is on the same level. There are formulaic lines like, trust no one, corny lines like, I like your script, and downright horrible lines like that's my pink phone. Add then some demented sexual double entendres, bad accents, and characters with no depth, and you have the essence of eXistenZ.As for those who would defend such a film, they would perhaps look at the concept of the thin line between virtual reality and reality, and would hold up Cronenberg's statement regarding the consequences of blurring that line. These things are interesting to me as well, but if only they could've been examined with more intelligence and finesse.It is quite funny, though, and if you're able to take science fiction TV shows seriously, then try this one on for size.Final Grade D. "},{"Title":"sTupiditY - Do not watch this movie if you're not part of the culture","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" eXistenZ is the stupidest, most boring movie I have seen in long time (I am making this comment as a warning to any casual viewers Don't waste your time). This movie might be interesting if you are part of the video game culture, but if you are simply looking for an interesting movie to entertain you for an hour or so, Do Not watch eXistenZ. I frequently browse the shelves and find movies that I've never heard of which turn out to be fairly good entertainment. Two recent examples are Even Money, with Forest Whitaker and Northfork, with Nick Nolte. I'm sure these two movies must have been promoted and hyped in their day, but when I saw them on the store shelf, they did not ring a bell. They both turned out to be good for a short period of entertainment, but not life-changing experiences. The mention of the Matrix on the cover of eXistenZ is very misleading. I loved the original Matrix, but the sequels were disappointing. WARNING eXistenZ is not for casual entertainment. "},{"Title":"Worst Sci Fi movie I've seen to date","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In a nut shell this movie is terrible. I consider myself very versed in Sci Fi and Fantasy stories, and this by far was the worst in all aspects. The story just continually loops. The premise is interesting enough but is executed with flaw. It's as if Croneneberg wrote himself in to a corner he couldn't escape. Beyond the story the acting was horrific. You would think with the likes of William DeFoe there would be a single ray of sunshine. His character is so minute that it makes no difference. Jude Law barely covers his accent and Jennifer Jason Leigh is the typical conflicted mumbling character she always plays. I'm assuming this is some sort of 'indie' attempt at a Science Fiction movie. But I've seen home movies with better special effects. In fact I would rather watch a classic B movie such as Plan 9 from Outerspace or Buckeroo Bonzi in the 4th Dimension than have to sit through this snoozer again. If you really enjoy SciFi stay away from this one. If you can't resist this movie, watch it late at night on cable or let your buddy rent it. Don't waste your OWN money! "}{"Title":"disgusting","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" i must say, i don't understand quite well what was the meaning of this movie... it's so lame, and it saw 1/4 of it and quit it... only a month after i have gain courage to see the rest. it's so bad i couldn't watch more than 20min in a row. in witch world a pod as any kind of importance? what the hell is a pod anyway???? so i give an advice, do not, and i repeat DO NOT MAKE MORE MOVIES OF THIS KIND. it's a cheap imitation of matrix, but with less money and with NO history. so quit making this kind of lame movies PLEASE!! how could this crap have 6.7/10???? have you all lost your mind?? this have less history than torque, so you can see how bad this movie is. oh my god!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Absolute rubbish","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" David Cronenberg's repulsive low-budget virtual reality thriller got deservedly buried under the onslaught of the similarly themed and infinitely better The Matrix. Oddball virtual reality game inventor Jennifer Jason Leigh goes on the lam with bodyguard Jude Law when she becomes the target of a band of killers hoping to sabotage her and her game. This leads to numerous sequences of watching the mopey Leigh express concern over and lovingly caress the fleshy organic unit which houses her game. Right from the set-up the film makes it clear that anything we see may not even be real. During the course of what we do see, Leigh and Law hook-up and enter her game once, and then apparently hook-up and enter her game AGAIN while already within the game - so it does not take much of a leap to figure that they may already be in the game prior to the start of the action the viewer witnesses. The film is dark, grungy, ugly to watch and contains not one sympathetic character with which to elicit your support. Even worse, this game that everyone seems so obsessed with is virtually incomprehensible, without a recognizable goal and one has a hard time believing anyone would want to play it, much less kill for it. If there were resistance fighters struggling to suppress it, all they would have to do is let a few gamers actually play it and they would walk away from it forever due to chronic boredom and confusion. And just in case anyone did not get Cronenberg's sledgehammer message of reality and fantasy being blurred, he makes sure that the last line in the film is of a bystander frantically questioning whether he is in the game or reality. "},{"Title":"Anyone who likes this film, should be shot!","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The movie begins, explains nothing and ends leaving you asking, what the hell was this crap movie about? Seriously, I came to IMDb to read other user's reviews about this film. I was amazed that the user reviews claimed this movie was better than the Matrix. I decided to watch the movie and I regretted every moment of that decision. This film looks like a low budget movie from the 70's and that is actually giving it too high a mark. Some reviewer talked about special effects. Where? When? Should I have put on some 3D glasses or something? Because if you think this movie has special effects, then the only thing special here is you. This movie isn't even worth a free rental. If you really hate someone, buy them this movie as a gift for Christmas. "}]