[{"Title":"A Near Miss","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"69 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Frankly, I don't think this movie is as bad as some people make it out to be.   I like the early episodes of the original series (particulary the first six), when the show had a more serious tone (and before Jonathan Harris sabotaged it by turning up the comic antics as Dr. Smith) and it's nice to see the film stay closer to that serious tone and not emulate the more campy aspects of the series from its later episodes.   The cast is good for the most part and I love the visual FX.However, once the Jupiter 2 crashes on the planet and we get caught up in the time travel older Will Robinson bit, that's when the movie falls apart completely.   And the biggest mistake of all is that the older Will Robinson is not played by original Will Robinson, Bill Mumy, even though he badly wanted to play the part.  Having listened to the comments of the director on why he didn't cast Mumy on the DVD, I have to say his explanation doesn't wash.  Especially when both he and the scriptwriter concede that the device of using the older Will Robinson didn't work on the screen as it did in writing.   It never occurs to them that maybe the scene would have worked if this new character sprung on us was someone with a definable connection to the old show.    "},{"Title":"Pleasant surprise after all the jaded eye rolling","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"66 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Actually, I was quite surprised at how much fun I thought this movie was. Hardly perfect by any measure and, sure, there were some elements that were intrusive, but I found it to be quite faithful to the TV show - it used plots and elements from the early episodes. Even with the newer designs, they incorporated older aspects - the planet REALLY looked like a better version of one of their old sets.Furthermore, Oldman managed to peg Dr. Smith perfectly, taking in all the old camp elements and putting them to very good use - even using some old catch phrases in different ways.As diversionary, light sci-fi adventure goes, I thought this was great and I'm usually very picky about this kind of thing. It was fun and a pretty good kids' movie.The only thing really missing was Billy Mumy. "},{"Title":"A Space Adventure!","Date":"12 November 2008","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I don't think Lost in Space was a bad movie. Is it a movie to be honored the all-time best? No, it's not. There are flaws in this movie, but I don't care too much. The movie is about a family, the Robinsons trying to go to the other habitable planet in the galaxy. They do all right until the villain, Spider Smith tries to kill the family and he ruins the navigational system. Now the Robinsons are lost. The acting is OK. Some of the actors did a great job such as Matt LeBlanc and Gary Oldman. The rest did OK. The special effects are not as good as movies from the time period such as Armageddon or Godzilla. The effects are good, though. I was disappointed in the writing. Akiva Goldsman is a respected writer with talent. For a bad script, all the actors did a good job. The music is pretty good. I liked the electronic soundtrack. I give this movie a 7/10 because I liked the space scenery, the gadgets, and the action. "},{"Title":"Despite a terrific cast and a good beginning, this film just falls flat","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Dr. John Robinson (William Hurt) is taking his family into deep space to find a life-supporting planet for the human race. Things on earth are deteriorating, to say the least. Going along with him are his scientist wife Maureen (Mimi Rogers), his brilliant daughter, Judy (Heather Graham) and his equally intelligent children Penny and Will. Needing a good pilot, Dr. Robinson nabs hotshot airman Mark West (Matt LaBlanc) to fly their spaceship. Evil Doctor Smith (Gary Oldman) tries to sabotage the vessel but ends up getting caught on board. Amid the ensuing chaos, the ship goes off course and gets lost. Between battling spider-like creatures and their own killer robot, the Robinsons still hope to reach their destination. Will they? This movie starts off with a bang and ends with a whimper. The problem? Well, it is not the terrific cast. Hurt, Rogers and Oldman are wonderful in their respective roles, while Graham and LaBlanc delight the audience with their wit and charm as the couple who provide the movie's romantic elements. All other cast members are quite fine as well. The production looks nice, too, with great costumes, sets, and special effects. So, that leaves the uneven script. It starts off well, with a quick look at the Robinsons' quest and the plotting of Dr. Smith. There are even some great lines, such as the one Maureen hurls at John and Mark, as they are sparring. If you guys are done hosing down the deck with testosterone... had me laughing heartily. But, it all just fizzles somewhere in the middle and ends up being utter nonsense, a plot without a cause. What a shame. Those of us who loved the sixties television series deserved better. If you are partial to any of the cast members, from Hurt to Graham to Oldman, do make time for this film, someday. They are the reason to see this movie, for they are a joy to watch, even in a film as lame as this one. "},{"Title":"Danger Will Robin- eh, never mind, go back to sleep.","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"41 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I liked the movie, but I fear it suffered from the same disease that Star Trek The Motion Picture suffered from - too grandiose a concept, too grand an undertaking, too big an effects budget and enough plot for several movies. Lets see, we have the dysfunctional family becomes functional plot, we have the evil traitor in the med lab plot, the time travel plot, the metallic spider plot, the sexual tension between Dr. Judy and Major Don plot. This puppy had more subplots than a season of X-Files.It was great to see Mark Goddard in a role with some meat on it. However Angela Cartwright and Marta Kristen were given extremely short shrift. And Bill Mumy and Jonathan Harris should have been involved. I know Jonathan Harris doesn't do cameos, but dammit, find him a role! And as for not getting Bill Mumy to play future Will Robinson - as far as I'm concerned, that singlehandedly reduced this flick from a great movie merely a good one. If they had enough money for the hideous yellow excuse for merchandising (how blatant can you get?), they sure had enough to hire the full original cast.  "},{"Title":"Well, I for one was a little surprise at the low rating this movie got.","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Now, I don't think it was IMDb Top 250 material, not by far but it still should have been up in the 6s. First let's look at the basic for the movie. Lost in Space was a television show from 1965 that was very low budget. I. Allen had to work from a shoestring and it showed. The show was a kiddies show, something that the kids enjoyed while Mom and Dad was able to snicker at the goofiness of it, (but not too loudly or the kids might get mad). Then the show progress into one that centered around three characters, that of Will Robinson, Dr. Smith, and the Robot. Mr. And Mrs. Robinson, Major West, and the girls were just so much window dressing and fodder. This is what the director of the movie, Lost In Space, had to work with. Either he kept as close to the original show as he could or he struck out in a totally different direction, such as what happen when they made Wanted Dead Or Alive for the big screen. It's not high drama, but then neither was the original show. Comparing it to the TV show, I believe that the director keep to the same spirit and I say it's not a bad rendering. "},{"Title":"As a lifetime fan of the original, this was disappointing","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"35 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I think the major problem was the lack of closeness within the family unit. The writers choose that as the overall arc and that was a deadly mistake.  We needed to see this family battle the unknown enties in space, rather than each other. I was not interested in seeing Dr. Robinson finally make amends with his son. By spending so much time on the 'family' problems, we negated any sense of adventure.The plot should have been about something space, a distant planet instead of this internal examination.  Lastly Dr. Smith was just awful. I love Gary Oldman but this role just wasn't one of his best. If nothing else Smith was a pain in the butt, the writers saw as evil and turning him into a spider and having the little spiders eat him was just plain stupid.Once again the fault lies in a poor Hollywood script. "},{"Title":"Excellent film based on old television series.","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Lost In Space television series was one of my favorites when I was growing up so when I found out that it was the basis for a new movie, trepidation is the word that best described my reaction. As it turns out, my fears were unfounded as the result is one of the best, if not the best, treatment of older material and characters ever. Unlike this year's other movie based on a cultural icon, namely Godzilla, the producers of Lost In Space have a great deal of respect for the original tv series and this shows in the finished product. They have been able to update the story and characters, even changing the tenor of the story from farce to serious drama without losing any of appeal of the original. The inclusion of June Lockhart, Marta Kristen, Angela Cartwright and Mark Goddard in cameos and minor parts adequately demostrates the respect the production team has for the fans of the original series, which helps immensely in this adaptation. This is something that Mssrs. Devlin & Emmerich need to learn before unleashing any more destruction of cultural icons as they did this summer.All in all, the movie is great family adventure entertainment. The story is simple enough, told in a caring way and is suitable for all ages. The acting well done, the writing & direction good and the visual effects rank amongst some of the best ever committed to celluloid.Definitely one of my favorites and quite possibly one of the best science fiction films of all times. Old fans and those who never heard of Lost In Space will enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Not one for the Nostalgia Generation","Date":"15 March 2011","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" When Hollywood turns to the TV Mine to see what it can dig up, the general rule is to try to do something which recaptures the essence of the TV original, albeit tweaked in some sort of fashion so as to bring it up to date. But sometimes there is an attempt to give a twist to the original - to dress it in clothes which are not so much new as entirely different. And so we have Starsky and Hutch as a comedy, Bewitched actually featuring a TV remake of the original but with a real witch, and so on.Lost In Space has, thankfully, forgone the overriding two-set (one interior, one exterior) studio-bound obviousness of its TV progenitor. It has also lost Robbie the Robot (his update is a lot less sympathetic than the original), and weaselly serial complainer Dr Zachary Smith. Much as I enjoyed Jonathan Harris' portrayal, it was essentially a comedy role, albeit with the capacity for introducing the element of dramatic tension in a serial drama which was so resolutely formulaic.Gary Oldman's Dr Smith is an entirely different animal. The TV Smith was irksome, a nuisance, and could cause some damage. The movie Smith is dark, dangerous, and potentially fatal.There are plot elements introduced which are fun and, in some respects, original. Most of the visuals are excellent (although I found the cute but hugely unconvincing CGI critter irritating). Most of the cast are good (with some interesting dynamics between the characters), although I found Lacey Chabert's squeaky pre-teen even more irritating than the CGI thingie.On the whole, there is quite a lot here for science fiction space opera fans to like. "},{"Title":"An assembly of highly crafted but unoriginal elements","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  (Warning spoilers ahead) Like many mature viewers I had enjoyed the 60's TV series before this film came out so I was prepared for kooky cardboard sets, an even kookier talking robot, and getting a new nadir of human mendacity revealed each week in my shameful anti-hero, the despicable cunning Dr. Smith - oh such Danger Will Robinson! As a teenage boy back then, I also registered the attractive mother Robinson, and even more so the disturbingly beautiful elder daughter Robinson; I have heard that I am not alone in this.The film goes to great efforts to reverse all those impressions! It starts by throwing some of the most mind-blowing space battle special effects I have seen; the producers are obviously guys who have learned their lessons from 2001 Space Odyssey and Star Wars, and who have all the computing power they need. Silicon Graphics is a computer manufacturer who gets its name into the script, go figure.Is this the point to carp at the unreality of the sounds made in space where you really can't hear any whoosh or boom as things explode, or at the fighters that manoeuvre in 3D, aim weapons and even nudge one another, all by manual pilot control ? Nah, that's an accepted style these days so let it pass.The puerile homophobic dialog between the pilots (after their fighters contact in flight Does that mean we are going steady together now?) I chose to forgive in view of the magnificent graphics, but unfortunately such lines come back again and again in the miscast trying-to-be macho Major Don West's (Matt LeBlanc) passes at the cold-fish elder Robinson daughter Judy (Heather Graham).Sadly it quickly becomes evident that Major Don's pursuit of Judy is to be a running subtheme through the movie. I say sadly because this is not Hepburn and Bogart, nor a school prom B-movie, and the characterisation neither serves the movie nor the viewer. (Don to Judy I'll be happy to let you investigate my dimensions - oh puh-lease!) There simply is no chemistry between these two and their lines are a yawn because we don't need them to romance in this movie.I said that the producers make great efforts, and those on space graphics are successful. Other efforts are on the family relationships, so much so that I became convinced that Walt Disney scriptwriters must have been involved. The younger Robinson children characters work well I liked the sulky rebellious teenage daughter Penny (Lacey Chabert) though the dramatic device of her wrist-worn video diary was strained, and I was rooting for the son Will (Jack Johnson) who nearly makes a time machine for a school project, and repeatedly saves the day by tinkering with or remote-controlling the robot, who has grown from the capable but relay-filled Robbie of the TV series (adopted from the pre-computing Forbidden Planet movie of 1956) into a mightier cargo-handling monster, a Rambler-Crane model we are told, that owes much to its brother that Sigourney Weaver drives in the second Aliens movie I saw. This Robbie is bigger but less interesting for all its weaponry; by this time we have a right to expect more from a robot than this one delivers.Unfortunately the movie's main familial theme of How Can Father Robinson Show That He Really Loves His Son Will left me cold, though it may go down well with a certain kind of American audience. This is worse than just a failed theme, it is supposed to motivate the final denouement that I can't spoil for you because I still don't understand it! Suffice to say that it involves time travel (more by machinus ex deia than deus ex machina) with by now rather overloaded special effects, that serve to gloss over with thunder/lightning/earthquakes such paradoxes as persons meeting their time-travelled selves, that obscuration also having become a Hollywood cliche since movies like Philadelphia Experiment and Final Countdown. A shame because intelligent time-travel themes have provided, and will continue to provide, some wonderful movie scripts.The whole movie is, like the Robinsons' spaceship, a concatenation of expensive items that are individually impressive and collectively ineffective. Not to be outdone are the horrid space spiders. These seem to be downplayed to limit their horror potential; I think we get just a tiny glimpse of blue (?) gore as a spider leg gets chopped. We think the Robinsons escape from the spiders, but in true Hollywood horror tradition we were only supposed to think that and one spider makes a surprising return in the denouement, and I can't explain that either. It is actually very strange to see a thing that seems to have strayed into the movie from another film set (The Fly ? The Seventh Seal ?) too late in the script to be meaningful in the plot, and apparently also with its horror potential kept down, I suppose to keep a juvenile audience rating.Yet another yawn item to mention in the movie is a computer generated monkey Blarp that is a baby she (we are told, perhaps because a she-chimp is less demanding to model ?). For all her blinky cartoon eyes, Blarp fails to impress me as cute or useful, and she also seems like a character that strayed in by mistake from another movie.After watching all the movie action I feel I was served an assembly of highly crafted but utterly unoriginal elements. Yet for the earlier space graphics, which nearly rate up there with those in Starship Troopers, I can allow the rest as entertainment.Can you believe that the end credits really spoiled the film for me? I don't think I am peculiarly sensitive about end credits, and I am as likely as anyone to leave the movie theater as soon as they start scrolling. But in this movie the end credits are used as an opportunity to dump a lot of inappropriate music and silly graphical effects, to no good purpose. In the light of some truly fine craftsmanship and set design that went into this movie, that ending was a cheapening that was almost insulting. "}{"Title":"Not a bad story","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The story isn't that bad, some of the scenes are really good. Totally different than the original Lost in Space.The casting of the characters is my only complaint. The children were excellent but the adults were not. William Hurt and Matthew LeBouf do not fit well together. Mr Smith was the only adult character that was believable. Still, it kept my interest and I enjoyed the story very much.Too bad the casting couldn't have been better because this was actually a very good movie and could have had the possibility for sequels. I give it a 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"Not great, but still good.","Date":"11 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I cant say it was a bad movie, but it wasn't an excellent movie either. It was an averagely entertaining movie, good idea for a remake film, but it kind of collapsed into itself. They had to many little story arcs that was never finished or continued. Yet some of them suddenly popped up at the end of the film and created very interesting and unpredictable events. And this I think saved the movie, it had a good closure on it's early main theme (if you have seen the movie you know what I'm talking about).Basically the movie is about a family (the Robinsons) that is sent on a mission to create a beacon of sorts on another life supporting planet (it far away but still the closest on to earth) so that earth can use its hyperdrive travelling to save earths resources. The problem is hyperdrive is completely random unless someone is sending a signal from the final destination. So the family and they're pilot is send on a ten year sleep journey. Only problem is a saboteur cases the ship to shift its trajectory towards the sun, and they're only escape is to use the hyperdrive, which of course sends them to a random place in the galaxy.The cast was OK. Matt Leblanc reminded me bit of a military version of Joey (his most know role in Friends) but it worked out well I think. Gary Oldman as the typical evil bad guy was also pretty OK. The rest of the family wasn't that special, but it wasn't bad either. but I didn't quite catch the point of the space monkey thingy (again you know if you've seen the film) But I think it was an entertaining film, far from the best Sci-Fi film I've seen, but not bad at all. 6/10. "},{"Title":"A rare Sci-Fi family movie...","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" First of all, I would like to address fans of the TV show who hate this film. I am always shocked how many people feel that this film was unfaithful to the original series. I would invite you to go back and watch the very early episodes of the series, before it became a camped-up disaster (admit it!), and see how similar the two are.The 1998 film is often a straight remake of the original, only, frankly, much better.The idea of a film about a single family trying to survive and function by itself when they are all alone in outer space is loaded with potential, and I think this film did as much as could be expected in what was planned to be a three-movie series.There's a lot to like in this movie--first of all, it's a science fiction movie that the whole family can actually enjoy, not just the twenty-year-old son living in the basement. The special effects were very impressive for the day and some of them hold up very well. There's a kick-ass end credit sequence (how often do I get to say that?) featuring a new version of the classic Lost in Space theme song. There's some exciting action scenes, good performances by the adult leads, cool production design, some genuinely touching moments, and two not-overly-cute performances by a child actors, which is extremely rare. Penny is actually something resembling a real character this time around. Also, the fact that the queenish, goofy Dr. Smith actually becomes a threatening and very creepy villain by the end of the film is no small feat.The story is sometimes episodic, but all comes together very well. Small details become important plot points later in the film in surprising ways.Now, there are some down sides. The script is by Akiva Goldsman, best known for his Oscar-winning screenplay for A Beautiful Mind. However, comic book fans will always remember him as a boogey-man who concoted the script for Joel Schumacher's infamous film Batman and Robin. This script is somewhere in the middle in terms of quality. Although it is very clever at times and manages to incorporate favorite bits from the series, some of the dialogue will definitely remind the viewer of Arnold Schwartzennager's infamous Ice puns from Batman and Robin and will definitely make the eyes roll. Matt Leblanc is stuck with most of this. Akiva Goldsman has always written terrible, shameless buzz dialogue, quips where a character tries to say something clever and cool. It's painful at times. Gary Oldman also has a few of his own, in which he actually has to refer to himself as evil. Seriously, what villain actually knows that they are evil? Despite some cliché moments, which can easily be forgiven by young members of the audience (a large chunk), Lost in Space is an above-average adventure movie. It's exciting, occasionally funny, and has likable characters. I only wish the sequel materialized, I think it only could have gotten better. "},{"Title":"Gary Oldman- highlight of film!","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The main reason I bought this film was because it starred Gary Oldman and I knew when I bought it, I was going to have mixed reactions.Ive never seen the TV series so I cant compare it to that. I thought the film plotline was a wee bit confusing because they go through time as well as space. The film did try and get some exciting bits involving time but it just didnt do it for me. And turning Dr. Smith into a spider creature at the end- what on Earth was that all about?Acting-wise- hmmmmmmmm basically it was all flat. Matt LeBlanc made Han Solo look like an Einstein. He should really stick to FRIENDS!!! The family's acting was all rubbish., all flat and so unconvincing.The only reason I watch this film is for Gary Oldman. He was so funny and sarcastic and a further example on why we Brits will always make the best film villians!! Its not his best role (that will have to be DRACULA- par none!!!).And this film was meant to beta Star Wars? Nothing will best Star Wars, especially this film!!!Overall, Id give it a 5/10!!!!  "},{"Title":"unexpected","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I thought Lost In Space was just another movie like Star Wars, but when my 10 year old little brother bought it home I watched it with him. Wow! it wasn't like another one of those star wars movie, it was excellent. Especially Matt LeBlanc he couldn't be cuter than ever, I used to look to him as the idiot in Friends. But now he's more than that. "},{"Title":"Universal appeal.","Date":"16 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is absolutely science fiction excellence. The plot was excellent, substance from start to finish. The acting utterly flawless, delivered by a cast recognizable to even the most casual of movie viewers, making the characters indelible to even my discerning perceptions. The cinematography was brilliant, adding even more depth and vitality with cutting edge technique. Finally the special effects were stellar, pulling all the elements together like an inescapable gravitational pull of an infinitely massive movie. This will remain high in the list of all movies seen for a long time to come. This movie should be followed by a continuous stream of sequels. "},{"Title":"Much like a Star Trek movie...","Date":"11 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I don't why this movie got such bad reviews. I guess it's because most people compare it to the original TV series. I think if this movie had a different name it would have done better. The movie's plot plays much like a Star Trek movie. IF you're not a fan of sci-fi or Star Trek then you probably won't like it. If you try to compare it to the original series you probably won't like it but if you let the movie stand on it's own merits you'll probably like it. I was not a fan of the original series and I just enjoyed the movie for what it was a good action flick. While maybe not a top 100 of all time movie it is worth a watch if you give it a chance... "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise!","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  After the criticisms levelled at this movie, I have to admit I actually enjoyed it. Okay, the physics may not stand up to close scrutiny but it's great escapist tosh! The movie incorporates superb effects (some of the best I've ever seen), a cracking soundtrack and pretty good performances (although Oldman is somewhat wasted in the movie). It's chewing gum for the eyes - disengage the brain and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Thumbs up!","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie was very, very good. The special effects are well done. Matt LeBlanc (Major West) and William Hurt (Prof. Robinson) play their characters very well. The others do an okay job as well. The plot is kind of strange but this is based on the Lost In Space tv show. What really appeals to me with this movie is that it is darker and has more conflict than the original tv show. In the tv show, the characters all seemed to get along, except for Dr. Smith. In the movie, they act like the normal family, except for being stranded in space. The movie also has great sequel potential thanks to the ending. I give it a 8/10. "},{"Title":"Great movie for some, not for others.","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Seems there are a lot of people who like this movie, and a lot who hate it. I love it, personally.  I will admit that I do like the first 60 minutes the best, and the ending gets a little dull for some reason.  I don't normally watch movies for their visual effects, but I really love the visual effects in this movie (except for Blarb) and I also love the storyline of how they get lost to begin with.. I like the performances of most of the characters, especially Professor Robinson, and Penny Robinson.I've found that most people who like this movie weren't fans of the original series and vice-versa.  I never saw the original show, so maybe that is why I like the movie. "}{"Title":"Confusing Movie","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I don't know what to think about this movie. Sometimes it was boring and then a few minutes later it was exciting.I couldn't find a real story in it because it jumped from one fact to another. There were moments that I had difficulties to understand the story. It wasn't entertaining anymore and that's exactly what I want in a movie. Good entertainment and a great story. Who wants a movie where you have to think most of the time.And where is the plot of this movie ??? "},{"Title":"Comic Book or TV Show?","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" In 1965 when the TV show debuted I was 12, I was also disappointed that the show wasn't as good as the Space Family Robinson comic book that debuted in 1962.The 1998 film version of Lost In Space,although it begins the same as the first few TV episodes, made me think of the comic book rather than the campy TV show.I enjoyed this film much more than the TV show and was glad the little alien was more than a chimp with extra head gear. I was also glad that Penny didn't name her Debbie.Lost In Space is a Roller Coaster to ride with your kids. "},{"Title":"HECK of a good time","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I guess I don't understand all the negative reactions to Lost In Space.  It wasn't perfect by any means, but I found it to be very entertaining.  Count me as one who was NOT in love with the campy cheeze of the original.  I was watching when it was on in the 60's and thought it went drastically down hill after the first season.About the movie  I loved the cast, I loved the story and I thought the characters were much more interesting than on the TV show.  I still love the old show and its cast, but I'm very happy to have seen the movie.If you haven't seen it, don't let the negative reviews scare you off.  You just might like it - just like a friend of mine who rented the video who was surprised at how much she enjoyed it after seeing the reviews.I do hope there IS a sequel, and I do think it will improve on the first movie (yes, I do think there is room for improvement). "},{"Title":"A fun sci-fi frolic!","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  If you leave your brain outside the cinema, and don't analyse it too closely , you will love Lost In Space.  Its a visual and aural invasion, with  spectacular effects and a booming soundtrack.  Of course the plot leaves a  little to be desired, as does the script, but hey, I laughed and oohed and  aahed all the way through.  Sometimes I just want to be entertained without  thinking too much at the movies - Lost In Space fits the bill perfectly.   Oh, and Matt le Blanc is the first Friends star not to play that character  on the big screen.  He's really macho, girls. Mmmm.  "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Wasn't the best movie, but I quite enjoyed it. The effects were OK, and the acting was better than average. I thought Matt LeBlanc did a good job as Major West, so not like his other alter-ego joey I liked the movie because it was different. It was a remake of a television series and they director, writers, etc tried not going to far from what the series was based on. the family flies to space, the trip gets misdirected, they get lost, they have to find their way home. If I'm not mistaken, the voice of the robot sounded like the same one from the series, unless I'm hearing things.It would be nice if humanity could work on something like that now, so in the future we're not scrambling around trying to find another planet with sufficient resources to sustain life. "},{"Title":"Not Bad, Per Say, But Not Good...","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  First off, I am not prone to weepy eyed nostalgia about the T.V. shows I used to watch when I was young and vital, now that I am an aging failure. It does not warm my heart to see past stars recycled into a film remake like LOST IN SPACE, just to lend the production a facade of credibility.  Nor do I support pop culture in any way.  The unfertile soil of Hollywood loves this kind of film, because it has a built in fan base (although seemingly not large enough to prevent LOST IN SPACE from being a flop).  The film version of the Irwin Allen's campy television is slick and good looking, but hollow and pointless.The first half hour of LOST IN SPACE is awful, really bad.  I almost turned it off, but I was watching it because of Gary Oldman, so I decided to stick it out.  If you can get through the first quarter it does get better.  The frantic lameness evens out, focusing more on the characters once the Robinson's become lost in space.  The performances are good on average (except for the child actors, who are quite irritating).  William Hurt, who tries his best, seems somewhat out of place in a fully costumed kitsch space drama.  Mimi Rodgers is wasted, and Heather Graham is given little to do. I wonder why Matt LeBlanc's film career didn't take off like a rocket after LOST IN SPACE...The only actor that leaves any kind of impression after the embarrassing end credits roll, is Gary Oldman.  Once again the bright spot in a otherwise dreary film.  It is not his best performance, mostly due to the dialogue that he is given (supplied by Akiva Goldsman).  He makes the most of it however, bringing the flat character of Dr. Zachary Smith to life. Creating yet another unique accent, he overshadows the rest of the cast by far.Okay, so I said LOST IN SPACE was not that bad.  The film kind of grows on you with its' good natured emptiness.  There are some decent set pieces, including the creation of Dr. Smith's altered state near the end.  Most of the CGI effects were ambitious for the time, and the production design is impressive.  The score by Bruce Broughton (who came in after Jerry Goldsmith dropped out) is thrilling, but buried under the sound effects.  The spider chase creates mild tension and predates MINORITY REPORT by several years, although RUNAWAY predates...nevermind.  When all is said LOST IN SPACE would appear to be too confusing and creepy to appeal to children, but fans of the series will probably like it I guess, I'm not sure.  Worth it for Oldman and fans of the T.V. show...catch it on cable though.  5/10.  "},{"Title":"Unbelievable!  No, really, it's impossible to believe.","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Oldman is brilliant, which is nothing less than expected.  He is the redeeming virtue in a poorly planned, ridiculously unbelievable film.  It is actually very interesting, if you do not pay too much attention to detail. If the past/future thing could have been left out completely, the film would improve by about 500 per cent.  I would not urge anyone to see this film, but at the same time, it is fairly entertaining, and of course, any Oldman fan should see another great performance from one of the greatest, and most unappreciated, character actors in history. "},{"Title":"Hi tech Disney style movie","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  What ever you think about doing this evening, don't even think about renting this movie. The score, the acting, and the settings are all a disgrace to intelligence. The movie features the hard to get women, who are much easily persuaded to kissing, and we can imagine what else when the credits finally appear on screen. (Watch out for the Apollo 440 theme in the end, though, excellent stuff.)The movie is highly 80's. Or should I say, Disney style. Once that's been said, the movie has some good morals. So, yes, I guess a family would see some fun in it. For the little girls there is a highly adorable creature in the movie (all computer animated of course.) and for the boys there is a scene with a lot of shooting in it. Yes!But to me, this movie was nothing but obvious. The acting is terrible, and this by no means holds any quality to the series of the 60's with the same name it so desperately wants to duplicate. Instead of making this movie, wasting millions. Why couldn't they just have sent some re-runs of the old series. I never thought Gary Oldman looked any good in a space-suit anyways.  "},{"Title":"Did not live up to the hype","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I can remember the previews for LS in late 1997, early 1998. It was hyped up quite a bit six months before it came to the theatres. After hearing the preliminary reviews, I waited for video. It was the right decision.I think that the opening scenes with the battle were some of the greatest effects I had seen. The rest of the movie delivers well in that area.I did not like the finger wagging the movie took towards the male characters. Besides, much of it did not make sense. Maureen Robinson threatens to declare her husband and the major unfit for duty (for arguing) without regard to who's going to fly the ship or what effect it would have on her marriage. I thought it was curious for her to start a p****ing contest of her own on the premise that the two men were wrongfully engaging in one themselves.Heather Graham does not add much in her role as a doctor. I can think of two actresses (Jeri Ryan, Linda Fiorentino) who could have done better and there are probably dozens who could have done equally as well.The two youngest Robinsons were good in their roles. The inhibited teenage daughter was well done by Lacey Chabert and Jack Johnson played the young scientist convincingly.Jonathan Pryce would have made a better intellectual villain as Dr. Smith, but Matt LeBlanc and William Hurt were OK in their roles as the Major and Professor Robinson respectively.All in all, I'd give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"a previous commenter, you're right","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I agree completely with you when you said that this was a fun, decent, fantastic effect and a great plot movie.  Don't pick at it, just sit back and enjoy it.  Of course it was campy, just like the three years the series was on back in the sixties.  I remember watching them as a kid and I thought the show was kind of stupid, but I watched it anyway because of the fact it was different.  And so was this movie.  All of the characters were exactly the way they were supposed to be, based on the t.v. series.  Gary Oldman as Dr. Smith started off cold and evil, then by the middle and end of picture he was cold, evil and funny never fear....Smith is hear and Oh the pain.... the pain or William my dear boy, you know stuff I remember from the series.  Although I don't remember Judy being a doctor.  I was a little surprised at Matt LaBlanc - I have never seen him in anything besides comedies and I got to tell you, I thought he was great.  All in all, just like undone00 said - grab some popcorn and just sit back and watch.  "}{"Title":"missed opportunity","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie was okay.  The first half was full of imagination and hope of things to come in a potentially good sci fi movie.  It was well done and entertaining.  The problem came when they were in space.  The thing missing that was featured in the original series was there were no cool aliens they had to beat.  There were aliens but they contained no personality.  The second half of the movie seemed to collapse under its own weight.  It seemed they wanted to do so many things they had to combine them and it seemed sort of a mess.  All in all, worth seeing only if you were a fan of the original, but they missed an opportunity to make a really good sci fi movie. "},{"Title":"An Contradictory Mess","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's obvious the directors had no comprehension of the Space/Time continuum because this film defies it in so many ways. I say this mainly as the third act opens as Space Family Robinson are hurled decades into the future (at least 20 years I imagine but they don't specify this), where on a distant world they bump into their future selves. The main problem with this idea is that in order for them to bump into their older selves their older selves would have had to have been living on the planet for the past 20 years or so, whereas in the film they had just arrived, meaning they couldn't possibly live there. Also, Dr Smith kills his past self and yet his future self doesn't disappear, and young Will Robinson is killed in an explosion yet the future William doesn't disappear either. Apart from that the acting is as bland as cardboard as many of the characters have no defining character. Dr Smith is you're usual over the top bad guy (although my favourite part used to be when he had become his spider self, a character indulged in mystery but that's heading off track), John Robinson's character is unrealistically emotionless, Matt le Blanc is your average rough Space Cowboy type, the elder daughter is your typical hard-to-get type, the younger daughter is often considered to be the Missing Chipette and Will doesn't get enough credit for his amazing work, instead he gets bawled off by his siblings and his talent is only really exploited by the bad guy Dr. Smith, which leads to later character development but it would have needed to have been a longer more developed film, where rather than stumbling across their future selves, the film could have been a documentary of how the Robinson's struggled to survive on the harsh and unforgiving world and eventually another set of characters come across them leading to the events of the end of the film, etc, etc.Overall, a weak attempt at sci-fi with some OK CGI but not much else going for it... "},{"Title":"a big dumb movie with great effects","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" There are some striking special effects scenes that we have witnessed over the years. From asteroids hitting the earth to dinosaurs roaming, we have seen some pretty spectacular scenes. However, a film full of great effects is not a great film. Lost In Space is a prime example of this.When the Earth is dying in the future, it is predicted that we will search for a new home. This is the crux of Lost In Space, as the (swiss family) Robinson attempt to fly their pretty boring looking spaceship to the other end of the galaxy to colonise a planet called alpha prime. Onboard is the usual group of family members- self obsessed dad, intelligent but ignored son, angry wife and bickering daughters. Also onboard is Matt Le Blanc, star of friends.There is a couple of problem within the casting of the crew. Heather Graham (playing the eldest child) is improbably beautiful for a scientist. She also comes out with one of the worst quotes in history ('i don't like the sound of that sound').Unsurprisingly, there are those who oppose the idea of an alternative planet being found for the human race. One such man is Gary Oldmans character Smith. He spouts bizarre monologues that sound like the bits that Shakespeare chopped from his plays. He tries to kill the Robinson family and hotwires the unnecessary robot so that it goes crazy and damages the ship. From here, the crew is lost.There are many problems with this film. Gary Oldman, a great actor in the fifth element and leon, is not exactly the most threatening of bad guys in this movie. he snivels and weasels his way through the film, finding himself endlessly punched by Le Blanc. The random space monkey that the crew encounter is poorly recognised by cheap effects, and is a pointless addition. Heather graham is not a scientist. The ship is boring to look at. and on, and on....The film also has silly leaps of logic. The spiders that the crew come up against onboard the floating spaceship are clearly robotic, yet have a predators teeth. They are able to bite their way through the hull of the ship, and yet ten minutes later the ship flies through the atmosphere of a planet without even suffering a scratch. I'm no scientist but surely an incredibly hot atmosphere is stronger than a spiders teeth??? The ship manages to fly THROUGH THE SUN! i don't care how fast they are going, thats surely impossible! However, a movie like this is bound to be full of effects, and Lost In Space doesn't disappoint. The destruction of the Proteus spaceship is spectacular as the Robinsons ship wheels away from the expanding fireball. And the final flight through the planet is great fun to. Matt Le Blanc plays his role well, looking heroic and not taking himself too seriously. He is unintentionally hilarious when the robot is malfunctioning and he flies through the air to land on its back. And his pathetic attempts to flirt with Heather Grahams depressed looking scientist add welcome heart to the film.If it wasn't for the budget, this film would definitely receive a lower grade. The story may be dull and the acting fairly mediocre, but Lost In Space isn't trying to be Solaris. It just wants to entertain, and no matter how much you try, you cannot truly say that this film bores you. "},{"Title":"So much talent in this film, but little to show for it.","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When I went to see Lost in Space in 1998, I was really excited because I thought that the cast was outstanding, and I had seen some shots from the making of it a few months earlier.  At the end of the film, I just shook my head and laughed.  I could not believe how stupid the movie was.  I have not read anything about the production of the film, but I think that it must have been rushed to the box office because the editing was terrible and the movie seemed unpolished in general.  It seemed to me that they ran out of time and just threw the movie out there in hopes that it would do well. The actors all do their jobs well, but I bet that they were disappointed with the post-production part of the film. "},{"Title":"Cashing in on the old TV show & big special effects","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Having watched this movie, it's easy to believe a producer and writer, sitting drunk at a table one night, saying Hey ... how about this.  Lost in Space movie.  Throw in some well known faces, some big special effects, a cute overly shiny alien, and something about time travel.  Doesn't need to make sense.The actors have done well, considering the script is full of cliches and plotholes, and none turn in bad performances.  In fact, without William Hurt and Gary Oldman, the movie would have been far worse.  The special effects, the costumes, set design are all very well done, but the failure of the movie comes down to the bad script.  Besides taking lines directly out of other movies (Back to the Future is just one ... where the hell ... the question is WHEN the hell ...), and phrases that were considered well-worn when the original series was around, there are huggy moments throughout the script which makes you feel the writer is beating you over the head with a warm fuzzy hammer.  Penny's problems magically solved?  West and Judy finally realising they like each other after all?  Father and son reaffirming their love?  It's like a mix between Plan 9 From Outer Space and Steel Magnolias.And don't even think about the poor time travel / alternate universe scenario.  There are so many contradictions and badly-thought out ideas surrounding that, it could physically injure you if you tried to contemplate it for too long.A sequel isn't as terrifying an idea as it may first sound ... with the same cast and crew, it may even be enjoyable.  But please, a better script next time, for goodness sake. "},{"Title":"Just one question...","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When may we experience a sequel to this incredibly great movie???And to anyone complaining about it I know your problem. You definetely didn't understand it at all. You didn't see that almost ALL of the dialogues were made up as jokes or quotes from other movies or TV series. And that the SFX were intended to look like they were made on a Amiga 500 to ridicule todays obvious need to stuff any movie with special effects. I propose that you watch it again and again to finally understand these facts.And, no, I didn't see any dubbed German version. I always prefer the original english language.10 out of 10, nothing less! "},{"Title":"This is not the TV series; but almost a waste of time.","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Robinson family goes deeper in space and have to fight for their survival in order to advance and preserve mankind.  Special effects were pretty good, but soon go stale. The script seems to be phoned in by an elementary school class. William Hurt plays a bland Prof. John Robinson. Mrs. Robinson is played by Mimi Rogers and is good in the role. Lacey Chabert, who plays Penny, seems on the verge of better material. Matt LeBlanc, is the wise cracking hero. This would make a good comic book instead of an average rental. Gary Oldman fans will be pleased with his version of Dr. Smith. "},{"Title":"Nice effects, bad story","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I Had great expectations for this movie when i rented it in my local video store, but it did not meet them =(. it was really like an old scifi tv show but much better effects which did not work for me since much of the charm of the old tv shows is their pretty bad effects, and there are so much effects in this and its gets really weird i think, you cant really catch the actual story since you are constantly amazed how weird the image on the screen is looking. "},{"Title":"Tedious remake of a moronic tv series","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  If the filmmakers had invested 1/10th, no make that 1/100th of the money they spent on sfx in hiring an actual script writer (preferably someone who knew something about science, or science fiction even) this could have been pretty fun. As it is, the sfx are astonishing, the movie was a complete snooze, and the actors were appalling -- even people like Oldman and Hurt, from whom you would expect greatness. Feh.Within a half hour, we were praying that the family Robinson would never come out of suspended animation. By the end of the film, our whole family was cheering when the Robinson's ship was blown from space. Yeah. Rid of all those dreary folks at one shot. The plot was riddled with more holes than the planet they fly through (!!!) A big fat pfffffffffft for this idiot movie. Next time spend the money on a script. "},{"Title":"I wouldn't recommend this movie.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I thought it was hard to follow because of the changing of time periods in this movie. I thought the monkey-like creature made it very unrealistic! "}{"Title":"Not the TV series","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is an attempt to bring the campy '60's TV show of the same name to the big screen. Anyone who was a fan of the show knows that the movie failed miserably.First of all it lacked the charm of the TV show. They took the camp away and instead the movie took itself way to seriously. Then they totally miscast Gary Oldman as Dr. Smith. Don't get me wrong, Gary Oldman is a great actor, and he was really good at being a sleazy, conniving and utterly evil bad guy. The problem is that the Dr. Smith in the TV series was a cowardly weasel, but not really evil, just self centered, and self-serving. In fact, in the series, he even developed a fondness for Will Robinson.The rest of the cast was good, but all in all, the plot and the script left me flat. "},{"Title":"Just makes me miss the television show all the more.","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHOUTI can see how someone might think Lost In Space is kind of a fun movie. It's all whirlwind special effects and digitally enhanced happenings. But I can also see how someone would not like this at all. It bears little resemblance to the television show Lost In Space. It really makes one miss the TV show, which was absolutely wonderful. This one went the way of safe versus fascinating.The movie is all about one thing after another happening to the lost Robinson family/friends and putting various cast members in harm's way. It's all special effects and while not awful, is certainly not extraordinary. The show Lost In Space was quite different. You get to know this group as people and there's character development and a lot of depth and soul to the television series. It was one of my favorites growing up and I'd looked forward to the movie version. I should have known this wouldn't be a replica. I think it should have been though, as the TV show is a classic and this had the potential to be an unforgettable movie.The performers were all right though they were not given much to work with. This is an action/space movie, it has little to do with the television show. They work with what they've got. The one who really surprised me however, was Matt Leblanc. When I first saw him in the role, I will admit I thought whatever were they thinking? Well, I was WRONG. I think he may have actually been the best, he actually reminded me of the original Don West and picked up on both the voice inflection and a lot of the mannerisms.Lost In Space isn't awful or anything but it was a disappointment. I really don't understand why so many movies made from books and TV shows are so changed when they make it to the big screen. Obviously, there's a reason for the success of the original. In any event-I would love to see a new Lost In Space hit the big screen, one that follows the original more closely and brings the unforgettable TV show back to us in an unforgettable movie version. "},{"Title":"The all-shell M&M","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Somehow, I knew this movie was going to be an excuse to sell happy meals.  I've seen some films that had a few points of interest tacked on, but this one was video-game quality special effects, and the rest was attached to the film on a 3M Post It and then glossed over with a shiny lacquer.The family sentiment and heartfelt emotion isn't built, but slapped onto this movie in the form of one liners.  Little girls telling you not to love anything, because you'll only lose it... and then walking away.  Does this sentiment play in the movie?  Only for the time it takes her to say that line.Little boy explains friendship to robot in one scene.  Hmm... how could this be more transparent?Action is done cool, with lines like Pedal to the metal! Rock and Roll! and my favorite I don't like the sound of that sound.  But the thrill ride everyone seemed so excited about is nothing more than previews for the video game.The bright spot of this film was Gary Oldman.  He hams it up as the whining doctor, but he is also menacing in ways the TV show never was.  His innocent smile and reassurances (Yes. I'm a doctor.) are fantastic, and I have a feeling he enjoyed cartooning himself out for this role.But even if Oldman was an enjoyable cartoon, the movie was shallow.  Ankle deep.  It makes me remember when I thought Transformers was a wonderful show, and reading the positive reviews here, I smile on that naiveté... and remember my disappointment the first time I saw that show as an adult.  It will be quite a shock when they rent Lost In Space for nostalgia's sake and find out what a hollow, soulless commercial it is.  "},{"Title":"Rubbish In Space A feast for lovers of bad films","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I mean this film had a big budget and had quality stars, lots of action but stewed up to total rubbish. What was my favorite bad moment? when the little boy teaches his robot about love! To be fair my 10 year-old son loved it, and also to be fair the film was a little to faithful to the original TV series which was dreary time-filling rubbish (and poor me I used to watch it!!) "},{"Title":"Danger! Danger!","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  An incredibly bad film. Cheesy, unimaginative special effects, a mixture of wood and ham in the acting, and an STUPID script. Finally, the costumes and sets were VERY poor. With VERY rare exceptions (the Addams family films, The Fugitive), almost, all these attempts to remake classic TV shows are terrible, and have no grasp of the difference between the two mediums. "},{"Title":"So Bad I Couldn't Sleep","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  William Hurt and Mimi Rogers are two of the most wooden actors, as is only too apparent in this film.  The script, plot, dialogue were all awful -- silly and contrived.  The effects were okay, except for that amazingly phony monkey thing.  Worst of all, there was no sense that anyone was enjoying themselves in making this movie.  They could have gone over the top, had some fun with the idea of re-making what was a pretty cheesy show in its original form, but they were all stone-faced and serious.  I can't believe 80 million was spent on this tripe.  I bemoan the current trend of movies that use expensive, intricate special effects with no good writing to back it up.  The whole industry is cheapened.  There are too many technicians and too few artists working in (mainstream) Hollywood, it seems...please, save those two hours of your life and do something worthwhile!  Time is spinning away even while you read this!  Get off the web!  Go outside!  Breathe the air!  Bite the ass of life!  And don't watch this movie! "},{"Title":"A family is assigned to the habitable planet Alpha Prime to prepare it for colonization by building a hypergate in orbit","Date":"11 July 2012","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" In the year 2058 Earth is suffering of pollution and will soon be uninhabitable after the irreversible effects of global warming. Space colony family struggles to survive when a spy/accidental stowaway throws their ship hopelessly off course. Professor John Robinson (William Hurt), his wife Maureen (Mimi Rogers) , their children Judy (Heather Graham) , Penny (Lacey Chabert) and Will (Jack Johnson) and Major Don West (Matt LeBlanc , Sean Patrick Flanery was originally cast and was also previously offered to Matthew Perry) are selected to go to the third planet in the Alpha Centauri star system to establish a colony so that other Earth people can settle there. They are to go there on a ship christened the Jupiter 2. However, Doctor Zachary Smith (Gary Oldman) , an agent for an enemy (Edward Fox) , is sent to sabotage the mission. He is successful in reprogramming the ship's robot, but in the process becomes trapped on the ship , the ship and all on board become hopelessly lost and it now becomes a fight for survival as the crew tries to find their way back home . Now they are fighting to live long enough to find a way home .Familiar Sci-Fi dealing with Robinson family was going into space to fight for a chance for humanity , it is plenty of special effects , thrills , action though regularly developed . The picture has some good moments here and there , but is also full of flaws and gaps . Screenplay by Akiva Goldsman who wrote a script with absurd situations and embarrassing scenes. Silly and ridiculous images , especially starred by the computer monkey made by means of botching effects and the giant spider-Doctor Smith too . Mediocre performances and all principals actors were contracted to a three picture option, but as the film failed to recoup its budget in North America, plans for a new franchise were scrapped . Good photography by cinematographer Peter Levy who frequently works with the filmmaker . Thrilling and atmospheric musical score by Bruce Broughton . The motion picture was middling directed by Stephen Hopkins who has realized some acceptable Sci-Fi and Terror films as ¨Nightmare in ElmStreet 5 ¨ , ¨Predator 2¨, ¨The reaping ¨ , though his better films were ¨The ghost and the darkness¨ and ¨The life and death of Peter Sellers¨. ¨Lost in space¨ turns out to be his worst movie . Rating  Below average .The classic and best version results to be 84 episodes for television produced by Irwin Allen , starred by Guy Williams (John Robinson) , June Lockhart ( Maureen Robinson) , Mark Goddard (Maj. Don West), Marta Kristen (Judy Robinson) , Bill Mumy ( Will Robinson) and Angela Cartwright . (Penny Robinson).Originally, all surviving cast members of the TV show were meant to have cameo appearances. Mark Goddard, the original Major Don West, plays the General. June Lockhart,plays Will Robinson's principal , Marta Kristen and Angela Cartwright play reporters and Dick Tufeld reprises his role from Lost in Space as the voice of the Robot. Ironically, Bill Mumy and Jonathan Harris, the two actors most supportive of the idea of a new movie , did not appear in it. "},{"Title":"Lost The Place More Like","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" As I type this review I've a confession that I am very , very excited about the return of DOCTOR WHO tomorrow evening . Yeah it won't be like the old show since the FX look much better and the new Doctor is played by a cool actor with a northern accent and there's even fart jokes ! , but the old elements of a time traveler in a space ship disguised as an old London police box with a sexy assistant saving the universe from evil scary monsters remain .The big screen version of LOST IN SPACE is quite different and if you've ever seen an episode of the old TV show you come to the conclusion that you've seen at least one episode more than the producers of this movie . In fact I'll be cynical and say it's only called LOST IN SPACE to cash in on people who remember the original series . Have no fear Smith is here  That's the tag line from the camp and cowardly character from the original , without doubt the most watchable and best remembered character from the show . So why's Gary Oldman playing the same character he did in LEON ? Gary Oldman ? If you're needing a camp but watchable Brit why didn't they cast Richard E Grant ? Probably because no one involved in this movie has ever seen an episode of LOST IN SPACE . The characters share nothing in common with their small screen predecessors apart from their names If the producers hadn't cheated and released this movie with its true title of JUST ANOTHER SF BLOCKBUSTER I guess people wouldn't have been so critical . Okay it's nothing special , just a rather loud movie with explosions and special effects that looked like it was directed by Michael Bay but not really worthy of so much negativity either . But at the end of the day it's like watching a DOCTOR WHO story without sexy assistants and monsters "},{"Title":"A purely awful movie...they did nothing right","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is terrible.  You name the category, and they did it bad. Acting, writing, even costumes.  Ugh! "},{"Title":"Crap, Will Robinson, Crap!","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The phrases harmless fun, a trashy good time, or mindless entertainment take on an insidious new meaning when applied to movies like this.  I know the movie isn't evil or mean-spirited, but does that mean it has to be so damn awful?  I tried to find something in the movie that wasn't a cliche; I failed.  The cast turns in nearly uniformly wooden line readings as they trot through the paces of the plot.  Not making any sense?  Well hell, says the movie, just throw in some loud sound effects, lousy computer graphics, a couple of jokey one-liners that would be below the cheesiest nightclub comic and goose up the action regardless of how improbable it becomes.  Even though based on an old campy TV show, this could have been an entertaining movie.  The total lack of imagination at work, however, has sucked any chance of fun right out of the experience.  Truly redundant, truly awful.  "}{"Title":"Boredom, Will Robinson!","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Is it just me, or is intelligent sci-fi filmmaking a thing of the past? Lost  in Space, the TV show, was at least entertaining; the film it inspired is  anything but. Built on a script that floats on cliches and little more, LIS  fails to engage at every level. The story seems to have been pieced  together in separate meetings, without any cohesive transitions. Boffo F/X  do not a good movie make, and even talented actors like Gary Oldman,  William Hurt, Heather Graham, and Mimi Rogers barely phone in their  performances. Far too long and far too insipid, LIS isn't even much of a  time-waster.  "},{"Title":"Warning, Will Robinson! You're in a sucky film!","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" For those who have not heard the concept, let me tell you a bit about No Man's Land. In the combat situations of World War I, it referred to the long stretch of land between the trenches. This was due to the fact that anyone who set foot on it was killed. In tennis, it refers to the parts of the court between the outer edge where the players begin and a certain distance from the net. This is mostly because it is difficult, if not impossible, to intercept a volley when standing in this area. In film criticism, No Man's Land refers to the kind of film that is too bad to be really enthralling, but is not bad enough to be particularly amusing. Classic examples of this phenomenon include Lethal Weapon 4, Resident Evil Apocalypse, and Scream 3. Lost In Space as a television show was never that enthralling, being more a case of Americans trying too hard to recreate Doctor Who. As a film, Lost In Space does not seem to have any idea what it is trying to be, and ends up as more of a case of being nothing to anyone.The right elements were in place where casting was concerned. Gary Oldman and William Hurt are great actors who were and still are at the top of their game. Stephen Hopkins has a mixed resumé, and I will not get into the merits of his prior films, but I do believe the defense I anticipate him using. Put simply, the best actors and director in the world cannot overcome a bad script, or bad planning. Look at RoboCop before Hollow Man, then try to tell me otherwise. And if there is one thing that Lost In Space has in abundance, it is a bad script. Akiva Goldsman's other credits include such fare as I, Robot (or Will Smith Taking A Dump On Isaac Asimov's Grave as it should be called), Batman & Robin, and Batman Forever. If I need to say more about who is to blame for this tax write-off, then you clearly have not seen enough films. And make no mistake. The audience whose nostalgia they were counting on to make money took one look, laughed, and promptly saw something else.If there is any bad acting in Lost In Space, it is mainly on Matt LeBlanc's shoulders. Famous at the time for playing a moronic TV actor in a moronic sitcom, he portrays his military officer character exactly as his moronic TV actor character would portray him. So if you are looking for proof that the cast of Friends is not entirely made up of talentless hacks, then look elsewhere. Scenes between LeBlanc and Oldman are especially amusing. Oldman, well, one of his earliest roles was portraying one of punk rock's most pathetically talentless men, a role he portrayed so well it was like looking at a ghost. Some people who have never seen him in that role would have no idea from watching him in the role of Dr. Smith, and if what I have just said is a surprise to you, then you are proving my point. Put simply, the acting is either cancelled out by the bad script, or it is just plain bad.Lost In Space did get a second lease on life being used in hi-fi stores to demonstrate expensive gear. At the time, the ability to play back home video with six channels of audio was almost the exclusive domain of the rich, and there was no shortage of individuals who would watch a film for its soundtrack rather than the film itself. And it is just as well, because the cacophony of noise that permeates the majority of Lost In Space is enough to double one's vision. As unimpressed as I was with the TV series, it is remarkable that they were able to create a weekly drama with clever conflicts and strange settings on an episodic budget that could not buy one a house these days. The film cost enough money to have built the Jupiter set, film six hundred and twelve episodes of the TV series, and still have change left over. Yet what little there seemed to be in said TV series, in terms of a soul or an intellect, is utterly absent from the film. People complain about better special effects translating into poor plots, but never have I seen a better example.The Blarp, as it is called in the credits, is not the worst example of a CGI character being used where a human or puppet would achieve better results, but it is certainly not a good one. One cannot help but think that George Lucas must have been watching. And the film really does try to be everything to everyone. To a child audience, it tries to present a cute monster or a child cast that the children could relate to. It fails there. When attempting to present enough explosions and moments of action to the adult audience, it fails. And in disconnecting most of its moorings from the TV series, it disconnects itself from most of the point it had in existing. To call this even a mediocre space travel film is flattery. While a total disrespect to the laws of science is one thing, providing no explanation for the liberties taken with said laws is another altogether. I have heard it suggested that New Line Cinema made Lost In Space was intentionally made to be as bad as possible as if it were all one big joke. Having seen the film, I can only agree.Hence, I gave Lost In Space a two out of ten. Not every film can be The Godfather, but between having garbage like this coming out every week and having a few good films per year, I definitely favour the latter. Down with mass-production, and down with Lost In Space. "},{"Title":"Good, but...","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  After watching a film the second time I will tell whether I like it, and discover it's flaws. So what did I find about Lost In Space, well the first half is very good, the premise of being lost in space etc... is a cool idea, but the problem as with a lot of films is that it shows us all the good tricks first. So when the Spaceship crash lands on the ice planet, the film seems to spend too much time there. The ending was a bit different to most other films, but it didn't have a big action piece at the end which is what you expect from a Sci-Fi action film. I hope that if any sequels are planned, they learn from their mistakes, because the premise is cool.  "},{"Title":"A Disgrace","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie was a sad attempt by the director and the film makers to to revive a beloved TV series we all enjoyed as kids growing up. As a die hard Lost In Space fan, I was totally horrified to discover that Hopkins actual screen tested Bill Mummy and blew him off. Mummy would have been perfect for the closing scene. The actors and actresses performed well, and I believe that good choices were made. But the material left much to be desired. This is why we have not seen or heard any talk of a sequel, even though the actors signed on for it. The only attraction this film had was the cameos from Goddard, Cartright, Kristen, and Lockhart. Jonathan Harris (AKA Dr. Smith) flat out refused to participate. With the DVD collection of the original series available in stores, this movie will remain lost in outer space. "},{"Title":"Hold Your Nose. This Movie Stinks!","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I was so turned off by this movie I couldn't finish watching it. I just kept hoping for some alien to come and devour the whole crew. I can't believe William Hurt was even involved in such a stupid movie.This one goes in the garbage bin! "},{"Title":"i was lost in space","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  i first saw this in the theatre when it came out, and i only dug it for the special effects on the big screen.  as far as story goes, i wasn't totally paying attention, so i kinda missed some of it.  so i rented it again today, and now watching it on my tv at home made the effects look small, and the story still sucked even tho i was actually paying attention this time around.  i was bored big time after the first hyperspeed burst where they were all suspended in air for 30 seconds.  after that i prayed for it to be over soon.  lousy acting all around.  cheers *snort* "},{"Title":"Should Be Lost Somewhere","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Likely the worst movie I have seen the past 10 years. No characterization and a weak plot. Midway through the movie we don't care if the characters live or die, they are so self-centered and wooden. If this is what life is going to be like in the future, Lord help mankind. "},{"Title":"Why I watched this until the end, I'll never know.","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Three words to describe this movie (with apologies to Dr. Seuss)  stink, stank, stunk.  A complete absence of intelligible plot, shoddy and/or wooden acting, a silly premise, and the most hopelessly convoluted time-travel paradox I've had the displeasure of seeing, all combine to make this one stinker of a movie.  Where's Mystery Science Theater 3000 when you need them? "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'Lost In Space'","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Much of today's cliché-type characters and attitudes that you see in modern movies are in this film.....most of which are bad. Too bad, because this could have been a really nice family and funny film. It still was pretty good.THE BAD - First off, the cliché characters (1) Obnoxious kids with a punk- looking teenage girl (Lacey Chabert) and (2) a know-it-all younger brother (Jack Johnson); (3) a father who has ignored his kids for too long; (4) women always having the last say in arguments with men; (5)men looking stupidly macho and uncaring.In addition (1) Some really dumb and annoying dialog; (2) no reliance on God in any situation; (3) the usual sexual innuendos (despite this being promoted for a family film); (4) cheap shots at marriage and wholesome things, in general.THE GOOD - It features some excellent and unique special-effects; the film moves well despite the length of it (over two hours); the father does look good in the end and the family bonds are stronger through the ordeal, and, good triumphs over evil. The language is tame in here, too. "},{"Title":"Hopeless movie.","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Why would any director put his name on a production like this. This movie is as boring and stupid as you can get. Why did I go see this hopeless attempt at a sci fi movie. The script is flat and without any sense the actors play poorly and even the shooting is substandard. All in all save your money and go see something else. "}{"Title":"Uninteresting shallow science-fiction flick.","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This remake of the successful '60's television show really is a waste of some good potential. It by no means is an horrible movie but the script isn't really interesting or spectacular and the character treatment is quite poor.In a way this movie is a mixed bag. On the one hand it has some good actors in it and some of the special effects are really good but than again on the other hand the story is pretty shallow, the costumes are embarrassingly dreadful and some of the special effects are below average at best. Sounds weird, a movie that has both good and bad special effects in it. It's a bit weird, it's like they spend most of the time on the big special effects shots and after that they raffled the rest of the special effects. At times the movie is impressive to watch and at other moments it's just laughable bad to look at. Such as the CG character Blarp. He (or she?) looked absolutely dreadful and it made the movie even more ridiculous and bad to watch. But perhaps worst thing about the entire character is that it's a totally, completely unnecessary one that doesn't add anything to the story at all.The movie has a solid cast. John Hurt certainly adds some believability to the silly moments in the movie and he deliverers some of the bad dialog good and even credible. Gary Oldman is of course also a great actor but he plays a bit of an uninteresting villain in this movie that doesn't get enough opportunity to shine. Matt LeBlanc is most of the time convincing in his role but he at times deliver some cheesy dialog which doesn't always make him believable as a tough space pilot. Mimi Rogers and Heather Graham also walk around in the movie but they get very little interesting to do. Good in her role was also Lacey Chabert. She's a good young actress, never really understood why she didn't appeared in more mainstream big Hollywood productions. She's an actress with great potential but somehow Hollywood never really picked this up. Maybe it has something to do with the failure of this movie?Because yes, this movie is a bit of a failure. Not only in terms of how well it did at the box office and how well it was received by the crowd and critics but also certainly in terms of how the movie is constructed. The script is just disappointingly shallow and has some totally unlikely and unbelievable events in it, that at times don't even make sense. The story also uses too many elements from the first Star Wars trilogy and even a little bit from 2001 A Space Odyssey. It doesn't only uses story elements from that movies, it also rips off the looks of some of the spaceships, planets and city skylights. No, Lost in Space certainly isn't the most original science-fiction movie ever made.The movie also lacks some good tension and action sequences. There are too many slow moments in the movie in which totally nothing happens. It's OK to have some slower moments in a movie but only when the script and characters are good and interesting enough to carry those slower moments. In this movie that really isn't the case.This movie is not a complete disaster and the 4.6 rating here at the moment might be a bit too harsh. The movie does provide some good and entertaining moments. But if only the movie had a better and more original script, than this movie perhaps would had been a bigger success and certainly a better one to watch.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"That was a mistake.","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Plenty can be said about LOST IN SPACE. More accurately, what else can be done to improve this ho hum upgrade of the classic television series. The gadgets and special effects were pretty much the movie. Everything else in LOST IN SPACE is either melodramatic or just plain stupid. A computer generated alien was obviously put in to save the kids from falling asleep. Major West seemed more like an idiotic cry baby with dry charm until he starts getting his way.Earth in two decades will be uninhabitable. A family goes off into space to see just how well fit a planet will be for colonization. A terrorist group has other plans and the end result leaves our family LOST IN SPACE TM )The first five minutes of combat are contrived and unnecessary. So many parts of this movie are. Old LOST IN SPACE references are a sigh of relief. Some parts were pretty funny. Unintentionally, the climactic ending (well, one of them), was so over dramatic, it was hilarious. Also, the last thing I would want to hear while trying to stop a killer robot That was a mistake. LOST IN SPACE should have been louder on sound while laying off the music a bit. But it is too late to play shoulda, woulda, coulda for this dud. LOST IN SPACE is formulaic garbage, unworthy at times to follow its predecessor. "},{"Title":"The best thing about this movie is the Close Captioning.","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is a monument to its own inanity. The Earth is dying, we have 20 years until the world cannot support human life. Resources are dangerously low, so what do the big brains do? Build a HUGE ship on earth to launch a little ship into space in the most inefficient manner possible. They should have built the little Jupiter 2 on that big space station. They send 1 family and a robot to build a hyperspace gate at the new world (keep in mind it is taking a LOT of resources and manpower to build the earth-based gate, there is no mention as to HOW the Robinsons are supposed to build the second gate. Upon arriving at Alpha prime they will need to build electronic factories, farms, mining operations and a space program to launch all the stuff they will need from Alpha prime into orbit around alpha prime so the family can build a gate to match the one back on earth. That should only take ... oh 150 years or so... HELLOOOOOOOOO? From this poorly planned last ditch effort we move along to getting lost in space and pretty much abandoning the human race to die, which the human race deserves if the people in charge actually expected this plan to work... "},{"Title":"too dull","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"21 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film has all the special effects that money can buy, but then it has nothing else to add. The acting was decent, but it didn't really seem like everyone gave their best effort. Not to mention that Gary Oldman had some terrible dialogue. Overall, a lot of money spent on something that needed more adrenaline. 2/4 "},{"Title":"The title says it all.","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"24 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Rating * out of ****Based off the old 60's television series, Lost in Space certainly had the opportunity to be a suspenseful and imaginative sci-fi adventure, but it ends up feeling like little more than an overlong pilot episode for a failed television series. What the movie does have going for it are some occasionally nifty special effects and a fairly tense scene set on board an abandoned spacecraft packed full of hungry giant spiders. What the movie has going against it is generally everything else. The cast is thoroughly unconvincing (even William Hurt and Gary Oldman), a good portion of the special effects are second-rate, and the subplot involving time rips and time bubbles feels tacked-on and pointless. This is a silly adventure film that lacks tension and fun, or even competent film-making and writing. I'm certain kids will probably enjoy the movie, but most everyone else will probably feel mentally adrift by the time the end credits roll. "},{"Title":"Worst Sci-Fi Movie in the Last Ten Years","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"28 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I just saw the 1998 LOST IN SPACE and I still haven't recovered. How could they possibly have made a movie this bad? Two actual good actors, Gary Oldman and William Hurt, are trapped in this atrociously written, badly directed waste of $80 million. Whether or not you liked the cheesy 60s TV series, you're going to hate this.Alright, this is how it goes it's the future and there's pollution, world peace (ugh!), and terrorists. The Robinson family is going to fly through a hyper-space-portal (or whatever the hell they call it) to a planet on the other side of the galaxy to colonize it and save humanity. Hurt, playing a respected scientist with no time for his kids, says at a press conference there's a lot of space out there to get lost in (ugh!). Matt LeBanc from Friends is horribly miscast as the flying ace who will pilot the Robinson's earth-saving space ship. Then we come to the children... but we wish we hadn't. The little boy is a science-fair genius who wishes his dad had more time for him and the girl is a teenage stereotype who argues with her mother and keeps a video diary. They both have very high, annoying voices, and the lines they deliver are terrible on top of that. Then comes the mother. I don't know who played her, and I don't want to know. They all live in a futuristic house in a futuristic CGI geodesic dome (ugh!). Except for family tensions I don't want to give up the next ten years of my life, the mission appears to be a shoe-in.Then we meet Gary Oldman, the 1998 version of Dr. Smith. He would have been a terrific character if his lines weren't so terrible (I think Akiva Goldsman was trying for Shakespearian). Anyway, he's evil and loves it, and works for the terrorists. He sabotages to mission, getting himself trapped on the ship in the process, and getting the Robinsons lost you know where.Along the way we see thoroughly unconvincing CGI used for just about everything, including an annoying monkey-creature that's supposed to be cute. The costumes (which director Hopkins had a hand in designing) are really terrible glossy-body-mold stuff (think BATMAN AND ROBIN for comparison) which basically gives everybody (even the kids) well defined ahem!- features. Even the music is bad, and horribly arranged. And the end titles go above and beyond tacky, being half music-video, including a rapped-over version of the original theme and sound-bites from the film. And then there's the robot, which the son makes friends with and teaches that it has a heart (ugh!).The script and direction are still probably the worst atrocities in LOSTIN SPACE. One of the more embarrassing bits has LeBlanc explaining to Heather Graham (to whom he is pathetically attracted) the concept of constellations and draws Porky Pig on a window. Even during intimate dialogue scenes, none of our actors seem sincere, or even to be speaking to one another. These characters don't even talk like human beings.It's hard to believe the studio didn't just put this one on the shelf and leave it there. In the end LOST IN SPACE didn't even make enough money to justify its release. The world really would be a better place without this movie. "},{"Title":"It can't get worse... but it does.","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"50 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  There's one obvious thing about Lost in Space -- nobody believed in it. Not the actors, most of whom have trouble delivering their idiotic lines (even the brilliant Gary Oldman seems at a loss); certainly not the creative personnel, who left the sets, costumes, and film editing as much a hastily cobbled mess as the script; and, sadly, not the special effects engineers.  What should be a SFX extravaganza turns dull and lifeless when the computer-generated effects are this bad -- and there should be no mercy whatever for the creators of that phony CGI monkey-thing, named Burp or something similar, obviously inserted in the film to allow Marketing to have a plush doll.  If there's any consolation to sitting through this refuse, it's the certainty that there will be no sequel; there will be no Burp doll; the figurines that were made will be in clearance bins by now; and Lost in Space will irrevokably harm the careers of all involved.  More comfort than you'll get from Independance Day... "},{"Title":"Pure 90's cheese, Lost in Space is an innocent bit of nostalgia that's good fun for children, but likely won't impress adults...","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I must start this review with an important note. I was born in the late 80's and very much grew up a typical 90's/2000's child. I grew up on Sega Genesis and Nintendo 64. I was a die-hard Nickelodeon cartoon fan and spent my weekends watching VHS tapes I rented from Video King. I was blown away the first time I saw a DVD player and still think the biggest crime against humanity was Sony rebooting the Spider-Man franchise instead of making a fourth film with the original cast.What I'm trying to say is... I was never a huge fan of the original Lost in Space television series. It was before my time, and despite seeing the odd, random repeat on Nick at Night or TV Land, my knowledge of the series was loose at best. And that's still very much the case to this day, because while I have adored revisiting many classic series of old... Lost in Space the series never really appealed to me.So I won't be going into this review with any pre-conceived notions of what the film should have been, nor will I draw comparisons and contrasts between this film and the series.1998's Lost in Space, a loose adaptation of the classic Sci-Fi series, is one of those odd little relics of the mid-to-late 90's. Notable for it's use (perhaps over-use) of early-ish CGI generated visuals, quirky storytelling that ranges from fascinating to irritatingly cliché, and a cast of wonderful performers who come across as a bit lost on-screen... this is a strange bit of pop-culture history from a strange era of film.Is it good? No, definitely not.Is it as bad as many make it out to be? Again, definitely not.My 10-year-old self definitely enjoyed the heck out of it when I saw it on the big-screen, and even now looking back, I think it has a great deal of dumb-fun entertainment value. It's a film I think children under the age of 13 could still get a kick out of, as will adults who saw it as children and are revisiting it for nostalgia. But I definitely wouldn't recommend it to most adults who are unfamiliar with it. If you aren't in the exact right mindset, it will likely come across as little more than brainless, dated entertainment.The film of course follows the Robinson family, who are taking part in a daring mission to save humanity in the near future. With the Earth slowly dying due to the effects of pollution, they are set to take off on a multi-year excursion to begin a process to colonize an Earth-Like planet (Alpha Prime) and complete a hypergate that will allow other humans to instantly leap to Alpha Prime. However, a terrorist group has sabotaged their ship- the Jupiter 2- and the Robinsons become lost in the deep voids of space, along with stowaway Dr. Smith. (Gary Oldman.)The highlights of the film are definitely the performances by Oldman as a slimy stowaway with ties to the terrorists, and a possibly-miscast- but-still-quite-fun Matt LeBlanc as Major Don West, a dashing pilot who becomes the sort-of surrogate action-hero as he helps the Robinsons on the journey. A lot of people have spoken negatively on LeBlanc's performance, and the character does have its flaws, but I think this is more the issue of inconsistent writing than LeBlanc's acting. When he's allowed to shine in key action-sequences, LeBlanc is very likable. And of course Oldman is a joy as the nefarious Smith.The film also has a lot of fun moments, including some great effects and action-beats that are a lot of fun, despite being obviously dated now nearly 20 years later. In particular is a great sequence involving mutant spiders and a close call as the Jupiter 2 must escape the vicinity of a massive exploding spaceship.However, this is definitely an incredibly flawed film, and it comes down to the storyline's growing convolution as the film progresses, and it's sappy character development. While I won't give anything away, Akiva Goldsman's script starts out with a bang and is good, episodic fun for it's first 2 acts, before derailing in the final 30 minutes with twists and turns that come out of the left field entirely and feel contrived and pointless. The squeaky- clean, cutesy character beats also grow tiresome later in the film, including the almost cringe-worthy relationship between the Robinson's young son and his robot companion. (When the boy tries to make his robotic friend think with his heart, you'll be rolling your eyes... if you aren't already rolling on the floor with laughter.)There's also a lot of aimless sub-plots and sequences that don't feel like they add up to much. (Don't get me started on Blarp, the random CGI monkey that the Robinsons adopt as a pet.)That all being said, I can't condemn the film outright, and I will maintain that it has a lot of nostalgia for me. Despite it's silly storytelling, weak third act and dated effects, I maintain this is a halfway-decent example of 90's cheese and dumb fun, and I definitely think kids will enjoy it.I give it a 6 out of 10. It's not good. But it's also not terrible, either. "},{"Title":"Lost in Space How Did Hurt and Oldman Get This Lost?","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie, a remake of the Golden Era of TV show about a Swiss Family Robinson type of group who become lost in space together with a robot is, there is no way around it, an utter and dismal mess. The film is Hollywood mid-management filmmaking at its most slapdash and least thoughtful. The great crime of the fact of the movie's awfulness is that it sullies the records of two very good actors, William Hurt (Robinson pere, leader of the family expedition to space) and Gary Oldman (sensibly cast in his typical psychological and elegant baddie role, but rather unsensibly turned into a junk-CGI arachnid toward the film's end). On a pure sci-fi interest level, this version of Lost in Space is passable, just. The ships and their lasers are pedestrian but cool enough, the graphics portraying time travel and folds in space are serviceable, the deep space spiders look, well, like deep space spiders. You would think that with colorable sci-fi dressing and Hurt and Oldman, any script and ensemble could soldier through and deliver a worthwhile two hours. This film proves that assumption very, very wrong. Doubtless Hurt, Oldman, and even Matt LeBlanc, who likely had other options during his post-Friends victory lap period, were assured of a can't miss hit when they signed up. They must want to hunt down and flay whomever made them such promises. Watch this version of Lost in Space at the risk of profound regret over the lost time spent viewing. "},{"Title":"Oh, the 'lost' opportunities with this bomb...","Date":"4 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" First off, the 'worst movie ever' labels on IMDb posts show a lack of reasoning AND logic So, you've seen every movie ever made you say, and this one was the worst out of nearly countless examples?. Such an asinine claim can 'never' be true, as 'NO ONE' has that much time to blow by endlessly watching movies 'every' night and day. Lookee at all the superlatives? Such clap-trap.As far as LIS is concerned, what a humongous disappointment it was, indeed. My friend and I both felt cheated yet again at the cinema, just as yet another 'miss-the-boat-completely re-boot/remake had the same year, Roland Emmerich's equally-disastrous, Godzilla.But let's look at this version of LIS, as a totally-independent entity and on its own merit. There is no merit, other than the hefty 80 mil price tag for its production. The casting may have worked had there been effective direction, but the 'who-cares?' script and ensuing plot developments squashed that. Jack Johnson, as the young Will Robinson, was the only believable character I cared a tinker's cuss for in this whole mess. Gary Oldman's weird Dr. Smith seemed just weird for weirdness's sake, like he was so bizarrely in The Fifth Element. William Hurt and Mimi Rogers might as well have phoned in their performances as Mr. and Mrs. Robinson (maybe they did, come to think of it), and Penny, played by Lacey Chabert, was the snotty and sassy teen we all love to hear bemoan the suckiness of everything. Matt LeBlanc's Don West was...Matt LeBlanc, and his interactions with Heather Graham, as the oldest Robinson sibling (does the name matter?), had no chemistry, whatsoever. What efforts were put into these characters' performances seemed misguided and pointless (except for Will's), most likely from the inept direction.The wacko monsters were a fun part of the TV series, but the creatures in the movie fell flat as a pancake (the CGI spiders and that stupid and god-awful pet thing, whose appearance tolled the death knell of this flick's fun potential). Any resemblance to the TV series and this movie appeared to be entirely coincidental...The Jupiter 2 was cool, so I've rated this movie a 2, out of respect for the best 'character' of LIS. "}{"Title":"I've never seen the TV show, so I don't know if it's a good movie adaptation, but I enjoy it...","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" As I said in the title, I've never seen the TV show. So I have no idea whether this movie is a good adaption and whether it keeps true to the original story. I do enjoy it and I have a fun time watching it. I love seeing Matt LeBlanc in this kind of role, because it's so different from his role in Friends as Joey, the only thing I've actually seen him in, other than this movie.In the year 2058, the Earth is nearing the day when it will uninhabitable because of irreversible effects of pollution and global warming. The Robinson family are assigned to go on a mission where they will go to the recently discovered habitat planet, and create a hyperdrive, so the trip for Earth's people will be instantaneous. But things get messed up on a trip and the family and other crew end up lost in space. They encounter a lot of crazy things, including their future selves and space monsters.Overall, I give this movie a 7 out of 10, which in my ratings book is Great. "},{"Title":"Evil knows evil....","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" With the Earth running short of natural energy resources, the Jupiter mission to colonise Alpha Prime seems to be the only chance of survival. Professor John Robinson together with his family and fighter pilot Don West, lead a desperate attempt to create a Hyper-Gate around the planet Alpha Prime to enable the rescue of Earth to begin. However, others have different reasons for reaching Alpha Prime and Dr. Smith sabotages the Jupiter 2, but fails to escape and becomes an unwelcome stowaway aboard the ship. To escape the pull of the sun, the Hyper-Drive is fired and the Jupiter 2, after a trip through hyperspace, emerges into a completely unknown part of the galaxy. A search reveals that they are completely lost in an uncharted sector of space but this is only the beginning of their problems...Wasn't 1998 a terrible year for summer blockbusters? We had The Avengers (non-Marvel), Godzilla, Six Days and Seven Nights, and this, a resurgence of a long forgotten TV show, and a showcase for one of the cast of Friends, which were rife around this time.But in order to deter the poor acting of Joey, Hopkins implemented to credibility of Hurt, Rogers, and Oldman to keep the viewer hooked, with very differing results.Hurt is fine, as is Rogers, but it seems that Oldman has been given the bad guy book of sniping one-liners, because that is all his character delivers, and then some.Seventeen years down the line, it's aged tremendously, and those effects that seemed pretty special on the big screen, are blooming awful now.So the makers were hoping that the name would sell the film, and whilst there are sparks of genius in the set pieces, we have all learned since, that a set piece does not make a good movie.It's an incoherent mess, the narrative plods from one slightly jarring scenarios to the next, and we are left with one huge anti-climax, the promise/threat of a sequel, and a title tune that Apollo 440 must be ashamed of.It's not terrible by any means,summer blockbusters that fail always have something of interest to discover, but it's a chore to get through. "},{"Title":"Will Robinson Traveling in Spaceship with Dad -Are We Lost Yet?","Date":"8 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Summary Line Above isn't in the Movie but Maybe it Should Have Been. The Dialog in the this Hyper-Budgeted Remake of the Silly TV-Show (1965-68) is Pretty Lame, Especially the Jokes. Even Today, No Self-Respecting Nerd would Dare Utter a Lot of the Outdated Slang Used in this Clueless Script (maybe His Parents could without embarrassment), Let Alone 2058. But Occasionally Some Slang Does Recycle, These Things are Not Very PredictableBut it Should Have Been Easy to Predict Audience Reaction to this Lifeless, Cookie-Cutter, Hollywood Blockbuster Pretender. The A-List Cast Signed Up for a 3-Picture Deal (did they read the script?). It's Not the Worst Thing Hollywood has Done to a TV Show. It's a Bet that You Can Think of at Least Five Others Without Even Thinking.Speaking of Thinking...We'll, Skip That, the Script Writer Didn't Bother So Why Should You. It's a Muddled Mess and is Nothing More than a Series of Events Strung Together with Family Angst that is Pop Psychology Pandering to the Values Crowd.Overall, the Zippy End Credits, a Rocking Riff with Dialog Samples from the Film is Pretty Snappy and Visually Interesting. But Sitting Through Two-Hours of this Mediocrity to See It (Are We there yet?) is Completely Up to You. Not a Good Sign Citing the Credits, So You've been Hailed. This One is Neither Recommended or Not Recommended. That's Just as Uncommitted as these Movie Makers. "},{"Title":"Could have been a classic","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's difficult to say where this film went wrong. They stuck to the formula from the original series, they kept the same crew names, they even used a reasonable facsimile of The Jupitor 2. Cameos from the original cast were in abundance and the special effects were first rate. So what was the problem? Perhaps it was in the poor casting, William Hurt didn't have the sparkle or charisma of the original and Matt LeBlanc was too abrasive. Maybe it was the predictable Hollywood insistence that families have to be at war and father and son always have to be estranged. It might have been the total lack of chemistry between the cast. Lacey Chabert was delightful as Penny, Jack Johnson and Jared Harris were equally good as Will and the robot was superb. Yet the plot, involving metal spider creatures straight from an episode of Stargate just didn't gel, nor did the time paradox storyline. The only saving grace was Gary Oldman as Zachary Smith, a brilliantly over the top pantomime performance. A shame, really, I was hoping for better. Still, it was heaps better than the pile of droppings we got from The Thunderbirds movie. "},{"Title":"clumsy reboot of TV show","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's the year 2058. The United Global Space Force is building a Hypergate to travel to another planet. Wars have left the Earth almost uninhabitable. Major Don West (Matt LeBlanc) is a fighter pilot protecting the Hypergate from a terrorist group called the Global Sedition. The Robinson family (William Hurt, Mimi Rogers, Heather Graham, Lacey Chabert, Jack Johnson) are traveling to Alpha Prime to build a Hypergate on the other side. Major West is brought in to fly the spaceship. Dr. Zachary Smith (Gary Oldman) is paid by the Sedition to sabotage the spaceship but is doublecross and left stunned on board the ship.There are many things that don't make sense. Why send a family? The spaceship is horribly unaerodynamic which makes launching it like that really stupid. It's trying to adapt a campy 60s sci-fi TV show to be a gritty futuristic space action thriller. It loses everything from the original without gaining much in return. Matt LeBlanc to trying to do Joey by hitting on Heather Graham while her father is right next to them. LeBlanc's character insists on making jokes. Then the movie keeps taking dark turns. Just when things seem to settle down to a good thriller, they throw in a CG space monkey. Jar Jar Binks anyone? If Earth sent another ship, why not go to Alpha Prime themselves? In fact, why would the Robinsons run into that ship in all of space? So many questions, so few answers. "},{"Title":"I Hope They Stay Lost","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Well, let's dismiss comparisons to the TV series right away. This couldn't be more different than that. The family here is a dysfunctional group of barely likable people. I suppose this is an effort to make the characters more 'modern.' Well, if this how modern families act I think I will take the nuclear family of yesteryear, no matter how cheesy it could be at times. The script is corny but you might not notice since everything is buried behind gobs of special effects. None of those effects or the action scenes are that impressive. How about those costumes with the plastic sculpted boobs for the women AND the men? Ridiculous.The cast is mixed. William Hurt and Mimi Rogers are pros and both try to rise above the material. The kids are worse. Gary Oldman adds some flair to things, chewing scenery like there's no tomorrow. That's a forgivable sin in a movie such as this. At least it gives you something to watch that isn't boring or infuriating. The weakest part of the movie is Joey from Friends. He acts in such a smug, self-unaware way that I just wanted to reach through the screen and punch him. That sort of thing might work on a TV sitcom but when you're actually trying to, you know, ACT -- it makes you look like a rank amateur that has no business in a theatrically-released movie. Also his flirting with Heather Graham was nauseating. Were these two supposed to have good chemistry? Because they don't. Why was this over two hours? Did they really think they had such a good movie that audiences wouldn't want it to end? It's not fun, smart, or interesting. It's just an overlong FX spectacle with no heart and no point. "},{"Title":"Horribly disappointed","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Two nights ago we started to watch Lost in Space to see what's my opinion on the movie. Then i watched it and saw the movie starting with Will messing with a call. Then Maureen comes to tell him to stop then many times later the movie began crap. I think this is the worst movie yet from Matt LeBlanc and Gary Oldman. The movie about the future and has mutant aliens and badly made stuff this movie makes the worst movie i have seen since Star Wars The Phantom Menace. The continuation with Zachary Smith as Spider Smith (in future) try to kill these people that came from there. Then at the end the Lost in Space song came at the credits. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Romp","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" If ever there was a movie in need of a sequel it had to have been this one. I was deeply saddened not to see a trailer for Lost in Space II. Come on, this entire Robinson family (and Robot) are still up there&#x85;somewhere. Just wandering around space&#x85;and no one cares? Really? Well I care. Harrumph. All kidding aside, I really enjoyed this fun little romp (and I do own a copy). Normally I hate movie redoes of TV shows, especially good TV shows. But this movie's silver screen predecessor sucked. Yes, it was terrible, or should I say awful? Or maybe even &#x96; really, really bad? I am not saying 'Lost in Space' wasn't fun to watch, but it was difficult to seriously take any of those wacky Ed Wood reject monsters who weekly harassed the Robinsons. But every Wednesday I watched Will and Penny and Judy and Robot &#x96; of course, hoping to see how they would be getting back home. Can you say gullible? Hell, I wasn't the only one watching, everyone did. This was as staple a TV diet as, 'Gilligan's Island.' Back in those days, getting lost must have been some kind of trend I guess. Even though this movie was a bit of a remake, it did not rely solely on special effects and CGI. This move actually had a pretty good script and a superior cast. William Hurt is the consummate drab Dr. Robinson; Mimi Rogers would make June Lockhart proud, and Judy and Will each did superb jobs. The scene stealers had to have been Gary Oldeman (Dr. Smith) and Robot. You are probably thinking I left the best out &#x96; oh but I did not. Lacey Chabert was 'The Penny.' Her performance was so captivating I change the 'REWIND' button on my DVD to 'The Lacey/Penny' button. She is the 'Queen of Quirkiness.' Every scene she was in, I watched her like a hawk. She was going to do something or say something that would steal that scene. Was this the best movie about a family getting lost in space, made in the 90's? Well&#x85;yes it is. This is a must see for some and a must miss for others&#x85;kind of like every movie out there. "},{"Title":"Danger Will Robinson. This movie sucks.","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I used to like this film as a kid, not so much now. What's wrong with it? The sound mixing is awful. The sound effects are so loud, you can't hear the dialogue or music. Very hard to enjoy a film when it does that.Also, good luck trying to hear what Smith's boss on the hologram said (also do we need to see a big nauseating close up on his face?) and Spider Smith's back story when we have loud stomping noises from his feet. The film was written by Akiva Goldsman, who also wrote Batman and Robin. Oh dear. The characters were boring. Matt LeBlanc looks bored as Don and if you watch his interview on the DVD, he looks like he's going to fall asleep. William Hurt's Professor John was bland, Will was just wooden and the whole my dad never listens to me thing has been done to death and is very clichéd.Heather Graham has nothing to do except be the love interest, nothing more. Penny was annoying, Mimi Rogers brought nothing to the table and Gary Oldman is there to pay his bills. Also the actors look nothing like each other if they're playing a family.The CGI is awful. Nothing looks real. Even for a 1998 film. This film came out a year after Men In Black, The Fifth Element and Titanic and they couldn't do any better. Kind of what happens when you have a British visual effects house.The scene where Jupiter 2 is near the sun, inside the ship is all bright and we can't see what the hell is going on. And the end credits are not for the epileptic.Anything I like? Well, the sets aren't bad and the robot looks cool. Nuff said. It wouldn't hurt to give this movie a reboot. They rebooted Dredd and that worked. It wasn't a box office success, but still a great film. If they cast better actors as the family, had better sound mixing and effects....Dr Fronkenstien IT....... COULD.......... WORK! "},{"Title":"A film that really should have had a sequel...","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Lost in Space, based on the beloved 60's sci-fi series of the same name, was the first film to knock Titanic off the top spot, ending that film's long reign at the box office. Starring Matt LeBlanc, hot off the hit sitcom Friends, and boasting a terrific ensemble cast that includes Heather Graham and a scene-stealing Gary Oldman, Lost in Space is a fun, special effects-laden adventure romp with wholesome family values. It follows the Robinson family, shot off into space to find a planet suitable for the inhabitants of Earth to relocate to. However, a dastardly stowaway, Doctor Zachary Smith (played by Gary Oldman, gleefully channeling series original Jonathan Harris)and a malevolent Robot, send the Robinsons and their wise-cracking pilot Major Don West (Matt LeBlanc) off course - and ultimately Lost in Space. There's plenty of gung-ho action and arresting visuals. And more importantly, the characters are engaging and their plight enjoyable. It's such a shame that a sequel never materialized. The relationship set-up for Dr. Smith, Will Robinson and the Robot, was expertly crafted. And you get the sense that this is only the start of the adventure for the crew of the Jupiter 2. "}{"Title":"A pretty ordinary remake of a pretty ordinary TV series","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" There seems to be a bit of a fad in remaking old television shows, but then Hollywood will do anything to make a little bit of money. Lost in Space is based on the very old TV series and has been spruced up by the typical Hollywood glitz. I never really got into the original series and the movie didn't really reach my expectations.The situation is that the Earth is dying and Professor Robinson is going on a mission to travel to another planet and build a hypergate so that colonists may move to this new world. Unfortunately there is an organisation that wishes to halt this progress and instead colonise this world for themselves. They pay Doctor Smith (Gary Oldman) to sabotage the mission, and decide to kill him while he is on the ship. When the ship, the Jupiter 2, takes off, Doctor Smith is on board as well as a killer robot.There is no single plot in this movie as once one problem is solved another one arises. The ultimate goal is to either return home or to complete their mission but this is not addressed in the movie. It is left open so as to possibly bring out a sequel. The plot elements are developed from the beginning though so the movie is a bit predictable. There is a large emphasis placed on Will Robinson's time travel experiments and they also talk about how hyperspace engines will send you to a random place in the galaxy and thus are very unreliable. When they mentioned that I knew how they were going to become lost.This movie places emphasis more on family values and seems to be directed towards those of use who are or are planning on becoming fathers. Basically the moral is that our family is the most important part of our lives and we should put a lot of time into it. Professor Robinson wanted to head the mission but said that the only way he would do it is if his family came along. This is really selfish as it would have been far better if he did not marry and have a family so that he had no ties when he went gallivanting off over the galaxy. This idea is brought up. I guess they want to address the growing problem of families that are breaking apart. The family unit is no longer as solid as people believed that it was and the reason addressed in this movie is because we all pursue our own personal goals and not as a family. "},{"Title":"Danger! Will Robinson! What a Dumb Movie!","Date":"21 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Incredibly bad storyline and continuity. A series of computer-generated story sequences strung together like a cheap necklace. It starts out well enough with a great opening sequence involving a crisis in space, then it quickly falls apart. Dr. Smith, always the villain, mutates into a giant bug! How can you fly through the sun? Time travel and the space-time continuum jumbled together at the finale in such a way that the whole thing makes even less sense than the puzzling ending to Disneys' The Black Hole! An annoying computer-generated pet monkey that hangs around sister Penny's neck and appears to have ADHD. Exhausting to watch. Sure not as much fun as the old silly Irwin Allen TV series. A total disappointment. One of the worst sci-fi movies of all time. So bad I was rootin' for the space spiders! I still love the robot, however. But he hasn't had any good lines since Forbidden Planet. "},{"Title":"For Lovers of the TV Series----Avoid at All Costs!!!!!","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Well you can't get any different in tone or warmth in this wretched film. I saw it at the theaters years ago.....oh if I could only go back and change my mind!!!!!It looks good, visuals and all that.The story was uninteresting, but what was worse was the entire casting. No one captured the essence of the characters. There was no family feelings like we know from the beloved television series.Dr. Smith, what a waste. Great actor, Gary Oldman....but miscast.William Hurt is a very poor substitute for Guy Williams.An update we don't need. Stick with the TV show.I'll say it was nice to see four former TV cast members make appearances in the film. The only highlight. Too bad June Lockhart is made fun of. Also it was great to hear Dick Tufeld's voice as the Robot. The new Robot though.....so what if he's updated? We love the old one!!!! "},{"Title":"Lost In Space Found To Be Fun Again","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I think my favorite early review of this movie was posted in 1999 by Mr. Morten Gade Sørensen from Denmark, whom I quote here. Lost in Space is the worst movie EVER!! Never waste your time watching it! If that's what a person thinks, that's all they should say. I admire word economy and impact, and this 1999 review had both. I just finished watching the movie for the 6th time, on the original videocassette I bought a long time ago. IT WAS AND IS OUTSTANDING. I have many fond childhood memories of the original series, which of course fell into sappy mediocrity even before the first season ended. The movie, happily, pays an homage to the situation and some of the plot silliness of the original show, without laying it on too thick. As others have mentioned, the cameos by Goddard, Kristen, Cartwright and Lockhart were beautifully done as well. My single complaint, which I choose to ignore in my watchings, is the dully over-emphasized point that (let's get this right) a dad should spend time with his son. OK. I. Get. It. as Vincent LaGuardia Gambini would say. A fine enough film. The bashers here are entitled to bash, but they're slumming. Enjoy this film with no guilt or shame, and have some fun. "},{"Title":"Sci-fi movie that's nicely boring!","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I found it to be a neat sci-fi movie which can be enjoyed by children too.The good points would be the good special effects and actors like Gary Oldman, William Hurt, Mimi Rogers & Lacey Chabert who bring the movie alive with their performances.I often view Matt LeBlanc as a comedy actor so I could not digest him in an action role. Even Heather Graham, I felt, was out of place in this movie.The action scenes were ordinary. Could have been more intense or racy.Verdict Still a nice time-pass. Children could like it. "},{"Title":"Lost in  Sentimentality","Date":"14 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The first hour of lost in space is brilliant fun. The story is set relatively fast and it's all excitement and buzz as they set off into the wilds of space, unfortunately things go wrong and they run into a few problems.The first hour holds great promises, it actually feels like they are about to set off on a truly great adventure. It's beautifully shot and space looks almost like it would in a comic book, bright, colourfull and shiny. but soon enough the ship crashes and with it the adventure is sorta crumbled by the plot.There's a central element of the plot which is a total pile of %^&*. I wont spoil it but it really destroys the film and not only by being illogical but chiefly because it drags it out of the science fiction realm and is used to turn it into a totally cliché and hackneyed melodrama, the kind which science fiction and adventure fans generally do not like. That's the main problem here, it gets soppy, it gets sentimental it gets predictable. How many movies have to do this? why do they make viewers suffer? Anyhow, its still a nice looking film which you can say stumbles halfway in and then never really recovers. Gets an extra point for the eye candy. "},{"Title":"It is what it is...","Date":"25 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I just have to counteract Li-1 as his review is the total opposite of mine. First he says the effects are nifty then he says they're second-rate. Which is it? The subplot involving time rips and time bubbles feels tacked on? Lol, it is not a subplot, it is THE plot. The only cast members that ARE somewhat convincing are Hurt and Oldman, contrary to what Li-1 says. He finds no tension in the film but mentions earlier in his review that he finds the mechanical spider scene tense! Let's face it, he's a pretender. The final comments about it being a silly film, kids will enjoy it, etc give himself away completely. Jeez, have a few beers and just enjoy it for what it is. Beats listening in on Li-1's Shakespeare in Modern Film round-table brainstorm. "},{"Title":"If you enjoy watching rubbish, this is a film you should watch","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  What can I say - out of all the films I've seen this summer this is undoubtedly the poorest by far. The only decent thing about this film is Gary Oldman and it saddens me that he is willing to participate in such rubbish.  Matt le Blanc has shown us that he cannot act to save his life and should stick to the character he plays in Friends. The film is very boring, even the special effects are not that impressive. My advice is don't bother watching it - this film deserves to be a flop!!!!  I gave it 3/10 and I was feeling generous at the time. If you want to watch a film similar to this, watch Starship Troopers, it's much better "},{"Title":"Dugga-dugga-dugga-dugga","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Lost in Space starts off with the best space dogfight I have ever seen, and wobbles a bit afterwards. Don't get me wrong - it passes the time and you won't regret seeing it afterwards (unlike, say, 'Spawn'). Although Matt LeBlanc emerges as a fully-formed film star (note that I did not say 'actor '), the rest of the cast seem out of place - John Hurt won an Academy Award, after all, and Gary Oldman directed the utterly grim 'Nil By Mouth '.One mistake the producers make is assuming that children want to see films with other children in. They don't. I didn't. When I was a kid I wanted to see 'The Terminator' and 'Robocop' blowing bad guys away with big guns and clean consciences. Not some highly-paid child stars goofing about with computer-generated marketing tools. Certainly not a heavily-armed space trooper shooting, er, insects.Children definitely don't want to see a convoluted time-travel plot, as they are already versed in time-travel from 'The Terminator' and numerous Star Trek episodes, and will laugh.Still, it looks nice, and the ending title credits (really, the beginning title credits, as the film goes backwards) made me want to buy Apollo 440's title theme single. Now I can't stop humming it. Blast. "},{"Title":"This Film Should be Lost in Space at the Bottom of the Garbage Bin.","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Lost in Space (1998) Dir Stephen Hopkins / Cast William Hurt, Gary Oldman, Matt Leblanc, Mimi Rogers, Heather Graham Based on the old television show and littered with clichés. The only thing that was lost in space was common sense but it might have helped if the script got lost too. The Robinson family are launched into space for a mission that mankind depends on but Gary Oldman attempts to sabotage their efforts and ends up stranded on board with them. With a concept with all the excitement of a beer commercial and using Matt Leblanc for the marketing. I had more fun counting the strands of hair on the woman sitting in front of me as oppose to watching this stupid film. Lousy directing by Stephen Hopkins who made The Ghost and the Darkness. Special effects are okay and are perhaps the only payoff. Oldman is a decent actor but only some sort of brand of bad luck could have landed him in this garbage. William Hurt and Mimi Rogers do what they can with the limited personalities given to members of the Robinson family. Heather Graham went from a wonderful performance as Roller Girl in Boogie Nights to this tripe. And of course that star of Friends who is suppose to convince people to spend valuable dollars to see this crap because someone from his sitcom is listed in the cast. The result is a pointless spectacle that should be lost in space at the bottom of a land fill. Score 1 / 10 "}{"Title":"Lost, just lost","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" What have the following got in common? Disney's Black Hole, Alien, Aliens, Gremlins, The Thing (John Carpenter version), all Star Trek movies and TV episodes featuring technobabble and time travelling, the special effects in Dr Who, leading edge FX? The answer is that they have all been plagiarised or used in this film along with many other films and artefacts too numerous to mention. If you insist on going to see this film then you'd better resign yourself to the fact that every other scene will remind you of something else and that scenes of technical FX mastery will be followed by, or mixed with, scenes of such naffness that they would make the crew of Blake's 7 blush in embarrassment. I think there may have been a good film in there somewhere but it is too late for it ever to be reconstituted.The Robinson family, for it is they, get lost not only in space but also in time, not to mention lost in plot. Let's face it, apart from a very obvious thing that happens with Will Robinson, the plot is utterly incomprehensible. The Robinsons seem to be flung into the far reaches of time, space and plot by baddies with inscrutable plans, onto spaceships which may or may not have anything to do with the plot but look cool and have spiffy monsters, in periods of time which may be before after or sideways from the main timeline. Do not try to make sense of this if you value your mental health.Some good bits are; the casting is pretty effective, especially Gary Oldman, some of the FX are quite stunning, music and soundtrack are fine, things explode and go whoosh a lot, the robot is well cool and delivers some of the best acting in the film with the immortal Danger Will Robinson, Danger!So long as you let yourself go this is rather similar to the experience of taking hallucinatory drugs (allegedly) and of similar value. "},{"Title":"This is pretty much a lost film and franchise.","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I am relatively sure they were hoping to do a sequel or two for this film, however no sequels were ever forthcoming and this film is pretty much a forgotten film of the 90's whose main claim to fame is the fact it knocked off Titanic from the number one spot at the movies. That does not mean your film is good, I do believe all the guys got together and said to themselves This looks tolerable and they poured into theaters just to sink the ship. I am surprised the score is so low here, granted the score I am giving it is not much higher, but I have to say some of the visuals were quite good and there were some interesting things going on in this movie. Just way to much in the plot, it went here and there and crammed a whole lot of stuff in the film making it a bit to long and to jumbled. The film is about a family that gets lost in space thanks to the dastardly Dr. Smith played by Gary Oldman who is the only really interesting character in the film. Everyone else is bland with the exception of Matt LeBlanc who is just horribly miscast in an action type role which he neither has the acting ability or looks to do. The best thing about this film is the effects as the are very good, especially considering when this film was made. It just needed a whole lot of work on the plot, a bit of simplifying rather than the let's throw it all in approach they seemed to take with this one. Still, it did knock out Titanic, before it quickly sank into obscurity. "},{"Title":"There's a lot of space out there to get lost in. Enjoyable enough big budget reworking of an old TV series.","Date":"22 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Lost in Space starts during the year 2058 as Earth's natural resources are quickly running out, within a couple of decades Earth will not be able to support human life anymore. As such an ambitious expedition to colonise an Earth like planet named Alpha Prime has been set-up, Professor John Robinson (William Hurt) & his family intend to travel through space for ten years to reach Alpha Prime where he will construct a hyperspacial gate that will allow instantaneous travel between the two planets, joining the family is Major Don West (Matt LeBlanc) who is there to pilot the state of the art ship called the Jupiter II. However a saboteur named Dr Zachery Smith (Gary Oldman) has sneaked aboard & programs a large robot to destroy the Robinson family & the Jupiter II but when he is trapped aboard as the Jupiter II takes off his plans change but the robot still causes huge damage to the ship & they become lost in space trying to find a way to complete their mission...Produced & directed by Stephen Hopkins this was a big budget Hollywood adaptation of the cult US TV series Lost in Space (1965 - 1968) that ran for eighty-four episodes back in the 60's, this has quite a bad reputation but I have to say I liked most of it & would go so far as to say I actually enjoyed it. The original series & this Hollywood sci-fi action adventure share the same name, character's & basic premise but the tone is different as this is played very straight with little or no humour. At over two hours in length Lost in Space goes on for maybe ten or fifteen minutes too long & while the first ninety odd minutes are great stuff the final third is rather dull & drags too, a sub-plot about time travel kicks in & it all becomes a bit confusing with various plot holes & questions left unanswered as well as a horrible moment in which the old Will Robinson suddenly realises after twenty years that the huge giant mutant monster thing isn't his friend after all & this time travel subplot feels tacked on & unnecessary. Uptil that point Lost in Space is a cracking space adventure with enough heart & message to even have a little meaning as well, there are some great scenes like the finding & exploring of the deserted Proteus, a space battle at the start, a spectacular launch, a huge robot going crazy & firing laser beams everywhere, mutant alien spiders, a crash landing & the Jupiter II being pulled towards the sun in a frantic battle to escape it's heat to name just a few. The dynamic between the family members is a little clichéd (the dad not spending enough time with his kids, scientist & soldier not agreeing with each other, brother & sister constantly teasing each other) & I really could have done without that comic relief silly looking alien monkey thing but overall I reckon there's more than enough here to keep one entertained even if it is a bit longish & the time travel aspect is poorly handled.I watched this on DVD last night & maybe a Hi-Def Blu-ray might show the combination of CGI computer & practical model effects up a bit more I actually thought they were mostly excellent, from the spaceships to the huge explosions to the alien spiders to a cool climax where West has to pilot the Jupiter II through the core of a planet as it breaks up although there is one major flaw which lets them down, the Zachery spider monster which frankly looks terrible. Not only is this spider mutant thing poorly designed the CGI effects are awful & unfortunately that's probably the thing most people will remember about the film, the one awful effect rather than the dozens of excellent ones. The production design is also worthy of mention as this is a great looking film that obviously had a lot of time & money spent on it, the sleek curved interiors of the spaceships or the cool computer interfaces & graphics & the various alien planet landscapes & such look great & really hold up well even when viewed today (or yesterday as I did...).With a supposed budget of about $80,000,000 this was shot here in the UK in London & was meant to kick off a franchise but despite being the film that knocked the mighty Titanic (1997) off the top spot in the box-office charts it did moderate business & no further films were made. Most of the original TV series cast have cameos here while the acting overall is pretty good William Hurt does make for a somewhat forgettable John Robinson although the good news is neither kid is that annoying.Lost in Space is a big budget reworking of a creaky not as good as many remember TV series that keeps the basics & updates it for a modern audience, I liked it & if it wasn't for the terrible CGI on the spider mutant & the drab time travel plot I'd have given this a solid seven but it's still worth a closer to seven than five six. A TV pilot called The Robinsons Lost in Space (2004) directed by John Woo of all people was made but remains unaired to this day & a series was never made. "},{"Title":"A tedious sci-fi flick with nice special effects, but not much else","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have never seen any episodes of the 1960s TV series, Lost in Space, but first saw this movie based on the series on TV a couple years ago, and wasn't impressed. I later realized I could barely remember it, so I've watched it again, and hopefully for the last time, since it certainly didn't improve much, if at all, with another viewing. Like 1994's The Flintstones, this is a movie from the '90s based on a TV show from the '60s. Unfortunately, another thing the two films have in common is they're not very good, so it's no surprise that they seem to have disappointed fans of the successful shows. I guess the same can be said about Wild Wild West.It is the year 2058, and the Earth is running out of resources. In twenty years time, humans will no longer be able to survive on the planet! The only other known planet that is inhabitable to humans is Alpha Prime, and it will take ten years to get there from Earth! So, Professor John Robinson and his wife, Dr. Maureen Robinson, set out for this planet, along with their daughters, Dr. Judy and Penny, and son Will, and they are to remain in suspended animation for the long trip. However, also aboard the ship is the evil Dr. Smith, who soon sabotages the mission! The Robinsons soon find themselves awake, stuck with Smith, and after having to use the Hyper-Drive in order to survive, all the people aboard find themselves lost in an unknown part of the galaxy!The main merit of this movie adaptation of the TV series is the special effects. Thumbs up on those. However, thumbs down on pretty much everything else! Yes, there is a fair amount of action, but it's not very well-crafted, and usually failed to grab me. I can think of at least one action scene that's too long, which is the one where they battle the silicon spiders on the ship. The film certainly had trouble holding my attention at times, including the silicon spider scene, where my mind drifted off a bit, until it came back and I realized the battle was still happening! Not a lot of excitement. I also saw some attempts at humour, but didn't find them funny at all, and I think I've already forgotten most of them. The closest it gets to funny is when Will says Oh, s&#@, and Dr. Smith says A boy of your intelligence should never swear, but then sees what made Will say it and says the same thing. Sadly, even this joke misses the mark slightly. The film doesn't have the greatest script, and some parts are pretty cheesy, such as Maj. Don West trying to show his love for Dr. Judy Robinson in a pathetic way. Also, the acting is nothing to rave about, and some cast performances may stand out as bad, such as Heather Graham as Dr. Judy Robinson. I have only seen Graham in one other film, Austin Powers The Spy Who Shagged Me, but after seeing her in two films and hearing criticism of her acting in general from others, I'm convinced she cannot act.With all its problems, Lost in Space isn't too entertaining for the most part. Special effects are obviously not enough to make up for this. Towards the end, it does get somewhat suspenseful and maybe a bit touching, and if it didn't, I would contemplate giving this movie less than a 5/10. However, overall, it's just a dull sci-fi flick, and to make it worse, it's a dull flick that keeps going for over two hours! This adaptation of the Lost in Space show is probably a bit better than the movie adaptation of the Wild Wild West show, which came the following year, but that's not saying much. I would also say this film is probably just slightly inferior to the Flintstones movie. At least that film has some notably likable characters. In conclusion, there's probably no shame at all in skipping this 1998 movie, whether you're familiar with the original TV series or not. "},{"Title":"How to waste a huge budget","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Having watched this properly for the first time ten years after it was made it strikes me how much movies, specifically sci-fi movies, have advanced in the post Sept 11 era. Plausibility is so much more important these days, a film must be believable, there must be reason for the characters to do what they are doing.Lost in Space is a classic example of 90's movie making where big budget films simply tried to impress us with thrilling special effects that are brought together loosely by some semblance of a plot.This film is a sequence of implausible situations and while thats the point of sci-fi our modern world requires a much higher level of believability.It also requires some decent acting. Note LeBlanc has not been allowed back in a spaceship since. "},{"Title":"At least I laughed","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Yes, it made me laugh, but I don't really mean this as a compliment. The script is like something I might have written if someone had asked me to put together some easy-on-the-brain bathroom litterature in... oh, preferably 15 minutes maximum, 'cause I kind of need to go. The plot is without depth or thought. It's simpler than a 4-piece puzzle, and the events of the movie sort of fits together like one too. If anyone needs to find his way home, you don't need to doubt that someone will have a Bugs Bunny signal flare in her back pocket, and if an evil mutant man-spider offers someone building a time machine protection, the builder mentioned won't be so impolite as to wonder about the motives until the device is fully functioning. So what else do we have in this movie? *A neglected young boy building a time machine, of course. I mean, what kid doesn't? *His older sister helping daddy building a space ship, that goes without saying. *The poor middle child, who only knows how to mismatch clothes since all the brains in the family went into the other siblings. *The kind, caring mother, who can put a stop to ANY macho argument using the magic word testosterone and never ever uttering some sort of bad word, otherwise commonly associated with angry arguments. *A robot who can't process the concept of feelings, since it only has a positronic brain, but what the heck, of course will go against programming and save his friends when they need him. *A CG monkey thing, almost as irritating and unnecessary a character as Jar Jar Binks. We also have a silly doctor, caricatured by Gary Oldman - who does the only sane thing that could be done with his character, which is a joke of it - and the strong, macho space pilot, portrayed by Matt LeBlanc, who to me often seemed to have please don't see me as stupid Joey written all over him. My favorite, though, is the over-acted father of the bunch. When he gives explanations and lectures he builds them up from his toes, and gladly spices them up with funny little words. In otherwise wrecked ship he finds star maps! Yes! Downloading to Protheus. Wow!When released, it promised to be a Star Wars for today's young. As a Star Wars-fan, I was insulted. "},{"Title":"Lost in Space","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie will definitely not win any awards; HOWEVER, as someone who remembers watching the original TV series, it was great fun to hear the original voice of the robot. DANGER WILL ROBINSON! It is one of those films you can watch on a lazy afternoon when you have only half a brain to devote to a movie. One of it's positive points is that it is family friendly and it tries to portray both intelligent children/teens AND intelligent adults. Both generations seem to learn from one another. It might have been a little more fun (more like the TV series) if Dr. Smith would have been a little less evil and a little more ridiculous. Course, I guess that Gary Oldman wouldn't have quite fit the part then. Oh, well! Overall, it is only a so-so film, but again, it does provide a fun reminder of the original campy show from my childhood. "},{"Title":"Too Much Fluff, Too Many Distractions, and Little Else.","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Gary Oldman is about the most enjoyable thing associated with this work, but the performance of Jack Johnson. They are both quite wonderful in this film. The story was decent, but the execution of the story was convoluted.In spite of that, the main problem is casting. I mean...Heather Graham? She's good for some things, but her presence in this production is NOT a plus. And Lacey Chabert? Not only did she make the character aggravating, but her performance was horrid. I normally would not trash a child's performance, but like Courtland Mead in Stephen King's authorized version of The Shining, Lacey Chabert is whiny, superfluous, and inept.The effects of Spider/Smith are cheesy and obvious CGI. I don't mind even a heavy use of CGI, but it MUST be done with skill, or it destroys much of the work. But here, it barely even mattered.The casting, the story, and the execution were pretty awful. So what was good here? Believe it or not, Matt LaBlanc. He was a surprising wild card who contributed something actually noticeable...in a good way. Gary Oldman did the best he could with the dismal elements surrounding him, and again, Jack Johnson stole the show. He was a sheer delight.The sappy ending will no doubt touch you, but it feels more like a molestation than the warm fuzzy hug it is intended to be.This was set up so that it could have been great, but in the end it is a total failure in the way of execution; the insane casting choices, and pointless meandering story line killed it.It rates a 3.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"I pretty much disagree","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This franchise has always lurked in the shadows of Star Trek, even when it originally aired on TV. As not everyone is into Star Trek, you can imagine Lost In Space would be treated like a sci-fi stepchild.It's clear a lot of folks don't get it. Lost in Space was IRWIN ALLEN, folks. I mean come ON...the man who was notorious for children's fare of questionable scientific truthfulness. You can NOT watch this movie expecting Starship Troopers, Alien, or any of a number of gritty serious sci-fi films.Of COURSE it's going to have cliché...it's based on a show that was basically Leave it to Beaver in Space! What's interesting is, having recently made my own cut of this movie (removing all traces of the idiocy that is the Blarp alien) and then going back to the original 4 TV episodes, you see how much this movie was meant to play homage to the show's earlier episodes.AND it does so brilliantly, right down to the updated Robot being recreated by Will in a form nearer that of the original show, the swirling light on the bottom of the ship, and the mention of the chariot being scrap. I mean heck, the ending title re-used the tune of later seasons of the show.This movie wasn't made to introduce a new audience to Lost in Space. It was meant for the fans.If you don't like escapist schlock, you'll hate it. But if you like a bit of flash with your mind-numbing entertainment, this fits the bill.My only beef? The Robot paradox...Will's in the process of rebuilding the robot on the Jupiter 2, then the rebuilt model from the future boards the ship. Doesn't that mean there are TWO robots now on the ship? ;-) "},{"Title":"A lot of money and effort spent to mediocre effect","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Even as a wee sprat, I knew that the TV version of Lost In Space was crap, but I liked to watch anyway because the Robinsons had a bunch of neat toys they got to play with every week a space ship, an RV, a force field, a laser, and best of all, a Robot (!!). But basically it was just a Space Opera about an All American family getting caught in a bad neighborhood, and it was obvious even to me that Irwin Allen had no feel (or respect) for a genre that I passionately adored back then. (Note I read recently that the source of the series was actually the novel Space Family Robinson. For all I know, it might have been very good, but SWISS Family Robinson was obviously the real source, along with Robinson Crusoe.) 3 decades later, I saw the movie version in the theaters, just for something to do.My reaction was basically, Eh. The acting was mostly higher level (with some major exceptions), the toys and the special effects obviously cost some money, and the screenplay acknowledged the fact that movies like Event Horizon and Outland and Star Trek II had raised the bar in the genre quite a bit...but it was painfully obvious that this was a 2nd rate movie that existed only for its McDonalds' marketing tie-ins and would die in 3 weeks or less. Which it did. 8 years later still, cable aired it again. I feel that some movies seem to improve with time after their initial viewing, once I know where the good parts are; and sometimes the small screen showcases the movie's strengths better. So I gave LS another chance. My conclusion Nope, it's still pretty much a waste of time.How did the filmmakers blow it? Let me count the ways The whole dysfunctional family thread backfired. If I understand the basic premise, Dr. Robinson is trying to save the ENTIRE HUMAN RACE with an enormously complex and hazardous expedition, and he even wants to take his family with him - in spite of all the logistical and operational problems it will cause. But all the kids and the wife can do is complain that he seems a bit preoccupied with the project that, and let me repeat this for emphasis, THE ENTIRE HUMAN RACE DEPENDS ON. That's just too much whiny 80's revisionism for what is supposed to be a great adventure story la the original Swiss Family Robinson tale that inspired it. The characters and their actions seem trivial and petty in a story where epic heroism is called for. 2nd problem Mostly the acting just doesn't gel. Matt LeBlanc is especially off here - half the time he's blandly dashing and handsome...but the other half he's Tony from Friends, and Tony is just not right for this kind of movie. The director should have beat him with a chair until he channeled the original rigid, clipped, uptight Major Don West of the TV series. The other weak spot is the boy who plays Will Robinson. He can act, but he's kind of dull. A person could argue that he's actually more naturalistic and believable as a young boy in space than Billy Mumy, but this is not a movie where a naturalistic performance is needed. The kid just isn't interesting in the part, and since the last third of the movie revolves around the struggle between Dr's. Robinson and Smith for the heart and soul of his character, the whole thing becomes kind of moot. (BTW, a lot of people complained about how annoying Lacey Chabert was in her part, but I blame the screenplay and the director for this - the character was written to be irritating and snarky, and she gave the performance that the role called for. You can point fingers and lay blame at a lot of people for the failure of the movie, but she isn't one of the problems. I actually kind of liked her.) Even where the actors are doing a good job, they are forced them to emote lines that fall flat. Poor Gary Oldman gets a lot of clinkers (Evil recognizes evil? Geez, c'mon...!) LeBlanc and Graham are also forced to spout some really wooden and contrived dialog in their, um, romantic scenes and by-play that they can't pull off; it doesn't help that they have no discernible chemistry. They don't even appear to like each other very much. And Mimi Rogers is given very little to do but bitch at her husband as if she were a soccer mom instead of a PhD carrying astronaut. Even with all these problems, the first part of the movie has its moments; there's some decent action, some impressive special effects, some intrigue and suspense. The climax in the first act when the ship does an emergency jump into hyperspace to avoid disaster is actually the best part of the movie; there's a memorable 30 second bit of silence and freeze frame that somehow shows the extreme peril of the situation and the humanity of the characters. But after that, it's all downhill as the plot becomes convoluted and tragic and depressing. I remember that the ending left room for a sequel, but it just didn't seem worth following up. So there you have it A classic family adventure story dumbed down into campy source material, then bumped back up with major stars and budget, then dumbed back down with misjudged performances and stupid dialog and plotting. There's enough about it to like that I can't give it less than 5 stars, but this is a DVD I wouldn't keep in my collection even if someone gave it to me for free. Too bad. "}{"Title":"Stupid fun","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's a ton of fun, but quite poorly acted and written with some really terrible effects. Seriously, the visuals date it quite a bit, which is a feat considering it's not even ten years old. The story is really bad, as the time travel stuff makes no sense and the father/son stuff is terribly done, but the action sequences are fun, at least, especially with the banter between Smith and West. Gary Oldman is fantastically evil, and Matt LeBlanc is charismatic, but they're the lone bright spots in the cast, as the Robinson family is just bland, bland, bland. Some of the stuff is just laughable (the kid controlling the robot, the romance between West and Judy, the father/son stuff) but it's fun to laugh at, at least. Pure popcorn entertainment. "},{"Title":"This is a good movie!","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I don't know why people gave this movie such a low score. It's not that bad. I bet if Matt LeBlanc wasn't in it people would like it more. I must admit aside from Friends he is a horrible actor. But other than him this movie has an extraordinary cast. William Hurt, Mimi Rogers, Heather Graham, AND THE ALMIGHTY GARY OLDMAN!!! He is one of the reasons I like this movie so much. And don't forget the original Major Don West (Mark Goddard) makes an appearance in the film.The special effects are also amazing. This is the movie to watch on a Hi-Def T.V. And be sure to crank you surround sound system to 11 because this is the perfect movie for the two.So go out and rent it. Don't listen to any of the other comments on this site until you go out and see it for yourself. I promise you wont be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A bust","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This big-screen remake of the fondly remembered low-budget sci-fi kiddie show gets very little right. It does have a robot reminiscent of the original robot, and there are a couple of effective moments like the search through an abandoned, centuries-old starcraft and the panicky flight from the mechanical spiders. But for the most part, this big-budget attempt to recreate the old ABC-TV show simply fails to rekindle that old flame. Can't fault the cast, who do a decent-enough job. It's the script, and in fact the movie completely falls apart from the point at which the Robinsons encounter an individual who turns out to be -- son Will Robinson, all growed up with nowhere to go. Seems they are not only lost in space but in time as well. Einstein would have loved it, but this unexpected twist doesn't do much for the audience. There's also a sequence where the Robinsons die horribly in their ship, only to be resurrected moments later through a bit of time-reversal hokum. Not exactly a shining moment for the kiddies in the audience. Funnily enough, this looks better on TV than it did in the theater. "},{"Title":"A film with some good scenes and some pretty average scenes","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched this film because I liked the first two seasons of the series. I liked the casting, the amazingly un-scary monsters, the bad special effects and the really good music, especially the second theme song that they used. I liked the casting of Matt LeBlanc. I thought Lacey Chabert was just pretty much annoying, which is strange because I was a big Party of Five fan but she brings nothing to the table in this film. Her part could have been played by anyone. William Hurt seems more than a little bored in the film. He looks like he's thinking Is it five o'clock yet? Can I go home now? Who's got my check? Gary Oldman is very, very good as Dr. Smith. Then again, Gary Oldman is always very, very good - this guy needs an Oscar for something. He should have been nominated for Supporting Actor for Murder in the First. I can't remember much about the kid that played Will, which is a bad sign.The music's great. The sets are great. The scenery's great. June Lockhart is really good. The first half hour of the film is fantastic and totally memorable. That's really the best part of the film. And a good story. But there's too much about this film that just drag it down by being average or sub-par.So, a decent movie to see but you can do much better. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as some want it to be","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched Lost In Space recently after not having seen it in a while, and felt the desire to post a quick review of this movie.When it came out, it seemed that everyone wanted to jump on the bandwagon of panning this movie. It seems people felt that the acting was not up to par, the script was almost laughable, the FX shots were cheesy and this was just generally a bad movie.They didn't get it.I would never have considered myself a fan of the original TV series, though I do remember in my teens watching it on British TV on a Sunday afternoon when there was little else to do, often with lunch. Let's be honest here; it was hokey, campy and its relationship to science fiction as a genre started and stopped at the spacecraft and the robot. The rest was filler. Given that though, the original pilot was actually pretty dark; obviously a failed attempt at a very serious TV series that was degenerated to a comedy by the public impression that Irwin Allen could not produce a serious show.And so we come to the movie. If you go into this expecting a campy sci-fi series bought up to date you'll be disappointed. Similarly if you go in expecting a serious movie more along the lines of the original pilot you'll also be disappointed. However, if all you want is to be entertained for two hours and not think too hard about the science, this is about as good as a typical summer blockbuster gets. It's a comic-book rendition of the concepts laid out in the pilot, and it shows.While the script is sometimes a little off, the well established actors such as Mimi Rogers, Gary Oldman and William Hurt chew up the material and create a charged and enjoyable atmosphere. Gary Oldman especially whips out yet another character who's intelligent, thoughtful and utterly evil. A comic-book stereotype if ever there was one and I can't think of anyone else who could've pulled it off quite so well.Although the pacing trips a couple of times throughout the movie, the story generally moves along at a rapid and enjoyable clip. Don't expect good science from this; there isn't much here for the real science geek... but while the science may not be perfect it's at least not so glaringly and annoyingly wrong as in Armageddon for example which I can't sit and enjoy due to the stunningly bad science especially in Act Two of that movie (right after takeoff).I truly feel that this movie could've been the start of a reasonably enjoyable franchise, but there were too many people who were ready to pan it because it wasn't what they expected. Granted, the trailers probably had much to do with that since they either made the movie out to be a campy takeoff of the TV show, or a serious Sci-Fi movie. This is neither, but put in perspective of being a comic book in and of itself, this is actually a highly enjoyable movie for anyone who just enjoys the pleasure of being told an engaging and enjoyable story. I doubt there will ever be a sequel to this movie for all the reasons I detailed above; for a start the actors are getting older and are no longer the people as portrayed in this movie, the children especially. However, if there were ever a sequel then I know I would be first in line at the theatre to see it. Yes, I enjoyed it that much.On that note, I usually find children in movies distracting and detracting from the rest of the movie. However, Lacey Chabert and and Jack Johnson do a wonderful job of being both fun to watch and a believable pair of siblings who mask their true affection for each other in barbs and insults... I know, I have younger siblings as well!Take a chance; sit down with some popcorn and someone you love... if you have kids then there's nothing here that will really negatively affect them either. Let the world melt away and just enjoy this movie as it was meant to be enjoyed; as a comic-book bought to life. You might find it better than many other movies that tried the same formula. "},{"Title":"Average SF blockbuster","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" LIS is just another typical overproduced Hollywood SF epic. Most of the acting is wooden and overtaken by the decors and special effects.It has a good basic plot, based on the old story of the marooned 19th century Swiss family Robinson, but now set ofcourse in space.It all holds somehow together until about 3/4th of the movie. Then, as in most recent US blockbusters, the screenwriters seem to get so confused they completely ruin the ending. I won't go into details but 'silly', 'over the top' and 'needlessly complicated' come to mind.But somehow, until the end bit anyway, I wasn't bored with the story.Actors are typical cliché as Hurt, who is his usual self, always looking like he is about to fall asleep. Leblanc tries his best at being macho but he becomes a parody. Only Oldman as the cynical villain, and ofcourse cool Lacy Chabert , as the cutesy 'bet I'm smarter-than-you' youngest daughter, stand out.Al in all, not such a bad effort, if they only hadn't bungled up that ending. "},{"Title":"Just a really bad movie.","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The script was written by a group of 10 year old boys.  Or maybe they were 9.  Somewhere in that range.  At least it seemed that way to me.  Horrible plot, bad dialogue, bad animated characters.  Just bad.   Save your money and your time. "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  If you read my comment on Independence Day,this one wont be much different. It is a wonderful movie that shows what could happen if all Earth's NR's are depleted completely. I think it's the best movie of 1998. "},{"Title":"i was sooo looking forward to this big-screen version","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I was really looking forward to the big-screen version of Lost in Space.  I remember how campy the tv show was.  I figured they would go the same route which would have been alright with me.  I was hoping for a good sci-fi. Maybe its me, I dunno,  but why is William Hurt popular? "},{"Title":"Oh dear what were they thinking?","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  What were they thinking when they did this?The only bits I liked were the designs for the Jupiter 2 and it's launch booster and seeing Heather Graham and  Mimi Rogers in funky spacesuits...Things I hated about the film and there were a few, such as as the crappy CGI spiders, the very bad script (well we know who to blame for that)  and the choices for some of the actors, namely William Hurt, Lacey Chabert, and Mat LeBlanc. Mind you blame can't be put on them as their roles are only as good as the scripts put before them so you know who to blame for that as well...I bought the film last year on DVD only out of  nostalgia, but when I did see it on the big  screen it was a fairly full cinema, mostly people I think who grew up with the TV show.Overall this gets a 3/10 for me.Let's see how the made for TV movie works out when and if it is ever released...... "}{"Title":"Oh brother!","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I have never seen worse garbage based on a hit show in my life. The only parts of this film that i liked were the cameo's and anything that was related to the original series. The dysfunction of the Robinson family in this film was a slap in the face to anyone who embraced the 60's series and was a complete insult to those who worked on the 60's show.William Hurt? C'mon, there could not have been more of a departure from the original character. in this film he was self absorbed, argumentative and a terrible father, they missed the mark by eliminating family values and his script should have been burned before delivery.Matt LeBlanc? Don't quit your day job! I like the dude and i think he is a great actor but his direction was putred and his dialogue was a waste of paper.Lacy Chabert? I don't blame her for her role's lameness because she clearly had no concept of who or what Penny Robinson was all about. that and she was simply taking direction from an idiot with no concept of history.Gary Oldman? Lame, Weak, Off the mark and not even close to capturing the essence of Dr. Smith.I won't even go near my opinion of Blarp...........The effects were great and the film had lots of eye candy but nothing to support it by way of story and or plot. And not using Billy Mumy as the older Will Robinson capped this film off for me as a dud that should never have seen Post-Production.....They could have very well titled this film The Dysfunctional Family Robinson in Space what a total joke and complete insult to what Irwin Allen gave us in the 60's.................If they do a sequel to this trash i have some advice.....DON'T DO IT! "},{"Title":"Somebody broke wind!!!","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I remember one episode of Friends in which  Joey Triviani (Matt Le Blanc) is talking about his first day on set for some TV series. One of the actors taught him how to act a state of deep thinking (musing in other words). In general you have to play as if somebody broke wind and you are trying to smell it (more or less sth like that), the result is very serious and concentrated face. OK Matt, let me put it this way        Fiends is a sitcom, so what you said there was just for fun, this advice wasn't serious, and really you don't have to try to smell something stinking in every movie you play in (unless it's a comedy, you know).I hope Matt is going to read it, because in LiS he did this ugly thing every time somebody was talking to him (eg. when he learnt that he would be a pilot of the ship).And now, the film.BAAAAAAAAD, EVEN WOOOOOOOORSE. Silly plot, poor SFX, stupid dialogue, terrible acting (even Gary Oldman was disapointing, I can't believe he'd agreed to play in it). SEARCH & DESTROY!!1/10 "},{"Title":"Well, I'm sure they tried","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Well, you got to hand it to them I mean, the people in this movie did the best they could. It's a shame that the plot was crap. In all honesty, you'd better really love the show Lost in Space to see this movie. Anyone else I don't think would like it much. I should know. Lets just say that this is the perfect example of why not to see a bad movie so you can see your favorite actor. I did. And I regret it. Believe me, you're better off seeing something else... although i'll have to admit, the special effects were pretty good, but flashy CGI can only get you so far.... "},{"Title":"Get over it and enjoy!","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As a fan of the television series, as well as the Gold Key Comic series Space Family Robinson, I couldn't help but find this film engaging and wonderfully silly.The casting was superb -- the cameos of the original cast were great -- as were the SFX. There are a great many quotable lines. And, the action was tip-top.For those who were offended by the darker style, I refer you to the first 6 episodes of the television series. There was danger, excitement, and Dr. Smith was a very evil man. Then it got wimpy and silly. I won't even go into the pilot which didn't include Smith OR the Robot!Irwin Allen is well known for starting with great premises, then turning it into The Monster-of-the-Week Show. Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea as well as Time Tunnel and Land of the Giants all followed this dark-to-damnsilly pattern. But the first episodes were as dark and dramatic as anything on television.The film did a splendid job and I still enjoy watching my DVD version as ... the monkey flips the switch. "},{"Title":"I Was Not Impressed","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I was not impressed with the majority of 90's movies based on 60's TV shows that we had to put up with. Two of the really bad offerings were The Saint starring the usually talented Val Kilmer and the abysmal Avengers movie. Neither of these movies did the original TV series any justice. Lost In Space was the same.Lost In Space was far too serious. If you're going to do a film based on an original 60's TV show then you need to remain as faithful as you can to the series you are adapting. I'm not talking about special effects or the like, I'm talking about plot of which Lost In Space didn't have much.There were a few exciting scenes but overall, Lost In Space was a weak film. A lot of young movie fans out there won't have watched the original TV series Lost In Space and after watching this movie, they probably won't even try and track down the original TV series.Maybe I am being too hard but don't bother watching this and try and track down the original series instead. "},{"Title":"Love This Film!!!","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  In all seriousness, I cannot understand why so many people don't like this film.  I thought it was absolutely excellent from start to finish.  There's a few things here and there that I could have done without (Blarp, the little alien monkey thing), but for the most part I absolutely loved this film.  The special effects alone were worth the film.  I couldn't believe the detail in some of the scenes in the film (for example the Jupiter Launch...JUST FANTASTIC!!!)Also, this film is filled with cool science fiction ideas.  I LOVE the idea of a Hyper-gate, such a fun idea.  Also, who doesn't like time travel?  Time travel is always fun!  Then there's these interesting alien spider things, VERY COOL!  I thought this film was filled with so much fun and interesting things and being so, made it great!As far as the story goes, I thought it was excellent and very well thought out.  Although, I'm sure if you think about the time-travel aspect enough, you'll come up with some very interesting paradoxes in the film, but that's pretty much inevitable with a time-travel film.  I must admit, that I know absolutely nothing about the original television show.  So, if you're a fan of the show, then I have no idea what you are going to think of the film.The acting was very good on all accounts.  William Hurt, Mimi Rogers, Gary Oldman, Matt Le Blanc, Heather Graham, Lacey Chabert, and Jack Johnson all did great jobs with their roles.  I especially liked Matt Le Blanc, he really pulled off a great performance.Stephen Hopkins, in my opinion, is one of the most unappreciated directors.  I've really enjoyed all of the films of his that I've seen thus far.  I really like his style and can't wait to see his next work.All in all, I thought this was one of the better sci-fi movies I've seen in the last 5 years or so.  I truly hope that you will enjoy the film if you get around to seeing it.  If you're a fan of sci-fi films, then I do recommend you see this film.  In any case, thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Fun sci-fi flick.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  LOST IN SPACE is one of those films that tries to be the biggest box office smash since the beginning of the Action Adventure/ Creature Films began with JURASSIC PARK in 1993. But, in the spring of 1998, LOST IN SPACE managed to pull off the unthinkable. It arose from Hell and pushed TITANIC into second place at the box office.If this film rocked your boat, I would also suggest THE TIME MACHINE with Guy Pearce. Just, never look to the horrid, old TV series for redemption. The film is slow at developing itself, which, in many ways is good. It helps us understand the characters. The cast includes many famous stars such as William Hurt, Gary Oldman, Mimi Rogers, Heather Graham, Lacey Chabert, Jack Johnson and a few more. The film gets intense about half-way through. And when the action sequences start, they don't stop! I did not watch it at first because I was afraid of not liking it, but when I finally did, I thought to myself that wasn't so bad. Its one of those movies that comes out and pleases the young kids because they like to see people die and lots of explosions. This film delivers some of that...LOST IN SPACE gets 4/5. "},{"Title":"It does not compute","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  What if they made a movie version of the old TV show Lost in Space and the original robot, Jonathan Harris and Billy Mumy didn't show up? Danger Will Robinson is right. Those three were the show. At least the movie makers were wise enough to have the original voice in the new robot. That,  June Lockhart's funny cameo plus the lift-off of the 'Jupiter 1' are the best parts of this billions budgeted bust. They could have saved millions by putting a man in the old robot suit instead of creating a real robot and it would have been an improvement! Instead of a CGI monkey (the absolute worst) they could have put big ears on a chimp ala the series and it would have been fine. But the biggest mistake was not giving Bill Mumy, the original Will Robinson, the role of the adult Will. That would have given old fans an emotional connection to what was a confusing,boring plot. And Dr. Smith becomes a spider? That is the final indignity! Oh the pain, the pain. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable movie if you don't take this one too seriously","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is fun to watch. Obviously, the intention was to be an entertaining movie, not a good movie. This works out quite well. Special effects are okay, there are some funny moments, story is simple. Entertaining. Don't look at the details, plot and that sort of thing. Just shut down your brain and enjoy this movie. Hey, not every movie has to be filmed literature, right? "},{"Title":"Dreadful...","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  That's right I think this was dreadful--Matt LeBlanc's acting was poor, William Hurt seems too passive and not the man in control portrayed by Guy Williams and the kid who played Will was no Billy Mumy either.  The first part of the movie plot was directly taken from the TV show and then somewhere in the middle it zooms off into left field.  The movie was neither campy like the TV show, nor was it a sci fi movie that I could say I found any interest in.  Dr. Smith was made to be far more sinister than Jonathan Harris's portrayal of the character (a coward, nelly queen, but soft inside) with no redeeming qualities--Gary Oldman is a very good actor--plays wonderful bad guys...but he wasn't right for this part, much too dark.  If they hadn't tracked the original TV plot for half the movie, perhaps I wouldn't have found myself comparing it to the TV show so much.  The inclusion of half the TV cast in different roles didn't help either...those actors should have been insulted.  This condition set the picture up for failure in my opinion.  It looks like this movie was done with a sequel in mind..one I hope is never made. "}{"Title":"Rubbish","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Being released in 1998, I was given to the chance to either see this, The Avengers, Armageddon and Godzilla. I chose this.Why?The film, based on a old TV show(showing that ideas are running out quickly)shows the Robinson family going into space to find new habitats for the world's population.The family have a bad guy in their ship who is there to sabotage the mission. Whatever happens in this film, nothing can save it, even the nice futuristic ideas or the okay action scenes. The film grows to be a movie that you will be able to watch through but you'll probably regret it.1 out of 5 "},{"Title":"try again!","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  What could have been a very good science fiction adventure film very quickly became a silly, poorly scripted mess complete with obnoxious computer-generated animals.Why do film makers INSIST on putting cute computer generated pets in all science fiction movies? The point at which the characters in Lost in Space discover it is the point at which I though, God, this is DUMB and almost walked out of the theatre. Unfortunately, instead of going home and washing dishes or something, I stayed throughout the whole miserable film.Great acting talents like William Hurt and Gary Oldman and attractive and popular young actors like Heather Graham, Lacey Chabert, and Matt LeBlanc are completely squandered here. Oldman is great as Dr. Smith, but Hurt seems to have been told Do what we tell you to do and no more.The point where the crew picks up their silly computer generated alien friend is when the movie takes a serious nosedive. The point where the plot becomes completely entangled in itself, to the point where not even the actors seem to know what is going on, is the last nail in the coffin for this turkey. When Dr. Smith reappears as a computer generated monster, the film becomes so ridiculous it's nearly funny. But not quite.The scriptwriters should be run out of hollywood. And film makers should stop trying to cover up for the ineptitude of plotlines and directing with computer animation.  "},{"Title":"Not such a bad movie","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This pic sunk fast at the box office but it really isn't a bad movie.  As movies adapted from TV shows go this one goes along way to enhance the premise of the original with some fine performances from the cast. Plus an updated funky version of the original TV Theme is played at the end. They should have used it at the beginning. If you're a fan of the TV show this is fun to watch  "},{"Title":"A good updating of the 1960's series","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When I read many of the vituperative user comments, I wonder if I saw the same movie.  This was totally true to the spirit of the original series with a bit of a sharper edge.  Most of the latter was supplied by Gary Oldman in a much more formidable portrayal of Dr. Smith than offered by the effete Jonathan Harris.  Jack Johnson was a spectacular Will.  I thought Matt LeBlanc totally broke out of his mold and was terrific as Major Don West.  All of the cameos supplied by the original cast were excellent, although I wanted older Will Robinson to be played by Billy Mumy.  Sure many of the plot angles were screwy, but so was the original series.  As for all the boring comments, I just don't understand... I thought the pacing was tight. In fact, one of the worst and most boring movies ever made from a science-fiction TV series was Star Trek I -- and it's a blessing for all of us that the studios didn't abandon the concept after the original turkey directed by Robert Wise.  The one thing I will agree with is that William Hurt played the same boring and egocentric character he always seems to play these days and bore no resemblance to the soul of Guy William's John Robinson. But, Hurt's was a minor imperfection that didn't ruin a pretty good update of the series for me. "},{"Title":"this is one culture I would not like to be a part of","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  this movie had good special effects, but some of the plots are hard to believe. first, the setting aside of their differences was nothing compared to Gene Roddenberry's Utopia vision from Star Trek infact, this global federation is still in conflict with other humans.in addition to that, this culture is still money-driven, for instance, Don West is pulled from active duty and drafted for a mission that will cut him off from his family and friends simply because he endangered a $10 Billion spacecraft and then, the original pilot is excused simply because he had a minor flu! whats more, the federation drafts a man with a FAMILY Who doesn't want to leave earth! sounds like a pretty crappy culture to me. "},{"Title":"Lame lame lame","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The TV show was campy but enjoyable . It was basically a family sitcom only happening to be in a space background . The sets were fake but the characters were likeable . When I heard that there would be a movie and the premise would be a more dark adventure I got really excited . When I saw it ... what a letdown . Weak direction , decorative SFX not to mention that laughable animated monkey which is one of the worst SFX in history . The best SFX was definately the robot .          The worst though part in this movie was the apparent lack of plot . *******SPOILER ALERT******** We have the inevitable sabotage sequence in the beginning , the predictable fights afterwards , an abandonned spaceship with giand spiders (Alien anyone ?) and the finalpart with the crash on the planet . This sequence is the most akin with the TV show . Many have complained about the inconsistent idea of time travelling . I thought it was good . However a good finale cannot save the film from the lack of interest plot for 90 minutes.******** The whole film seems unfinished .          Fortunately the relationships between the characters are well reflected from 60 's (the hate relationship between Don West and Dr Smith for example) . But that is all . The acting is wooden especially by William Hurt and Mimi Rogers . I won 't even mention the irritatingPenny . Solid performances from Heather Graham and the kid who plays Will . Gary Oldman is adequate but could have been better . The best performance belongs to Matt Le Blanc who marvellously got away from his Friends personna and gave a dynamic Don West . It is pretty clear that if HE was in charge he would have thrown Dr Smith in vacuum , a thing I have wondered countless times about the series due to his endless double crossings . The Smith-West confrontations are the most intense scenes in the entire film .        Unfortunately the black hole in the place of the script trashes the film irrepairably . The end was a cliffhanger so I really hope that they make a sequel which will be much better and restore the memory of the series .                                                            5 / 10  "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I remember seeing the old episodes of this show when they used to run it on the Sci-Fi network in syndication. I thought it was very interesting, and despite the corny effects (it was the 60's - what do you want?) the stories were cool. The movie on the other hand --- what were they thinking? First of all, the script stunk, and I found myself wanting to get up to go to the bathroom every 15 minutes or so. Second of all, you can't put Matt LeBlanc in an action movie - to just look at this guy, you got to laugh. He's too funny for any action movie (typecasting is truly an unfortunate aspect of the acting business). Finally, third of all - can someone please explain to me why Hollywood feels that they have to make a movie out of every T.V. show of the sixties? They very rarely make any money, and they don't generate much of a fanbase. In my opinion, this movie is a disgrace to all the good people who worked on the cast and crew of the old series.  "},{"Title":"The kind of inflight movie that makes you wish the plane would crash","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Lost in Space isn't a terrible movie, but it has very little to recommend it.  William Hurt is more wooden than I've ever seen him, Gary Oldman doesn't really have to exert himself and therefore doesn't, and Heather Graham.......gad, it blows my mind that this woman has a career.  Let's not even mention Matt LeBlanc.The cameos are cute, but they're supposed to be.  There's nothing really fresh or original here. "},{"Title":"dull space opera","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is the adaption of the lame T.V. show from the sixties. It's anattempt at a blockbuster,but it's too dull and routine to work. The cast is a strange mix of talented veterans(Gary Oldman,William Hurt,Mimi Rogers)and not so talented newcomers(Matt Leblanc,Lacey Chabert). Talk about two ends of the acting spectrum. The very talented Oldman is pretty much wasted as the sneaky Dr.Smith,but even so he's still the best thing in the film,with a few good lines(particularly the coward one) Leblanc proves why he willalways be known as the dumb guy from Friends with his dull performance as Major West, the hotshot fighter pilot. Heather Graham rounds out the cast as Judy,the oldest daughter of the Robinson family who provides an obligatory(and uninteresting)love interest for Leblanc. The spaceship effects and explosions look good,but the computer-generated creatures leave something to be desired(especially the yellow monkey),Jar Jar they're not. The film is dull and lame in parts(mostly because of the kid actors). Strange that this came out the same year as Dark City and Blade,two other New Line genre films that are infinitely better than Lost In Space. ** out of four stars.   "},{"Title":"HELL yeah. This is some excellent sci-fi.","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Contains spoilers Lost In Space is a tremendously upgraded adaptation of the old campy TV show, in which the Robinson family is, of course, lost in space. The film has an excellent opening battle sequence that nearly rivals anything that George Lucas has ever done and comes close to being as exciting as the opening of any of the James Bond films. It is particularly noteworthy that Matt LeBlanc was able to deliver such a convincing performance as a tremendously skilled fighter pilot, given his popularity from Friends. Lost In Space presents a pretty dismal prediction of the future. The movie takes place (initially) in the year 2058, and John Robinson, the father in the famous Robinson family, has been working for years on a mission to Alpha Prime, a planet which is capable of supporting human life. It seems that in another two decades, Earth will no longer be capable of supporting human life.The wooden performance of William Hurt in the role of John Robinson takes a little getting used to, but overall, he pulls it off very well. Probably the best character in the film is Dr. Zachary Smith, the self proclaimed `monster' of a man that was hired to sabotage the Robinson's mission, played with flawless precision by the brilliant Gary Oldman. It turns out that he is double-crossed himself, and he winds up on the ship with the Robinsons, along with the robot that Smith re-programmed to destroy the family as well as the ship's navigation systems. Science fiction films generally have very weak and simple plots, and it was great to see that this one got interesting so fast.The thing that really causes the family to get lost in space is that they accidentally get caught in the sun's gravitational pull, and because they don't have enough power to escape it, they have to open up the stargate (meant to traverse the tremendous distance between Earth and Alpha Prime instantaneously) and go THROUGH the sun, thus delivering them into an unknown part of space. Lost. The trip through was a little much, but it definitely was cool, and the resulting setting that they find themselves in is just fascinating. And as if a trip to unknown space wasn't enough, they throw in a great time travel element to the story, making it that much more interesting. Almost immediately after shooting though the stargate and finding themselves lost in space, the Robinsons come across a spaceship from Earth, and in the captain's log they find a recording of an old man who says that he `refuses to give up' in his search for the Robinsons. Even though they had only been lost for a matter of hours, this ship had been searching for them for YEARS.While there was some highly entertaining acting in this film, not all of the characters were as well presented and acted as John Robinson and Dr. Smith and Major Don West (LeBlanc).  Mimi Rogers provided an effective and believable mother in the family, as well as the life sciences expert, but the high pitched Lacey Chabert, the pedophile's dream, got real annoying real quick, and Heather Graham was horribly miscast as Judy Robinson. After several of her previous roles, it would be best if she would avoid taking on a role that is to be taken seriously for quite a while. And there were a few things in the film that didn't make sense. There is the obvious problem (that all Back To The Future fans will notice right away) with the older Will's plan to travel back to the day they left and stop the ship from taking off - you already know that won't happen, because when they left at the beginning of the movie, Will would have shown up and told them not to leave. And how about the scene where Dr. Smith tricks Will into using his voice-print ID on his gun to `enable for all users,' only to have Smith turn it on him? Wouldn't it have been just as easy for Will to use the voice ID to turn the gun off while it was pointed at him? Seems that such a smart kid would have realized that all he had to do was talk to the gun in order to eliminate all danger.Lost In Space is also famous for its ludicrous amount of special effects and, surprisingly enough, they were very well done and very effective. Obviously, special effects are mandatory for a space movie, but they are most often screwed up so badly that they ruin the movie (see Mission To Mars). In this movie, though, the special effects have the unique distinction of being both way overdone and very effective - with the exception of that damn alien monkey that doesn't look real in a single frame in the entire film and is also totally unnecessary. The only thing that really took a lot away from the film was the transformed Dr. Smith at the end of the film. Sure, it was a cool idea that he got transformed into one of the spiders in true vampire form after having been scratched by one, but the cartoonish creature that he turned into was just too far, even for this otherwise high-quality science fiction movie. A lot of things are never clarified, like how Will (who sure grew up to be an ugly guy) comes up with the tools necessary to build time traveling warp zones and whatnot, but it doesn't really matter that this isn't explained. This is usually not good, but Lost In Space is an unusually well made science fiction thriller that is fun for all ages, so it can get away with a lot of stuff like that. The tremendous gap at the end of this film makes it pretty obvious that at least one sequel is inevitable, and we can only hope that any sequels live up to the original.  "}{"Title":"Space action for kids","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Surely there is much better Science Fiction dramas than this, but still I'll take the liberty to say that in my opinion Lost is Space is better than average. The special effects are good and the roles are written to be somewhat funny but still credible. If you shut down your logical thinking and take it as a comedy, you'll might very well enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Kind of Lame but.......ok if your super bored","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I thought this movie wasnt that great yet that bad, it didnt suck as much as the old lost in space did, this movie was basically a fusion of star trek and star wars to me in my opinion i expected there to be funny looking creatures and robots ((Didnt see no sign of rebels or wookies hehe)) i thought that robot was just plain stupid so i wont conclude details, mr robinson was sort of cool althou he would be one of those guys who drives a 1980s ford truck and sits at the bar on sundays drinking, mrs robinson would keep the rest of the cast from looking like little figures, the young boy was some kind of bruce lee wannabee to me He Reminded me of my cousin to who does he think he is some sort of power ranger?.......yikes!((He made me laugh after the film was over, all night)) Gary Oldman kicked butt despite his funny accent,  there was also cute lacey who was penny with the cute sqeaky mouse voice but the ghoulish make-up and looks made me think she was better off in a zombie movie, as for that monkey that was the fakest but cutest creature i ever saw it would make a good cuddle up toy when your sleeping and afraid of the bugerman. Overall this was a slow film and boring but that could just be cuz im more into those car shows ((Check my review for the wraith)) but despite those special exploding effects, and that little emotion at the end, this film isnt actually a Waste of time. but this was to be lost elsewere like maybe lost in a garbage truck?, perhaps if the new sequel comes out it will have better cast members or the cast members can make an improvement gary can take a speaking class. And stop making cheap robot and monkeys out of trash, and possibly not hire kid scaring zombies. "},{"Title":"Lost for posterity","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  1 for the special effects, plus 1, because 0 is not available on the IMDB scale, for the rest (acting, plot...).That equals 2 out of 10 for a pathetic motion picture. "},{"Title":"You are the weakest link... Goodbye.","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is one of the most silliest movies I have ever watched. The effects are amazing but the plot just gets more confusing by the second. It has a cheap and nasty tagline and the world would be a better place without this movie. "},{"Title":"Upright and Jelly tight","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Although this movie tried to bypass what must have been an overwhelming urge to play this as high camp, they played it pretty much straight, except for some cameos and a monkey for a merchandising link (I thought he was cute though!).Everyone in the cast, except Mimi Rodgers (who can replace June Lockhart), actually did a better job at their roles than the original cast. Penny was great as the sexy jail bait (could not do that in the 60's!).  Judy played the uptight, but hot, Judy to Major West's over active libido.  Dr. Robinson was great as the intellectual/scientist/explorer/family man (not to tough, not too sensitive), and Will played the pre-requisite boy/genius who was just enough an innocent and smart.The robot looked cool, but just did not have Robby's (the original robot from the series) charisma.Dr. Smith readily captured the original from the series and not the bumbling fool that he morphed into later.As to the plot, we've pretty much seen it all before, but the acting is what really carries this film. "},{"Title":"A wannabe sci-fi thriller that's too juvenile and stupid.","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  * 1/2 stars out of ****I can handle a dumb, testosterone action film, but when it gets as juvenile-oriented as Lost in Space, it just gets plain annoying.  This is the sort of soulless big-budget film that has little life in it because so little effort is put to making it truly compelling entertainment.The story itself actually inspired this year's Red Planet, a film that works far better, simply because the subplots in that film are not nearly as stupid or incoherent.  Lost in Space takes place far into the future, and features a talented (or so I though) cast, most of whom play members of The Robinson family, whose assigned mission to find a planet suitable for life. But something goes wrong on the mission, and they're stranded in a galaxy far from their home.  At the same time, a disturbance is occurring that could be the work of a time bubble that could cause a catastrophe.Stephen Hopkins has proven himself to be a rather incompetent director. Sure, Lost in Space moves at somewhat of a fast clip, but the editing and transition are rather mediocre, and Hopkins handling of touching scenes are schmaltzy, and even laughable.The cast consists of William Hurt, Mimi Rogers, and Gary Oldman, thus you would believe the performances would be relatively decent.  Hurt underplays his role, acting almost zombie-like, Rogers does little to nothing, and while Oldman can be engaging as the villain, he's more annoying than menacing.  Slightly better are Matt LeBlanc and Heather Graham, both of whom show some charisma and add some humor into the story.  The worst goes to the two child actors, Lacey Chabert and Jack Johnson.  The simple sight of their presence will lead to some true headaches.  If ever there was a change needed in the script or casting, this was it.Special effects purists will be disappointed.  The space spiders look goofy, and the finale features rocks and debris that look more like paper mache.Young kids will no doubt enjoy this movie.  It has all the elements they could possibly ask for, but for more mature viewers, most of the worthwhile aspects are gone, and it will be torture for some viewers to sit through over 2 hours of this overbudgeted and overproduced junk. "},{"Title":"Danger Will Robinson; Extremely insulting piece of commericalism","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I knew this movie was going to be bad, but boy, this was the most stupid piece of garbage I've seen in a while. It's so bad that I was suffering from a headache. I enjoy watching the odd popcorn picture, as long as the premise has some reality base. This movie is an insult to the art of film-making, the screenplay, the horrible clean special effects, the premise and the horrible acting.Let's start with the screenplay, it's written by Akiva Goldsman, in other words, this guy writes the worst pile of rubbish in recent years; I give you exhibit A Batman and Robin. The screenplay is so stereotypical, so obvious and insulting that the writer must testify in court for his actions. The screenplay does not offer anything interesting for the characters, it doesn't throw up any challenges, it's not funny, no reality, we do not believe the advancement of computer technology in this movie.Then we have the special effects, they look so bad and so computerised that you'd think it was made for TV back in 1990. There is way too much CGI, no innovative f/x at all, everything looked clean! When will people learn that computers do NOT always create the best f/x!!! I bet nobody has even heard of names like Derek Meddings and Roy Field, the best innovators in f/x history.Then, we have the acting, it's bad, but to be fair there was a lack of direction and a disgraceful script. William Hurt and Gary Oldman were okay, but no meat in their lines. Matt Le Blanc was bad, he was trying to be hip.The premise is horrible, it rips off Star Trek and countless other movies.The direction and cinematography is horrid, way too clean and glossy.This film could've been good, if it featured an interesting and believable plot and strong characters. Overall, avoid this trash, it's a disgrace to film-making. How dare they make this and expect the audience to roll-over.  "},{"Title":"Wow, where to begin!  130 minutes of pure adrenaline!","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I sit here and rack my brain about why I don't just give this movie a perfect 10 stars.....God this movie is quite possibly one of the top 5 Sci-Fi space flicks ever made. (SWE1, Fifth Element, ID4, Armegeddon...In my opinion) Join the Robinsons, in the year 2058, while they take off for Alpha Prime to colonize it for the rest of humanity.  Along the way, Dr. Zachary Smith botches up his plans to sabatoge the Robinsons trip, and causes the Jupiter II to be thrown millions of light years away from home. (You under 25 year old's will certainly recognize this storyline stolen from Star Trek Voyager, which, in turn was stolen by the old Lost in Space T.V. series. The special effects in this movie are mind boggling, and revolutionary.  The scenes are just one after another!  Most movies known for great special effect usually have anywhere from 40 (ID4) to 250 (SWE1) special effects shots.  Lost in Space has a whopping 768 special effects shots! When the producer of the film, Mark Koch, and the director, Stephen Hopkins, sat down together and thought about the cast for this movie, there was only one choice, and in my opinion the best choice, for the role of John Robinson...William Hurt! Mimi Rogers, Matt LeBlanc, Heather Graham, Gary Oldman, and the ever beautiful Lacey Chabert (Party of Five) round out the perfectly chosen cast of Lost in Space. I am very much looking forward to the continuing saga of Lost in Space, and if the sequels are anywhere near as good as the first, look for them to break, no, SHATTER records left and right.   "},{"Title":"No, it really is THAT BAD","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Lost in Space is absolutely asinine. The plot is terrible. Every theme the movie tries to convey is a miserable failure. Was I supposed to leave that movie and go hug my father? Please. It is almost as bad as the leftist environmental messages so obviously smeared across the screen in the beginning.The characters are both horribly scripted and horribly acted out. The monkey thing, if it weren't so dang shiny, could have added a little flavor. The only redeeming feature is the occasional line delivered by everyone's favorite Friends star, though he is too blatantly sexual in regards to Heather Graham. Only attention-short kids will enjoy this movie, why not make it one their parents could show them in good conscience?Visually, there are some well done space scenes. But then there are also some incredibly incongruous parts as well. In short, anything the humans actually touch looks bad.If you want a movie with good sci fi action, but still has the weird effect, see Fifth Element. My rating is a generous two stars out of ten, which would have speedily gone down if I had to watch (and listen to) more of the credits than I did. "},{"Title":"Critics know nothing.","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Critics have given this film a hard time, but I can't see why.  Sure, it's got its faults, but name a film that hasn't.  For a start the script could have done with fine-tuning, and the special FX are a bit cartoony, but other than that, this is a fun film to pass the time.The acting is good as well, with Gary Oldman at his best in a pantomime bad guy role, Heather Graham in foxy scientist mode, and Matt Le Blanc as the wise-cracking hero.  The direction is quite sharp too, but nothing spectacular. "}{"Title":"A Great Adventure.","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I just looked at Lost In Space's IMDb User Rating and it is 4.8 - that is just stupid! I can't believe the shallowness of some movie-goers, Lost In Space is a fun film with awesome special effects, excellent actors and a good director - It is not to be missed!Matt Le Blanc and Heather Graham are excellent while Jack Johnson is amazing - sheesh, a little 11 year old boy remembering all those lines, he did great.Of course, you will probably remember the old show (which I had never heard of until the 90's film came out) if you are over, um, 40 so if you liked the original Lost In Space - you will hate this!Lost In Space is definitely a good flick to see.My rating  9/10. "},{"Title":"It was a good film with a strange ending but in all a rather good movie.","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  It was a good movie with a rather strange ending but in all a rather good movie!  It has some good effects and the story is interesting but in the end the movie loses some of its pazzaz!  It turns into a somewhat more complicated story and it isn't a good ending at all!  The time travel didn't have to be used to such an extent, also its hard to believe the spys side effects from the alien spider creatures scratch!  But in all this movie is worth a rental!!!! "},{"Title":"It isn't all that","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is not a memorable film. I forgot it quickly, but not because it was bad, but because it lacked the spice. It was well made and all, but the story is just too stupid to like (for me, anyway). The film gets a plus only because of Heather Graham, who really must be the most beautiful woman next to Kate Winslet. Otherwise, this film isn't worth the trouble. "},{"Title":"Not that bad a movie","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  It is apparent that most voters have given this a comprehensive thumbs down. I must confess the movie was a little disappointing (although I get the impression that the movie has specifically been set up for future sequels).There are plenty of special effects and the plot effective.  You have to bear in mind that the movie is based on a series that had a continuous storyline.  The movie doesn't have a strong conclusion, moreso an opening to further stories.I am not sure if a sequel will come for this movie (will be based on box office success and not ratings no doubt ( look at the Batman ratings to figure that out).The movie has a star studded cast.  I was particularly impressed with Gary Oldman who is very unlikable as Dr Zachary Smith.  Mat Le Blanc also plays Major West effectivley as the cocky military pilot.  The blossoming romance with the gorgeous Heather Graham provides some of the comic element of the movie.William Hurt, Mimi Rogers, Lacey Chabert and Jack Johnson play the remainder of the Roninson Clan.What I am critical about in this movie is that a lot of the sequences are to comic book ala Batman.  Unlike Star Trek (thinking man's sci-fi) in this movie the characters are a little to stereotypical.  I would have preferred to see a little more seriousness to the characters.Watch it with an open mind.  I get the suspicion a further installment is not too far away. "},{"Title":"Nice movie, nice effects and bad bit of a bad story","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Even though i don't love the storyline i quite like this film. The effects are good and i really love this monkey, but were a bit disappointed by the story. Perhaps the film is better when you watched the tv-series, but as far as i know this has not been shown here in germany. One thing i really do like about the film is this new version of robinson crueso, with his family, in space. After all i would definitely like to see a second movie, starting where the first stopped. "},{"Title":"Script Lost In Hollywood Space.  Warning, Minor spoilers.","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie had it all.  The budget, the actors, the special effects, the plot......oops well maybe not all.  The movie is a great idea, but the plot makes no sense.  The hyperdrive on Jupiter 2 can't be used unless exact coordinates to the destination are known.  Why waste building space with a drive that cannot be used? (Unless you know you will get the coordinates later.  Reading ahead in the script? hmm....)  And if earth is only a few years from running out of resources, why send a gigantic ship full of hundreds of crew to look for 5 people?  There are many other contradictions I won't go into.  Suffice it to say it was a noble effort, but ultimately the only good thing to say about Lost in Space was it was better than the Avengers remake. "},{"Title":"Oh, the pain!","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Every once in a while, there comes a movie I feel passionate about.  This is one.  I hated this movie with a passion!No kidding, this movie really ticked me off.  Annoying actors portraying unappealing characters, insipid whining dialogue, special effects used to no good effect....I really think this movie didn't like me and wanted to inflict some pain on me.  As I watched, I kept daydreaming about lining up the people who made this movie and b*tch slapping them one by one.*Sob!*  I'm sorry, I can't go on!  Just thinknig about this turd brings back traumatic memories.....I think I'll lie down for a while... "},{"Title":"Lousy!","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  What a terrible waste of film material!This movie is one of the worst Science Fiction movies of all time. It is an embarrassment to the Science Fiction genre!The effects were sometimes okay, sometimes plain junk (the monkey for example was a rotten piece of computer animation, an embarrassment again, worse than German Raumpatrouille Orion in the 60s). What really bothered me was the totally mazy plot and the more than lame storytelling. There was no sense in the whole final part with the planless introduction of a time loop and the really illogical handling of the search for the nuclear propellant... The whole movie lingered without target until it finally was over after a last totally ridiculous time gimmick. Thanks, but no thanks! "},{"Title":"A CRAP MOVIE","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Watched this and OH DEAR! No matter how many special effects you jampack into a movie, they still don't save said movie from TOTAL disaster, such as this pile of tripe!It was overlong, and booooring.  The character's lame attempts to discuss hyperspace and all that jazz - they had no idea what the hell they were gasbagging about and to be honest, they lost me too!Why, oh WHY did they use that girl from Party of Five to play Penny? Her mousey voice is AAAACK!!!! I simply can't stand her high pitched nasal squeaky tones...And why, oh WHY did they have to use a computer animated alien-monkey-wotsit? To provide comic relief? I couldn't see the point of its being there, aside from the fact it looked almost as bad as Jarjar Binks (no, it was a lot worse). Notice how they put the monkey and that girl from Party of Five together?The alien space spiders. Duh. What was the reason for them? What were they doing on the ship? The way those were just thrown in as CGI fodder was frustrating, made even more so by the fact they looked fake!The time zone bubble wotever at the end. That didn't make sense, and believe me, I couldn't be bothered figuring that out, because there wasn't a reason for its being there either. By this time I was almost asleep, I was so perpetually bored. Duhhh!!!!!This 1990's version of a silly sci-fi tv series is just plane jane DUMB.I rate this stoopid flick 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Oh the pain... the pain!","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I'm an ardent fan of the original series.  It's campy, full of ridiculous costumes, implausible situations, tawdry effects, and corny dialogue. It's not really science fiction;  at no time does anything resembling science affect the story.  The Robinsons are lost in space simply as an excuse to encounter, week after week, a dazzling array of bizarre, outlandish characters on their way to somewhere else.  There is just enough danger to hold our interest, but the Robinsons behave in all things as if they are on a camping trip.  Jonathan Harris's Doctor Smith is a queen of the first magnitude.  He has *style*.  His persistent sabotage is not motivated by a truly evil character, but rather by a truly selfish one.  Nonetheless, we cannot fail to sense his genuine affection for Will and Penny, who always seem to end up under his supervision.  The special bond between Smith and Will really is the heart of the show.Everything bright and beautiful about the series is utterly absent from the movie.  The movie seems to spring from a vision completely hostile to the spirit of the TV series.  The special effects are all too much.  The design is too slick.  Far too much effort is spent on trying to make everything realistic, except the characters themselves, who are mere shadows of their TV counterparts. "}{"Title":"danger! a complete waste of time ahead!","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Just watched this movie on video, and thought that this movie is a total crap...The movie will be remembered by its effects, particularly the boy in the hologram suit, the scene with the space spiders and the pet monkey. That's about it.Matt leBlanc is okay, and Gary Oldman is superb as always. While the rest is forgettable.What about the story? Honestly, it is a total crap.  It is unclear where the storyline takes us to. What is the purpose and the intention? The movie should be call 'Lost in Script'.Overall, a complete waste of time. 2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Where's the ending?","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Packed with special effects, but not as much plot. The movie seemed only to have gone half-way through when it suddenly ended.Or, is it just a pilot episode of a nineties version of the classic series?But still, not a bad movie. "},{"Title":"Lost the script.","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Lost in Space.  How about Lost in Scriptwriting, 101?  Take a decent story, a good idea, amazing (almost) special effects, and great actors, and force those actors to say horrible lines.  (Much like the original Star Wars.) If Gary Oldman (Dr. Smith) had to tell us one more time that he was a bad guy, I would have killed him myself.  If Matt LeBlanc's character could be any more two-dimensional, I would have gotten a paper cut from him.  Oh well, I guess that's Hollywood.  Yes, plenty of room for a sequel.  Got to tie up those loose ends.   "},{"Title":"Really Lost!","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When I see this movie,I felt that the Robinson family was not the only lost in space, I was lost too, if not in the space but certainly in a very bad screenplay and a confuse and undistinguished direction. In fact, this new version of the famous tv series of the 60's tries to find a way between some good special effects ( for that matter, LucasFilm work is always correct!) and some action scenes with no grip at all. The plotline is weak and extremely dull. For the other hand, the cast is not at the point and even Gary Oldman is unconvincing as Dr. Smith ( 2 stars of 5 = rating).  "},{"Title":"An Excellent Movie!","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I grew up watching the re-runs of Lost in Space. I thought it was the neatest show I had ever seen.Now, nearing 30, I still enjoy watching the episodes, and I was thrilled to know there was going to be a movie of the film.I was not disappointed with the movie! I can't understand why so many people hated this film. Taken for what it is worth, it is an excellent, campy adventure.I wasn't wowed by the special effects as I was by the fact that they kept the campiness of the old show and mixed it in with some great action and comedy scenes. The only low point is the slow moving last act of the film. It redeemed itself with the excellent to be continued ending! In my opinion, this film worked!Watch in in the Widescreen Version and turn up the surround sound. "},{"Title":"Just five minutes (the beginning)","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I just rented and watched the movie. Great start, ordinary plot and awful finish. Anyway, it could be worth the three dollars of renting, just for the little pet (monkey) and Matt Le Blanc performance. Ciao. "},{"Title":"Good effects, good cast but awful script","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Pointless revival of the old TV series. Lost in Space has a great cast and great effects but all this is ruined by a terrible script. For a children's Science fiction adventure the last thing I expected was for it to be boring, which it was for large parts. The actors do what they can with sub standard material but if I had my way the Robinson children would literally be 'Lost in Space' away from any other living being, they are that annoying!. Please, lets have an end to these Special Effect laden, no storyline Hollywood ego trips. What is next, The Terrorhawks -Live action big budget movie? Or how about Little House on the Prairie, set on Mars in the year 2050!  "},{"Title":"Danger, human race!","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" As with many others commenting here, I thought that the special effects were great, but this movie only reinforced my feeling that great special effects do not save a hopeless script. Some agree with this as well, while others don't. Let me try to explain.As a musician, I would compare the plot of a literary creation to the form of a musical composition. In both cases they serve a skeletal function. They are not necessarily what the work of art is about. But they should be as solid as the piers and girders of a large building should be. Their existence is a matter of workmanship. A building deficient in its structural components is not one I want to inhabit. It surely will not stand long. And if it is my building, I would be ashamed to have been duped into purchasing it. This aspect is just as necessary in any major artistic creation, whether an extended musical composition or any full-length, big-budget film. In the latter case, it is particularly inexcusable to heap latterly so much expense and expertise of one sort onto a foundation which one can see beforehand is so lacking in expertise of another.This goes double for science fiction movies. Good science fiction is not about the science. It is about the changeless in human nature; and the environment greatly differing from our own which the scientific knowledge envisions is meant to point that up. But this is not to say that it works when the science, or the other aspects of the plot, are sloppy or implausible.In Lost in Space we have not only the most dabbling and dilettantish excuse for science, but such meager script-writing and characterization that one can't like even the characters one is meant or inclined to like. I seem to have a pretty low threshold for acting, not tending to notice mediocre acting unless it's *really* bad. But in this film my disbelief was suspended repeatedly by the vacuity of the acting-- although in the cast's defence it must be remembered that they had very little to work with.For instance Will resorts to the extreme measure of holographics to aid his presumably beloved robot threatened in battle. He nevertheless fails to save it. The only response we see to this loss is a quick Goodbye, Robot, a line delivered with about as much emotion as if it were spoken to someone who would return in an hour. One doesn't know whom to blame-- and I always want to give a child actor the benefit of the doubt. He might not have been allowed time for so much as a quiver in his voice. He certainly didn't have much dialogue to work with.It is his sister Penny, however, who has really developed the blase and casually outre to a fine art. How old is she supposed to be, anyway? She looks about twelve, acts like twelve-going- on-thirty, but has the bust of a Mae West-- as well as the hairstyle of some other species. It is not surprising that the alien monkey-girl takes to her so well. There is a distinct resemblance.William Hurt is an actor whom I respect, but his understated, subtle style was quite lost here, where there is nothing to be subtle about. Unfortunately, he usually came off as formulaic as everyone else.So this is the future. Earth threatens to stop sustaining human life. And characters like this are the human life which it wants to stop sustaining. Smart earth. "},{"Title":"Almost as good as the worst of the TV series episodes","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  They tried! Too bad they did not have a script to go along with the special effects. The boy was an irritant. The teenage girl was too valley girl-ish. I just did not care for the characters.. When the robot-gone-nuts was closing in on the mother and Penny, i was rooting for the robot. Make it original or make it like the TV series, you can not try to do both.The time shifting plot was self contradictory and confusing. The new Dr. Smith was too evil... Not the bumbling fool in the TV series.  I am sure there will be a Lost in Space 2.. The ending saw to that... I hope they get a script next time.. Ask Billy Mummy... He could write rings around the present writer! "},{"Title":"A Jolly Yarn of a screwed-up family is space","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a jolly yarn, John Hurt is initially wooden as John Robinson, but comes good later in the film; and Gary Oldman's Dr Smith comes across as a vile, horrible little man that you wouldn't trust under any circumstancess. The female leads are all great, particularly Lacey Chabert as Penny, who reminds me of Winona Ryder for some reason.  Matt LeBlanc is perfect as the Gun-Ho Major Don West; West and Robinson seemed to have a great love-hate relationship going.  Altogether a pretty Good film and the soundtrack is excellent.  A little predictable at times, but then again, this is aimed at kids.  All comments are based on the film alone, I have never seen the TV series. "}{"Title":"I guess they are Lost in Badmooviesland","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Hello. I am Daniel Galvalizi, i'm 16. So, i think that movie was really bad. Where is the plot? And if the movie has plot, is awful. I did not like that movie, but i am one of that people who knows when a movie is good, even if i dont like it. Well, Lost in Space doesn't find entertainment enough to the audience. I think, that they did this movie thinking only in the money, because with those good actors, and the money they used to the movie, they could make a really great moovie. But they don't care about it. So, the only good thing, was the performance of Gary Oldman, a great actor (he deserves to act in other movies). The producers thought that with a famous title, with TV stars as Matt le Blanc and Lacey Chabert (not bad acting), and with very good special effects, the movie is right and good enough. But, they were wrong. And unfortunately, we were wrong too, for paying a movie ticket for watching this aglee moovie. Regards  "},{"Title":"Good special effects, storyline abysmal","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  My children aged 6 and 9 found this a gripping film because of the robot, the spiders and the space-ships. But one looks in vain for any proper plot. I think they made the story up as they went along and it came to an end when they ran out of time. Probably not for the over-20's.  "},{"Title":"Where was the plot??","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Well, with all that money involved and the talents of Gary Oldman, you would have thought that there would have been something worth watching about this film. Unfortunately not. There seems to be a missing plot which is extremely important when delving with the concepts of time travel and the likes. But, Hopkins does well with the poor handling that he has to deal with, the visuals are stunning with smooth directing and a nice rhythmic editing pattern which keeps the film alive. The special effects rule the show (when they are used) and Gary Oldman and William Hurt are the only two actors that actually act in the film to keep it going. If you want to watch a film which amazing special effects up to the standards of Starship Troopers and a plot which compares with Showgirls then this is a mindless special effects blockbuster for the younger generation. "},{"Title":"Great continuity to the sets...great special effects...","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" ...and a pretty good story to boot. Wasn't the best sci-fi film of all time, but a looong way from the bottom too. The sets look great, and the story flows nicely.  "},{"Title":"I've seen worse","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The special effects are good. The plot is diverting enough to keep interest for most of the film. I've seen a lot worse. "},{"Title":"Don't Expect Much, and You Won't be Disappointed","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Lost In Space is...well, it is what it is.  The 60's TV show was no great cerebral story, no thrilling adventure  just basically an entertaining hour.  The movie, although obviously longer, is otherwise little different. Everybody seems pretty suitable for what they're doing casting-wise, the plot is just complicated enough to justify its existence (and do we need a huge, complicated plot?), the F/X are duly updated, there's a few requisite action sequences, and generally, it's just kind of a fun movie.  It ain't Star Wars - it ain't even Star Trek.  But it's an adequate update/remake of the series.  "},{"Title":"Lacey Chabert made it worthwhile","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Yes, yes, I've seen much more consistent plots before.  I've seen much BETTER plots before.  There ARE a few things about the movie that I wouldn't describe as great.  What I WOULD describe about the movie is the ever-lovable Lacey Chabert, who I feel made the entire experience of watching the movie worthwhile with her outstanding performance.  I'd have to say that she was the real highlight of the movie, despite the lack of recognition she's received for it compared to some of the other cast members.  This wonderful and under-appreciated actress (and person) is cool in every sense of the word.  Her vibrant, dynamic nature really added some life and emotion to what would otherwise have been a standard glitzy sci-fi movie.If you're a fan of Ms. Chabert, watch this movie, if you're not a fan of Ms. Chabert, watch the movie and you will be. "},{"Title":"Well done if plot is not an issue","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie had everything but a plot.  Well, if you want to be technical, it HAD a plot... a plot worthy of an elementary school English composition class.  A dumbed down plot full of plot holes does not make for much of a movie.The acting was superb.  The movie was filled with suspense, comedy, and drama.  The film would have been a masterpiece except for the plot.  Not to mention the fact that the way the concept was portrayed was just too unbelievable for any audience.Bottom line If you are bored and have seen every movie in the video store then I suppose that this could entertain you, but if there are other movies you want to see, view them first.  "},{"Title":"Plain Fun.","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  At my first viewing of this film, at a nearby United Artists, I  thought of it as the worst film of the year.  Bitterness about it grew before the film was released, due to the screenwriter's  work on his last film, Batman & Robin.  However, the more I thought about it, the more I liked.  Even though it isn't the most intelligent screenplay I ever heard, I found it to be...   fun.  I liked it enough that I bought the DVD version.  There you have it, a person who liked this film, believe me, there's  been worse, ever hear of The Avengers.... "},{"Title":"A Comic Book of a Movie, and a Good One","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Ok, so it's a comic book of a movie.  The characters predictable and one-dimensional, the plot....well it's science fiction.  But it's good trash and succeeds very well.  Good production, excellent special effects, the good guys are very good, the bad guy is very bad.  It's thrilling but not with a lot of violence and gore (like Total Recall) so the younger viewers can participate.  Everyone in the family enjoyed the ride, and we gave it an 8. "}{"Title":"A better film than I thought.","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I just finished watching Lost In Space not 5 minutes ago. I wanted to come downstairs and get on the web to let everybody know that I thought this film was a lot of fun. There wasn't much at the video store tonight, so I picked up this movie. I had been avoiding it for awhile because it just seemed like a bad idea. I haven't liked movies made from television programs in the past, except for the Star Trek films. Lost In Space had very professional directing and a good story. I believe the story could have been better thought out because it almost lost me in confusion for a few minutes. The special effects were dazzling. The cast was exceptional, although I'm getting bored with Gary Oldman's portrayals of evil men. The Dr. Smith character was a walk in the park for Oldman. I just want to say that William Hurt is one of the most under-rated actors around. He holds this film together. If I have one complaint about the film at all, it is the length. Someone should have trimmed this one of about 20 minutes. There are a lot of scenes that really don't lead anywhere. Overall I was pleasantly surprised by this film.  "},{"Title":"GODDAM! SFX SFX SFX SFX SFX SFX!!!!!!  But where's the rest?","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie has the most astonishing special effects to date. Sfx-wise, it trashes movies like Godzilla, Armaggedon, Blade... But where the hell is the plot?The humour? The suspense? Lost in space too, I guess... Disappointing but is still quite fun to watch... "},{"Title":"Visually pleasing but overall unsatisfying.","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I had high expectations of this movie, mainly due to the inclusion of such fine actors as William Hurt and Gary Oldman. Visually, I thought Lost In Space to be stunning and very pleasing, but for reasons I find it hard to pinpoint, I found the film to be as a whole, unsatisfying.Maybe it was because the time manipulation part of the plot was a little difficult to follow.. or possibly that you never really know if this movie is taking itself seriously or not. Just when you've made your mind up on this point, it changes your mind for you!I found Matt LeBlanc unconvincing as the macho pilot, and while the performances from Mr. Hurt and and Mr. Oldman were of high standard, the only performance I really got a kick out of was the young actor who played Will Robinson.I would be interested in seeing a sequel, if only in the hope that the Robinson family's story reaches its full potential on the big screen - something that sadly was not quite achieved here. "},{"Title":"I need an intelligent guy with a sense of humor","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  To all the girls who thought Matt LeBlanc was so hunky (saw that word in another review)...If I had known lines like your quarters or mine were so coveted by women out there, I would have tried it years ago.Forget intelligent conversation about the stars and ignore her feelings! That's the message out there guys! Now break out the creatine and above all, put down the freaking books! -) "},{"Title":"What a waste...","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The effects in this film were pretty spectacular all around, except for the Blawp (Blarp?) which was simply horrible, no better than Roger Rabbit. The problem with this film was the screenplay. Now, I'm not going to sit here and whine that all movies should be works of art, with great character development and scripts that are literary works of art. I LIKE blockbuster movies. But what I do demand in any film is that it have some kind of cohesive quality. This one didn't.The plot was ridiculous. Okay, I could live with that, but not only was it ridiculous, it was inherently flawed, confusing, contradictory (the mortal sin) and worst of all, it didn't actually end! When the closing credits came on I had to check my DVD player to make sure it hadn't skipped a track. I understand the idea that it's episodic, but I felt absolutely cheated of the previous two hours because I was given no feeling of closure.Having said that, the effects were good and the acting was passable (except for LeBlanc, who I thought improved as the film went on but couldn't make up for his sleepwalking through the first few scenes). But that freaking Blawrp! "},{"Title":"Danger!  Stay away from this movie!","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The previews for Lost in Space looked really good.  Seeing the Jupiter I like that was spectacular.  Gary Oldman as Dr. Smith, well I thought that was great casting.  Then I saw the movie.  What a monumental disappointment! The effects were great, and the sound was great, but the story?  Not much there. As for the actors, good cast but they are at the mercy of very bad lines.  The movie had potential, but it was lost.  If they do make a second Lost in Space I hope they jettison Akiva Goldsman into the sun. "},{"Title":"Great Cinema-Trailer","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Yeah! The Cinema-Trailer of this film were indeed very good (at least in Germany). About every scene with any special effect was shown. As I go to cinema approx. 3 times a month, I nearly knew the entire movie before I really had seen it. Just why did I pay for this film when all I had to do was to put the trailer scenes in the right order?  "},{"Title":"A titanic waste of effort","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The good Great special effects, showing all sorts of cool stuff, like the weird transwarp freeze, the space spiders, the exploding ghost ship, Gary Oldman as a mutated spider being, the crash on an ice planet, and I still love the robot's voice. Gary Oldman is great as usual, and the Heather Graham/Matt LeBlanc scenes are funny, but they can't save the movie. Mimi Rogers and William hurt are fairly accomplished actors,  I can't see why either one agreed to be in this film.The bad I can't decide what was worse, the plot or the lines themselves. The spider sequence is eerie and interesting, but that's overshadowed by the lame beginning and the stupid first and last third of the movie. Why they have to invent all sorts of wars and spies just to get the ship lost is beyond me. There are so many books out there crying out to be made into eye popping movies, yet the terrific work of the effects crew is destroyed by the insipid writers of this dreck. Why can't a creative team that good at what a movie looks like pay attention to plot holes a three year old could see? Save your money until you see Gateway, Their Masters War or Orbital Decay on screen.  "},{"Title":"Style with substance. ***1/2","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Lost In Space is an exercise in inventive design and style.  The look of the film is simply superb.  The special-effects make the movie fun. Without being so seamless, it plays with them instead of showing them off like other movies.  The characters were pretty interesting.  Although Maureen Robinson (mom) and Penny (youngest daughter) are slightly under-used, I still felt the movie was fulfilling.  The action sequences were great, inventive, and at times, original.  If I had to pick my favorite part, I would say the whole movie was my favorite.  The film flashed outstanding visuals, an interesting plot, and cheezy, yet effective special-effects.  And the music by Bruce Broughton was outstanding. ***1/2 out of ****.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Entertaining if approached without too many expectations.","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Poorly written, trite, character interaction DOESN'T take away from the movie too badly.  One of the better TV show adaptations in terms of a transition to the screen.  The plot, mostly centered around the climax, actually had elements of ORIGINALITY.  Generally the plot is a no-brainer, but a better quality one.  You always kind of KNOW what is going to happen but the team does a good job of delivering it in an original and even exciting way.My two biggest complaints were the flying THROUGH the collapsing planet bit (This goes FAR beyond the willful suspension of disbelief.)  And, worse, the open ending.  Nothing worse than a lack of closure, especially one which can also be construed as a BLATANT ploy for a sequel.  It's OK to want my money, Hollywood, but don't do it with an in your face attitude.  Oh, and ditch the cartoonish CGI monkey.  If I want Roger Rabbit I'll rent it.So, overall I'd say it was entertaining enough to even merit a sequel, or better yet, a syndicated series MIGHT do well.  Look at what they did with 'The Outer Limits' . . . ;-)  "}{"Title":"surprisingly dull","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Before seeing this movie I had a hard time imagining being bored with Gary Oldman, but this movie showed me it was possible. It's so bad that I can't guess how to go about fixing it, and I can't see how they got themselves into this mess.It reminds me a little of Starship Troopers, except there the director and writer clearly didn't understand what the book was about (if you can believe that -- it's certainly not Finnegan's Wake), and here there was no book to mangle. I can't recall the TV show well enough (since I haven't seen it in over 35 years, and I didn't care for it then anyway), but I doubt that it was this dull... "},{"Title":"NEVER watch it!","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Lost in Space is the worst movie EVER!! Never waste your time watching it! "},{"Title":"Got 90 minutes to waste?","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Nice special effects, that's the good point. A jump around plot, Bill Hurt playing a role he should have passed on, Matt Leblanc playing Joey in Space and black leather, need I say more? Please, spend time with your kids, paint the spare bedroom, or catch up on your sleep. All in all, a complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"I fell asleep....","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Sorry to all of you folks who like this movie.  I think it sucks.  Sure the special effects are good, but the non-stop barrage gets old really fast. Plus when viewed on a DVD they look way too artificial.  Something like a souped up version of Babylon 5.  Every character in this movie was irritating and dull, with the possible exception of Dr. Smith.  Note this is because Gary Oldman is playing him, the character itself is just like the others.  Director Stephen Hopkins is really starting to take on a negative image in my mind.  He really needs to go back to film school.  This film is a perfect example that flashy computer effects can't make a movie work. "},{"Title":"Lost in Codswallop","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Robot says, Danger, Will Robinson! Prepare for a spanking!This routine special effects adventure brazenly lifts all of its action bits from, you name it, Star Wars, Aliens, the original Star Trek, I wasn't keeping score. In space no one can hear you yawn.The script is atrocious. Dialogue usually takes years to date this badly. These wisecracks had lost their freshness back before humans had even discovered hyperspace, way back when they were still using the internal combustion engine and magnetic videotape.As Will Robinson, Jack Johnson is precociously obnoxious in a way that Billy Mumy never was. William Hurt is less stiff than usual this time out. Maybe he was worried about being out-acted by the monkey. The movie's few bright moments are provided courtesy of Lacey Chabert, from that TV show everyone has seen but me.Is this one going to have serious camp value in a year's time? Could be. Commencing the countdown to kitsch ...  "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Matt Le Blanc really impressed me here.  He is the first of the entire Friends cast to NOT play his regular character in a film. Aside from maybe Courtney Cox's Gail in Scream.  Anyway, he did a damn fine job.  He was sexy for the first time.  Grrrrrrrrr... The film was ok.  Great special effects of course.  Mostly ******** but clean fun. "},{"Title":"At least they got the Title right!!!","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Well, let's give them credit for one thing-the name--Lost in Space definitely fits its name. It's very Lost in Space. It's like the director, the producer, and the writers got together, ordered pizza, turned the TV on and scribbled whatever was on their mind. The special effects were there, the base from the show was half there, but Matt LeBlanc's seemingly half-wit attempt at machoness really bites. We've seen the brave, quick one-liner machos, Hollywood. Feed us something else. How about good acting, for one. The little boy was the best. Or maybe the little alien. hmmmm. It's a tie. And William Hurt's hurtful attempt was summed up as stern when he should be sensitive, vice versa. So in all, I must give this movie a three. It had it's good parts (ummm, the credits???) And the way they set it up for sequel was good, because there's bound to be someone stupid enough to try to direct another one. Possibly Mr. Hurt!? "},{"Title":"Good special effects, everything else is substandard.","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The actors, though capable of excellent work, didn't show much interest in this movie.  Robot looked good, but voice was carryover from TV series and still doesn't do it.  The cute little alien animal was childish in appearance and didn't contribute to the film. Background and theme music not good.  The special effects was good.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good but filmmakers arn't learning yet","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I thought the movie was pretty good, but by God the script really needed work.  They spend millions making this stuff and they can even have a good ending.  For others I would say it is a manditory cinematic event but once again, the sequel is worse than the series. "},{"Title":"the Robinsons are lost in space...","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Too much emphasis on special effects, some of which are spectacular, others which are awful (the little cg alien pet); not enough story and character development.  "}{"Title":"What incredible dross!","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Why I didn't like Lost In Space -1) That girl from Party of Five.2) The cliche drenched script (It's showtime?? Oh come on!).3) That girl from Party of Five.4) Special effects obviously gotten from the back of a cereal box.5) The animated alien who escaped from Who Framed Roger Rabbit - where did that come from?6) Matt Le Blanc.7) A lame plot and, finally,8) That girl from Party of Five.Not my favourite movie. "},{"Title":"The final frontier??","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When I entered the movie thearter  I could already figure out what was going to come upon me....SFX-galore. Okay so that was what I wanted and maybe a few good laughs.  So much for my expectations. As for the movie....well, the plot was not exactly the most innovative I have ever seen, but hey you can´t have space adventure in a half ways realistic scenario anyway, but there is no need to go into extremes...Giant silicone spiders, little space monkeys, etc. Still, the most disappointing part of the movie was the ending. It completely failed to release the movie goers into the real world with the feeling that the movie (the story) was actually over. Some people stayed in the cinema to watch ALL the credits only to find that half way through the lights were turned on and it was all over. Unfortunately this leads me to believe that there will be a sequel to this movie, which I make no intention in seeing.... "},{"Title":"Unimaginative and pointless update.","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The original Lost in Space is fondly remembered but wasn't very good. I doubt if anyone will fondly remember the dysfunctional 1998 Robinsons. Load and flashy but as empty as something very empty indeed. "},{"Title":"Lost in Space of ever being a box office hit","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Those who have followed and been long time fans of Lost In Space (1965) TV series will be just as disappointed, as I was. What most everyone was looking for in seeing certainly wasn't a remake but a conclusion. Where the Robinson family & stowaway Dr. Smith would finally make it to the new Earth, Alpha Centauri...not Alpha Prime, for colonization. What was totally out of character was when John and Don got into a verbal fight and were disrespectful over who would lead the mission, including the obscene P word that Maureen used to set them straight. Also how Will and Penny were like from a dysfunctional family, where they didn't get along and were preoccupied with their own self-worths and what mattered to only them. Even, Don hitting on Judy as if she was something to conquer for the fulfillment of his ego wasn't right. Instead of giving the viewer something they didn't know about each character, the creators played off of what one already knows, combined with some kind of disrespect & immorality (which is the opposite of what the original characters were all about). While the latter is what most of real society appears to be like today, there are still good, decent people in the world. So why patronize bad for good? I thought it was a joke when they used a bald man during the launch for Alpha Control.During the launch, when we saw how the likeness of the original Jupiter 2 , as Jupiter 1, was blown off, like some temporary booster fuselage, with a new Jupiter 2 design emerging (butterfly effect of coming out of a cocoon), it was as though the creators were saying Out with the old and in with the new. Even the short cameo appearance of the original cast bothered me to no end, as I felt they were taken badly advantage of, as filmsy attempt to gain long time LIS fans favor. When we were all looking forward to seeing our favorites as they are today. With the unfortunate loss of Guy Williams, the creators still could of used the original cast members. All they would of had to to is put Williams in much like how The Crow, City of Angels (1996) was done to fill in for Brandon Lee. Or they could of resorted to like Final Fantasy The Spirits Within (2001) used total computer generated characters. Lastly, they could of done a nation wide search for someone who looks exactly like Guy Williams to be Professor John Robinson.Those who were not accepted or were convincing as the characters they portrayed is William Hurt as Prof. Robinson, Jack Johnson as Will and Jared Harris as the older Will. Gary Oldman as Dr. Smith was OK but they could of done better. The boy who in a Campbell's Soup commercial that came in out of the cold and melted his snowman appearance away, I felt would of been a better choice for Will Robinson than someone who looked too much like the Space Monkey. Another thumbs down is the older Will didn't even so much resemble the younger Will. Another bad thing thing that can't be ignored is when did John Robinson have blondish looking hair?The only things I could say was good about the movie was the futuristic designs, special effects and why it was vitally important that the Robinson family make it to pioneer in the colonization of a new planet with earth-like conditions. "},{"Title":"Did you screenwriters decided to butcher the source material of the TV show?","Date":"15 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" First, let me point out two saving graces for this movie. Gary Oldman's performance was very entertaining and the visuals are very cool looking which is the reason why I'm giving this a two out of ten.So, what's wrong with this movie? EVERYTHING! The story was too clichéd and predictable, the acting was so horrible, the writing is messed up, the dialogue was god-awful the action is way over the top and it also has poorly CGI quality effects. I think the music was OK, but nothing special.To be honest, I never watch the TV show this movie was based on, but given the horrible reception in this film, I would definitely watch it to keep me interested.Anyway, horrible movie. Avoid it. "},{"Title":"Losers in Space","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" In the never ending quest to ruin every TV show title ever with a remake, comes this cosmic space dust, one of the very worst of these TV show assassinations.The original TV show was a campy excursion into outer space. We met hideous bug-eyed alien monsters, goofy plotting villains, weird yet childish story lines, cheaply done special effects, and so on. It was all a lot of silly fun. This movie version misses the whole point.It tries so hard to be a meaningful and deep experience, but flops. There's plenty of irritating political correctness, where the family all hate each other more than the Simpsons do. One woman bashes the men for alpha-male mentality, and she acts the exact same way. The once amusing inept villain Dr. Smith is now transformed into some kind of Michael Myers psychopath. Will is no longer the pleasant child full of wonder that anchored the characters together; he's just some angst-filled clod who tries to build a time machine, another plot device these movie makers churn through a meat grinder. Even the lovable robot from the series is played as an obsolete has-been, a clinking, clanking, clattering collection of caliginous junk.Everything is dark and foreboding. Everybody's evil, and nobody likes each other. If this movie was stealing the Aliens moniker, that might have been OK. But not a kids' sci-fi adventure series. As for the actors; in spite of some big names in the cast, they all stink worse than an Alpha-Centauri outhouse. I was hoping they'd all crash into a black hole or a super nova. Or get phasered by a Kling-On war cruiser.Void of nostalgia for fans of the old show. Nothing of value for any sci-fi fan. Utterly useless. "},{"Title":"Somebody PLEASE tie Hakiva Goldsman's hands","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" So he can't monkey out any more lousy scripts. The very fact that even the worst of the campiest episodes of this magically wonderful old series are better than this movie says how badly the Hollywood re-hash-re-make-puke factory messed this one up. Oh how I loved this old series as a kid (and love them even now as an adult who owns them all on DVD) and oh how I longed for a LiS movie when I first heard that one was in the works. At one point in time, even Bill Mumy had a script, but sadly they wouldn't let him do it (Irwin Allen's fault at the time I believe). If they'd have gotten this show off the ground at an early enough stage ALL of the original cast with the exception of the late, great Guy Williams could have reprised their roles. It would have been far better to have a story that continued on from the Robinsons having been lost in space for decades, which would explain why they'd all aged. We could even have had the (also late, great) incomparable Jonathan Harris as Dr. Smith, as from all reports he really wanted to do it. Never has a film with such great potential to be awesome been screwed up so badly by the hacks who were in charge when this was finally made. Who in the world thought that clown from Friends was a good pick for major Don West? I will admit that this film started out with promise as it seemed like it was going to follow the pattern of the series - they actually took great elements from the first couple of episodes with the finding of the derelict alien spaceship and then the crash landing on the alien planet - but from there on it spiraled into an awful mess. And to have an older Will Robinson character and NOT use Bill Mumy to play the role was the single biggest transgression of all - if they had used Billy, I would at least have been able to forgive them for all the rest of the ham-fisted hammering they gave this film. Let's do it again folks, this time with feeling! And talent. And brains. And respect for the old cast and series. "},{"Title":"Great blockbuster","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Yes, i loved this film, most of it was high quality cinema. The score, adding so much emotion especially to the scene where the father watches the ship be destroyed. I felt so much power from the score there although not enough from William Hurt's performance here. The cinematography generated a lot of the film's excitement especially on the planet they crash land on.Although the flaws of the film come from within some of the acting as the director also isn't directing the actors to show enough power in most scenes but the director does show his talent in some places of the film, bringing out the epic scale and excitement. Also the writing isn't top notch as the sub-plots aren't handled well, bringing out the feeling that it is just another blockbuster. When it comes to writing, we've already seen sub-plots like this.But this does stand out over many action-blockbusters, keeping it's fun and the non-stop action in place which is a problem for many action films. I definitely agree that this is underrated and should get about a 6/10 rating. I haven't seen any episodes of the TV series but for the people that have, i believe that they have compared them 2, having the film be rated lower...e.g, the new star wars films may be rated higher if the older ones didn't exist because there isn't anything better to compare them with. "},{"Title":"A waste of a hot property...","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" What can I say that has not been said here 299 times already? I just couldn't help it... I had to weigh in and say that this movie really blew an opportunity to both entertain the masses and redeem LIS TV fans.OK... admittedly Irwin Allen and company let several episodes of the classic series degenerate into juvenile camp, but the show was well-made overall and had some endearing qualities. If you just dumped the really corny episodes, you'd have a series that delivers fairly decent sci-fi adventure and entertainment.Now comes the long-awaited movie. I was jazzed when I saw the previews. When the movie finally came out, I left the theater shaking my head. The director and screenwriter should be punished for squandering such a potentially hot property.With the exception of William Hurt, I liked the casting. The great choices are Mimi Rogers as Maureen, Matt Leblanc as Don, and Gary Oldman as Dr. Smith. To a lesser extent, other decent players are Heather Graham as Judy, Lacey Chabert as Penny, and Jack Johnson as Will. But the script deals them all a fatal blow. Why does Judy have to be a doctor all of a sudden? Can't Penny be nice and less whiny? Would they really put little Will in charge of robotics? Please. The original series gave the kids some good qualities, but let them act their age and didn't push it too far.Gary Oldman plays the right mix of personality flaws to make a great Dr. Smith. His storyline is not too bad until the unfortunate turn of events at the end.William Hurt was the big mistake here. The crew has no reason to follow his character's attempt to give orders. He should have been left home in a lab somewhere. Even Maureen emasculates him fairly easily. Guy Williams as John Robinson more than held his own as a husband, father and sparring partner for Don in the original - a true leader. Hurt is a great actor, no doubt, but his Robinson is annoying and has no command presence. It's not pretty when the kids don't listen to him but Don is forced to submit to his (?) authority.Speaking of Don, Leblanc could have played him in a major way if this movie script had not reduced him to an immature boor. Too bad.Now for the robot... he was clearly established as a main character in the series. But in the movie, besides saying Danger Will Robinson about 659 times, he/it looks more like a tank than a mechanical man. How enduring can that be? At least the classic old model could look friendly or scary, shake your hand, zap a few bad guys, and then make you believe he had feelings. This new model gets destroyed before anyone has any bonding time, and then the kid rebuilds him to look like one of the tortured mutant toys from Toy Story.As for Jar Jar Binks the space-chimp-teletubby... let's not waste any more thought. Things are bad enough already. CG characters in live-action movies should be banned by the Screen Actors' Guild.The story is the biggest offense in this movie. Dysfunctional family takes some wrong turns and has to deal with the future. Action scenes that play more like video games. Once again, I can only lament... why didn't they ask me (or anyone else for that matter) how to make a decent TV show-based movie??? "},{"Title":"Wasted space ...","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" LOST IN SPACE is, of course, the big screen treatment of the campy, cheesy, tacky pseudo-classic TV show from the 60s; but watching this stiff, humorless would-be epic, one is apt to get the distinct feeling that it is really part of a big screen adaptation of the 90s hit Friends. One reason is obvious, a lead character is played by Friends star Matt LeBlanc. But more than his presence, it is LeBlanc's performance that brings up memories of his Joey Tribianni character, you know, the dull-witted wannabe actor. Repeatedly, LeBlanc seems to be reprising his role of soap character, Dr. Drake Remorey, right down to his confused smell-the-fart pauses and deadpan dramatic delivery. One cannot help but to expect the film to cut away to shots of his Central Perk pals sitting around Monica's Manhattan apartment staring in bemused disbelief at their TV as Joey makes his latest disastrous attempt at establishing an acting career.Unfortunately, while LeBlanc was very funny playing a bad actor on TV, here he seems to be fulfilling the role in real life. He, like the film, inspires amusement, but for all the wrong reasons.But picking on LeBlanc is not really fair, because he is hardly the weakest element of this woefully uninspired and ill-conceived effort. Indeed, he is no worse than the always bland and whiny William Hurt, or the usually hammy Gary Oldman, who, strangely, has opted to underplay in a part that begs for flamboyant overacting, that of the nefarious villain, Dr. Smith.The TV series, a sci-fi revamp of The Swiss Family Robinson, probably began with serious intentions, not unlike the movie, but once it caught on with kids, it quickly morphed into an elaborate children's show, replete with wildly silly plots and the cheesiest sets and special effects this side of Saturday morning kidvid. The show was awful, but in an endearingly likable way, like Batman. It fed on its own inanity and became a self-parody.The only possible reason to regurgitate the series as a feature film is to try to capture that giddy sense of childish silliness. Instead, for reasons that defy logic, the film version is dark and self-important, utterly devoid of either humor or even humanity. The film can't even generate a sense of family. The Robinson clan -- mom, dad, two teenage girls and a little boy -- all seem to be coworkers rather than family members; indeed, the film makes it clear that all are scientific geniuses and therefore are more important as crewmembers than as family members. All the relationships in the film seem as cold and impersonal as the ugly uninviting sets. Its odd Father Knows Best moments have the warmth of a computer program. The film's ultimate message seems to be to confirm the enduring strength of the family unit, but it does a poor job of making a convincing argument. And when the film abandons all common sense for a ludicrous, time-twisting, special effects-laden climax, it's hard to care since the characters have inspired such little sympathy.I suppose the logic is that the film has to appeal to a new generation, that the people who have fond memories of the camp TV show are too old and not demographically desirable as contemporary ticket buyers. I can understand that, but that raises the question about why the film exists at all. It would seem that if there is a need for a Space Family Robinson aimed at a family market, then it would logically be patterned after STAR WARS, not Lost in Space; a story designed for adventure and colorful characters, not solemn platitudes. Yet, a hokey-jokey version of the series could have worked, as witnessed by the success of GALAXY QUEST.Meanwhile, LeBlanc, like the rest of the cast, put this flop behind him. He returned to TV to spin off Friends with the sitcom Joey, where his Tribianni character becomes a successful movie star. Talk about your science fiction. "}{"Title":"A tribute to the 1960's television show","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Much of this movie is a retelling of the original television pilot, with better script, characterization, and effects.Before I saw the movie, I KNEW that nobody else could play the Dr. Smith role with any credibility - Gary Oldman proved me wrong. He improves upon the role while maintaining the character's mannerisms far better than I'd expected.Lacey Chabert brings life and realism to the role of Penny, Matt LeBlanc is a fine Major West, and the rest of the cast does well in recreating or improving on their roles.The spaceship, when outfitted with the launch boosters, bears a remarkable resemblance to the ship in the original series. While the robot is very different, you can see the bubble of the top of the original robot as they gather pieces of the disassembled robot. Several of the actors from the original series show up in small parts in the movie, but you'll have to watch for Marta Kristen (the original Judy) and Angela Cartwright (the original Penny) - they've got small roles as reporters. June Lockheart (the original Maureen) is much easier to spot as the principal of young Will's school. There are other nods toward the original series, but I won't give them all away.The second part of the movie, which is a departure from anything shown in the series, has gaping flaws in the science - but so did the original series. For example, if Will escapes the planet with his family, then the older Will cannot be there with the graves of the rest of the family - but without them, escape will not be possible. The focus on the relationship between father and son is something that simply would not have played to 1960s audiences.All in all, a pretty fun movie that more than lived up to expectations. "},{"Title":"Worst cast movie I ever saw","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" A truly horrible rendition of a fantastic TV series; a dreadfully miscast movie that is really just too awful to depict in words. Save yourself the time and money--go see the original TV series and spare yourself the pain of sitting through this monstrosity of a movie. It is a true abomination, along the lines of several old TV series that were recently made into movies; i.e., The Wild Wild West, The Avengers, etc. And true to form, this one is equally horrid. After the passage of 30 years, one would think Hollywood would improve on the old series; instead, these dreadful remakes keep falling from the sky like putrid bombs. Beware of a really bad movie. "},{"Title":"Lost In Translation","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Originally, like all of Irwin Allen's Sixties TV sci-fi operas, The Space Family Robinson took itself too seriously. (Disney, rights holder to Swiss Family Robinson, forced a last-minute title change). The first episode actually broadcast, The Reluctant Stowaway, was barely-plausible drama and featured a purely-evil Dr. Zachary Smith.Allen slowly converted his clunky space operetta into a comedy of errors, highlighting Jonathan Harris's comic side as a more buffoonish Smith. It worked, despite the howls of critics. For the big-screen tribute to this vanished Sixties world, director and screenwriter unwisely copy the original idea.The updated script rings acceptable changes on the premise of sending a single family to colonize space. One wouldn't expect a slavish copy of the pilot's scenario. Drama over comedy, however, doesn't cut it. Gary Oldman, chilling as Ludwig van Beethoven, seems straight out of an Up All Night horror flick as Dr. Smith. The character could have been nicknamed Igor instead of Zack.I don't hold opinions about child actors. As the parents, William Hurt and Mimi Rogers are interesting substitutes for Zorro and Mrs. Lassie. Hard to beat the sheer Mom-ness of June Lockhart, though.I suppose it is enough that someone wanted to spend millions of dollars remembering one of one's TV favorites from childhood. "},{"Title":"What is that!!!","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" A movie supposed to show rather than tell everything. That is what makes film to be the 7th art. If every character tells things as they do This is a waste of time and money. Every sequences cliché and too boring. I strongly suggest to watch to figure out how to spoil money over a piece of junk. but Mat Le blanch is as if playing in a play like he does in one of the friends serials while he has an audition. I guess I am a bit disappointed. Story is not too appealing. It is a good idea but it dozen't seem to be well express. Ordinary lines and ordinary scenes make characters more worst. I expected it to be better considering the cast. "},{"Title":"Already forgotten","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I went to see this in a movie theatre in 1998. I had fond memories of the TV show from when I was a kid. It started off OK with the four cameos of the original cast--then it careened out of control.The plot was a jumble of different ideas--none of them good or original. It ended up not making a whole lot of sense. There was SEVERE miscasting in this film. I have nothing nothing against Matt LeBlanc and William Hurt---but in a big budget SCI-FI ACTION FILM????!!!! Seriously...who thought this was a good idea? My audience actually laughed out loud when LeBlanc grabbed a gun and TRIED to look aggressive and in charge. Hurt, on the other hand, acted drugged out. I thought at least Gary Oldman would be good as Dr. Smith. WRONG!! He, for some reason, underplays the part terribly (but it was cool to hear his Doomed thing at the end). The special effects were good but this movie was miscast, badly plotted and REALLY overdone. When it ended Penny Robinson said This mission sucks!. The guy next to me said Exactly. The audience hated the film--most walked out giggling. Only 6 years later this film has already been forgotten. THAT should tell you something. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Made(poorly) for kids","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  With a pseudo-infant CGI Jar Jar Binks-ish creature and painful moments where even heroic suspension of disbelief won't do, this film will still be enjoyable for children 8-12 who are used to Saturday cartoons that are only slightly better.  "},{"Title":"3 good things about it","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  There are really only 3 things about this movie that are worth mentioning. Gary Oldman,who is the best badguy of all time. Heather Graham in a rubber suit, and finally Mimi Rogers in a rubber suite. The rest of the movie are just filler, a waste of time. Read a book instead. "},{"Title":"Not so bad--and Dr. Smith was pretty good","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I agree that the science and some of the plot made no sense.Also, the Major West character was an uninteresting jerk with few redeeming qualities.  And the Robot could have been given a stronger role.But the special effects were good, and overall the film was entertaining. And I thought that the Dr. Smith character was much more interesting than the Dr. Smith of the TV series.  "},{"Title":"Appalling space dribble","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I am someone who enjoys nothing better than a sci-fi movie in fact I'm a big fan but this movie was nothing more than appalling! I really wouldn't bother if you haven't already been subjected to this mindless box office 'smash'. A waste of perfectly good acting talents on all counts!  "},{"Title":"This one has helped me...","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Yes, I confess, this one has helped me to realize that there are also awful movies. A hoax of a plot, bad actors and actresses (I think Gary Oldman took this on because of the money), even the effects seem to be a huge step back from what we are used to. For me, this one was the beginning of a list of awful movies. Several other have followed. "}{"Title":"What a load of crap","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  But i don't mean that in a bad way. For me there are certain films that i will take seriously and there are some that i just like to relax with. This is the latter, It is definitely a no-brainer, a film to just sit back and watch and laugh at. As far as the perfromances go, Gary Oldman-Great, Matt LeBlanc-Good, (opting to make a big switch from his character on friends, which he sought of pulls of), the rest of the cast were o.k. People should stop taking films so seriously, a film like Taxi Driver or The Godfather, they require actual thought and analysis, this doesn't. 7/10 "},{"Title":"How Bad???","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Saw this film recently and must say that I struggle to remember a film that has a poorer script/dialogue. Some of the lines made me cringe. Also, the acting was awful. Matt LeBlanc is great in Friends but the guy is a wooden-top actor as was William Hurt. Even Gary Oldman who is normally excellent (and should be the next bad guy in a Bond film) was bad. "},{"Title":"Danger humans...it came from TV land!","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"    Most TV adaptations, with the exception of &#145;Mission Impossible', haven't really had much of a big impact at the box office. Take for example Sgt Bilko, The Beverly Hillbillies and The Saint. The 60's TV series Lost In Space was given a quite a huge multi-million makeover. The end result is something that should have made the film get chucked in the bin with the rest of the TV adaptations but it seemed obvious enough that it'd be a success mainly due to the two words `special effects'. Matt LeBlanc might also have had an affect!!!  So what's the excuse for thousands of special effects now?  Well the film is set in the year 2058 and the future doesn't look too good. You see experts predict that 20 years from now the planet will be plummeted with pollution if things keep going on the way they are now. So the Robinson family decide to take a ten-year expedition into space so that they can try and save Earth. The Robinson's bring along Major Don West (LeBlanc) as their pilot and accidentally bring along Dr Smith (Oldman) who was on board the ship to sabotage the mission except he gets trapped himself after take off. And it's Oldman's tampering with big toys that causes the ship to steer way off course and that's how the family end up lost in space.  The film starts off with a highly impressive opening sequence involving a dogfight in space with bubble crafts. I was beginning to hope that the rest of the movie would be this good but unfortunately the opening is the best part of the film. The film then flies through a slightly complicated storyline and almost becomes increasingly confusing in the last half-hour where probabilities about time travel are unleashed. The film ends up leaving you more lost then the family!  Fans of the TV series (if any still exist) are obviously going to enjoy this but may find the difference to the TV series and film a little getting used to. I sure in hell remember the TV series but wasn't a big fan of that in the first place. Anyone who has never seen or even heard of the TV series will find this a stunning special effects adventure with a silly storyline as an excuse.  Disappointing, but still, not bad. Plus that Apollo Four Forty revamp of the TV theme tune must get a mention as a seriously top track!My rating - 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"If only the robot had finished the job!","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Early warning signs abound when one begins viewing this deeply confused nineties adaption of the popular sixties television series.  When Matt Le Blanc (Major Don West) utters to his fellow fighter pilots in about the third line of the movie, Last one to kill a bad guy has to buy the beer you know that this movie is going to be a deep disappointment.The scriptwriter completely missed the point.  The strength of the original series, hokum, cheap and laughable although it was, was the relationship between Dr Smith, Will Robinson and the robot.  Instead of focusing on this in the script, he has attempted to bludgeon the viewer with computer animated explosions and witty asides which frankly not even the most juvenile of viewer would find amusing.All in all this is an overlong and pathetic attempt to cash in on what was a surprise hit on T.V. If only someone had actually taken the time to discover what made it a success in the first place, I, and  many others would have been spared the waste of time which was Lost in Space '98. "},{"Title":"like being trapped in a video game, or a bad dream","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Having been a fan of the original series, I waited for this release with much anticipation. What a letdown. The whole movie jumped from one special effects scene to the next, with a plot that meandered, or rather bounced like a pinball, from environmental crisis to a dysfunctional family in space to sabotage to romance to time paradoxes to who knows what. It was like being in a dream in which you have no control, but can only sit back and witness the strange proceedings. The special effects were done well, but that's all there was to it. Bewildering is the word that best describes it.  "},{"Title":"Waisted money, in every direction","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Awful. Terrible. Trash.    How can Hollywood produce these things?  Who gives producers and directors the money?  The movie promissed something, in the beginning, but one knew, after only 10 minutes, that it would turn out to be of the most idiotic things produced by Hollywood.  I made the mistake of buying the video, after all, I had not seen the movie. Big mistake. Every once in a while I make one...      It´s a shame to see William Hurt and Gary Oldman in such a terrible thing. If doubts existed about the competence (or lack of it) of Hopkins (the director), they were all cleared. The man shouldn´t direct a comercial, let alone a movie...  The special effects seemed more appropriate for a cartoon than for a movie...  The plot is a joke. The characters seemed to have been designed by a madman...  Please, if you haven´t yet seen this movie, don´t. It´s...it´s...  You´ll get sick if you see it.  "},{"Title":"Wake me up when it's over.","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I was expecting an entertaining hour or two out of this film - especially after all the hype. When I sat down to watch it (on video, I admit) it was a sore disappointment. The special effects were very good. The cast list looked good. Unfortunately, the screenplay was a total dead loss. The actors struggled a little against feeble dialogue but the plot was like something out of the original TV series. Let's hope they don't do a sequel.I actually fell asleep during this film -  and I hadn't even had a drop to drink! "},{"Title":"Let's fly through the planet!","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The complete stupidity of this film is summed up by the line above. Yes that's how gravity works. With pathetic characters you don't care about and only marginally interesting special effects this film is best viewed in a pressurised cabin at 20,000 feet with a glass of vodka and a few friends. And even then its not any good. "},{"Title":"Painful to watch - 2/10","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The only reason I didn't walk out of this movie halfway through is that I used a free pass to go see it and I didn't want to waste that. I must admit that the special effects were awesome, particularly in the scene where the kid fights off the spiders, but other than that this was just a waste of time. The acting's OK, but the script is lame and the plot is so convoluted that it makes me wonder if they hired a bunch of different writers and didn't let them communicate with one another about what they were each writing.  "},{"Title":"Where is the story?","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Well, it was quite entertaining. But instead of watching it twice I would rather watch an experimental ant colony... The whole story was just senseless and dumb. The spider-thing is an absolute catastrophe Unrealistic, and cheaply computer-animated. All together it was just a movie where a real story was missing - it was just a cut of some freaky scenes... "}{"Title":"Ugghh.  What a waste of a good plot!","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Without going into too much detail, all I can say is that if you watched the first half of the movie and liked it, then stop watching at that point.  They do such strange things, violating science fiction rules, that the last half is painful.The acting was OK.  Matt LeBlanc was pretty convincing; William Hurt was passionless, cold and forced; the rest of the cast played their parts about average, no complaints.The plot suffered from Armageddon-itis, they just barely escape about every 10 minutes and lots of things blow up without need.  Throw in the annoying world-saver type children and obligatory cute aliens and you have a very annoying movie.What there was of motivated, essential special effects were better than average, and some of the unexplained events at the beginning actually stimulated some thinking.All things considered, this was a movie that is ruined by trying to fit in every possible mass-market niche.  It seemed like they had several bad rewrites of a fairly decent screenplay, IMHO.3/10 "},{"Title":"I've had a better time staring at the ceiling","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I used to like the old LOST IN SPACE series.  No masterpiece but I found some entertainment in it.  The makers of this film seem torn between being faithful to the original and trying to completely change it.  They got the guy who did the original voice for the robot but completely changed the robot's design.  The ship starts out looking a bit like the Jupiter II, then changes into an H.R. Giger type thing.  Bruce Broughton's score never reprises any of the shows themes (although the song over the end title credits had me running for the exit it was so loud and obnoxious).  The CGI spiders are too fakey even for a videogame much less a feature film and that Bloop or Blip or whatever it is will have you looking for something to throw at the screen.  The other problem is that the film in trying to be all things to all people, turns out to be nothing to anybody.  It's not close enough to the show to please the fans and if you never liked the show, there's no way you're going to pay to see a film with a title of a show you never liked.  Some of the special effects are good but can't save this mess. The characters in this just aren't likeable so you don't give a damn what happens to them and just assume Earth will be better off if they stay gone. The film opens with a big STAR WARS inspired/ripped-off space battle that looks neat and has no connection to the rest of the film that I could tell. Savor it though cause it's the best part of the movie and everything after is all downhill.  After they crash land on the planet, there occurs a plot twist so twisted that I was lost and couldn't figure out what was going on and to this day, I still don't know what was going on.  Smith turns into a spider or something and that was all I got out of that part.  The biggest tragedy is that this film easily cost over $100 million to make but if you were to take the LOST IN SPACE title off it and change the name of the characters and drop the voice of the robot, you'd assume you were watching a low-budget 1980s Roger Corman sequel to GALAXY OF TERROR.  Frankly, I think they'd have been better off to call it GALAXY OF TERROR 2 and add some gore to it.  At least nobody would be disappointed when they got a sub-standard space movie instead of the big-budget update of a popular TV show most audiences were expecting.  I would advise avoiding this film at all costs. If you want to see a good space movie, rent GALAXY OF TERROR instead.  If you suffer from insomnia, rent this and you will be sawing logs before it's halfway over.  I've had a better time staring at the ceiling. "},{"Title":"one of the worst science fiction, correct that, one of the worst movies ever made.","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  where should i begin. the horrible script or the horrible acting? the crew, too busy working on special effects forgot to put in the story. and what the hell was gary oldman doing in it? although he was the only good part about this movie. now they're thinking of making lost in space 2? spare us. "},{"Title":"What did I just see?","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Can someone please tell me the reason for this movie to ever be released!What I think is that they had 5 or 6 unfinished movies..found some tape and taped the unfinished scripts together in random order.Highlights Hmm...must be the shooting scene with LeBlanc fragging those spiders. More of that and it would save some of the movie. (for a quaker anyway). I thought exactly the same as one of the other reviewers here....Penny was a true animè girl. Nice touch.Letdowns...The always brilliant Oldman did'nt really shine in this movie, but I blame the script or/and the director. Jack Johnson was the only actor that got it somewhat right. The intro....I really thought it was a trailer for babylon 5!! Seriously! Comment from the movie You're a monster Smith...Comment from one of Oldmans latest movies You're a monster Zorg, (fifth element).....It bugged me.And what about that monkey??????!!!!! What lamebrain wizard came up with that idea? Poor judgement, poor animation! The final thing that wrecked this movie was LeBlanc actually got a kiss at the end. Always that soft ending....aargh...so hollywood!A movie for the youngest. "},{"Title":"Ugh!","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Terrible.  I'm usually pretty forgiving, but this was awful.  And the creature at the end that was supposed to be Smith no longer had Oldman's voice!  Did they think no one would notice? "},{"Title":"Few thrills, Many flaws","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie should have been a lot better.  But obviously an example of how things can go wrong when FX overtake basic requirements like a *decent plot*.  The best bits for me were the space spiders, the end titles & soundtrack and some performances such as wildchild Penny (lacey Chabert) who looked like a cross between Juliette Binoche & a Manga cartoon,.  I also like the both Will Robinsons (cute kid & older version who reminded me of a Ginger Willem Dafoe).  FX were cool but the rest kinda sucked.The script was awful - any script that had to resort to phrases like I love you son and get us out of here is suspect in the first place.  The so-called flirting between LeBlanc & Graham was poor quality. The performances weren't that great.  William Hurt makes a convincing egghead yet he appeared to be on autopilot - I couldn't help thinking his mind was elsewhere.  The excellent Mimi Rodgers did her best with the under-used character of Maureen who required her to do little more than look flustered.  Matt LeBlanc is in deep danger of being branded as a 'one tune piano' - he was Joey Trebiani in Space (but being the same person never did keanu any harm).  Heather Graham was okay but it takes more to play a scientist than wearing your hair in a bun.   Gary Oldman was strangely subdued and it didn't really work.  He is usually excellent and I was disappointed by his lacking in camp character.Stephen hopkins should be reprimanded for nicking bits from other sources.  The space ships & sets pilfered from Event Horizon (didn't they use the creating an access portal plotline too). And directly lifted scenes from Aliens also (tracking a creature down the corridor; strange pods/fluid on floor finding a vulnerable ally shooting big silver doors etc etc).  All second hand.  The opening sequence had me thinking Has this guy been watching Babylon5?.Goldsmith also nicked dialogue from Star Trek - talk of sensor arrays and seal that bulk head!. They even did the I'm a doctor not a ..... line.  Deeply unoriginal.Best bit - I did laugh when LeBlanc delivered a punch to Dr Smiths face.  More of that humour would have been cool.I still don't really know what it was about.  Erm - the bubble, hyperspace, time travel nonsense was rather confusing (even for a scifi fan).  hyperspace is located under normal space - that was unintentionally funny. "},{"Title":"Should have been a lot better than it was","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  How this script every got by the first draft I will never know, because on practically every level, this is one bomb of a movie. From the opening 5 minutes of TV sfx, to the most ridiculous CGI animal ever created (the monkey thing) this side of Jar Jar Binks, Lost In Space should be required viewing for those requiring a cure for insomnia.It may have been a different story if there was actually any plot to speak of, but ultimately, the story and characters just aren't worth caring about. And to top it all off, the audience is treated to a truly embarrassing ending, one that has to be seen to be believed. Some of the plot holes in films like these can be forgiven, but when they come in asteroid sized chunks, it's time to confine this film to the bin marked - Do Not Open.Gary Oldman should really have known better than to attempt another sci-fi film, having already put himself through the ringer with the equally awful 'The Fifth Element'. Given the choice between watching any episode of the original TV series and the film, for me there is only one clear winner (and it doesn't involve the monkey thing).2/10. "},{"Title":"TOTALLY kewl!!!!!","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I am far from a sci-fi fan. But, for some reason, I REALLY liked this movie! It's intense and there is danger lurking around every corner! Every time you watch it, you notice something new. The special effect are AMAZING and the technology in the future that is presented is weird but kewl! Ya gotta check out this movie! "},{"Title":"Time wasted","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When I rented this movie, it was because i like to think that i like sci-fi. Well if i do, this movie can not be sci-fi. It was one of those movies where I end up laughing in all the wrong places. The script was stupid, the actors were bad, the costumes really were ridiculous and the dialogue was trite (especially the one between Le Blanc and Graham).I haven't seen the tv-series, and I know I don't want to. "},{"Title":"What a load of rubbish!","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film was a sore disappointment. The acting was a wooden as a plank (no surprise from Matt Le Blanc, but Gary Oldman?). William Hurt was totally unbelievable as the Prof. He is not a actor whom it is easy to like, and he was particularly cold in this film.The script was risible and jammed full of cliches. Unless I missed the tongue in cheek it took itself far too seriously. The effects were very good however although the crash scene was copied directly from Star Trek Generations.What was the point of the monkey?As an earlier reviewer said it has been left open for sequel(s). I just hope that they get someone to write a script next time, and ditch William Hurt. "}{"Title":"Crap","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is nothing but crap.  The costumes look like something from Power Rangers, the robot sounds drunk whenever it talks,  awful acting and ridiculous special effects.I didn't want to see this movie but my Dad wanted to.  He was begging me to go with him and I decided to give in. So one Sunday afternoon, we went to the movie.  When the movie ended I had a blank expression on my face. This movie was a waste of my time but I'm glad I spent some time with my Dad.   "},{"Title":"Comatose in Space","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Intentionally silly or not, it didn't work. It ends up being boring. Performances that simply make you feel sorry for the likes of William Hurt, Mimi Rogers, Gary Oldman, and Heather Graham (note, Matt LeBlanc left off that list). At least the special effects are cool. Engaging, fun, exciting? Only in the way a lava lamp is, you can sit there and watch it for a while as your mind drifts. Later, you forget exactly what you were doing for that entire afternoon.   "},{"Title":"I'll give it 4 stars!","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film has a pedigree of pure corn! It was just like the series, predictable and over the top -- which made it so enjoyable. I like sci-fi, but this was sci-com. It's about time science fiction stopped taking itself so seriously.Come on, get real folks at the end of the day this is pure escapism - don't try and make it out to be anything else.  "},{"Title":"All FX, no plot, acting, etc, and I noticed a goof!","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I share most other reviewers in saying that although the Fx were impressive, the film definitely lacked both a plot of any complexity and acting of any skill. I also found the one-liners to be particularly bad, even as one-liners go.  "},{"Title":"Too slow","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I didn't expect an interesting plot but a fast paced action movie. But no. This is slow and it never ends, nothing happens. Besides, we're at the end of the millennium and the spaceship is the same old flying saucer, the robot does not have a newer design than Forbidden World, aliens still look like spiders. And female characters still await for male doing the stuff. The most depressing is Gary Oldman I hope he will do anything but sci-fi evil in the future... it would be a waste! "},{"Title":"Mindless sci-fi doesn't have to be this bad!","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Okay, the movie had a decent plot with some neat time-twisting stuff, some terrible scripting (Akiva Goldsman must die!), and some very bad acting. But that's to be expected from a summer sci-fi blockbuster.  Heck, the 5th Element had all of the above, and it was a lot of fun!  But it had two things LS doesn't a sense of fun, and good special effects.  Just about everything in Lost in Space is dimly lit, ugly, and depressing.  The action feels peculiarly suspense-free -- never has a movie blown up its entire cast and still not managed to move the viewer. And the special effects... I apparently am one of the few people on the planet who can tell GOOD CGI from BAD CGI.  That evil lizard-monkey thing and Dr. Smith's spider persona both were less-than-TV quality special-effects.  They didn't look like they were in the film, they just appeared to be cheaply matted on top of it.  They shimmered and flickered and blurred and failed to convince.  Ick. Rent The 5Th Element and try to forget it ever happened. "},{"Title":"Lost in Space (1998) sucks","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I have seen the movie 3 times.  And my comments will always be the same. Full of visual effects, and lots of kaboom but no plot.  Bad script.  Some great actors have been misdirected.  Too far away form the original show which was a family show.  This movie could better be seen as a freak horror show instead of good thoughtful science-fiction.  As far as morals are concerned I give this movie an f minus.As far as visual effects some of them were not convincing because it was easy to see they were computer generated not 6/10 "},{"Title":"Script problems","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Another example of how a good cast cannot save a bad script. The dialog is at times embarrassing. One wonders how many takes were needed before the lines could be delivered without laughing. "},{"Title":"Danger, Boredom Approaching!","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I'm thanking my lucky stars that I only had to endure this travesty just once. This is just a bizarre, lame attempt from Hollywood to try and cash in on the 60's remake craze. Too bad no one involved ever saw an original episode of LIS. The special effects were anything but special, if not totally on the cheap side. It could have been cranked out in some High School kid's basement. The only thing that I can say positive about this dreadful abomination of a film is Mimi Rogers. I liked her as Maureen Robinson. Other than her, this movie resembled nothing about the Lost In Space that I know and love except for the name. This movie needs to be stuffed into the Jupiter II's thrusters and blown out of this galaxy forever! "},{"Title":"Total train wreck","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" A lot of people here relate to the original 60-ies TV series and seem to be rather generous in their criticism of this film. Maybe it brings back fond memories of our younger days, or whatever, but let's face it when one judges this movie in its own right it simply sucks.The start of it is a Starwars rip-off space battle between the good guys and the bad guys. This time the Rebellion are the bad guys, they call themselves 'Global Sedition' - as if! One of the interesting facts of real life is that the bad guys consider themselves in fact the good guys, and wouldn't call themselves 'seditionists' anymore than, say, Joseph Stalin would have called his Communist Party the Party of the Gulag Mass Murders. Or something like that. Anyway, I can see they had to turn things around for fear of lawsuits from George Lucas.During the next half hour or so we are bombarded with a veritable diarrhea of clichés. The brave but not so bright military hero who disobeys direct orders when he feels like it, and of course always turns out to be right; the workaholic professor who dislikes the military and neglects his family; the smart and handsome young female doctor who has no time for romance; evil fiends who want to sabotage the oh-so important mission (Saving Mankind, no less of course!); the nerdy little boy who is so clever with computers that he will eventually save the day; and so on and so forth, yawn yawn, you name it, it's there, we have seen it all hundreds of times before and hundreds of times better.Once the space ship gets under way, things go wrong, of course, and the plot plods painfully along its pitifully predictable path. Special effects, big blasts, a mysterious abandoned spacecraft, evil alien monsters (spiders??? Who the heck came up with spiders? Why not stick with the trusty old bug-eyed monsters? Not trying to be original, are we?) Of course our heroes survive all that, and even gain a cute little alien friend (ET phone home and all that) but it is in the last part of the movie that the writers obviously lost it completely, and for fear of having no more to show for the money than a bog-standard space opera decided to throw in some completely incomprehensible drivel about time travel and meeting the future egos of some of the main characters. All semblance of story line, character development or even elementary logic is recklessly thrown out of the window, and the poor viewers are left with nothing else but more special effects and some tear-jerking schlock to seduce them away from the merciful grace of the remote control STOP button. Wrapping up this poor old turd takes ages, at some point I even feared that there was another sub-plot coming, but thankfully it all of a sudden ended with a bang in mid-flight - ready for a sequel? God help us all.The acting? Well, they got paid for it, didn't they, so I guess they go through the motions. The special effects? Yeah, sure. Spaceship, strange planet, bang bang, explosion, robot talk funny, &tc &tc. Wow!Lost in Space? Lost in the Script, more likely. "}{"Title":"It was a good movie to enjoy with the family","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I just want tell that I feel sorry for those who think they know and know nothing. My background is just science fiction and that is why I became an Aerospace Engineer; even thought, we are full hotshot who are worth nothing in AE. Although, the movie doesn't give up much sense from the original, it has its own heart. Finally, all the actors were great by putting their own personality to the character; something that was not allow in the original. I am so sad to see that everyone wants to be a critic of something that is not your thing in the first place. Some people like action movies, others likes drama, and some sci-fi movie, like me. However, every sci-fi has its own soul. If you a hardcore Star trek fan it would be difficult to talk about Lost in Space, a completely different storyline from ST. As for myself, I love any sci-fi (star-wars I-II-IV-V-VI, star trek, ultra-man, ultra-seven, x-men, superman, small ville, batman, battle-star galactic 1978, battle-star galactic 1980, battle-star galactic 2003, Stargate SG-1, Stargate Atlantis, STDS9, STVoyager, STTNG, STEnterprise, Space above and Beyond, Space 1999, UFO, 2001 A Space Odyssey, and so many other, of course LOST IN SPACE) that is why I became an AE. It is a shame than some people are so closed mind to what they think that they can not see to the distant.... "},{"Title":"Just plain lost.","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Don't waste your time, this film isn't even worth the time to see it. Poor script, bad casting and bad acting just makes this film another example of Hollywood gone mad. The only thing this film got remotely right was some of the special effects.There are plenty of fresh scripts and new ideas out there, Hollywood would serve us all best by making more original and intelligent low budget movies. If you're looking for good sci fi here, move on and move on fast. "},{"Title":"A Terrific and Fun Retake on the Series","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a terrific retake on the Lost in Space story - adding state-of-the-art special effects and putting a bit of an edge on to the original's plotline while keeping faithful to the underlying premise.What's really interesting about the movie is its concentration on the psychology of the characters and the personal relationships other than just those centering on Will. Where this film will shine is in the DVD version - especially if they restore a couple of scenes that were trimmed from the theater release. "},{"Title":"Biggest waste of time I've ever seen","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Okay, let's start out with  7 characters each with their own conflict. Follow it up with an hour and a half of mixed up plot ending up with about 10 plot holes 17 time/space paradoxes.Finally, finishing it up by resolving one of the conflicts that isn't established and not ending the rest of the conflicts. If you have too much happiness and too much money feel free to rent this worthless movie "},{"Title":"Hollow on All Levels","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I found this movie to be a horrid display of overblown effects, trite dialogue, and empty performances. In all honesty, when I went to see this, it was only because a friend dragged me along. But I digress, this was a pure money/ego vehicle. Even the supremely talented Heather Graham could not save this turkey.  "},{"Title":"A must see film.","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I found Lost in Space a fun movie from start to finish with a superb cast and a fascinating retelling of how the Robinson family were launched into deep space and the events leading up to them becoming lost in space.  I would also like to point out that I was pleasantly surprised with the special effects in this timeless masterpiece based on the original idea by Irwin Allen.  My only criticisms are 1.  The idea that the story was only supposed to be sixty years in our future, because in reality it should have been more like one hundred and sixty years in the future. 2.  I think it would have worked better to see Billy Mumy who was the original Will Robinson, play the adult Will's role in the film. I am sure I don't stand alone with this comment among the serious fans of the original Lost in Space show of the 1960s.  With that aside the movie from start to finish was great to see especially with the cameo appearances by June Lockhart, Mark Goddard, Marta Kristen and Angela Cartwright, all and all a must. "},{"Title":"Why, Gary Oldman??? WHYYYYY!!???","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Let me just establish one thing I am border-line obsessed with Gary Oldman. I think that he is hands down the greatest actor / human being (other than my mum) that the world has ever known. So, naturally, I have made a habit of buying every film of his if I happen to stumble upon it. that is how I came across Lost in Space. I could tell right away just by looking at the cover that this was going to be yet another one of those cheesy, gaudy 90's sci-fi flicks, but it was $3.99 and it had Gary Oldman in it. Why not?Here is why not This. Film. Is trash. False. A trash can would not even allow this crap to infect it with its filth. Now, I have never seen the TV series, but if the story line of this film is anything like it, than it's a mystery how it ever stayed on the air. It's just soggy with campy clichés. The characters are not even half-baked, and are always making juvenile and completely incompetent one-liners that don't even fit in with the rest of the conversation. Okay. This needs its own paragraph just due to the sheer annoyance of it. That stupid stupid stupid space monkey. What is up with that lame freaking monkey? It's not cute. It's eyes are just . . . It's a pointless monkey. I hate the monkey. That is all.Now for the acting. Don't get me wrong. I love Matt Leblanc in Friends. But I'm not sure anymore as to whether or not he can actually act. The whole time he's trying to be this Bruce Willis-esque macho man, but he just seems ridiculous in trying. William Hurt is kind of, for lack of a better word, meh. Same goes for Mimi Rogers and Heather Graham.Lacy Chabert - as far as acting talent goes in this film, there is none for Gretchen Wieners, bye. Jack Johnson was fine.Now, Gary Oldman - the reason that I forced myself to sit down in front of this crap for the full 2 hours of torture. Gary, you are a fantastic actor. The best of the best. There is nothing that you have done that is disappointing. But dear Lord in Heaven. Why oh why would you agree to playing a man named Dr. Spider Smith? The name alone should give you a red light signal. This is the lamest waste of a villain that the world has ever known. He's uncharismatic, unintelligent, has no chutzpah whatsoever, and doesn't appear to have any motives for his mindless actions. When his future self transforms into a spider, it's not creepy, it's not sad. It's just embarrassing. So so so very cheesy. GARY! PLEASE TELL ME YOU DID NOT READ THE SCRIPT BEFORE AGREEING TO PLAY THIS ONE. To his eternal credit, Mr. Oldman did his best to add some charm and humor to Zachary Smith. For instance, when he says Yes. Yeees . . . I'm a doctor. I actually laughed a little. Not because the line is funny - none of the script is remotely amusing - but just the bizarrely creepy way he said it. (It's even funnier in the blooper reel when he pauses a bit afterwards before saying . . . And a pervert. I think they should have kept that in.) Anyway, enough of this banter. Gary, I'm not mad at you, just please don't do this again.So, to sum up, PLEASE DON'T WATCH THIS GARBAGE!!! even if you're a fan of Gary oldman - actually, ESPECIALLY if you're a fan of Gary Oldman, just stay away. Yes, he managed to make it slightly watchable, but just barely. If you have any self-respect, do not do what i did and waste a good $3.99 on this mistake of a filmA very generous 1/10. "},{"Title":"Read This Before Watching This Movie!!!!","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Do not waste your time on this dreck.If you feel the urge to watch this movie, go mow the lawn, clean the garage, and if necessary, take your girlfriend to the opera. Any or all of those will be more rewarding, and far less painful. If you still feel the urge to watch it, lick your finger and stick it into a live socket. The deadly urge to watch Lost in Space must be defeated at all costs.I sacrificed two precious hours of my life on this cow-pie, finishing the movie only so I would have the credibility to warn others against making the same mistake. Please do not watch this movie, or my sacrifice will have been in vain. "},{"Title":"having seen this movie, I feel lost","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I've never seen the old Lost in Space TV series. But if this movie is any indication, there's little reason to check the series out. The movie is at best silly, and at worst embarrassing. Little more than another story about battles and adventures in outer space, the whole thing wastes several great actors and actresses. And was that robot supposed to be obnoxious? If so, then they succeeded. I can't believe that I actually spent money to watch this. But what can you say? Movies based on classic TV shows usually suck (think The Flinstones, The Avengers, I Spy and apparently Bewitched). Oh well. We can take comfort in the fact that most people didn't see this movie. "},{"Title":"bad..even for mindless summer entertainment","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  i can be pretty forgiving of summer movies. if i get in the right mood, i can enjoy the mind dumbing loudness/visual explosiveness of big, dumb hollywood blockbusters. i liked jurassic park, for instance.this movie was bad in that dumb blockbuster way, sure. it has no excuses. william hurt, mimi rogers, and heaher graham are all five star talents. the problem, here, is the script. not only is it so full of holes it could be used as a sponge, the dialogue was so terrible i actually cringed about every five lines. it is, honestly, the only movie i've ever seen which would be better withe EVERY line of dialogue removed. i would refuse to take any credit for that piece of garbage script. "}{"Title":"a great adventure for the whole family","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This great adventure is very thrilling!It have the sense of wonder, that Science Fiction should to have be! Of course that story is not for too serious people. If you like things as Lord of the rings, or Star Trek, you are the right person to this film. It is a technical improved version of the TV-series. Excuse my bad English. "},{"Title":"this movie is just plain lost","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Normally, I don't use the IMDb to lambaste movies that I don't like, but LIS was so bad that it has to be an exception.  Until I saw this mess, I would not have believed that anybody could have created a movie this awful. This is the sort of garbage that gives SciFi a bad reputation.  (Ed Wood could have done a far better job at a fraction of the cost.)  LIS seems to have been aimed at just about everyone - lots of extravagant (mostly wasted) special effects for the adults(?) and a cutesy (i.e., ridiculous) alien and lots of omnivorous creepy-crawly spider monsters to entertain/scare the kiddies.  Unfortunately, the director's aim is to poor that it all manages to miss just about everybody.  Sadly, June Lockhart's cameo role was the high point of the movie, and after the ship left the ground the movie just went downhill. The time traveling near the end was so convoluted that evidently even the writers got totally confused.I didn't expect a lot going into this movie, and I probably would never have bothered to watch it had it not been a freebie DVD that came with the machine.  I can see why it was free - it was worth every cent that I paid for it.  My rating 1/10.  "},{"Title":"lost in space ? It should have been !!","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I really cannot believe that some people actually enjoyed this..I found this movie a long, drawn out waste of time to say the least. It just went on and on and on. Apparently there was a record number of special effects used in the making of this movie yet it looks no better than any other sci-fi spectacular.By far and away the worst inclusion in this movie was the pointless alien monkey type creature that the family take under their wing. It looked so false it was (almost) laughable.Absolutely nothing interested me in this movie and I wouldn't recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"this is a 1 out of 10","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  And it doesn't even deserve that. A fat zero is the only score appropriate here unless we include negative numbers and then we are into some big scores!This is without a shadow of a doubt (no offence to Hitchcock's classic) the worst film i have even seen/heard about/imagined/feared could exist in my entire life.In the whole turgid history of american film making is there anything to compare with this? I fear there probably is but anyway...I find it hard to believe that anybody could find watching this film an enjoyable experience unless they enjoy the joke of being taken for a fat, cabbage-brained oaf with the artistic sensibilities of ...  "},{"Title":"A Gentle Giant","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I think I've seen three complete episodes of the television series, and I'm not a sci-fi lover at all, but this movie was a dang good time.  There, I said it and I'm glad.  Great special effects, a thoughtful script, and excellent casting makes this one a sleeper keeper.  I think I would have had either Hurt of Oldman shave their beard (it was too hard to tell them apart at the beginning), but everything else was perfecta.  Matt LeBlanc finally shows us he's capable of being in something worth watching besides Friends.  It gets off to a slow start, but once the ship hits the air . .. prepare for adventure!  An hour and forty minutes had passed before my wife and I even thought about glancing at the clock above the television . .. this one will really suck you in.  Squeaky clean fun for the whole family, too!  It's a shame this one didn't do better . . . I'd actually look forward to a sequel.    "},{"Title":"I can't believe the bad reviews. This is a great movie!!!","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I just got a DVD player and am looking forward to the added content. This movie is on my top ten Sci-Fi. Usually I hate movies like this. But I think they pulled this off nicely, I liked the visuals and dialog. I hope there is a sequal. The end sound track is really cool also. "},{"Title":"Too much FX, too little anything else","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Perhaps the only reason I went to see this movie was the fact that it was rumored to have amazing special effects. Sure, that's true. But the rest of the movie was awful.Matt LeBlanc proves once again that he cannot play any part other than Joey from Friends well. He acts out his character with extreme stupidity, and when he tries to look like he's thinking or doing something intellectual, he merely squints his eyes.A lot of the things that happens in the movie have no point. For example, on the ship they come across, they find a small yellow alien creature. It's cute, yeah, but it doesn't do anything! It sticks around for the rest of the movie just sitting there and making dumb noises.The greatest problem was that they spent far too much time on the special effects and less time on finding good actors or good plot. The ending is perhaps the most awful ending I've seen, and the whole movie was overall a big disappointment. If you do see this movie, make sure you're not actually paying to see it. "},{"Title":"Danger-Danger mind numbing movie","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  So the original TV series was playing here when I was a kid and I thought it was great. Well, we had two channels back then, transmitting a total of 12 hours a day together. I hadn't seen any other sci fi series or movie to compare it with.Actually if they could send this movie back in time to the late sixties-early seventies, it would get some good reviews. But only a few.What can I say that hasn't been said here already. I can't think of anything positive to say about this film. Even the special effects, to my opinion, were tacky. I mean why must EVERYTHING must be computer generated? Why can't they make some nice real gadgets instead of those cartoonish accessories growing around the actors heads out of thin air?I'm giving it 1 out of 10 only for the cool looking robot. Hold it, I just remembered the flight through the planet. I take it back, 0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I'm not a violent person, you understand...","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  But this movie made me want to kill someone. Many people, actually. Everyone that was ever involved in its making. This movie made me want to clasp the heads of the makers of this movie and shout, What were you thinking? My friend here is saying I have to come up with reasons for not liking the movie. Hmmm... the script writing was worse than the know-it-all ravings of an eight-year-old. The acting was so incessantly stereotypical I wondered if the characters were actually computer constructs of horrible actors. Shame on everyone for making this movie! If the thought of seeing it ever, EVER, crosses your mind, please, hit yourself on the head sharply and return your mind to less dangerous thoughts. "},{"Title":"Danger, Will Robinson! Atrocious Movie!","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Science fiction is good only to the extent that it causes one to suspend disbelief in such plot elements as time travel, alternate histories,  predictions of the future, and what Robert Heinlein called doubletalk drives.  Solid plot and development of characters must be particularly good to distract from such things. Those, regrettably, are absent here.Lost in Space has nice set design, except that it is grossly obsolete -- it's about the same level of sophistication as in the Star Trek TV series -- lots of flashing lights typical of circa-1965 computers. Can anyone say PCs? One can excuse the original Star Trek or Lost In Space series on television -- but not the movie in question.  Plausibility? Would anyone in good conscience send a family into space? Sure, I say this after the Columbia disaster, but what administrators would have no ethical qualms about doing so? Sure, that was a problem with the TV series, but at least one didn't need to pay for a movie ticket or buy a DVD.In view of Star Wars, wouldn't we expect to see more humanity in the robot?  Wouldn't the robot have some sort of built-in security  system to prevent the disruption of the mission at the start of the movie?This movie is dreck -- an attempt to have a disaster movie with 'cute' elements (especially the alien life form that is instantly recognized as cuddly and safe. Heck, if you want a cuddly, clever creature and you have no qualms about bringing children along, then you might as well bring along the family dog). 2 of 10 -- a waste of time and money. I couldn't continue watching it.   "}{"Title":"Just another Hollywood rehash","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The problem with this film is the script. The producers used the same old re-cycled hollywood cliches at every opportunity, almost like they are feverishly trying out every formula that has worked for each blockbuster move of the past. So the movie just ends up a mish-mash of retread dialogue and conflicts that kind of get pulled out of a hat in one scene and then either forgotten or pulled out again for something that masquerades as plot development. The son Will Robinson, whose genius for gadgetry is forever overshadowed by the fact that .. (sob, whine) his Dad doesn't pay enough attention to him ends up as an evil genius as an adult, who is willing to risk blowing up the world so that he can be (sob, whine) back together with his family and maybe his dad will love him finally You said you would come back.... and you didn't! Heather Graham as the female nerd scientist, gorgeous as they come, but (you knew it...) unable to connect with her emotional side, until won over by the hunk pilot. etc. etc., And my goodness, how many times can you go actually through the center of a planet and miraculously survive? The answer, if you haven't seen the film, is more than once. I could go through the list, but you all know these themes already. I felt bad for such great actors like William Hurt and Gary Oldman (although maybe it is their own fault for choosing this film). They both did a decent job, but I don't think any actor could have made up for the shallow and directionless script. Oldman added a little spice to his character, and his haunting refrain of I feel something evil here actually felt chilling in spots.2 out of 10. Sorry, every now and then I see a movie that I later wished I hadn't, just because I am forced to remember the dumb scenes in it. This was one of them.  "},{"Title":"The special effects ain't so special","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Nobody tries in this cast. There are talented people in it, but none of them cared enough about this movie to even attempt to give a good performance.The special effects are the worst thing about it, Spider-Smith and especially the Blarp are two of the least convincing CGI characters I've even seen in a film. The Jetsons-like Earth is also pretty pathetic. Akiva Goldsman's script is weak at its best, and a total mess at its worst. Anything resembling a competent plot is gone once time travel comes into it.The ending is really unsatisfying, and resolves pretty much nothing. Smith is still with them, and as far as we know he's still going to turn into a huge spider creature as his future self did. I suppose they really are just lost in space. "},{"Title":"Lost indeed.","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Man, this has to be one of the greatest examples of a movie having great special effects, good actors, and tremendous promise, and yet, still unable to go in a good direction. LIS starts off with the family Robinson about to disembark earth in search for another habitual planet. All the favorites from the 60's show are here, ex specially, the self-centered diabolical Dr. Smith and that cheesy robot dispensing out Danger! Danger! Will Robinson!. Up to that point, after the plot and characters have been introduced, the movie then literally gets Lost with what to do with the remaining hour and a half left. They try a number of possible plot points, that all fail miserably, and desperately attempt to keep the audience interested. Too bad they don't even come close. Maybe the problem here is that this was a great set up for the TV series. Because their you had only 22 minutes a week and could afford not so stellar material every week. In a full length feature, however, you must pick one plot point and make sure it is fully fleshed out and enthralling to the audience. What we end up with is a multitude of mini-episodes all put into the plot blender and set on high. The result is a mixture of putrid tripe so rancid you don't even want to try and drink it. For example, the bit with the space-spiders, was so tacked on you almost start to cringe when they come on. Crash landing on the frozen world was a waste of time and flat out dull. But worst of all was the whole Time vortex with the adult Will and mutated Dr. Smith. This was such a half baked concept and could have worked so much better had they given it more time and thought. Yet here its thrown in with sheer desperation. In Conclusion If your a fan of Lost in Space the series, go watch those episodes. If you not, this movie isn't going to change you mind. "},{"Title":"There's a lot of space out there to get lost in and a lot of plot too.","Date":"2 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Lost In Space is based on the popular Irwin Allen 1960s TV show of the same name. It's directed by Stephen Hopkins and stars William Hurt, Mimi Rogers, Lacey Chabert, Matt Le Blanc, Heather Graham & Gary Oldman. Plot finds the Robinson family and fighter pilot Dan West, erm, lost in space as they search to save humanity. So yeah, the Swiss Family Robinson in outer space.Big budget & big bangs as another TV series gets the big screen treatment. Not being familiar with the show myself, I have nothing from which to mark this against. I went in just looking for some sci-fi entertainment and a chance to give my home cinema package a good work out. On those levels the film most definitely works, but it's too long, too chocked with babble and unsure of what it wants to be. Starting out as narratively serious sci-fi, with heavy family ties, the film then lurches from humour to effects extravagance at frequent intervals. Something that's not helped by a wayward cast and a pointless CGI cuddly thing.William Hurt is a fine actor, but here he takes it too seriously. Oldman on the other hand plays it right, and gets the best lines into the bargain. Rogers and the young kids do OK, with future Mean Girl Chabert showing good charisma. But Le Blanc is just dull yes we loved him in Friends, there a handsome Lothario like dope worked, here it gets tiresome very quickly. While Graham is badly miscast as a smart Doctor type. Visually the piece is very appealing, with one or two genuine moments of brilliance; such as young Will Robinson controlling the robot to fight a gazillion spiders. But for all the eye candy and aural delights on offer, Lost In Space is hamstrung by trying to be too much. With the added weight of expectation of launching a franchise too much for the writers to contend with.It was a box office success in spite of receiving mostly bad reviews from the critics. The planned sequel, as yet, hasn't materialised. That's probably for the best if the same people involved were meant to come back again. OK while it's on, if the running time doesn't give you itchy feet, but ultimately it's pretty forgettable once it's over. 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"New Version against Original Version","Date":"21 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I saw this film today on Cable TV, and I found it really disappointing. I hoped to see something better than a cheap copy of an old script which was a hit when I saw it on TV. But what I saw was a nonsensical story based on an old Sitcom. I am not against sequels following a hit performed by the same actors, and written by the same people, but to try to refresh an old story using different actors is merely a proof that new writers and directors are not intelligent enough to create a new story from scratch. Or maybe writers and directors of the past were simply better. Either way, this kind of remake is just a sample of the decadence of the movies industry, where no new ideas are brought to the screen, and that it is cheaper and requires less imagination to bring back to life something which was great forty years ago, not taking into account that we (spectators) have memory, and the ability to compare the original with a cheap copy. My rating is a 2/10. "},{"Title":"Lost indeed I'm afraid","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Lost in Space is a case one Movie that feels like two, and both of them have problems. In the first hour, the Robinsson family embark on a mission to begin colonization of a distant planet deigned suitable for human habitation. Little do they know that a spy has sabotaged the ship. The five Robinssons come out of hyper sleep early only to find themselves being chased by the ships droids and the ship itself heading strait for the sun. Using hyperdrive, they escape only to become lost in an unknown corner of the universe.This portion of the movie is PG material, family suitable, but it feels like a thing of the past. It is cartoonish, and stiff, and offers visual effects which appear half finished and way under dressed (to but it lightly). At times the movie is actually painful to look at. You feel like you are watching an early nintento video game, not a hundred million dollar motion picture. The art department seems to have some good arts and ideas (I love the robot),but a lot of the furniture and set pieces look like they just came out of the box. They could use some ageing. At the one hour mark, Lost in Space becomes something else. Here there story becomes less family friendly, darker, and ten times more confused. It feels like the makers of Lost in Space are so desperate to please, that they throw in as much story material as they can, in the hope that it will be epic. Instead it feels muddled and overlong. Gary Oldman's transformation into a ten foot extra terrestrial arachnid is amusing, and the robot gets a few good lines, but otherwise this section is sloppy almost beyond description.The performance quality across the board is hammed up. Anyone who admires William hurt will be crushed by Lost in Space I think. On another matter seems to have lost half his body weight, possibly in the hope that he will look better in a skin tight rubber suit that way. Lost in Space is exactly what this film is, and I'm sure I'm not the first to say it. With that said however, I won't argue that it's unwatchable. At times it can be cute or quirky. It gets off to a descent start in fact, but the journey does not prove to be a competent adventure "},{"Title":"Lost Interest","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Well, it's sci-fi modern style, which means lots and lots of action, cut and cut again camera-work and a sound-track with enough thundering, booming base-lines to wake John Bonham.I was quite impressed with the special-effects of the first part showing the lift-off. Then I saw how much of the outer vehicle's carapace was jettisoned into space and reality seemed to blow away with it. Later a big robot went berserk and practically blasted the internals of the vessel to smithereens - but it all turned out to be repairable. It's amazing how much redundancy is built into modern spaceships! Later, this same ship crashes onto a planet, destroying mountain-tops, obliterating rock-formations, etc and suffering no more than scratched paintwork. Yes. Even a Panzer tank would have sustained serious damage under such abusive treatment, let alone the fragile structure of a space vessel. Movie makers need to visit Cape Canaveral once in a while.Otherwise it's classic all-American 'family' hokum. There's the slightly bonkers stowaway as in the much earlier TV series. But that's about it. There's also a ridiculous cartoon creature and plenty of unpleasant robotic spiders.As a movie, it's far too noisy, far too 'busy' with the endless cut-and-shut editing and special-effects, and far to touchy-feely in the sentimental 'family' way.A decent adult cast are wasted on a juvenile script.It's made for kids and they may like it. I lost interest about halfway through. "},{"Title":"Lost it's way","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Total modernisation of the 60's cult t.v. hit pays little if no homage to its original source. Instead director Stephen Hopkins takes us on an all too fantastic journey that follows Jupiter II's fateful trip from its launch to that 'wrong turn' that finds them Lost in Space.While early on the pic manages to stay in the bounds of light sci-fi fodder, when the plot starts messing with heavier subjects such as time travel, it really loses its way.Such a shame gigantic talents such as William Hurt, Gary Oldman and Mimi Rodgers wasted their time on this. Also stars Matt Le Blanc, Heather Graham, Lacey Chabert and Jack Johnson.Friday, October 30, 1998 - Astor Theatre StKilda "},{"Title":"What is right, what is wrong","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" *This may contain Spoilers*! What is RIGHT with this movie Special Effects. You really can't compare fairly anything modern with the 60's, we all know this, but both shows for their times did a great job with the warp speed scenes, the spiders were scary & believable, and the bubble effect was quite good along with the great sets. The Bloop character was more believable as an alien than that ridiculous monkey from the original series, and the kid played a pretty good Will Robinson, and it was really cool to see some of the original actors with cameos in this film, should have had more parts, but they were showcased at least. And i did like Gary Oldman, as always, as Dr. Smith, he was cunning, subtle & showed plenty of cowardice when he needed to. What is WRONG with this movie First of all, two words William Hurt. Not saying he is a bad actor, but he was dreadful in this one, although he looked good, he also looked like an amateur in his first B-movie. But that is just for starters, the whole family concept seemed scrapped from the original series, which was one with strength & resolve, turned into a dis-functional, confused & completely abandoned & self-focused plot to the point where the movie itself lost it's sense of adventure. The Robot, of course the original B-9 from the series is LOVED & none other can take it's place. The relationship between it & Will Robinson was not nearly as tight. And speaking of Will Robinson, WHY was Billy Mumy not in this film?? He should have played the part of the grown-up Will Robinson, and nothing in my mind doubts that he wanted to. Overall, this is just an average film good for the effects, it falls short as a representation to the original story, which helped change the face of television. "},{"Title":"Flawed sci-fi","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Apart from a few clips I had not watched the original series so didn't think I'd have too many preconceived ideas but was immediately surprised when the opening scene featured a CGI space battle which included some of the cheesiest dialogue imaginable, here we are introduced to Maj. Don West a gung-ho fighter pilot who disobeys orders to save a friend. We are then introduced to the various members of the Robinson family who are due to go on a ten year mission to a habitable planet so they could build a hypergate to enable future travellers to get there almost instantly. After the original pilot is killed by terrorists Major West is given the job even though he considers himself over-skilled for such a routine job.The mission doesn't go according to plan because terrorist Dr Smith has sabotaged the ship's robot so that it will kill the crew and destroy the ship once the crew are in hypersleep... things don't go as planned when he is double crossed and left trapped on the ship; in order to save himself he is force to wake the crew. The manage to save themselves but in doing so they are forced to make a blind hyperspace jump that leaves them completely lost. Strangely they soon find a derelict spaceship that is clearly from Earth but not of a design they recognise. What follows involves fighting strange space-spiders and after crashing on a planet they find a time bubble which suggests their futures will be rather bleak.While the film wasn't terrible it certainly wasn't as good as it could have been; much of the dialogue was poor, the CGI looked dated, especially the space-monkey which they found on the derelict ship that looked like a cartoon character rather than a living creature. Strangely my biggest complaint is about the costume design; the suits they wore for hyper sleep looked out of place in a film aimed at a family audience as they were clearly designed to show off the female crew members' breasts... this was rather creepy in the case of the daughter who was played by a sixteen year old. It would be unfair not to also point out the films strong points; the cast did a decent job and the story was fairly exciting with plenty of action and the strange space spiders were fairly creepy and may scare younger viewers... but not too much.Overall I would not recommend buying this unless it is very cheap but it passes a couple of hours well enough on television if you haven't seen it before. If it hadn't been based on a previously popular TV series I suspect it would been straight to DVD or even a TV movie. "}{"Title":"Worst dialogue of all time?","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Arguably one of the worst films I have seen.I saw this one in the cinemas on release and even in my relative youth felt the film was weak. The crass Silicone Graphics product placement could have been quite funny now 10 years later but when so many awful minor roles kept popping up I had to wonder if SGI executives were given minor acting roles as part of the collusion. Witness the launch announcer when Jupiter is taking off. I vote him for the worst actor of the century award - how about you? Then there is the costuming. Every member of the space family has either great plastic breasts on their suits sharp enough to take out an eye or if male Romanesque pectoral muscles. It just looks lame/distracting and completely unnecessary.I'm surprised we made it past the first scene with a space dog fight.. This might have just been a bit of fun but the scriptwriter felt it was necessary to have Joey (you know from Friends) say some really, really cheesy lines every 15 or so seconds. Again distracting - just for it's BADness.Perhaps the scriptwriters had been taking laxatives and it had effected their writing, some of the absolute worst dialogue can be found within this abomination of a movie. Enjoy PS - Avoid this lemon. "},{"Title":"oh the pain,the pain!","Date":"6 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" As a baby boomer,i remember the lost in space TV series.it was very enjoyable.there were 2 sci fi TV shows lost in space(zany and silly)and star trek(serious sci fi)but at the time i enjoyed the silly exploits of the Robinson family,and kept thinking Dr smith is such a screw-up why did they tolerate him so much,i think if i was in charge i would've marooned smith on one of those planets.oh well as for the movie,i enjoyed about 50%of it,the second half i lost interest.the cast is good,great idea casting Gary Oldman as smith.i enjoyed the cameos by the original cast members like Mark Goddard,Marta Kristen, June Lockhart,and Angela Cartwright.as for the Late great Jonathan Harris,and Bill Mumy they declined to appear.i think it would've been good if they did.but i thought lost in space the movie was just another tired retread of sci fi movies from the 80's.just overusing the cg effects.if you look at the star trek TV series and the movies afterwords they did those very well.but lost in space like many of the TV shows turned motion picture it loses momentum.no complaints about the good cast;John Hurt,Mimi Rogers,awesome beautiful sexy Heather Grahmen as Judy.the robot in the movie resembles a Tinkertoy gone bad. they did use John Mays voice(the original)i think if they originally used Bill Mumys screenplay it would've been better.I'm sorry i have to give lost in space 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Politically correct, unwatchable claptrap","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I liked the original Lost in Space series so I went to the movie hoping that they would at least give it a decent treatment - so to say I was disappointed is an understatement.Within a few minutes of the film's start you have Professor Robinson and Major West engaged in a pissing match causing Maureen Robinson to roll her eyes and to reprimand the little boys.From there the film gets progressively worse. You don't get any kind of good feeling about the family. The relationship between Robot and Will Robinson is never developed or credible.The dialog is so bad and the plot so poor that no actor could have shined through it - and none do.The original series, especially the first season, is actually very watchable science fiction and the Robinson's really seemed like a real family. A friend of mine makes a good case that one particular episode Follow the Leader might have provided the inspiration for George Lucas's Darth Vader and his relationship to his son Luke.Regardless, even if you are not familiar with the original television series, you will still find this to be a very bad film with no redeeming value. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you think...","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" OK so maybe it wasn't that good... but it was a spirited attempt with some lovely knowing winks back to the original TV series (the outer casing the Jupiter 2 launches in mimics the original ship, for example).The basic plot premise that sends out the Robinsons into space recalls the original pilot, as does the sabotage by Dr Smith (Gary Oldman doing his best - and fun - Jonathan Harris impression).Casting is a bit up and down. I can't warm to William Hurt and he does come across as quite unlovable. Maureen's character doesn't get much to do. Will and Penny are OK and at least Will doesn't come across as one of those modern-day child actors (never show me Star Wars I!!!).Don West is suitably photogenic and has obviously worked out for the role. Judy falls for him but I'm sure it's purely physical! Hey - who needs character development??? It all comes apart when they crash land on the planet and travel in time . I mean, why not let older Will travel back and stop it all happening? That would save the entire family and Dr Smith and stop them being lost all in one go. Ah well....I would have liked to have seen a sequel though. The effects were good and popping in ex-cast members in cameos was greatly appreciated - and the original voice of the robot! Much more could have been done with it in Lost In Space 2....DANGER, WILL ROBINSON! DANGER! "},{"Title":"hello I am super man","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" hello I am super man. you are super man, we are super man? boring actors, boring dull scenario, boring informations, boring concept. I really would like to give you more information about. But i can't. Simple I am bored watching the futuristic movies with humorists person in it? Futuristic movies with woman with American dream - life - living ?? Huh. Writer you should must be proud and smart to write something like this? How do you query your agent and producer? Hello American, I have wrote another shi, do you want to make a movie? Agent What is all about? Writer it is the funny thing. Agent Oh, bring it here. I already have dumb b producer for it.Sincerely, D "},{"Title":"Irwin Allen Would Of Been Proud","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Lost In Space The Movie gets better and better with repeat viewings on DVD. It captures and updates what the B&W series started out as and does it with total class. Those who hate the film are usually those who like the camped up colour episodes of the TV series, the film stays clear of the colour tone of original LIS. Good! Granted, the second half of the film turns into lost in time and talk of the Robinsons being killed sounds too grim for a film of this nature, but the early stages of the film (the pre-blast off, the blast off, the robot going out of control, the flying into the sun), are done with such Irwin Allen-style showmanship and gusto, well, to me at least, the film nailed it! The music, the editing, the direction, the acting, it all comes together in the above scenes.Penny Robinson is a pain, but all other characters and actors do a great job...it is one of the great Hollywood let downs that no more LIS films (like this one) will ever be made again. Since 1998, another LIS was made (an unaired TV pilot) but I heard it was terrible. As my user comment history reveals, I know a lot about Irwin Allen, and with that in mind let me say that Irwin Allen would of been proud of this film, but turning over in his grave at the TWO recent remakes of his Poseidon Adventure! Yes, with the LIS movie, modern Hollywood got it right for once, it it just too bad some others don't feel the same way. Then again, the film still gets re-runs on prime time Australian network TV, thank god for Australia! "},{"Title":"Seemingly Lost Forever","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" After six years it is apparent that no sequel is in sight for this remake, if you will, of a sci-fi show of the 60's beloved for its campiness, heart, and Dr. Smith. I love the old show and had modest expectations for this film. All in all I didn't think it was that bad. Sure, the story is incomprehensible in some parts. Some of the actors seem indifferent to what they are doing(Mimi Rogers in particular - but hey she sure is eye candy!). The special effects were over-the-top in some places. The new Robinson family was dysfuntional in that 90's way. But the film is entertaining and enjoyable. Gary Oldman plays a pretty neat Dr. Smith. Sure he is no Jonathan Harris - who is? The Robinson family do encounter some far more realistic(OK, I know) complications in this film. We don't see the same old planet episode after episode. The characters are more dimensional here too.I missed the humour though. Some of it was rather forced here. And Oldman, although giving a good performance, played Smith with a lot of subtlety. Perhaps too much. Flaws notwithstanding, this film is better than average and a good deal better than some would have one believe. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Beware of Spoilers.Lost In Space, rated PG-13.It's the year 2058, and a family is about to embark on a mission to colonize another planet, as Earth won't be able to support life in two more decades. After a series of disasters, beginning with sabotage, the family, pilot, and villain are stranded in an unknown area of the universe.The acting is very well done all around. The adults pull off their roles wonderfully, as do the two children. William Hurt plays a very convincing father who is a little too into his work, at the expense of neglecting his family, especially his son, Will. Gary Oldman plays the villain Dr. Smith well, he can really speak the complicated science talk. At first, I was a little uncertain about Matt LeBlanc playing the sarcastic, wise-cracking pilot, but he proves in the first two minutes of the film that he is indeed a talented actor who can convincingly portray other characters besides Joey.The special effects are most definitely worthy of praise as well. The computer graphics are very realistic. The space battles, the stars, the guns and especially the body armor are very cool to look at, and the CGI is played alongside normal effects beautifully. Parents may want to be wary of some constant profanity and crude speech, including 'D' and 'S' words, but that's about it. There are also space battles, with guns and explosions, and some weird aliens. There is a little romantic tension between the pilot and the oldest daughter, but it only amounts to a couple of kisses.All in all, this is a very exciting action and science-fiction movie, which many people are likely to really enjoy. "},{"Title":"Ok, a midworthy remake of an American icon","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Lost in Space is a basic introduction to the series made popular in the 60's. Featuring an unusual cast, the movie is a prequel of sorts, by showing us how the Robinson Family ended up `lost in space'. The storyline is strong and has a great layout but seems to have a lot of plot holes that science fiction fans might not appreciate. Remember, Science Fiction Fans need some base in reality to appreciate their films. That's why Star Trek became so popular &#150; people could believe the stories that were told in that series. Here, we find that the Robinsons ship is sabotaged by their robot, nearly burned up in the sun but not to worry, there is a simple fix &#150; to fly `through' the sun, and thus the `lost' part begins.I was disappointed to know that despite all the achievements in technology the film boasts (including little Will messing with the holographic of his school principle &#150; pay close attention to the cameo there)&#133;that a ship of that advanced design wouldn't have any idea where in space it is located. Apparently, the ships navigational systems are in initially destroyed by the onboard robot and then when brought back online, it is unable to find any star reference to obtain a location. So this means that the cast will spend the rest of their lives trying to figure out how to get back to earth? But wasn't that the reason they were leaving the planet in the first place?If it were me (or any NASA professional) I'd set the ship down on some safe planet and live out the rest of my life. Gas stations are difficult to find and since we know gas isn't cheap here on earth, imagine what it might costs millions of light years away.CGI is used in this movie but I didn't find that it detracted from the actors or the storyline. Overall, this an ok feature. Check it out and see for yourself.  "},{"Title":"Much better than the awful TV series","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Seeing this film at 10 years old I thought it was pretty good with special effects,Gary Oldman as a brilliant Dr Smith and just the general direction of the film. As I've got older I've seen the TV series on FX, and compared the two. For one thing I don't understand why critics gave awful reviews because,the TV series to me was ABSOLUTE RUBBISH! Over-the top acting and just weird episodes where they somehow are in the same place every time! This has to be one of the better remakes of a TV show; brilliant effects,story and good castingRATING 4/5 ****  "}{"Title":"Well... the Music is the best Part of it","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Imagine slices of 'Star Wars', 'Battlestar Galactica', 'Event Horizon' mixed with a story that captures good old-fashioned family values out of the perspective of, say, a 12-year-old This is what you get when watching 'Lost in Space'. I don't know the series, so I can only comment on the movie whose script seemingly tries to include all clichés that could probably be brought into context. Of course, with these type of films one shouldn't bother about everything that is unlogical &#150; there are simply too many aspects of that available. Nor should one watch it with the expectation to see anything new or unpredictable. Apart from Gary Oldman, who is given a good chance to portray what he portrays best &#150; the evil and yet interesting cynical villain &#150;, and who is even allowed to star in a double role, the actors seem uninterested and out of focus. Quo vadis, William Hurt? After a great time in the 80s, Hurt seems to need money &#150; lots of it, and quick. No scripts are turned downed, it seems, and be they as intolerable as this one (ok, I exclude 'Dark City' from that). No offense though &#150; if I were an actor, I wouldn't mind participating in here either, and if it only were for Heather Graham. Special effects weren't so bad either. Bad it's almost laughable to see how strongly the producers try to keep a door open for a sequel that will never be produced. But one thing deserves honorable mention Bruce Broughtons score is as brilliant as anything he ever wrote. "},{"Title":"laughable","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  OMG this movie was literally painful to watch. First of all Matt Le Blanc should have NEVER EVER EVER been casted. *shivers at the horrible memory* There were only a handful of good things about this movie...1) Gary Oldman. I love him lol he is such an incredible actor and was the only thing that made this movie bearable. 2) The special effects. 3) The special effects. and 4) THE SPECIAL EFFECTS. Everything else, as it were, was pure crap. I highly recommend you not see this movie. I give it * out of *****. "},{"Title":"The tv series","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  back in the 60's when I was a young lad, I grew up watching sci-fi. I loved the tv series Lost in Space and looked forward to watching it every week. I watched everything and anything that had to do with '(outer)space'. Once Star Trek hit the scene, my dad bought me my own tv and made another tv room just for me and space shows. Till this day I am a great fan of these shows. Some I gave up on, i.e., the short lived fox show about intergalactic trading which I cannot even remember the name. I know it's already out on DVD. I also gave LEXX a shot but gave up on that also. Anyway, the lost in space movie was not that bad, especially if you have a good home sound system! The sound alone was worth it! I do have the first season of the old Lost in Space tv series on DVD it certainly brings back memories This is the first time in over 30 years I am watching this again. It's actually quite funny! I just watched the last episode on disc one, and on an alien planet, when the quake hits he says, IT'S AN EARTHQUAKE! I thought, how could it be an EARTHQUAKE when they are NOT ON EARTH! And those parkas! Fur on the collars! Funny stuff!!! "},{"Title":"Decent special effects for a bland, immature Disney sci-fi movie","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When I sat down to watch this, I was expecting somewhat of a kid's movie. I just had no idea it was this bad. All of the humor, except maybe three lines, is incredibly immature, even more childish than the typical Disney humor. The plot is too complicated to understand for most kids, and too ridiculous to take seriously for adults. It also seemed too keen on preaching the more or less proved fact that sooner or later, Earth will not be inhabitable anymore. Most grown-up people know that, we don't need a bad sci-fi movie preaching it to us. The effects probably looked good back in 1998, but now they look horribly dated, which is a big problem since half of the film is the effects. The acting is horrible, the only person who conveyed a good performance was Gary Oldman, everyone else were wooden and unbelievable; the worst were the children, but the adult actors weren't a hell of a lot better. I wouldn't recommend this movie to anybody, as it's too hard to understand for kids, and too boring and predictable to adults. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The only reason to watch the movie is...","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The only reason to watch it is... Lacey Chabert! There are very many mistakes made in the movie, it's kinda weak... not poor at all, but not as good as it could be. To my mind Lacey Chabert was great in it... She's really great(!). "},{"Title":"The acting is...bad, the script is...corny, the action is...great!","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  How many people went to see this movie in theaters because they thought it would be a ground breaking, well-acted space drama?  Probably very, very few.  This sure isn't Star Wars or Lord of the Rings, but if you're ever looking for a fun sci-fi flick, here it is.The acting is terrible, on all accounts (even Oscar winner William Hurt) except for Gary Oldman, who delivers a performance that's mediocre at best as the sinister Dr. Smith.  The F/X are pretty campy and cartoonish as well, but for a 1998 movie it was done okay.Aside from the acting and F/X, and the occasionally corny lines of dialogue, this is a pretty good movie.  About the Robinson family (helmed by Hurt) who find themselves lost in space after Dr. Smith damages their ship.  They happen upon a deserted, spider-infested space ship and a strange planet where they learn to pass through time.  It's fun and adventurous.The only thing about Lost in Space that really annoyed me was Matt LeBlanc's role as Cpt. West.  He seems only there to make clever comments and woo the pre-teen girls in the audience.Aside from the annoying LeBlanc, fun movie, 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the TV series, but not bad.","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I did not think this was a bad movie. I had a decent plot and the creatures, all though  obviously computer generated at times, were very well designed. However, the movie starts to drag towards the end and it is over-acted. The original series, despite the cheesy special effects, was a little likeable and heart-warming. This is not a bad movie, although it as not as good as the original series. Overall, I recommend it to genre fans and sci-fi buffs. "},{"Title":"dreck","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  i will spare you a complete rehash of this film, but suffice to say it may be the first film ever that would be vastly improved with the removal of EVERY line of dialogue! amazingly, the screenwriter won an oscar merely 3 yrs later...the worst thing is that there could be an entertaining film made from this series...instead, we get this...dull, boring and lame, with nothing to recommend it despite the tremendous acting talent involved. any filmmaker squandering the brilliant william hurt AND gary oldman should be run out of the business...i would avoid this...if you turn down the volume, and thus avoid the horrible dialogue, it is ok as background visuals, but nothing would keep you drawn to this story. "},{"Title":"Could be made better.","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Well, to start with the good things.The special effects on this movie is great. No doubt about it. The plot is, if not a bit cliche, allright enough. But, a thing that drags the whole movie down, is Matt LeBlanc. He is horrifyingly overacting. Listen to his voice. He sounds like a Machoman Wannabe. If you think i have a problem against him. I dont. But compare him with Friends (Where he is great) His voice on LIS, is like the voice he uses when he tries to get a date.This makes the movie only an average movie. But, it is recommended for all fans of future movies "},{"Title":"A space mission sabotaged by bad sound editing","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Gone are the extra-terrestrial polystyrene sets, but the feel of the film remains true to the old black and white TV serial I used to watch on Sunday mornings all those years ago.Like then, I watched the film on the TV. Never great, it would have improved no end without the constant and continuous battle between the dialogue and the background music. For background read 'in-your-face'. Was this also a problem at the cinema? The cryogenic suits cracked me up. Futuristic Roman-centurion-style breast plates were mandatory with even the males offered a generous B cup. For the girls, cup sizes increased in strict age order from small but pert teenage delinquent to big momma. I gave this a generous 5 (for nostalgia's sake)  "}{"Title":"great effects but not much else","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Sci-fi odyssey is set in the distant future where the Earth's natural resources have neared the point of depletion. Determined to keep human life flourishing, a family agrees to travel across the galaxy and colonize the next habitable planet, but they're sabotaged by a scheming doctor (Oldman) and find themselves hurtling through uncharted space. Accompanied by a stubborn, virile war hero (LeBlanc), they try desperately to find a way back home. Has a good setup, and all the special effects that money can buy, but it overstays its welcome, suffers from one-note characters, and features capable actors who deliver uninspired performances. Another one of those sci-fi flicks that cares more about special effects than developing story or character. ** "},{"Title":"5 stars for penny!!!!","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Im not really into the star trek stuff ((Thats my uncles department hehe)). Also ive never watched the old lost in space either. One day i decided to watch it and it wasnt that bad, It was entertaining for the fact. However what made me like it the most was Penny she was awesome, I loved when she wore that tight rubber suit it made her look real sexy. She had a rad hair style,cute face,cute voice and Personality. If she wasnt on here i would of rated this movie 2 or 3 stars. But she gave it a perfect 5 for me!  "},{"Title":"As the dude from the Simpsons would say, Worst movie ever!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I'm very suprised that this movie is getting a 4.something vote currently on this site.  I assumed the general public was a little morecritical; it should be painfully to even the most hillbilly of movie-goers how bad this flick truly is.  There is absolutely no plot!None whatsoever... well, there is what some might call a plot, but it is never explained.  Why did the evil doctor want to kill thefamily (something about terrorists)?  What exactly is this crap they call science (inconsistent time bubbles generated by a portal thatonly has enough energy to let one person through, but yet transport an entire ship -- the whole basis for the second half of the movie).Not to mention flying through the center of a planet.  Also not to mention the incredibly bad acting and cliche lines.Maybe I should give it some credit... this terrible film did make me laugh (although that was not its intention).  Zero thumbs up!  "},{"Title":"Big Budget Bust","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Sorry` but this rates near the low end of the b-series it's based on. It had some nice moments (I like the fact that this Dr. Smith was more like Dr. Smith in the first 6 episodes). But, it felt forced, and really didn't capture the adventure of the original series. It was like a bad Trek time-travel story.If you feel the need and like the old series, you may want to catch this once. "},{"Title":"Funny, Funny Film","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is so bad that it's good.  It plays out as a satire in the vein of Frank Oz and Billy Crystal film parodies.   The difference is that Lost in Space isn't intentionally funny.  The dialogue is melodramatic, the characters are complete stereotypes (which saved the diector from having to do any exposition), and the acting is 'USA Network' bad.All this combined made for a hilarious way to spend 2 hours.  If only Congo could've been this funny. "},{"Title":"Boy, what a mess...","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Based on a well known television series, the story is interesting, which could have resulted in a pretty much decent SCI FI Film, if not great, the difference is that they messed up here. The plot is confusing, the characters aren't very well developed, and ridiculous and questionable quotes are brought in, being inevitably laughing... (`Hyperspace is located beneath normal space...' &#150; explains everything). As the blameful critic said before, the movie could have been great, the cast is great alright, but that's maybe all that can be said about it. Some scenes were well directed and chilling, but what makes it so annoying, is that those scenes were only two or three amongst failed thousands. The production design is no good, and the cinematography doesn't help things much, not even the special effects were good, which was something to be expected (by the way, since when is space around Earth, blue?). Although Lost in Space isn't totally bad, it should have been great, but it doesn't cease to be blameful. 4 out of 10 are fair enough...   "},{"Title":"Two greatest disapointments","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"     First of all, Greetings from New Orleans for Superbowl and Mardi Gras.   I think two of my greatest disappointments in Science fiction video viewing were 1) when the original tv series degenerated from science fiction/adventure to silly comedy. and 2) When the much awaited movie version turned out to be not even a pale imitation. Characterizations and plot terrible. Use of alien insects already an overworked cliche. Comuter generated monkey fakey and silly.    A great improvement would have been casting Mark Goddard and Marta Kristen as the parents.     The movie really should have stuck more to the original spirit and theme. They also should have used the oiginal theme music. In fact all movie versions of TV series should use the original theme music. If viewers are not expecting and wanting the spirit of the original show, why would they be watching these movies. "},{"Title":"Two greatest disapointments","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  First of all, Greetings from New Orleans for Superbowl and Mardi Gras. I think two of my greatist disapointments in Science fiction video viewing were 1) when the original tv series degenerated from science fiction/adventure to silly comedy. and 2) When the much awaited movie version turned out to be not even a pale immitation. Characterizations and plot terrible. Use of alien insects already an overworked cliche. Comuter generated monkey fakey and silly. A great improvement would have been casting Mark Goddard and MArta Kristen as the parents. The movie really should have stuck more to the original spirit and theme. They also should have used the oiginal theme music. In fact all movie versions of TV series should use the original theme music. If viewers are not expecting and wanting the spirit of the original show, why would they be watching these movies. "},{"Title":"A story of a spaceship going to somewhere to save the Earth","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film is good technically with plenty of sophisticated scenes and different effects, but its plot is nothing. Compare this film with Flash Gordon's one (1936)you will see that Lost in Space is just a waste. Hurt is one the best actors in Hollywood at present, but here he is not the usual one.    "},{"Title":"Kind of cheesy, but still neat...","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie was high on my list about three years ago. Since then I have seen it a number of times (three, I think) and it is definitely a movie worth checking out. It has its low spots and its downturns, but otherwise it is a neat movie. However, Matt LeBlanc may have been the real main character, but in terms of acting skill, The rest of the cast outweighed him, even the kids. Their characters have more personality, while LeBlanc (West) is all attitude. A neat movie, and a wicked take on the old theme. "}{"Title":"An Insult to the paying public","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"       This Film ought to be the final nail in the coffin of the recent attempt to update long lost TV shows into movies. I know it won't be, because producers are lazy like that .          The film contains absolutely none of the humor or color of the TV show and for that reason I found it baffling why they should chose to update the show with all the best parts taken out.          The Plot makes no sense at all towards the end and the special effects aren't half as good as the makers think they are. The computer generated green alien thing , for example , looked exactly like , a computer generated green alien thing . Puff the magic dragon was more convincing. "},{"Title":"Bad SF movie, good movie about a father and son","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I won't repeat the negative comments made by other reviewers. I agree with most of them. As a science fiction movie, it's mediocre at best; you can drive a planet through the plot holes and bad science.But as a movie about a workaholic father finally connecting with his son, it's really good! Some might think it's melodramatic or sappy, but as a father with two young sons, it touched me to the core. "},{"Title":"One of the (if not the) worse movie ever...","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" ...luckily i didn't pay a penny in order to see it. Awful, awful, awful. Exagerated eye-candy special effects can't save this movie. The director should hide himself in some monastery after making this. If he was next to me after i saw the movie, which gave me a terrible headache from the nerves, I would have strangled the guy. What annoyed me the worse is that it could have been made a good movie from that story. The last third of the movie is absolute rubbish, nothing makes sense anymore, the actors act like they have no idea about the script and there's someone on the set telling them their lines while they're 'acting'. I expected an average SF movie, maybe average-to-nice movie, due to William Hurt and Gary Oldman in the cast. All I've got is probably the worse SF movie yet, even worse than Battlefield Earth (I never thought that to be possible), and one of the worse movies ever seen.Absolutely, positively NOT recommended. Better take a nap.  "},{"Title":"not soooo bad.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  when this film came out in theatres, i went the opening night and thought that it was a real stinker.  i still don't think it is a great flic, but i've seen it a few times on cable and find it passable mind-candy, as long as you don't think too hard about the gigantic holes in the plot or what this movie could have been with a better writer/director.  the design work is above average and there are some rather ingenious set designs.  would i rent it?  nope.  if it came on t.v., would i watch it?  i might. "},{"Title":"Where's the sequel?","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Where to start?  Let's start with the only negative,  the movie tried to please too many people.  As a result, the movie suffers from an identity crisis. The adults who watched the original series are too old to relate this film, including my parents.  The movie is too intense in some scenes for small children.Young adults showed little interest in the movie, and if by chance they had seen the original series, there was even less chance of them  spending money at the box office.  The biggest group who watched Lost in space at the theater were the same group who watched the original series as small children. Too bad so many people have missed this exiting and entertaining movie.  My first thought when the movie was over was When's the sequel?  Unlikely, now.A great cast is difficult to reassemble.  There was great chemistry between any number of characters.  The dialogue was fun throughout the entire movie.The plot was okay, but it didn't matter because everything else was done right to make this movie extremely entertaining! "},{"Title":"Remake Doesn't Quite Shake the B-movie Feel","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  For those born in the age of Star Trek and Star Wars, the novelty of Lost In Space TV series falls in the same category of most sci-fi B-movies of the 50's and 60's.  Unfortunately, the movie remake doesn't seem to shake these cobwebs off it's tail, despite the eye-popping special effects.I'm always suspicious of the remake syndrome that surfaces every year in Hollywood.  It's appealing to the producers and investors because it's easier to predict the outcome than what comes from some hack with a script and an unproven storyline.  This was a noble effort, but it's no blockbuster.Shining stars?  There's Gary Oldman, whose Zachary Smith is just as sinister and pretentious as the original, and William Hurt, whose father-commander character is ridden with tension but doesn't lapse into the brooding that was characteristic of his other notable film, The Doctor.  The others make an effort, but they don't quite pull it off.  It feels like a day at the office.If you are absolutely desparate for a movie, this would be a nominal dollar rental but not worth buying in any frame of mind.   "},{"Title":"Mixed feelings, but a nice homage","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I finally got around to watching the dvd version.  It is pretty good, but different in tone and spirit from the series.  The cast is weak.  The only dramatic improvement is Heather Graham as Judy.Mimi Rogers glides through the movie on autopilot except for a single out-of-character scene in which she becomes Big Mama.  June Lockhart did a marvelous job in the original without any phony feminist posturing.  This kind of updating backfires.William Hurt tries to evolve from zero to hero, but throughout is introverted, petty and passive-aggressive.  He is conflicted.  Hey, Hurt, get over it already and stop moping and bitching!  This just shows what a magnificent job Guy Madison did in a difficult role, easily balancing family man and adventurer.Gary Oldman is competent, but is NOT funny and does not make a major impact at all.  Major miscalculation.  He is too restrained and, for most of the movie, just a dweebish pest who enjoys telling others how evil he is. Then, 7/8 through, he suddenly becomes a man of action (for no apparent reason) and then - at the very end - becomes a buffoon.  Inconsistent, uneven, erratic.  Mostly the script's fault, but this shows what a fab job Jonathan Harris did.  Oldman comes off like a kid with ADD who occasionally forgets his prozac.Lacey Chabert is tarted up way too much.  Disturbing.  Still, she adds badly needed character energy.  Jack Johnson is good, but Bill Mumy is the gold standard for this character.  Kind of bland.  Cursing was jarring and disturbing.  Nice job, but Mumy is a hard act to follow.  Heather Graham - nice.  She takes a nothing role and injects some life.  Marta Kristen was just as pretty, but Heather can act, too.The robot, well, nicely done and the voice is the same.  The original is a sci-fi classic and would have held up, pretty much unchanged, in this version.  But that would have been too much to ask, times change, and so do futuristic robots.  The Bloop character is a major mistake.  I saw it, and thought, Kid flic!  It reminded me of the cute alien/robot in stuff like Battlestar Galactica and Buck Rogers.  The original Bloop, a monkey with prosthetics, was better than this cartoon.The plot is straight from the classic tv pilot.  They padded it, and not always in a good way.  For instance, they jump to a random spot in the whole universe and just happen to wind up next to a (failed) rescue ship?  I think not, and led to useless distractions (just make it an alien ship).  Diving through the planet - why not just go to hyperdrive then?  Oh, I guess you'd miss a good fx sequence.  Some enhancements were appreciated, though, such as the good explanation (finally!) about Dr. Smith and his background. Nice soundtrack.  Fx were average and a bit too dark.One final observation about Jonathan Harris.  Here, the Dr. Smith character is not evil in an over-the-top gangster way, as in the original pilot, or in a campy way, as later in the series.  He is just grim.  Major mistake. Dr. Smith as nothing but primal homewrecker, infidel who shatters the Robinsons' sweet domesticity, does not work.  Nobody else provides humor, and someone needs to inject that human element into what otherwise becomes a geekfest. It has to be him.  Dr. Smith as unadulterated blackguard is too much.  I can understand why Mr. Harris passed on a cameo appearance. "},{"Title":"some bad things, some good things","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  just your average wannabee blockbuster. The story has some flaws, just like every regular family movie. For me personal the high-lights were Heather Graham and Lacy Chabert in there latex suits, and an pretty good soundtrack.a narrow 6 "},{"Title":"Spare Me This Poisonous Parasite, You Bubble-Headed Boobies!","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  0  out of  ****As a diehard fan of the old TV series, how do I begin? If there is one thing you need in a LOST IN SPACE movie, it's for the family to hang together and love one another (yeah, I know that's over with today, but try it and you might like it). Here we had a dysfunctional family of the nineties which only confirms that we're sinking fast...REAL fast.What a real classless crew we've got here Major West wants to get into Judy's pants; Penny is a spoiled brat with an attitude; and young Will Robinson recites lovely dialogue like Oh, s**t!Gary Oldman showed potential as Dr. Smith, but he has no script to work with. The new robot has all the personality of a dead battery, and even cameo appearances by original TV cast members can't save this confusing and pointless mass of digital effects overkill.Dark, grim, and sad, this LOST IN SPACE totally misses the point of the original series and what made it so popular. When Penny whines this mission sucks! I can only agree with her. Oh, the pain...the pain... "},{"Title":"It was a great movie!","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I loved it! Everything was awesome! The special effects, the acting, the black wardrobe, (much better than the silver ensembles from the original Lost In Space), and the plot. The plot had a few holes in it, but the ending left me begging for Lost In Space 2. My favorite was Matt LeBlanc as the sarcastic dashing pilot, Don West. I also liked Lacy Chabert as Penny Robinson.    "}{"Title":"Interesting Science Fiction","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film is not bad as most critics said. the plot is interesting, but kind of messy and sometimes stupid. The acting is okay and the special effects is amazing from spacecraft to aliens. There is some annoyance (mostly kids). Overall the film is a good entertainment and not boring. "},{"Title":"A cohesive plot is necessary in any film.  ANY FILM.","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I am the ambiguous owner of a DVD copy of Lost in Space.Something I realized as I watched the film a couple times was that the holes in the plot were less than deliberate.  The DVD version has some unseen footage, where Penny and the girls enter the time bubble and discover a much older Blaarp (that chromakey monkey thing).  It makes you wonder if the film was rushed into the theaters, before obvious plot holes could be fixed.  Another incongruity in the film is when the Proteus materializes near the strange planet.  The crew doesn't mention that as they enter the range of the Proteus they enter a time distortion.  When Professor Robinson chastises Will Robinson about the natural vs. artificial causes of the time bubble Will seems to overreact a bit too much, leading to the older Will being very obsessive about this time machine contraption in the destructed alternative future Jupiter 2.  This seems to be the point in the film where the writers said if we don't do something blatant the film will go on for 4 hours.  I did enjoy the film, however, when I realized that this brand of science fiction is for pure visual enjoyment, not serious analyzing.  If there ever is a sequel, however, you might have a hard time convincing Gary Oldman and the rest to do it, for each of them (penny and will excluded) were too serious for the roles they played.  Overall, this film was great eye candy and much better than the TV series.   "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a cool movie. The special effects in this movie are just awesome. The plot was pretty good. The acting was good. This movie had plenty of action, and adventure. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes the original series, and likes a good family film. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Not a bad film,but not excellent. The special effects were very good.Although i enjoyed the film (6/10),it is not good enough to buy on video. I missed the cameo's by some of the tv series actors. Looking on the list of actors in the old tv series i often wondered what happened to will robinson - i did not realise that it was the same Bill Mumy who stars in Babylon 5.. Oh i almost forgot, Heather Graham she is better as miss Shagwell in Austin Powers the spy who Shagged me. "},{"Title":"Loved it since day 1..... now I KNOW why!!!","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When I first saw this movie I thought it was great! I didn't really know why at the time but in the 18 months since first viewing I worked it out. This movie took the best action pieces of other sci fi / action movies and blended them into this one. A few examples will support my case.WARNING BIG SPOILERS AHEAD!Opening fighter scene with WEST risking expensive fighter to save friend (Top Gun scene)Jupiter one launch (Homage to original ship design from 60's Lost in Space series)New look Jupiter 2 - complete with hyperdrive! (Looks and moves like CGI 90's style version of Millenium Falcon.Huge very mechanical looking Robot (I'd say check out Saturn 3 for original concept of what constitutes menacing in robot design!)Space spiders (the whole proteous spider battle scene had an Aliens feel to it abeit without the claustrophobic feel of that film)The crash landing of the Jupiter 2 onto the planet (Generations and the saucer section come to mind)The old Meet an older version of yourself trick of Will Robinson's (Back to the Future).Dr Smith turning into evil spider-smith (Edgar at the end of Men in Black turning into super cockroach)and lastlyThe time-travel jump backwards of a few minutes that allows the Robinsons to MISS the planet chunk at the end of the film (Superman's anti-time Earth spin trick that didn't allow the quake to swallow Lois' car)You see I loved every one of the movies that these scenes came from, to have them all in one movie (abeit in modified form) was like cinema heaven. I own this one on video now. Can't get enough of it!!!  "},{"Title":"As cheesy as the series, and I wouldn't have it any other way","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As I sit here and read the beautiful comments of others, I seem to be noticing various recurring phrases bad script, overdone special effects, predictable lines, boring plot, etc., etc.  Why not just condense it all down into one word cheesy.  And that's exactly what Lost in Space is.  I don't know about you, but that's what I expected--a cheesy movie based on a cheesy 60s sci-fi cult classic.I have seen the original series on occasion, and was not disappointed at all with the movie based off of it.  The series was stuffed full with silly comedy, weird costumes, monsters that look like costumed characters at Disney World, shallow dialogue, and rather flat characters.  Each episode followed a predictable plot, and if you watch enough of them, you find a pattern  Robinson Family is shipwrecked on a barren, desert-like planet, Jupiter 2 needs more fuel to take off, pilot and professor go out in search of fuel source while women, Will, a restless Dr. Smith, and the giant monotone robot are left behind to twiddle their thumbs and wait.  For his own personal reasons, Smith manages to con Will to sneak out and explore the planet, with the robot in tow.  Chances are they will meet up with some horrible villain in Disney costumes who will try to imprison, kill, or destroy the boy, the machine, and the hysterical doctor.  Of course, just as the bad guy is about to push the red button, the heroic pilot and professor jump in to save the day.Hmmmm...... doesn't that sound awefully familiar??????Overall, Lost in Space (the movie) truly lives up to its television counterpart, only this time the characters and special effects (which are outstanding, I must add) have been developed and built upon.  In the series, the professor and pilot acted like reflections of one another, and the same is true for the women.  Stephen Hopkins improves greatly on the original characters, giving them individual personalities and conflicts with each other.  The special effects used are a definate improvement over the Disney World costumes of the original, and the sets are imaginative and believable. In fact, I would say the movie needed the cheesy plot and script in order to keep some of the aura of the original series.Lost in Space is an entertaining, high-paced sci-fi adventure that showcases some of the best work in digital special effects and set building to date. The plot and acting offer audiences some good, old-fashioned, cheesy sci-fi entertainment so prominent in the late 60s/early 70s that has been lost under the darker, more serious, more elaborate science fiction that is all too common today (i.e. Alien, Star Wars, Event Horizon).  Sometimes you just want to be entertained without trying to get the deeper meaning of a complicated script, and Lost in Space is one movie that will do it.8/10 star rating. "},{"Title":"A Plausible Effort","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"   O.k, so despite the awful ending, and equally bad start, Lost In Space offers a treat for almost everyone, as long as the audience doesn't take it too seriously. Gary Oldman, Matt Le Blanc, William Hurt, Jake Johnson, Lacey Chabert, Heather Grahem and Mimi Rogers star. Oldman puts up a worthy performance(although it is not his best), Rogers, Grahem, Chabert, Johnson and Hurt are believable, but the most credit should go to Le Blanc. His performance is both masculine and slightly humerous(much like Joey in Friends). On a whole, Lost In Space is an easy film to like. The story lacks originality, and creativity, but still offers a fun ride for an open minded audience. Rating=3/5  "},{"Title":"good easy fun","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I agree with the other reviewers ... just be prepared to sit back and enjoy the action and effects, and don't get yer shorts in a knot over the script, it's serviceable.  You will want to turn it off where the pilot is trying to score the babe with all his high school tricks, but shake it off and wait for him to go away.  If you liked most of the Star Trek movies you'll like this one.  It's a bit of a step up from Deep Impact.  -Bob  "},{"Title":"fun","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  i liked this movie, decent acting, fantastic effects..and a great plot, don't pick and prod this, watch it with a kid...they know the fun movies. yes movies..you watch and it's over, so grab some popcorn and just sit back and watch. gary oldman is sooooo sneaky and evil too "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I thought the movie was great.  The cast was excellent, the special effects exciting, and the story fun.  I would recommend it to anyone who wants to sit back and see some space science fiction.  Just don't prejudge it! I did think that they should have developed the character Penny Robinson a little more.  I recently read the cast has signed for two more sequels!! Can't wait!! "}{"Title":"I love your masculine auburn hair ...","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I saw this movie the same year it was released 1998. I was amused by the graphics, the beauty actor Matt Le Blanc, not an airhead, and his friends Robots. Donna Haraway has an article entitled -A Manifest for Cyborgs- in which she explains the techniques of cyborg machines They are robotic correctors who work on texts. Roland Barthes, the French theoric, wrote a book entitled -The Pleasure of the Text-, a masterpiece. His other books, the other books he wrote, are, among others -Roland Barthes by Roland Barthes-, et cetera. My professor from the University of Michigan, Ross Chambers, is the mastermind, or popularly addressed as -HITLER'S HEAD- mostly because of his -Doctor-'s thesis published as a book with the title -LA COM'EDIE AU CH^ATEAU- a study on 19th Century French Realist fiction, including Honor'e de Balzac, Gustave Flaubert, 'Emile Zola, Charles Baudelaire, Pascal He is not in this movie, but his axis of realism, or perception, are present including in History I recommend Theresa Brennan's -HISTORY AFTER LACAN-, an account of post-modern theories, Neo-Maoist, Anti-Marxist (because it does not believe in techn'e, the Greek term, and it is, at the same time, a reader of J. Derrida and J. Lacan). -HISTORY AFTER LACAN- is an anti-foundational, as Hisotry always is, account of the mirror of this film Into the future, yet always present. I loved it and much as I loved the actors, Matt Le Blanc et al. Where is the sex of the author? According to Michel Foucault, it is in the reader According to Roland Barthes, it is in the death of the author at the hands of the filigram of sense. You will find the sex of this author, Matt Le Blanc, in this wonderful movie of magic and realism. An excellent tour de force for an acclaimed group of established actors, from the I. B. M. with red auburn love. "},{"Title":"I'd rather watch a 5 mile slug race...","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Awful is to kind. I can't believe money was spent making this trash...all I wanted to do was puke, and puke again. I am one of those people who is desperate for SiFi, and sometimes I'll watch anything to get a fix, however this move was not only bad, but pure crap. And to think the actors were among my favorites too, I really feel sorry for them, and the scrip writer should be exiled to an island in the South Pacific where he will never be able to do any damage again. Sorry guys, but bad is bad. I can't believe I have to enter one thousand words to explain why some one shouldn't bother watching this piece of crap-crap, waste. I can't say enough about the poor everything that's wrong with this movie. "},{"Title":"I remember the original","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember the Lost in Space episodes from the 60s. I think it was the simplicity of it that makes it a fond memory. I was put off immediately by the excessive noise of this attempt to recreate that magic. Just because you have the ability to throw a bunch of FX into the mix, doesn't mean you should.OK, nostalgia aside, I just turned into this to see if Joey (Matt LeBlanc) gets the girl. It wasn't enough to keep my interest. I kept nodding off!This film has to go down as one of the biggest flops of all time and the salvation is that there will not be a Lost in Space II. "},{"Title":"hide the map!","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The family film genre is a pretty dreadful thing. As a parent I can understand why you would want some family-affirming material for your brood to view, but I'm also deeply suspect at, if and when, the parent selecting the movies can recognize when the saccharine, facile ideas in family movies are actually retarding your kids (and your own) development. If your family, by projection, is virtuous and united, you can't be much else. Virtuous and united aren't especially compelling visual or narrative qualities. Their value is propagandistic. And so the underscoring of the family's virtue & unity squeezes most other qualities (art, ideas, intelligence) offscreen; a tedious endeavor.This movie had an amazing low-key, high-tech, soft-sell of a preview which you can still see on Youtube; It starts in complete ambiguity. A computer alone scans a 3-D database of known planets, and established that something is Lost, at which point the whole preview becomes conventional with a rush of effects and celebrity moments. The preview was compelling to the exact degree that the cast wasn't shown. Audiences didn't exactly burst into cheers and applause when it ended, but you could feel the preview had heightened the excitement of the room, ending as it did with the classic Danger Will Robinson voice-over. What was pleasing and subtle in the preview is not to be found in the movie.Of the hundreds of mind-numbing ideas in this movie, the two I'll comment on are- Penny & the Blawmp. I commiserate with the state of adolescent females; squeezed as they are out of the marketplace to make way for endless dumb adolescent boy features. But every irritating Penny Robinson, with irritating on-helium-voices (the excruciating Lacey Chabot), who has befriended lame CGI Blawmps, insures that it will be five or more years before an adolescent girl appears on film again. There's Annie, there's Spirited Away and there's this; some crap lineage. Lacey turns this movie into Blossom in Space with the same sanctimonious, self-impressed, needy, unbearable overacting.- The family carapace. The carapace armor follows a body-conscious trend in sci-fi movies that makes it either useful or expressive that the human body should also appear to be automated, or componentialized. But training as it does one's attention on atomized body parts probably isn't appropriate here. Mimi Rogers' steely blue hemispherical boobs should have received their own credit. I imagine there's a reason women don't just stick two chrome hubcaps on their breasts. Following the trend developed in Batman, where the profoundly nonathletic Michael Keaton was rendered firm by a bunch of foam rubber muscles, the entire pasty and unfit Robinson family (William Hurt) has their warrior nature expressed for them in applied musculatures. If the movie had featured a family dog with the foam rubber physique of Steve Reeves, the point would only be a little clarified, about the absurdity of these outfits. They're too sexy for this film or too ridiculous. By the way, boobs aren't muscles... so maybe a different treatment?Cross-pollinating these two heinous ideas produces an anatomically suggestive, metallic bustier on a 14 year old girl, which gets my vote for the most distasteful idea ever to appear on film.After disappearing up his own anus & connecting with no one for twenty years William Hurt is reduced here to playing another constipated dad. He barely registers. I suppose even appearing in this film is an admission of defeat. Gary Oldman carves out another place for himself in this movie as the most ridiculous human being ever to appear on film. I'll pretend I have no negative thoughts on Heather Graham.I have heard Akiva is again to blame for this script. The guy is a no-talent. "},{"Title":"Danger! Danger! -- Dr. Smith!","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This film is deadly.The special effects and production values are the only reason it rates a two. It has a big budget, some big names, no story, horrible miscasting, and the director must have taken a vacation during production.More than anything else, it comes to mind whenever someone asks, why do great actors agree to appear in awful films? I guess William Hurt and Gary Oldman needed the money. Even Mimi Rogers could do better. Matt LeBlanc... well, he will always be Joey to me. He probably could not do better.Maybe he was the only one who was cast right. The film was probably intended to be a spoof of the original. Except the original was kind of a spoof of classic science fiction. A spoof of a spoof? But then the dysfunctional family stuff is clearly trying to be serious, as are the deadly spiders.Whatever. This film did not work at any level. At least the TV series was good for laughs. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Future turkey classic","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" There are movies that get a bad reception but turn out to be pretty good, or at least original, when actually viewed. Waterworld is one such item. Could Lost in space be another? No. It's a disaster. Man, it was worse than I expected it to be. Here's why 1. Incredibly bad script with holes so big you could lead a 30-feet Ed Wood robot through it. Especially the last 20 minutes were an unbelievable mess. I can't recall seeing such an abundance of logical errors, contradicting developments, and inexplicable behavior by the main characters since Plan 9 2. Terrible casting. The choices are either too obvious (Gary Oldman, the annoying brat from Party of 5), misguided (William Hurt, Matt Leblanc) or bizarre (Mimi Rogers). Heather Graham might have worked, but spends the movie like on a Valium OD. The only thing that worked was the little kid.3. Terrible acting. You get a feeling after only 5 minutes that this is one of those movies where the director hasn't decided if it's supposed to be ironic or serious. The actors automatically throw in the towel and walk around in a sleepwalking daze... William Hurt and Heather Graham in particular. Mimi Rogers is just embarrassing, as is Joey from Friends who tries HARD in his first (last?) major movie part, and contorts his face into various cool/annoyed/dedicated/sly/horny/etc disguises, hoping one of them will be appropriate for the scene. I felt sorry for the guy.4. The annoying brat from Party of 5 is given a Generation Y (or Z) part which is supposed to close the generation gap between little girls who'll want to see this movie, and their parents who remember the LIS TV series and think it might be fun. Clever, yes? No. It stinks. After she pops up for the 8th time to rattle off some cool as-if phrases into the camera you just want to scream. Not to mention that the little Gen Z girls may not exactly enjoy seeing a Spider God being eaten by its own baby spiders.5. Here are a few questions to the director and the people who approved the script - The older Will in the cave has built a time machine through which he can go back and put an end to the Jupiter 2 mission before it starts. Fair enough. But instead, he puts his father in the machine, and sends him onto the ship in terrible peril, thus negating the premise of his whole work. Why? Why? WHY? - Dr Smith has apparently turned into a spider god at the end. His goal is to jump into the time/space machine and take over Earth. The older Will kills him off by... throwing him into the time/space machine. Why? Why? WHY? - As the Robinsons make it back to the ship from the bubble they make sure to take the super-evil Dr Smith with them, rescuing him from a certain death. Aargh! Why? Why? WHY? 6. 15 years from now, when all the actors and the hype and backlash are forgotten, this movie will be viewed as a major turkey classic. People will scratch their heads and ask HOW DID THIS HAPPEN? Beats me. It was sort of entertaining to watch, and some effects were neat. "},{"Title":"4.6 is too low","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" When I see Lisztomania with a higher rating then something has gone terribly wrong.The film didn't do for Lost In Space what Mission Impossible did for that sure I grant you, but this movie is well worth watching.I think Science Fiction is gender specific. Men like it much more than women, therefore Sci Fi movies will have a hard time getting an accurate rating from sites like this.I have trouble with the casting in this film. The screen writing also lacked. But the special effects were good. The politically correct storyline had a nice trajectory (btw, the Ozone layer which was predicted to be gone by now has heeled itself). Overall this is a popcorn film that family audiences can enjoy as much as teens on a date.The Robinson family are explorers and good Samaritans. Their noble quest is to save the earth by helping to build a portal to Alpha Prime. Shortly after lift off they become lost and the fun begins.People always have trouble with Time travel angles in these films and this is no exception. But Sci-Fi films require active suspension of disbelief. If you go to this or any Sci-Fi film looking for a plot without holes you will be disappointed. The audience has to fill in the holes and if you have a cynical or doubting-Thomas personality you will not like filling in the holes. Preferring that everything be laid out for you and not requiring the active participation of your own imagination.Here's my rating scale A = 10/9 B= 8/7 C= 6/5 D = 4/3/2 F = 1/0I give this film a 7. "},{"Title":"Lost in Space Lost its Charm","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The few stars I'll give this muddle is for the clever plot twist of having Will save the day again---only this time, not as a little boy, but as an embittered adult. That's about the only merit to this film, along with bringing back the original robot's voice from the old series. Other than that, Hollywood ruined it. The original Irwin Allen production had so much good in it. The cast was professional, from Guy Williams as the father to Billy Mumy as the precocious but likable Will. The parents loved each other; the kids were important to their parents and each other, not to mention a far more mature-acting Major Don West; Zachary Smith, at first an evil genius capable of reprogramming the robot to obey only him, is then a perpetual self-serving whiner who was the only dysfunctional one in the group. The effects were cheesy and the writing sometimes not the greatest, but as a family show, it had charm. The characters were capable of drawing the viewers into caring about them. Sadly, the charm was drained right out of this movie to make it more contemporary. Like its distant cousin Star Trek, Lost in Space would've transferred so much better from small screen to big if its creators had remembered a simple rule If it ain't broke, don't fix it. Both shows had existing fan bases waiting for the movie versions. Of course, it's unrealistic to expect absolutely no change whatsoever, but to alter the basic premise so drastically was to invite disaster. If alienating the fan base, the cast and crew should try to produce something seriously entertaining. This failed miserably. Special effects were okay; music was adequate; the story could have been better, though it didn't absolutely tank. The biggest problem was the cast. William Hurt lacked depth and projected no real sincerity as the father; Mimi Rodgers was annoying as the mother. Judy was portrayed as terrified of getting intimate with a man. Don was too young, not in years but in maturity; the original Don was impetuous but also knew how to take orders and wasn't such a cocky hotshot. The kid playing Will did all right and had a mischievous streak that actually was occasionally funny. Oldman, handed the thankless task of playing the role immortalized by the great Jonathan Harris, pulled it off enough to make Smith over into a purer embodiment of evil. The biggest mistake was how Penny was portrayed; she was utterly ruined, a spoiled self-centered brat that evoked no sympathy whatsoever until the movie was practically finished. It's a shame. As one reviewer noted, it would've been a real coup if they'd cast Bill Mumy as the adult Will. And why couldn't the powers-that-be come up with a role for Harris, when they were able to for Lockhart, Kristen, Cartwright and Goddard? This could've been a good story about a family's misadventures in space travel. Instead, it became a ponderous mess about a typical Hollywood concept of the American-family-as-totally-dysfunctional-disaster. That's what turned this into a disaster. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably Terrible","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is absolute rubbish, simple as that. Everything about it stank like a lockeroom full of fresh horse-dump. Crap, crap, crap, crap, crap.I simply could not believe how bad this movie was. It was almost as though it was designed intentionally to be as crap as possible, like it was one big joke. It was pathetic, boring, childish, messy, embarrassing and most of all, utterly crap.The acting reeked, the script reeked, the direction reeked, everything about it reeked big time. It's one of the worst movies I've ever seen, and I've seen some shockers.Don't watch this movie, please, save yourself. It is soooo crap. "},{"Title":"LOST IN SPACE  Should Have Never Taken Itself Seriously...","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" LOST IN SPACE This film adaptation of the classic television series has been sitting on my shelf of owned-but-never-watched movies for a long time... and out of desperation and boredom the other night I decided to give it a try. Most remembered by me as the film that took TITANIC off it's box office throne, I was curious to see what it was about that film that managed to draw in such talented performers as William Hurt and Gary Oldman. After seeing the film, I know the answer... a paycheck.This tells the story of the Robinsons, a family about to go out on the most far reaching space expedition ever in order to find another liveable planet for earth's citizens. The reason for doing so is that Earth's supplies are running out and their is an evil alien race looking to destroy earth. However, on the night before the family sets off on their mission, an evil ally of the alien race, Dr. Smith (played by Gary Oldman) sneaks on board and sabotages the mission.After the spaceship is destroyed and all plans are ruined... we find that Dr. Smith has been trapped on board as well. Now, the family is LOST IN SPACE without any contact with Earth or any idea of what Galaxy they have found themselves in.Honestly, the film starts out somewhat promising. For the first few sequences leading up to the actual take off of the space craft, the film embraces it's cheesiness. As the family is preparing for their voyage, the film has a sense of humor that makes the cheesiness seem like it's on purpose, in a camp style. But then, after the take off, and as their adventures in space become more intenst the cheesiness loses it's style... and it no longer comes across as a director's choice. The cheese becomes an unavoidable element of the movie.Little by little the film tries to incorporate more and more special effects and thrills... but as it does it steps further and further into bad movie territory. Instead of coloring the action sequences with a campy style that could have really improved the film, the director and cast seems to be oblivious to how hambone this all is. Gary Oldman, who can often bring a colorful and eccentric performance to lesser films is just boring here... William Hurt brings nothing to the table... Mimi Rogers flat out sucks... Matt LeBlanc is stiff as a board... and none of the Robinson children can boast anything more than juvenile performances.In the end, the plot becomes more confusing then is worth wasting your time to figure out. Genuine affection for the characters is never created by the filmmaker, nor is a moment of genuine thrills and tension. Honestly, the first half hour or so is much better then the rest of the film b/c of it's campy lighthearted style... unfortunately this film seemed to think it had a right to take itself seriously for it's final 2/3. And unfortunately, it didn't have that right.... D+ ... "}{"Title":"Incredible, Totally Cool!","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I can only detract 1 star from this awesome film, having been a fan since the original show(and owning all the 60's toys from kid-hood). That isThe subplot about Smith as bug(this is a spoiler, Sorry!) I was an assistant to Irwin Allen for 1yr before he died, and I have to say if he could have seen Gary Oldham play Smith, he would have cheered for joy! The first few black and white episodes of the first season, show Johnathan Harris as a cool, evil, totally phony acting villain--he has con jobbed the family into thinking he is an innocent victim, and a nice guy. Oldham does this perfectly-channeling the spirit of Harris as Smith, Spot on accurate Oldham makes this film what it is--true LIS updated for a hipper, more psychologically adept audience. I Love the family dynamic--even Major West is included as a sort of grudgingly accepted necessary evil Because he's the only guy Judy is ever going to have as her mate(whether she likes him or not!) Also, the incredibly prescient scripting Goldsman does-- he creates the family as a real family--one that feels, thinks, fights amongst themselves, and has real psychological concerns-- to wit Penny's voice/video journal, where she tells what she'll miss not being a kid on earthKissing,Movies, Malls,Kissing,Boys, Kissing--she too knows, once they are officially cut off, that she's doomed sexually and emotionally wise--there ain't no one for her! Oldham's Smith is a devious but strangely sympathetic tortured soul, too---he is evil, but he is evil only because he is greedy! He was in the pay of the enemy and this is what got him in trouble! He tries hard to survive on his own terms, but is outnumbered by the idealistic family, and the heroic and generally all around nice guy, West. We see too, some hint of Smith's psychological needs too--he kisses up to Maureen(a major babe) and Judy(a younger major babe) in a very thinly disguised seduction mode--he too knows there ain't no other available women.All in all, this movie rules! I spent 20yrs writing science fiction(some for Gene Roddenberry, some for George Lucas) and I can say Goldsman and the producers are Ultimately Geniuses "},{"Title":"Pure, shameless entertainment","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Danger, Will Robinson!  Sure, it's ridiculous, but you do remember the television series, don't you?  Did you honestly expect anything more?  The important thing is that it's a hell of a lot of fun!  Incredible special effects (the most digital effects scenes in a single film to date), an entertaining if not terribly deep plot, Gary Oldman seriously camping it up as Dr. Smith, and Matt LeBlanc looking buff in his flight suit.does it get any better?  William Hurt and Mimi Rogers are dependable as always, and Dick Tufeld returns to provide the voice of the robot.  Lost In Space is pure entertainment at its shameless and unrefined best. "},{"Title":"Not as Bad as the Critics Made It Seem","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw LIS in the theaters because I admit that all the little special effects during the previews were what caught my interest most.  When I finally saw it, I found the movie to be rather good.  The only two things that I found kind of bad in the movie was Matt LeBlanc (he tries to hard to become the tough superhero type) and Gary Oldman (I didn't sense the least bit of evil in him until he turned into the big spider like thing around the end).Besides that, the acting was decent along with the script and the story has a somewhat nice touch to it, emphasizing togetherness in the family despite whatever problem may be occurring.  The film's real strong points however, are all the really cool special effects and the awesome soundtrack.  But like I said, it's a decent movie to go see if you just feel like watching something because it's not AS bad as the critics made it seem (that's why I never believe them). "},{"Title":"Entertaining Sci-Fi","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Fabulous visuals, fantastic sound, great cast, not so great acting and an interesting storyline. "},{"Title":"Had a blast!","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Lost In Space isn't the best movie ever made (not even the best movie this year).  The dialog is clunky in spots and the story probably doesn't bear too much scrutiny, but if you like an action-packed movie with a sense of humor and some great special effects, then Lost In Space is a movie you would like.I enjoyed it hugely, being a fan of most of the cast before the movie hit the screens - and a new fan of some of the young actors I'm seeing here for the first time.  For me, the characters were much more fleshed out and real in the movie than on the TV Show.While I could have lived happily without that Blawp creature, it didn't exactly ruin the movie for me.I look at this movie like it was a roller coaster - a heady ride, even if the brain isn't heavily involved. "},{"Title":"It was a good movie but I do have one problem.","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  It was action packed and visually great.  But....... I have a problem with one part.Near the end... where the father stays behind with the older version of William, they watch the ship take off and explode.  It was carrying the rest of the Robinson family (including young Will Robinson).  So if young Will died then the older Will should cease to exist along with the ship and junk around them..... leaving the father there alone.But I can look past that error and say that it was an enjoyable escape from reality. "},{"Title":"Lost in Space - underrated","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I believe the 1998 Lost in Space remake is an incredibly underrated film and that the quality of this fun, visually impressive, hi-concept picture is grossly overlooked due to the uninspired negative reviews by few critics, that have had their opinions followed by countless sheep-like reviewers, afraid to cast their own opinion of this project and enjoy it for themselves. For a picture that went into production in 1997, 2 years before Episode 1 (The Phantom Menace) was released, its special effects still hold up to estimation to todays standard, and features model work that is far superior to half of the abysmal CGI attempts since the millennium. The production quality in terms of the films sets, costume dept, soundtrack etc are all high quality, with a strong cast helming an innocent and fun storyline. Considering the utilisation of young actors and a child friendly rating, the film is not half as corny in terms of dialogue/performance than countless other pictures I could name that appear to hold more credibility. I urge people to rewatch and reevaluate this picture for what it is, a hi-concept, big budget, sci-fi, action/adventure picture for any age group to enjoy, and for it to be done with out it being sat through from the beginning with the negative preconception that this is a worthless piece of film. I argue that its more than worth your viewing time. "},{"Title":"A longer, much deserved review.","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is my second review of this movie; I felt that it deserved another one due to the fact that I just wrote a little something fast before thinking it out.  I owe it to my readers to thoroughly process films before writing reviews, which is why I haven't posted lately.Now this was one hell of a movie. I can't figure out why so many people didn't like it.  I mean it have a 4.7 overall rating at this website.?.First of all, I'm too young to remember the TV series, so I can't compare this movie to that, but regardless, this was one of the better sci-fi films I've seen. Lost In Space takes place in the year 2058. All of Earth's natural resources are dwindling, and within the next twenty years, no life will be able to survive. So the people in charge of such things have been searching the universe for water and things humans need to survive, and they find some on a distant planet, somewhere else in the universe. So Dr. Robinson (William Hurt) takes his family on the ship Jupiter 2, to help colonize the planet, so that future generations may survive. The ship is piloted by Major John West (Matt LeBlanc), and is sabotaged by Dr. Smith (Gary Oldman). Well, as the title suggests, they get lost somewhere in space, and can't figure out a way to get back home. But strange things happen. They run across a ship, built by their federation, but unlike any ship they've seen before. Then these strange spiders attack them. And all hell breaks loose. The plot isn't all that important really, especially when you (and they) come to a certain realization about half way through the film. I won't give it all away, but it's another one of those things where if you think about it too hard, it won't make sense.But as far as the special effects go, they were pretty amazing. Things that you know are blue (or green) screened look more and more realistic. The look of the movie, in the costumes and the sets, are pretty remarkable. The most remarkable aspect of this film was the sound, it was incredible. Maybe it's my home theater system, but I don't remember a movie's special effects sounding so good before. Matt LeBlanc breaks away from his Friends character, and does a great job. I was impressed, especially since his last choice of movies was with an ape. The rest of the cast did a good job, although I did get tired of Dr. Smith's continual snide remarks. And I didn't understand his character all that much after he sabotaged the mission. I mean, if the only way to get back to civilization depended on these people, why would you continue to try and hurt them? He couldn't make it back on his own, yet he always tried to hurt them. And what was up with the little creature they picked up along the way? Does anyone else think that he was there, just so they had some stuffed animal they could sell to little kids?Overall, I did enjoy the movie. The first sixty to ninety minutes very exciting, and action packed. When they landed on the strange planet, things started to bog down, as they tried to give you more of a story. But there was a big blow up ending, and as always, they leave room for a sequel. I'd say this was definitely a good movie to see in the theaters. Those of you who missed it will just have to wait for the re-release. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The original TV show wasn't great by any stretch of the imagination, but after viewing this film it is brilliant in comparison.The ONLY thing I found even vaguely interesting in this film was the idea of the alien spider DNA infecting someone else and being able to mutate them. That's it.Who was responsible for looking at the script or treatment for this and saying yeah, this looks good, lets finance it? Never ever put that person in a position to be able to do this again is my recommendation.It is a sad shame that Hollywood is so lacking in imagination and original writers these days that they have to re-hash old films/tv shows again and again - and almost without exception do it REALLY badly. My cat could have done this film better, and she's not a particularly smart cat. I have to agree with a previous reviewer - read a book instead, or even just sit there and stare into space - it will be time better spent than watching this film. "},{"Title":"Worst Sci-Fi movie ever!","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is the worst Sci-Fi movie I have seen over the last couple of years. The best part are the computer-generated special effects. But the story is pretty dull and the transitions between the different phases (sub-stories) of the movie are just too fast so that it's difficult to keep up with the story. It seems as if they ran out of budget and had to release the movie before it had actually been finished. Also, there are still too many unanswered questions, e.g. why was the second Jupiter-2 (from the future) located at a different position as the other Jupiter-2 (from the present), if the only thing which separated the two is TIME? And what happens to the evil doctor, now that at the end of the movie he is still on board the Jupiter but will definitely become an alien (as we have seen in the future).My advcse Don't pay money for this movie. Wait until it will be shown on TV. "}{"Title":"HAS ALL THE GOOD MORAL ELEMENTS OF THE TV SERIES!","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie does have a great story, don't listen to the other reviews that have no knowledge of LIS. I grew up watching LIS on TV and what stayed with me most was the strong sense of family, duty and honor. Even when it went silly, these remained. The movie holds onto these values entirely. Family is first and foremost in this flick. The Robot is great, William Hurt's John Robinson is 'supposed' to be bland - just like Guy Williams played him on TV!, Matt LeBlanc is EXCELLENT as Major West and captures that same 'young pilot' aura, Gary Oldman is great as always, Mimi Rogers is strong and yummy. The new 'Bloop' is a bit annoying and unnecessary. Special effects are top-notch as is the sound, especially in 5.1 Dolby, a real treat. The writing didn't just take a story and slap LIS on it, the script really tried to capture the feel and morality of the original show, and it succeeds! Watching the TV series on DVD recently has made me enjoy this movie even more.  "},{"Title":"embarrassing","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  my initial reaction to this film, upon seeing it in the theatre, was that it was the first film which would be improved by omitting every single line of dialogue. having seen some of it later, though, i think the director is largely at fault as well. when actors like william hurt and heather graham, who are both exceptional actors, are wooden and flat, it is truly one of the great feats of directorial ineptitude ever.matt leblanc is horrible. lacey chambert gives one of the truly most horrible performances ever seen on the big screen by a professional actor. gary oldman manages to rise above, but just barely.boring and dull, but useful as a primer on how NOT to direct. "},{"Title":"WHY?!?!","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a classic example of how NOT to bring a TV show to the big screen; the TV show may have been idiotic (in the latter seasons, anyway), but at least it could be fun and get some kind of emotional feedback. But what did New Line Cinema get when they bought the entire intellectual (ha!) property from Twentieth Century Fox?They got the family from the original Lost in Space glummed-down for their cinematic incarnation (in a misguided attempt by writer Akiva Goldsman to make the Robinsons seem more realistic - whatever happened to happy families?). But that's only the start of this boring space odyssey's faults the acting's weak; the writing and directing (Stephen Hopkins, that's you) are unforgivably slack; the plot just drags on and on until the movie just seems to stop instead of ending properly; the Bloop is the worst Jim Henson's Creature Shop creation EVER, no arguments; the special effects are unimpressive on a scale unrivalled until Dinotopia; Lacey Chabert is supremely irritating as Penny; the techno music we're forced to endure over the endless end credits is appalling...OK, there are some good bits about the movie. I will now list them.1. Heather Graham as Judy Robinson.2. The welcome return of the voice of Dick Tufeld (the only cast member apart from Miss Graham who can be bothered to act).3. The bit where everyone says Goodnight over a shot of the spaceship at rest in a takeoff of The Waltons (capped by Matt LeBlanc's otherwise useless Major West saying You have got to be kidding).4. LeBlanc walloping Gary Oldman after the latter's totally inexplicable impression of Private Pike from Dad's Army (We're doomed! We're doomed!).5. Bruce Broughton's music (a pox on the artists whose music is excerpted at the end).6. It ends. "},{"Title":"HAS ALL THE GOOD MORAL ELEMENTS OF THE TV SERIES!","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie does have a great story, don't listen to the other reviews that have no knowledge of LIS. I grew up watching LIS on TV and what stayed with me most was the strong sense of family, duty and honor. Even when it went silly, these remained. The movie holds onto these values entirely. Family is first and foremost in this flick. The Robot is great, William Hurt's John Robinson is 'supposed' to be bland - just like Guy Williams played him on TV!, Matt LeBlanc is EXCELLENT as Major West and captures that same 'young pilot' aura, Gary Oldman is great as always, Mimi Rogers is strong and yummy. The new 'Bloop' is a bit annoying and unnecessary. Special effects are top-notch as is the sound, especially in 5.1 Dolby, a real treat. The writing didn't just take a story and slap LIS on it, the script really tried to capture the feel and morality of the original show, and it succeeds! Watching the TV series on DVD recently has made me enjoy this movie even more.  "},{"Title":"Very good cast and effects. Plot started well, then disintegrated.","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The casting was very good. Effects were appropriate and tasteful. The plot started strong then disintegrated during the last 1/4 of movie.Relationship between father and son should have remained faithful to original series for continuity and positive role model.Very much looked forward to a sequel with the same cast. Unfortunately, it never happened. Too bad.Matt LeBlanc was especially well suited for the character of Major Don West. A much stronger role than his comedic persona. Matt could easily fill the science fiction duties occupied by the likes of Scott Bacula. I would definitely like to see Matt in a similar science fiction/action adventure role.Other than the poor father-son relationship, original Lost In Space creator, Irwin Allen, would most likely have approved of this project. "},{"Title":"Sit back and enjoy the cheesiness","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" A lot of people put this film down, claiming that it's silly and a waste of time, and for the most part, if I was taking this film seriously, I'd have to agree. But look at this from a comedy point of view, base it on pure entertainment value, and you've got an OK film. The cast which includes William Hurt and Matt Le Blanc (better known as Joey from Friends) do a pretty good job considering the script and are actually quite entertaining. Director Steven Hopkins creates a sci-fi world which is so tacky and bizarre that it's actually pretty interesting, the skin tight grey suits are so cringing that you can't help but laugh, and Gary Oldman is so wonderfully over the top as the evil Dr. Zachary Smith that it becomes increasingly hard to believe that it wasn't intended as a comedy performance This definitely isn't a great sci-fi film nor does it live up to the original series. But maybe it's not trying to, this film if you look at it in the right light is an incredibly funny, fun film that kids will most likely love. The result of this film is what appears to be a great sci-fi spoof that just gets sillier as it goes on and that makes it pretty entertaining, even if it isn't for the reasons the film makers intended it to be. "},{"Title":"Way too sweet, way too far from good sf, good family flick though","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember watching it in the cinema back in 1998 with my girlfriend. I was 19, and starved for good, intelligent sf movie. I remember I wasn't paying too much attention to this movie, I watched it again later, now I can say I've seen it a few times on TV or DVD. I haven't seen the original US series, but the movie is a nice family flick, the bad thing is that it wasn't meant to be one. Le Blanc is quite cool as an action hero I was very surprised not seeing him doing some action flick in the next years. All in all it's a warm popcorn movie, with Gary Oldman, who is in a way catoonish villain, Will Hurt as a serious father gone too much interested in his work. Both are fine actors, both weren't themselves in this one. Special effects are quite nice for those times, though the creature animation is a bit corny. And one more thing - why for God's sakes they used this CGI-monkey-like creature?! It was way too sweet. Like the whole movie. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people think...","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Modernizing old TV shows and movies is necessary in order to rope in the new crowds. This movie wasn't something I would have given a bunch of awards to, but it wasn't -that- bad. It was funny and entertaining. Easy to follow, for those of us who weren't alive to watch the original TV shows, with nice work on the special effects. )Penny, although irritating, may have grated on some people, but then again we're having a peek at what families are like in the year 2058, with a father who apparently neglects his family in favor of focusing on the project. I think the kids were portrayed well. The all buttercups and daisies families of TV are what's unreasonable--not an unhappy family trying to make do the best they can. "},{"Title":"Overall, worth seeing a few times","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Not bad from a Sci-Fi outlook. The plot could have been 'thicker', with more character development. But too much time was spent on 'Special Effects', not enough on the story. Matt LeBlanc as Major Don West,was a very good actor with the line Your a damn spy! to Dr. Smith. William Hurt gave a serious tone, as he said to his wife Smith can still hurt us.So, do we put Dr Smith in a freezing tube for the rest of the voyage? The young Will Robinson was good, as he bantered with the Robot. Which, was a well designed robot. To bad a sequel wasn't made, I'm sure it would have been better. And it did break even, and if you count the video sales.The special effects were first class, but I don't think it added enough to the movie, to overcome the weak story. A better storyline, would have given this a 9. "},{"Title":"aww, come on--it was fun","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Maybe it's only because I rarely enter a movie with expectations that I tend to enjoy entertainment for entertainment's sake. Maybe it's because I'm a fan of B-movies that I'm a sucker for quirky, Hollywood action flicks. Maybe I just don't give a damn about how good a movie *should* have been, but hell--this was a fun romp through pseudo-science fiction that captured the spirit of episodic camp TV and nicely meshed it with over-the-top Hollywood sensibilities.It's just a good time. Don't be dismayed by the negativity found here. Lost in Space was a tightly-paced, off-beat tribute to B-rated programming with--dare I say it?--a 90s spin. "}{"Title":"Dont take this movie so seriously","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Its a given that this movie is hardly ever going to be considered a classic in the genre, but its a lot of fun to watch. The actors are ok, nothing special, but so what? The effects are fun and the story is a time travel one that very very few people that have ever lived can wrap their brains around but, again, so what? Its just a movie, not meant to be taken as any more(or less) than that.  Just sit back, give your brain a breather and enjoy the show. After all, thats why movies are made. "},{"Title":"DVD review, a movie based on the mid-60s TV series, same premise, same characters, but highly updated.","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  If you can get this one cheap, or free as I did, this is a great DVD to own. Skip down to the end of this for why.Lost in Space (1998) - the year is 2058 and the inhabitants of the Earth are rapidly depleting resources, with maybe 20 more years to go.  All nations have put aside differences and are working together to find outside resources.  Using the theory of warping space, the plan is to send a ship, with the Space Family Robinson (William Hurt, Mimi Rogers, Heather Graham, and 2 others)aboard, plus a pilot (Matt Leblanc)and robot on a 10-year, suspended-animation mission to Alpha One where they will build a hypergate (like in Stargate) while the other hypergate is also being constructed on Earth. Then, travel between the two gates will be instantaneous, and Earth can be saved. Without the gate, travel through warped space is random, and you can end up anywhere!But, there have to be some bad guys. On Earth, a global sedition has been formed and they are competing to be first to Alpha One, to control the resources, and take over the universe. To hedge their bet, they recruit the base doctor (Gary Oldman) to sneak onboard before launch and re-program the robot to destroy everything once the ship gets going. Problem is, he accidentally gets trapped on the ship, after re-programming the robot, and has to help save his and everyone else's skin in the process. Because he is a coward, working for evil money.Fortunately, little Will is a computer genius, and manages to salvage the robot.  However, the damaged ship is getting sucked into the sun, and they don't have enough power to pull away. Their only hope is to activate hyperdrive to create a wormhole through the center of the sun. It works, but their random emergence results in their being totally lost.They encounter a strange ship, some strange creatures, a strange planet that can sustain life. But they still need to get the robot and the ship back working. When they do, they cannot escape gravity, so have to again activate hyperdrive while diving into the center of the breaking up planet.  They do, and emerge, and after about 2 seconds of silence, the planet explodes behind them. The ship, off to another random location, setting the stage for a sequel, possibly.Why do I like this film?  It focuses on family values, care for one another, survival against odds. It also has a lot of good special effects and one of the best Dolby Digital 5.1 surround sound tracks.  At theater volume, expect your powered subwoofer to bottom out a few times.  The sounds in the rear channels, like in the fine opening battle scene, augment the main sound track at appropriate times. It is a fantasy, involving things we don't yet know if are possible - time travel, deep space travel, suspended animation, travel through warped space.  Much of this is based on sound science, or at least peripherally to sound science. The film is good, clean fun, not to be taken too seriously.The DVD picture is fine and, as I stated above, the sound track is one of the best so far. The DVD menu that first pops up is designed like the cockpit of a futuristic space ship, with futuristic music. There are a number of nice extras, including cast, trailer, deleted scenes, building special effects, the future of space travel, two different audio commentary tracks, a feature on the mid-60s TV years, a nice Q&A with three of the original TV cast members, who also have small roles in this film.If this were a more ordinary rendition, I would rate it as a 5 or 6 out of 10. However, with the excellent sound track and all the extras, in total I rate this DVD version of Lost in Space (1998) as 8, and a must-own for Lost in Space fans. "},{"Title":"good job in recreating Lost In Space as a movie","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I thought this was a good job in remaking the original series. Oldman did a good job as Dr. Smith. And the other characters were also good. Very visually appealing and good special effects. With all the people still confused about the real science... come on this is a movie.. if you want realism then read scientific american.. or nature... and don't watch movies... I thought this was fun. However, I didn't like the way it just ended without any conclusion. (almost like Star Wars Phantom Menace). But Star Wars 2 is guaranteed to be released and Lost in Space 2 has no guarantees... but I hope they do release another one... I am still curious what happens to them. my rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Not half as bad as expected ... but","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Well after reading various reviews of this movie I decided to wait for the video release.  On a quiet Saturday afternoon I rented LIS and The Wedding Singer, which I saw last year at the movies.I was basically planning on occupying a few hours before going out on the beer so I put my brain in the cardboard box under my bed (for safety of course) and settled down to watch LIS first.I am not the biggest fan of Akiva Goldsman (Script) and half expected another Batman & Robin.  However I was pleasantly surprised with how the first half of the movie zipped along.  Of course the dialogue and premise were laughable, but having been a fan of the frankly terrible original series I felt a sense of familiarity.I enjoyed the opening sequence, mainly for the imaginative design of the fighter spacecraft.  In fact I was really enjoying the movie right up until The Monkey appeared.  This is about half way into the movie and from this obvious marketing ploy the movie starts going downhill fast.  I found my attention wandering as the plot became ever more complex.  All the time travel stuff was just far too much and needed a film of it's own.I actually read an interview with the aforementioned Mr. Goldsman where he says that the monkey was originally intended to be some kind of a lizard which was replaced to to time / budget constraints.To be honest thought this movie would have benefited from extensive trimming from the monkeys appearance onwards.Bottom Line  Well worth a rent on a quiet afternoon if you are a sci fi fan or a fan of the original series though beware of the second half.  I actually hope they make a sequel! "},{"Title":"this movie had excellent effects!","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I thought that this movie did quite well in the area of special effects. The cgi combined with puppeteering that was used for the smith/spider creature was truly amazing!  I think Matt LeBlanc finally got his big break in the movie business, his past movies were good, but I believe his role in this movie was excellent.  I thought this movie was really good, and that all its actors/actress deserve a round of applause! "},{"Title":"Cool special effects","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Liked the fact that one of my childhood favorites was done over with great special effects.  The story could have had more meat and potatoes to warrent a second movie.  It seemed to me that all they wanted to do was establish characters so they could make a second movie. "},{"Title":"Just Hangin' With The Robinsons","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Okay, I KNOW the storyline was totally whacked, and I know that this movie makes no sense, and I know that with&#4;its and then and then and then-type storytelling it's not very satisfying. All that said I loved it, I saw it four times in the theater and I just bought it on DVD.Like you, I HATED it the first time. Then, out of pure desperation to see special effects, I went to see it again, and this time I LOVED it. If you go in not expecting ANYTHING by way of coherent storyline and just look at it as spending 2 hours with the Robinson family, then you'll like it.The Robinsons are MUCH less irritating than they were in the original. I for one found the campy one-liners cute. Gary Oldman is SPOT ON as Dr. Smith. The new robot is VERY cool, and I hope they find a way to bring him back (another time bubble, perhaps?). Matt LeBlanc shows off a really excellent sense of comic timing.I felt the filmmakers made an updated movie that played on the affections fans would have for the old show. I watched Lost in Space everyday after school for years, and I loved little touches like the Jupiter I, which looks like the old ship, bursting open to reveal the new ship. Thematically, this movie also remains very much all about Will Robinson... an adventure about a boy and his robot, like the old series was. I took the kids of a friend, boys aged 7 and 10, and they were totally thrilled.As far as the special effects, they clearly decided to have less great effects but just spread them across the entire movie. The opening dogfight is just dizzying, there's so much going on.So I say, just look at it as a visit with the space family Robinson, and don't expect annything more. I CAN'T WAIT for the sequel.--- Check out my website devoted to bad and cheesy movies at www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"Good movie, nice effects but mostly nice work on stuff from '60s series","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I've always been a big fan of sci-fi, and as a 7 years old, that series fascinated me. But you know, robots and spaceships of the '60s are now pretty boring. So, I was amazed on how, on that movie, they were able to bring back that old stuff, and mix it intelligently with new cool stuff. They have such a cool robot on the movie, and I didn't see how they could bring back the old one and makes it look right in the movie. But they did. And even about the notion of being lost in space. Their jump drive makes it plausible to get lost. I find that the storyline was inventive, special effects were good, acting was good. I cannot see why this movie wasn't a big hit. Maybe a lack in advertisement. "},{"Title":"Sequel?","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" As a fan to the original I 've found this to be very good, I'm hoping for a sequel. The plot was fine, I remember Dr. Smith sabotaging the Jupiter II crew and this movie matches it perfectly. Even Dr. Smith character play by Gary Oldman was perfect in preserving the original Dr. Smith. Thumbs up, Jack Johnson played Will Robinson Perfectly if not better and I like the Idea that the character Judy is a Doctor. (Smart), reflecting today women. That overall cast chemistry worked well. I do have one complaint I like the new Robot in preserving the original icon of the robot was cool but I like the new one. Again Thumbs up and remember it's just my opinion . . . "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" As science fiction goes, this is a worthwhile movie. Special effects were very good. Storyline, for the fans of the old TV series, is loosely the same, but unfamiliar as well. I preferred the old Dr Smith much more, as far as character type goes, but Gary Oldman is a great actor, and if they had to make him more vicious, then he was definitely the right choice. Lacey Chabert, still very young in this movie, is a great Penny. Matt Leblanc does a good job in an action role as well. The rest of the case gets the job done. So overall a good sci-fi flick, I think it misses something for fans of the original series though. I do hope there will be a sequel someday, but I think it has been too many years now. ..but.. ya never know! "}{"Title":"Outstanding Sci-Fi Adventure","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Great remake of a fun TV series and yes, after all these years, Dr Smith is still his bumbling self, causing problems for the Robinsons.  Excellent special effects with futuristic and creative scenes.  An excellent Sci-Fi adventure well worth the trip to the big theater to enjoy the big picture and surround effects and then a trip to the store to buy your own copy. Definitely a keeper!! "},{"Title":"Cool sci-fi trip.","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Very good special fx, not perfect, but very good and many of them! Nice story (could almost be called complex when you look at recent blockbuster movies). Suitable for the whole family. Some corny dialogues and one-liners though. And get ready to see all possible family problems packed in one motion picture, but hey - it's a refreshing change from all the monotonous sci-fi action/monster stuff of the last years. Kind of reminds me of 80s movies like Goonies. In my opinion worth a visit. Just grab a bag of popcorn and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Excellent Adventure!","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  What can I say? Lost in Space was an excellent update to the 1960's show. Yes, I was and am still a fan of the old show. The movie took the best things from the show (and some of the worse)and updated the look. The special effects were great! The robot was just as dry and funny as he was in the show. The movie was well paced until the last third of the movie, where it did get into a kind of boring father and son feel good story. The casting of William Hurt was a bit odd, but the rest of the cast was top notch. Sadly, it looks as if there may not be a sequel because of the lukewarm box office performance. I liked the movie because it was very entertaining and it was everything I expected! For those who haven't seen it, please keep in mind This is campy sci-fi at its best. Do not expect thought provoking plots! If you keep that in mind, you will have a great time! (Also, watch the ending credits! A new version of the 3rd season's theme song with some great effects!) "},{"Title":"the original wasn't meant to be taken seriously either","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  O.K., it's not Forbidden Planet.  Who'd expect it?  As part of the made from TV genre, it's one of the better entries.  Effects are excellent (they'd better be)...and so is Gary Oldman as always.  It's fun.  Some elements of the old show are slipped in here and there, sometimes cleverly--the shape of the ship, the pain, the pain...it's enjoyable, with a little smarm, and Heather Graham.  A friend of ours, a fanatic for the original show, was bitterly disappointed, because she expected too much. Don't.  Just rent it and go with it. "},{"Title":"Unlike others, I thought it was good!","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Yes, another sci-fi movie, and in terms of quality not exactly flash, but I liked it. I liked it a lot. SOME of the special effects were really superb, some of the others, like the lizard monkey, not so. Most of the performances were excellent, with Mimi Rogers particularly impressing me, though William Hurt and Heather Graham were also very good. Lacey Chabert proved what a versatile actress she is, though her heavy make-up was a little out-of-place and Penny's rebelliousness doesn't seem to carry on for very long. Matt Le Blanc and Gary Oldman were OK, but the character of Dr Smith seemed a tad childish. The music, especially the theme tune, is catching. 8 out of 10, more due to the fact that I personally liked it, than due to its quality. Based on its quality alone, 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"What's the Problem? Nothing!","Date":"2 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I cannot believe all the wannabe movie critics ripping this movie apart. All of the negative reviews appear to be from people comparing it to the TV series. If there never was a TV series, they'd be lauding it's wonderful effects and story line, but they are so busy comparing it line-by-line to the original series, they can't get past it. Are you serious? You really wanted this movie to be anything like that crummy TV series? Get over it. The series laid a good plot line, but beyond that it was cheaply made and the scripts were so G-rated there was almost no story at all. And the character development in the series was plastic and phony, to the point of being non-existent, even for the 60's. I was a 9 year old boy when this series was first aired on TV, and when I watched it, the most fun I had was ripping it apart because of how fake it was. Even as a 9-year-old I could see that. Guys love to do this, and this is the show that taught me how to do it. Even so, I enjoyed it for what it was - SciFi on prime time.Now this updated movie actually does some character building and provides an interesting plot, and the history buffs can't stand it. There is a reason why LIS was canceled, and why so many SciFi prime time shows don't last long. People want to see the grit, the fire, the real people behind the characters, not some Hollywood plastic version.Because I didn't fall into the trap of comparing it with the original series, I loved this movie. It is SciFi at it's best. Good story, good character building, good back story on the plot and characters, great effects, twists, turns, action. This may be the most underrated SciFi movie of all time. Watch it without comparisons to the TV series, and you are guaranteed to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Two golden opportunities missed.","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  For me the greatest pleasure of this film was seeing the original stars of the classic TV series in cameo roles.  Yes the production design was awesome, and the special effects amazing, but where was the plot?  Hooray for June Lockhart, who still has one of the most beautiful faces ever filmed, for her good humored appearance.  Mark Goddard had a good role - and was very good.  Nice touch to have him appoint Matt Le Blanc as the new pilot.  I would have liked to have seen more of Angela Cartwright and Marta Kristen, who only had one line each (as reporters), but they both looked smashing.  And thank you for giving the robot's voice his old role back!But where on earth (excuse the pun!) were Jonathan Harris and Bill Mummy???!!!  This is where the golden opportunities were missed, because there seemed to be two characters tailor made for the two actors.  The time travelling Robinsons meet the future adult Will Robinson in one scene - how poignant if this had been Bill Mummy!  And the head of the rebels who assigns Dr. Smith to destroy the Jupiter 2, and then attempts to kill him, would have been a perfect role for Jonathan Harris (who is now 86!).  Were these two actors not available, unwilling or unasked?  Had they been there I might have upped my rating from 5 to 7. "},{"Title":"Lost in Space","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I saw this film a couple of times when I was younger, back then I thought it was quite fun, seeing it again when older I realise it is a daft adaptation of a cult classic television series, from director Stephen Hopkins (Predator 2, The Life and Death of Peter Sellers, The Reaping). Basically it is year 2058, and soon Earth will be uninhabitable after irreversible effects of pollution and global warming, therefore Professor John Robinson (William Hurt) is leading the Jupiter 2 Mission travelling into outer space to the further planet called Alpha Prime where life can continue. The lead scientist is taking his whole family along too, wife Dr. Maureen Robinson (Mimi Rogers), and the children, eldest Dr. Judy Robinson (Heather Graham), and the youngsters Penny (Mean Girls' Lacey Chabert, also voiced Meg Griffin in Family Guy, before Mila Kunis) and Will (Jack Johnson). Also joining the mission is fighter pilot Major Don West (Matt LeBlanc) who helped with the hypergate defence force, the gate will eventually be used to transport space crafts to the new planet instantly. The mission begins and the ship takes off, with everybody being cryogenically frozen for the ten year journey, however sinister Dr. Zachary Smith (Gary Oldman) sabotages the mission by having the ship robot try and kill the family. They manage to wake up and stop him, but when the destroyed parts of the ship stop them navigating, and they are forced to go into hyperspace being pulled into the sun, they end up lost in space. They come across a spaceship wreck, and hope to find salvation and co-ordinates of where they are and how to get to Alpha Prime, but it seems to be a deserted ship from the future. On the ship they pick up an alien monkey like creature Penny calls Blarp, and a swarm of deadly space spiders nearly attack them, and Will loses the robot in the process. Soon after they crash land on a near planet, and they are stuck there until the stuff on top of the ship is moved, and there is time to investigate a giant bubble which appears to be able to propel them into a further future. So John and Don go into the bubble, and they seem to be transported to a future where the ship crashed, an older Will (Jared Harris), and with Smith and young Will following behind Smith sees that the rest of the family are dead. After escaping this bubble future world, and a mutated spider creature Smith (also Goldman), John and the family are reunited, John obviously shows his love for his young son, and they got off the planet, and use the co-ordinates they collected to speed to Alpha Prime. Also starring Mark Goddard as General, Lennie James as Jeb Walker, June Lockhart as Principal Cartwright and Edward Fox as Businessman. The performances are all daft accompanied by a daft script with too many cheesy and predictable moments, the special effects are modest, but they don't change anything about how terrible and annoying it is, a silly family science-fiction adventure. It was nominated the Razzie for Worst Remake or Sequel. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Highly Entertaining","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Lost in Space is one of those movies where you may not have liked it when you first saw it but when given a 2nd chance, you will find it very entertaining. First of all, the original series was never one to be thought provoking. It was intended to be pure adventure and at the same time be campy fun. Where else could you see people battle a monster and then sit down to milk and cookies? Or better yet, bake a birthday cake for a robot?? That said, you will see some of the same campiness in Lost in Space the movie. The problem is that most people wont expect that and that may turn them off. Expect it and enjoy it. The movie introduces us to all of the central characters in a hurry, but it works. And as the TV show, they are thrown off course due to Dr. Smith (though his extra weight had nothing to do with it in the film.) Once they are lost, the movie takes on a life of its own. There is an exciting sequence aboard a derelict ship and an ensuing crash. Once on the planet, the story bogs down in a time travel plot that is confusing, full of holes, yet it holds your interest. The acting and the choice of actors in the film are among the best aspects of Lost in Space. While I was afraid William Hurt would be miscast, he came off rather well. To me, Gary Oldman, though he was good and had SOME Smith qualities to him, came the closest to being miscast. Maybe if by some chance we are given a sequel to this film (which was left VERY WIDE open) Smith will become the villain that he was in the original show. I still think Billy Mumy could have been used in a scene later in the movie. Also look for cameo's from the original Penny and Judy and a significant role from the original Don. Also, the voice of the Robot is the same as in the show. That was a nice touch. The DVD is a pure joy. The sound quality is still one of the best around. The extra's are interesting and there is a lot to see (including some interviews with the original cast.) Overall, Lost in Space is a lot of fun and it is a film the entire family can enjoy. "},{"Title":"''Hyperspace is located under 'normal' space'' -- Hmm, I'm still chewing on that one...","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Despite the all-star cast of veterans and creative newbe's, I think I was looking for a little more meat with the vegetables.  The monkey is wonderful, however, and the trademark touch of Lucas Labs is certainly there.  That WE the people have left this one open galaxy-wide for unlimited sequels tells me there may be hope for the script next time.  Nevertheless, as said the first reviewer, I sometimes just want to be entertained and step out of everyday reality for a while.  This one will do it for you, too. Matt LeBlanc has got definite ''action hero'' potential while William Hurt is plausible as Prof. Robinson.  (Lesser marks, however, for Gary Oldman as Dr. Smith.)  I suspect the foreign audiences won't remember the series (nor will many North Americans for that matter), but I didn't fail to spot the originals among the cameos -- a nice touch !  Entertainment value, yes, just don't think about it too much... (3 of 5 stars = rating) "}{"Title":"What a great funny movie","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Don't take it seriously. But if you're looking for a funny movie, go and get it ! It's not great thrilling sci-fi ! It's just a bunch of friends having fun in nice suits in space. Matt LeBlanc is greatly overbadly playing, he has to play to reach such a disastrous level ! The soundtrack is peachy, the effects are great and the story is so about nothing (I like when they go through the sun, No don't do that ! ) - Yes this     is    our    ONLY chance ! Buy a pack of beer, invite some friends, and sure, u'll have fun ! It's a great intergalactic B-serie !!! "}]