[{"Title":"Speed 2 Snooze control","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"93 out of 112 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Now I liked Sandra Bullock in the original Speed. I even liked her in that film where she went into a beauty pageant. But in this monstrosity, I just wanted to slap her repeatedly and say What are you doing!?She is just dire. Not in acting (well... any more than usual, anyway) but just in the way her character made you want to shake her until she regained some sense. Whoever was responsible for the script needs a good beating here. Unless I am completely mistaken, her character between the events of the first film and this one, turned into a complete and total airhead bimbo.Add in Jason Patric (who will never be leading man material) and it seems that only Willem Dafoe was having any fun. Truly awful!But it is good to see that ocean liners, which may have to weather tropical storms, apparently have windows made of glass so easy to break that anyone can hurl themselves through them on a whim. Priceless cinema.Avoid this one if you liked the original.Avoid this one if you expect a thrilling sea drama.Avoid this one if you like Sandra Bullock.Avoid this one if....well....just avoid it. "},{"Title":"slower, poorer...","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"67 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The enormous success of Speed in 1994 could only create a (poor) sequel. The less we can say is that the scriptwriters have got a great narrow-mindedness. Here, the bus was replaced by a cruise ship and the movie doesn't work, partly due to this a cruise ship can't go as fast as a bus even if it's trapped.Then, Keanu Reeves' absence can terribly be felt. His replacement is so colorless and listless that Sandra Bullock almost steals the show from him. Moreover, as a rule, Speed2 cruise control is supposed to be a suspense film. Well, in this case, where's the suspense? The filmmaker doesn't succeed in creating the suspense and he even can't create a disturbing atmosphere. The end of the movie falls into the ridiculous when the ship is entering the dock and destroys everything in its path.At the end one of the worst sequels ever made.  "},{"Title":"A big boat full of crap","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"60 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Speed. the first movie wasn't that bad, and so the other day I decided to watch speed 2, which appeared on television here. (god knows why) After 2 minutes I realized why Keanu didn't accept the role for this second part. The entire movie is filled with extremely bad timed jokes and unrealism beyond recognition... The killer being sandra bullock chainsawing open a fire door with people trapped behind that door (as if there wouldn't be an emergency handle, and what the **** is a chainsaw doing near the cabins?!?) After completing this task sandra keeps the chainsaw in the opening she just made. the people look at her and say she has to get out of the way with the chainsaw. she looks back, doesn't respond. They have to ask AGAIN and then she's all like oh oh oh, yeah yeah yeah yeah, sorry sorry sorry. taking another 5 minutes to apologize before she finally removes the roaring blade....another great feature about this movie is the fact that people have to die 4 times before actually dying, or other impossible things that somehow the actors can make possible with their magic wand or something. a nice example **** SPOILER **** The bad guy (i didn't even bother remembering his name) is flying one of those water planes. He isn't really paying attention as he flies over an oil tanker and hits the mast with a speed over 50 mph at minimum... Instead of crashing down or getting hit off course, nooo... the plane instantly stops and gets stuck at the top of the mast. The bad guy naturally hasn't a scratch. Then suddenly the plane decides to explode, taking the entire oil tanker with it. Of course there couldn't be any safety measures on board, since oil isn't flammable at all. anyway my conclusion is that speed 2 is a blown up piece of poo, and should have never been made. this is one of those movies just to get people in the seats, leaving them to die of boredom in the theatre. (and was probably a career killer for sandra bullock, too....) "},{"Title":"Made worse by the knowledge of the brilliant film it succeeds","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"48 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Having long since broken things off with her boyfriend, Annie and her new beau plan a romantic holiday on an ocean liner.  When onboard a disgruntled ex-employee of the liner disables the computer controls and sets it on a collision course while he escapes with his goods.  Alex has to take him on and try to stop the ship as it `races' out of control.As if Twister hadn't done it already, Speed 2 basically showed us that the potential that was shown by De Bont's debut was clearly misplaced and he has yet to show he was really anything other than in the right place at the right time when it came to Speed.  The smell of desperation is in the air from the very start when Reeves declined to star, although Bullock was more desperate and did it.  This caused Annie to repeatedly state that `relationships built on etc etc never work out', all in an effort to explain it away and help the audience move on.  That the film is constantly harking back to a much better film is a big problem, it would almost have been smarter just to move totally away than to retread.The plot is plain silly and never gets close to being involving.  To demonstrate this, I never once gave a rats' ass what was happening - people got crushed by the boat and mangled in it's propellers (unseen) but the film (or me) never care and never lingers.  Likewise the supposed big climax is unengaging and smacks of desperation - bang for buck and all that.  The whole set up never really feels immediate or threatening, even when the boat swings out of control it is difficult to feel terrified as the boat slooooowly goes towards the tanker, worst come to worst people can jump off to safety.  The cruiser setting also is daft when seen beside the bus concept - the vast majority of the audience will ride a bus quite often, very few of us can relate to an ocean liner!  The speed is a problem and it is almost laughable it works so poorly!The cast is another problem.  Bullock tries to repeat her sparky performance from the first film - when she manages it, it only feels like an impression, when she doesn't manage it she is cast as a shrieking beauty needing saving. However she also struggles from a lack of chemistry with Patric.  It is a shame as he is an OK actor but not used to a pure action role and not used to not having material to work with.  He lacks charisma and is quite unconvincing.  Dafoe is awful; he drags the film down as much as anyone. His villain is a joke and never threatens in the way that Hopper's did (who managed to be funny and scary).  It is a bad impression all round.  The support cast of `innocents in peril' do much the same as the ones on the bus did, but we care less about them - they are well off and are separated from the action; those on the bus were in the thick of it and `normal' people who we could relate to.Overall this is as good a reason for not making unplanned sequels as any - there should be a board to approve all sequels to prevent cashing in!  The memory of the original is cheapen by this nasty film that is uninspiring and unthrilling at best, dull and stupid at worst.  De Bont never gets up a decent head of steam and he shows his inability to inject drama out of his own skill - anyone can point a camera, not everyone can (or should) direct. A dull 2 hours later, I was wondering why I wasted my time with a film that was so clearly all at sea. "},{"Title":"A MISERABLE EXPERIENCE....","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"45 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  After seeing THE best action movie ever (Speed) I went to this expecting more of the same awesome action.Instead I was physically sea sick! Sat through the entire thing feeling like I was at sea in a teacup (in the middle of a cyclone), made worse by the terrible acting (even Temuera Morrison wasn't up to par in this) and lame 'action scenes'. The baddie wasn't bad enough, his reasons for hijacking the ship was just plain dumb, and Keanu Reeves, where the heck was he?This whole flick was over-the-top-bad, trying waaaaay too hard to equal Speed One. But putting all the action on a cruise ship - a SMALL cruise ship at that? There was twice as much action in the elevator scene at the beginning of Speed One!I found the gigantic tanker explosion, the ship crashing through the dock at the end TOO long and boring. By this time, however, the sea sickness had subsided (probably because the ship had already landed!) The ending would've been easier to bare if the characters hadn't said such dumb cliches....I think I should've stayed at home.... "},{"Title":"Everyone to the lifeboats! Women, children and paying moviegoers first.","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"40 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Let the screenwriters and director go down with the ship I say. As the sun sets slowly in the West, Speed 2 Cruise Control sinks without a trace. The sequel to 1995's surprise drive-a-bus hit has barely caused a ripple at the box office. The threadbare script is mostly to blame. It consists almost entirely of simplistic, exclamation-point dialogue like, We're gonna crash! We're going too fast! Do something! This isn't happening! We gotta get him outta here! There's not much time left! and the ever useful, Oh, s**t!There is, indeed, not much time left for characterization or interpersonal drama. Speed 2 gets off to a winky-dinky start with Sandra Bullock taking yet another disastrous driving test. Bullock's natural charm can go only so far, however, and you keep wanting to throw her a life preserver or a new script. As people drop dead around her, she must continue to whine about the ruination of her vacation. Bullock doesn't get a lot of help from blandish co-star Jason Patric, who plays her cop boyfriend. The nasty, computer-literate villain, who likes to attach blood-sucking leeches to his body, is certainly quirky. Willem Dafoe, who's pretty quirky himself, does what he can with the overriding vagaries of his character's mad-bomber motivation. The action bits are fairly frequent, but seem anemic when compared to what else is available to fans of such. Director Jan De Bont fared much better in 1996 with the flying cows and funnel clouds of Twister. Speed 2 ends up with some highly anticipated destruction as the cruise ship plows into the island of St. Martin. No matter, as I hear the whole thing was computer-generated anyway. This cruise is no carnival, and could have used a cameo by Kathie Lee. Would loved to have seen Dafoe slap her around a bit.  "},{"Title":"You'll know why Keanu turned down this crummy sequel when you see it","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"33 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I was so curious as to what they would do in the sequel of Speed, I just watched Speed today and absolutely loved it! So, I can understand why Keanu turned down the movie, first off not only the script was bad, but the coincidences were beyond ridiculous of Sandra Bullock being in the same position twice and Jason Patrick?! He was so scared of doing a great movie like The Lost Boys, but yet he couldn't hesitate to do this movie? The movie just lost it's course and didn't work on any level, if it had different characters, maybe, but these great actors should know better and check twice before signing onto these sequels.Annie is with this new policeman, Alex, and he surprises her with cruise tickets. He is planning on asking her to marry him, but that is shortly interrupted when Willaim Defoe is now the super duper bad guy. He is upset that he designed the ships computer system but gets no credit, so guess what? He decides the best way to avenge this is to blow it up! But with Alex on board... yup... you guessed it, he's gonna stop William and save the day! Good for him! Speed 2 Cruise Control was just a money maker that is truly a fake movie that was really sad. The acting was really bad and Sandra's character went from admirable to just plain annoying. Alex had no character or any sympathy. The explosions were lame and the plot was just beyond unbelievable, poor William, he was probably on medication when he said yes to making this movie. Well, just please stay away from this movie, it'll be a waste of your time.2/10 "},{"Title":"Speed 2 Lost Control","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"38 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Nah, it just isn't worth watching, or renting, why? Well let's just say it didn't live up to the first one. It wasn't very fast paced, or exciting, it was very predictable. And it's mostly them on the boat, trying to get everyone out, because it is out of control. It lost most of the elements the first one had. It didn't have the 'speed' theme, it was mostly a boat out of control, how? Someone just hacked it, and there it went, it wasn't on the threat of terrorists, there wasn't the threat of a bomb explosion, and it wasn't even sinking. Where's the excitement? The movie doesn't even deserve to be called 'Speed' because there was nothing about 'speed' in it, sure it had Sandra Bullock in it, but Keanu Reeves was missing in it. If you want to see a film about a boat out of control, just watch Titanic. "},{"Title":"One of the worst action films ever","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Oh Dear. Speed never need a sequel. It was a solid action movie with good performances and - most importantly - lots of speed, the essence of the film. Unfortunately, Speed 2 lacks both of these things, as well as anything else which could make it a good film.Annie (Bullock) is off on a cruise with her new boyfriend, Alex (Patric). But surprisingly things don't go to plan when a crazy ex-employee of the ferry company with a terminal disease (Dafoe) takes over the ship using only his laptop. So its up to Alex, Annie and a few stupid crewmen to save the day.So that's it in the way of plot. I'd go onto character development but there's nothing to say about that so I'll skip to the acting. Although Bullock is given top billing, she is (unfortunately) relegated to the sidelines and Keanu replacement Jason Patric does most of the work. As for his acting abilities, lets just say a coffee table would have been more convincing. And you thought Keanu Reeves was wooden. Dafoe is almost as bad.Another area of dire quality is the script. Actually, atrocious would be more appropriate. Unlike the original it's filled with lots of funny bits, which only made me cringe even more than I was doing before. Even the action is poor. Where Speed screamed along at 100mph, the sequel kind of meanders along like a pensioner driver.Verdict Bad story, bad acting, bad script, bad film. Sitting through this film is as torturous as listening to Westlife. So in case you haven't caught on yet, AVOID THIS FILM. "},{"Title":"Speed 2 Cruise Control","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"34 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sad sequel to the early 90's hit with Bullock and Patrick playing a vacationing couple who save the day when a madman  (overbearing and overacting Willem Dafoe) commandeers their cruise ship. Director Jan DeBont still pours energy into the effects, but the story and performances lack that polish and care.  "}{"Title":"Forced to watch...","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Even though I write this review almost seven years after viewing, I have to alert anyone who might be interested in renting or buying this heap. Surely this movie still can't be rented? Please, don't waste your money, just stick with the first Speed and walk away slowly.At the time I was a projectionist for the movie theater where I worked. I had to watch this film to make sure the print was in good condition and that I put it together correctly. The only thing that made it worth seeing? I guess is that I was on the clock while watching. This movie was terrible and very uninteresting.OK, the first Speed was exciting and interesting. Keanau Reeves is dopey, but he does give cool-headed action hero quality to his characters. So does he show up in the sequel? No. I'm sure he read the script or saw SOME red flag that made him think, Walk away slowly. Perhaps he had other commitments. Either way he was fortunate enough to not be involved in this wreck. The villain, Willem Dafoe, is just not convincing (Ooooh, he's a disgruntled computer programmer!). Jason Patrick's character seems to be a cardboard stand-up, and Sandra Bullock gives classic lines like, Oh man!. The end sequence DOES have an impact, but they drag it out SO LONG that I started laughing! I mean, one minute would have been cool to see all that destruction, but FIVE MINUTES of crashing?!? It might look cool to a six or seven year old (maybe a preteen), but for me it was a barrel of laughs...and this isn't suppose to be a comedy. "},{"Title":"I actually wanted to die while watching this...","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" The worst thing about a movie on a bus is that you can't escape from it. All the worst movies I've ever seen have been viewed on a bus, but this one outranks even Pearl Harbor.While I haven't seen the first Speed, I have heard that is a superb film. The idea of a bus that cannot slow down without exploding is indeed terrifying. Somehow, the idea of a cruise ship in the middle of the ocean is not nearly as chilling. In fact, it is very poor.Nothing seems to work in this movie. The leading man is uncharismatic and wooden, the villain is pitiful, the heroine is extremely unfunny and vapid and the little deaf girl is just a ploy for sympathy, which fails miserably.The script is so awful it defies logic. A series of jokes falls flat (why is the destruction of an entire community at the end supposed to be portrayed as funny? All the stupid jokes they try and make during its destruction seem to indicate they were trying to be comedic.) and the romantic element is below average. The guy telling the girl his police badge number to show his love will not exactly surpass Romeo and Juliet.The villain's motive is never explained, unless I missed that while trying to gnaw through my wrists, and is appalling at best.Overall, unless you want to torture yourself, give this steaming pile of tripe a miss.0/10 if I could. "},{"Title":"Seasick?  You're Not The Only One!","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I heard the terrible reviews for this movie, but I decided to give it a try, mostly because of Sandra Bullock and Jason Patric, but even their on-screen chemistry could not save it. Why did they even bother to make a sequel? SPEED was a once-in-a-lifetime experience, where everything magically worked. SPEED 2 CRUISE CONTROL, on the other hand, seemed destined for self-destruction from the minute it was put into production. I have nothing but respect and admiration for Jason Patric, an intelligent, underrated actor, whose performances are outstanding, but he is obviously so far out of his element here, the viewer picks up on his disinterest and listlessness like a skin rash. What was he doing, paying off a debt? Sandra Bullock is a great lady, but her character is somewhat annoying here, and not really given much to work with. I can see why Keanu Reeves turned this masterpiece of waste down, and why both Bullock and Patric regret this project. Willem DaFoe, to his credit, tries hard as the villain, but he is just an unintentionally comic and moronic madman, and the rest of the characters are cardboard cutouts. Where's Dennis Hopper when you need him? An action-packed thriller? A love story? How about just a severe case of seasickness? Eeeeewwwwwwww . . . . . . Watch this one if you have a strong stomach, are half asleep, or if you need to kill time. Get out the barf bags! "},{"Title":"A Lame Sequel To A Great Film","Date":"7 August 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" This film is called speed 2cruise control one may wonder where is tom cruise but thank god he was not the first film had Keanu Reeves he backed out & the script was rewritten the reason he rejected this film is none other then the bad story plus it was based on sea its just something that never worked if anyone remembers Steven Seagal's under-siege it was about the bad guys taking over the ship and hero has to clear the ship but this is a different film,plus why even the director made this the first installment is amazing,the only reason anyone would like to see this is Sandra bullock & Willem Dafoe.It is basically the same thing repeated the main villains intentions & why he does try to blow the ship up is just like first part of Dennis Hopper the villain again gets cheated & now he wants revenge, my question to the directer as an audience member is why did he do it,was it because he couldn't handle the success of his first film & he wanted more of it.The Plota computer genius John Geiger feels cheated because he was fired he also designed the ship system he wants revenge,this is easy for him to alter the things in the cruise ship so it would malfunction & blow up but Alex Shaw & Annie are on board too they Will try their best to stop him.The action i have to say something nice the motorcycle chase in the starting & the climax when the cruise hits all the houses on the shore, is done very well here but the whole titanic stuff & water thing don't work its plus villain is a looser here.The CastJason Patric looks hot,Sandra Bullock is too cute but what was Willem Dafoe doing here this is one of his worst roles ever.Overall Speed 2Cruise Control 1997 was a desperate attempt by the filmmakers even Sandra Bullock later regretted it on being part of this film my rating for this is 2/10.its a lame sequel to the best film ever made watch speed 1994 again anytime guys but Skipp this it is not worth the time or money. "},{"Title":"Solid Main Course, Bad Dessert","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Why are so many sequels bad? One of the main reasons is that they were not planned until the first film became so successful. This success prompts movie studios to make a needless sequel in the hope that the name alone will draw big bags of currency. These sequels are often bad because the originals did not leave any space for another movie. Speed 2 Cruise Control is a sequel in name only. It cost nearly four times as much as Speed although its earnings were significantly lower. No link exists in setting and plot, and the premises are completely different.Sandra Bullock reprises her role as the lovable Annie Porter, this time with Jason Patric playing her boyfriend. The dialogue explains that she broke up with Keanu Reeves' character from the first film for a number of reasons, but the real reason is that Reeves did not want to make a sequel. A bald Joe Morton and Glenn Plummer have cameos, but aside from that and a few humorous references to Speed there is no connection.Annie and her boyfriend Alex Shaw (Jason Patric) decide to go on a Caribbean cruise aboard the luxurious Seabourn Legend and have the bad luck to be on the same vessel with John Geiger (Willem Defoe). Geiger spent years designing the computer systems on the ships and can take control from his laptop. He is bitter because his exposure to the computers gave him severe copper poisoning and the company fired him when they found out. He now takes several prescriptions and carries a jar of leeches to suck the copper from his blood. Apparently nobody learned from George Washington's death.After murdering the Seabourn Legend's captain, Geiger sets off a series of smoke bombs, conveniently hidden in his golf clubs, and gives the first mate (Temuera Morrison) fifteen minutes to evacuate. This proves to not be enough time, but Geiger restarts the engine anyway, and sets it on a collision course with a colossal oil tanker.Willem Defoe, The Man with the Golden Laugh, comes through with a rock solid performance once again. He is funny, charming, and extremely weird. Take for example when he vents towards the ship's captain. He sates, That's what really infuriates me, you don't even know what I'm talking about! in a voice of anguish that does not sound normal. Nothing about Geiger is normal. I felt sorry for him, but not enough to justify his actions. After seeing this and Spider-Man, my dad wondered out loud if Defoe could go into public places without getting funny looks.The action onboard the ship is the film's best in concepts, execution and intensity. Director Jan de Bont establishes many of the ship's sets so the layout seems familiar when the action starts. It is in the final half hour that the operation falls apart and loses its recommendation. It involves a nutty boat chase and a crash scene that is supposed to be amazing but is undermined by fake effects and jokes that seem inspired by Abbott and Costello.Another turn off may be the absurdity of the stunts, such as the sequence with the seaplane or the bit where Shaw floats mere feet away from one of the liner's propellers and eventually stops them with a cable. Speed 2 embraces its goofiness with pleasure, but overkill proves to be its undoing. It is certainly not one of the worst movies ever made, but it too often crosses the line into farce. "},{"Title":"This movie seemed to go wrong in every way that made the first movie great.","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I usually ignore critics when they bash movies and go see them anyway. So I honestly gave this movie a chance out of love for the first Speed. And it's out of love for the first movie that I must say that watching Speed 2 was two wasted hours of my life I'll never get back.The acting, though some tried hard to save the film, was embarrassing. The dialog was so horrible I had the urge to plug my ears through half the movie. The pathetic attempts at action scenes are sad enough to make you want to cry. And as the movie goes on you begin to recognize the plot. And that's because it's all been done before in the first movie.Like I stated before, I don't listen to critics. But for those of you who do, don't watch this movie. Go see the first. You'll thank me. "},{"Title":"Pretty good fodder for an MST-style party.","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Favorite parts?The lifeboat rescue scene. It seems like it takes half an hour to conclude this action scene. It was long enough for me to notice part of the problem. The soundtrack! Music is supposed to set the mood and blend into the film invisibly. The music chosen for this sequence, I suspect, should have been selected to incite pulse pounding nail-biting excitement. Instead, we are treated to a sad, tragedy-laden violin concerto appopriate akin to a funeral dirge. The non-sequitor was surrealistically hilarious.The beaching of the liner. The ocean liner grounds itself not 100 feet out to sea when the bottom of the boat wedges into the sand but OVER the beach and after it tears up the boardwalk taking out a few flimsy oceanfront hotels that would have been carried away a la Wizard of Oz by any respectable hurricane. The writers appear to have neglected that ocean liners don't skim on the surface of water like jet-skis. Even supposing it did, liners are triangular and would fall over if placed on a beach. Ya kinna defy the laws of physics, cap'n!Dreadful failed attempt at suspense. When big boats go bad they do it slowly. Yes it takes miles for a ship at full throttle to come to a stop, but the moment of tension occurs a good fifteen minutes before impact. After that, it's a matter of waiting for the inevitable. It's a matter of forlorn mourning, not edge-of-your-seat terror. Titanic captured this well. Speed 2 desperately tries to make a 30 mph crash have the same feel as a NASCAR crack-up. It just can't be done. To round out the rationale... The acting is wooden, our beloved steely bus driver of Speed has been replaced by a piece of arm candy that Jack would've thrown out the window. Jack supplanted by a generic cleft-chin Dudley Doright named Alex. The rest is recycled badly. A park bench with the Budweiser labels poking out from inside. "},{"Title":"This cruise is not a bus","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Jan de Bont wanted a continuation of the magistral action movie Speed. That was a bus!! But he also wanted an outstanding box-office without burning his craneo. Of course, he made one of the worst pim-pam-pum movies. What an insane nightmare!!Everyone does certainly a bad role. The story is terrifying, the carachters are simply, dull and insipid. The actors falls like leaves from a tree. Action without sense, I think.Speed was a great film. You felt like you were fixed to the chair. You swat with them. You cried with them. You felt in love with Sandra Bullock in that tube final scene. You kissed her. But, now, in that strange movie, you only want to sink and being in another place instead watching that... thing. So, remember, don´t forget to take the bus!!! "},{"Title":"How Dare They!!!","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Possibly the worst film ever made.  Not just from of the content of the film, but because the film makers wasted over 100 million dollars making the film whose best aspect is that it shares the same title as the original.Speed 2 consists of a two hour sequence of a bad story, supported by a lot of shallow acting and shocking dialogue.  The first half has the feeling and depth of an episode of the love boat.  Sandra Bullock displays the full range of her acting ability as she did in the first film, but this time the direction and script don't come to the rescue.  Teaming up with Sandra is Jason Patric, who is relatively uknown in big money holywood circles and he shows you why.  His acting is flat, shallow and uninteresting and most of the time you could care if he was water skiing naked off the back of the boat. From here the bad guy (Willem Defoe) starts to do his stuff and the show falls into a ramble of shodily put together events which seems to have little to do with each other or the script.At this point the director probably could have saved the film by playing off the acting skills of Willem Defoe in a head-to-head type matchup of skill and wits.  But the director chooses the special effects path for the film to take and wastes the characters of Willem Defoe and Tumuera Morrison and instead of running away to a speay climax, the film slows to a halt with a scene that explain where the majority of the film budget disappeared to.All I can say is  How dare people waste the sort of money that goes into a such as this!! Was it made as a joke by some hollywood producer to laugh in the faces of smalltime unsigned film makers who could make 50 decent films for the price of this one ? I guess we'll never really know, since all we have as an answer is the two hours of awfullness that sombody called a film. "},{"Title":"Another one of those sequels","Date":"23 December 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" You all know what I mean. No one has any original idea so they find a movie that was popular a few years back that did not necessarily need a sequel and then they make one with little thought going into it. Speed 2 Cruise Control is not only one of those movies, it might be the worst movie I have ever seen that did that. The film stars Sandra Bullock, reprising her role from the original Speed, and a new male lead played by Jason Patric, taking over for Keanu Reeves who smartly bailed out. The villain is played by Willem Dafoe who once worked for the company that made the cruise ship's autopilot and was fired when he became sick. With revenge on the mind, he takes control of the cruise ship and plans to crash it all to get revenge and steal some jewelry.As part of their anniversary, Alex (Patric) and Annie (Bullock) go on a Caribbean Cruise. The film's antagonist John Geiger (Dafoe), takes control of the ship and forces the crew and passengers to abandon ship on threat of blowing the ship up. A small group of passengers and crew are left on board and it's up to Alex, Annie, first mate Juliano (Tempura Morrison), and the small remainder of the crew to stop the cruise ship before it is forced to crash.A line that Bullock's character uses to describe her relationship with Alex is, We know nothing about each other. Ironically, that is how it is with the majority of the characters, including the two leads. The most we know about our leads is that they are in a relationship, Alex is a cop, Annie is a terrible driver, and any other detail that the audience might remember from Annie that we learned in the first Speed. The only character we get to know is Geiger and he is not very interesting. In the first Speed, we got to learn a little bit about some of the more minor characters on the bus such as Stephens (Alan Ruck), but in Speed 2 Cruise Control, at the most we either get to see who their family is or are told what their job is. We get nothing beyond that. The only character who might be a little memorable is the little girl named Drew (Christine Firkins) due to her being able to take care of herself better than most of the adults in the movie and her creepy line asking Alex to wait for her. Another problem with the film is the actors and the acting. Throughout the whole film, the actors seem uninterested and to not be on their A- game. Bullock is the most obvious example of this. While Bullock is a good actor, she was not trying and sounded more like a whiny child than a person who has been in a similar situation before and can be cool- headed. The next biggest problem is that the film is a one and a half hour story that is told in two hours. There is a chase between Alex and Geiger at the hour and ten minute mark where it could have ended the entire film then and there. However, the movie keeps going, the remainder of the time being filled up with the cruise ship having to avoid an oil tanker and then it crashing into a harbor-side town.With a story that over-stays its welcome, boring characters, weak usage of comic relief, lacking any tension, with a cliché ending and being overall stupid, Speed 2 Cruise Control is a prime example of movie sequels with little thought put into it. I will say that one positive thing is that it does not feel like it insults the audience, but that is about it. My advise? Watch Speed and stay as far away from this as you can. "}{"Title":"two thumbs down!","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  this was one of the worst action movie I ever saw.First of all,I never heard of a guy named Jason patric and I was quiet dissapointed because Keanu Reeves was'nt there,there was'nt much action in it.This was like a titanic movie.You only see people running around,screaming like maniacs and dying on the ship that was going really fast.I give this movie a 3/10. "},{"Title":"Starts Out Decent, Then Gets Blown To Bits.","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert were the only film critics that gave Speed 2 thumbs up. I think they were the only ones in the world that liked it. If not for them, this movie would have 0% on Rotten Tomatoes instead of the 3% it does have. I can see them liking some aspects and some parts, but both guys actually thinking this was a good movie is beyond me. Honestly, I found this movie worse than Batman & Robin. Batman & Robin tried to be cheesy and kiddie, but it accidentally crossed the line between fun and stupidity. That movie's weirdness just got old after a while and was actually fun in many parts. Speed 2 was not comical and did not become old after a while. Here's what happens, Sandra Bullock and Jason Patric go on a cruise were madman Willem Dafoe uses crazy computer schemes to blow everything up. Sounds good and fresh right? The first half-hour actually is good. People having fun on a cruise, Jason Patric going to propose to Sandra Bullock. When the movie switches gears by becoming more of an action movie as Dafoe hijacks the ship, that is when everything becomes very bad very quickly. If the movie would have stayed the way it was the first little bit, I would have liked this movie just as much as Siskel and Ebert. But nobody knew a ship being taken over would not work, that idea hasn't been done a whole lot and when it has been done, it turns out to be a success. The main problem with is the acting and dialogue (the two are in conjunction in this case). Sandra Bullock is one of Hollywood's best actresses who does a mega crappy job in this. Jason Patric started off okay, but the gear switching made him just as bad as his on-screen girlfriend. Everybody else in this movie is just as bad. The saviour is Willem Dafoe. He was the only reason I did not just turn off my TV. Dafoe is an awesome actor who nails this as an insane computer hacker. But even he got stuck with some poorly written dialogue. Some of the destructive scenes on the ship and filming techniques are actually pretty good, until a dumb character blurts out laughable material. But eventually, even the disaster scenes become boring and the CGI becomes funny too. "},{"Title":"A speed that really decelerates in an incredibly bad sequel","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Speed 2, in my opinion is probably the worst sequel to a film I've ever seen. Everyone should of passed on this. This lacks so much so many qualities and attributes that the first didn't. There's no terror and suspense at all, even though we know this ship is on a collision course. Most of the film is shot in dark too. Mad hacker John Geiger (Dafoe) who's looked better, has hacked into the control system on this cruise ship, that just so happens to have the annoying Bullock on board with her new Beau (Patric, totally wasted) sending it on a course with death, if he doesn't get his ransom of moolah. Geiger isn't fearing death either, as he is dying from a cancer, his pet worms his real only friends, and also a cure for his pain. Dafoe goes all out with his character, showing us why he's one of those special great character acting talents, where Patric almost looks as though he did out this of desperation for work. When the cruise ship smashes into that makeshift harbor and condos near the end, that part is good for two reasons. 1, it looks really cool, as we wonder where the liner's actually stop, and 2, it's the end. Thank god it's the end of this franchise, but then again, you don't really know what the future holds. "},{"Title":"Need Sequel Control...","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Sandra Bullock returns as Annie Porter, who, along with her fiancée officer Alex Shaw(Jason Patric) are on a romantic cruise liner which is (of course) hijacked by a deranged computer programmer(Willem Dafoe) out for revenge against his company, and wants to use the SeaBourn Legend as the instrument of revenge. Can Annie and Alex stop him? Unbelievably awful film is one of the most inferior sequels ever made. Idiotic plot, poor editing and direction(Jan De Bont) and a bizarrely different portrayal of Annie that is most unappealing(What went wrong between her and Jack Traven I wonder?) Jason Patric tries, but dreadful film is a sinking ship that he can't save.A total disaster. "},{"Title":"a","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Usually I do not comment any movies, but after watching this film, I feel irritated and in need to write down my opinion. This is probably the worst movie, I have ever seen in my life. Speed was very successful and I know, that sequels are not as good as prime movies, but Speed 2 is beneath criticism. It is so unreal with so many mistakes, stupid dialogs and comments, thus at the end of it, you feel like you have wasted two hours of your life. I am very sorry that actors like Bullock and Dafoe even considered to play a role in so-called thriller...Best wishes,Damir "},{"Title":"Utter nonsense that even Sandra Bullock can't save","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I caught this by chance on TV and rewatched it for no reason other than the presence of the usually entertaining and endearing Sandra Bullock. But not even she can stop this ship from crashing!The scriptwriter(s) must have had the easiest time of their lives writing this. Every other line seems to be characters describing what's just happened. A huge digital display shows that the ship's slowing down next line, We're slowing down! A character fires a spear gun at a plane next line, He's firing at the plane!Willem Dafoe seems to be on board the project solely for a nice Caribbean holiday - his boggle-eyed psycho is a joke, ranting and raving and cackling manically like someone from a cartoon. Jason Patric, normally a fairly decent actor, is out of his depth with lines that are mostly monosyllabic gems like Stop! or Look out! or Down here! Even Sandra Bullock takes her 'sweet and quirky' role from the first film and overplays it, turning Annie into a hyperactive idiot who needs everything explaining to her, even concepts as simple as 'crashing the ship will be a very bad thing'. Despite Bullock being the star, poor Annie is reduced to 'The Girl', incapable of doing anything without a man's help - a horrible comedown from Speed where she performed heroically under pressure.Not even the effects can save it; the CG ship that so much time and money was spent on creating a decade ago now looks like a plastic toy by modern standards, no more realistic than the models seen briefly in a clip from 'The Enemy Below'. (Filmmakers should always be very careful about referencing a much better film in their movies, as comparisons *will* be made!) "},{"Title":"Speed 2 Snooze Control","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Where Speed grabs you and doesn't let you go, Speed 2 fails at the first hurdle, it simply doesn't have to let you go, because it never grabs you.Taking the principle used in the first film, simply doesn't translate to the water. The tension just isn't there anymore, its that simple.Speed 2, is not worthy of carrying the title that connects it to such a good film as speed.If you've ever been tempted by this, resist, i implore you, watch the first film again instead. This isn't worthy of your time, even if it costs you nothing.3/10 "},{"Title":"The Best Film Ever (just kidding!)","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  ***WARNING THIS COMMENT CONTAINS SPOILERS AND SHOULDN'T BE READ BY ANYONE*** IF YOU DID NOT SEE THE MOVIE DON'T SEE IT, IF YOU SAW THIS MOVIE, YOU KNOW HOW BAD IT IS SO YOU DON'T HAVE TO READ THE COMMENT TO KNOW THAT*** Film NameSpeed 2 Cruise Control Starring (I prefer not-starring because the acting is so horrible it makes the stars disappear form the sky)  Sandra Bullock , Jason Patrick , Where the hell is Reeves?? Speed (1994) was a great movie and you know almost all the time great movies has a bad, very bad, very very very bad sequels/prequels/spin-offs/adaptations, luckily I didn't see the movie in the cinema (I'd rather kill my self than wasting 10 Bucks on it, actually the maker should pay me 10$ for seeing it, actually no I would not sell my soul for 90 minutes just for 10$ without the ability to runaway), so I saw it on TMC (the movie channel if you don't know). It started like every other movie, then things went wrong horribly wrong, it seemed to me that the movie is falling apart (whatever that is) the weakness points in this movie are the following * Bad Acting * Worse Story * Even worse acting * Keanu Reeves does not act (it would've killed his career like what happened to the stars. The best part of the movie are the credits (when it ends yaa!) If you got this far reading my comment and you still want to see the movie, see five minutes every day it will pass the pain easily.astroKiller - I'm Not A Critic - I just say whatever I want!  "},{"Title":"Like watching paint dry","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  When I saw this at the pictures, it did originally come across as an exciting film plenty of action, suspense, humour and feasible storyline.But, I have to say having seen the film a few times, Jason Patric is awful and fails miserably to step into the shoes of Keannu Reeves. The original Speed film has everything that this film is missing.The script is very poor. I know that it's supposed to be juxtaposition to the first Speed film but some of the scenes towards the end are like watching paint dry - the action is so slow.  "},{"Title":"Fun!!!","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I don't know why people hate this movie so much. It's a fun explosive time. It may not be as good as the original but it's still better than most sequils. Sure some of the situations may not be believable,chainsaw and dangling a few feet away from the propeller, but that's what make action movies fun. I love Sandra Bullock so this movie couldn't suffer too bad. She did get some laughs out of me in the opening scene especially with the pepper spray line. The special effects were very good since it had a $110 million budget. The ending action was great. So I would recommend this movie for anyone who wants to have a good time. Just turn off your brain. "}{"Title":"Poor storyline - Okay acting - Overall, an extremely ordinary film","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I didn't expect much from this film because the rating on IMDb was so low, but I just thought people were being overly harsh critics toward this movie because it slightly didn't live up to the expectation of the first Speed movie; turns out, the rating is actually quite generous for what the film is as a whole. The movie started off okay and at a steady pace, and I was somewhat enjoying it! Then as the movie progressed, section by section, it rapidly declined and I was constantly checking the runtime to see how long the movie had left, because I wanted it to be over. The storyline was so sloppy, uninteresting, and there was little to no character development. I didn't grow attached to one character; not one. That's sad. Toward the end of this movie, I actually started to root for the bad guy, John Geiger (Willem Dafoe). As sadistic as it sounds, I was hoping the cruise ship would collide front on with the oil tanker at full speed so they both exploded, and Dafoe would get away with his jewels and live happily ever after. You know a movie is pretty ordinary if you're not rooting for the good guys, and you want a disastrous ending instead of a happy one. At least it would have made the movie somewhat exciting. And what was with the scene where the cruise ship became beached on the towns edge? It was just a little excessive. For how little the ship actually went inland, it seemed like it went at least a km, because it dragged on for quite a long time. Also, was the entire township made with a wooden ground? The ship was at least 50 meters past the docking area and wooden planks were still being ripped up by the ship. I don't understand... I don't plan on ever watching this movie ever again, because there are better ways to spend 120 minutes.. In all honesty, this movie went for 2 hours and 1 minute too long, though still not the worst movie I have ever watched. I'll be generous and give this movie a 3/10 "},{"Title":"Speed 2 Idiot Control","Date":"28 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" This film is as stupid as a ship that's trying to leave port but they forgot to take the anchor off first, Keanu Reeves made the right career decision to not return for the sequel to the 1994 blockbuster hit film which by the way leads to a big problem as it's like Die Hard but without John McClane, instead we have to make do with a very boring and poor substitute lead hero Officer Alex Shaw played by Jason Patric. Sandra Bullock on the other hand respires her role as Annie but she has since regretted returning to this complete mess of a sequel.Where do I begin? Well first of all there's a scene where Sandra Bullock's character is using a chainsaw to free many trapped people on the ship, why there's a chainsaw on a cruise ship beats me. But after making an opening for them, she's still got the chainsaw on hand and she's got it rather too close to the trapped guy on front, are you f****** crazy? Could have gone full on Texas Chain Saw Massacre on that guy and she's like Duuuurrrr. It's like they turned her character into an idiot while in the original film she wasn't that stupid.The action was very campy, most of the characters are very bad with poor acting, it lacks the seriousness which the original film had and worst of all it's like the people who were making this movie had no clue what they were doing. There obviously was no quality control whatsoever.It just blows my mind that this awful movie is a sequel to an awesome movie and this film is often regarded as one of the worst sequel movies ever. I suggest that you should at least watch the excellent Speed and the Father Ted episode Speed 3, the latter of which is still miles better than Speed 2. "},{"Title":"Not As Bad As Some Reviews","Date":"2 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I'll admit from the off, that I am bias. I love Sandra Bullock. With her gorgeous girl next door looks, I adore her, and will usually give anything she is in a chance. Hence I recently watched the universally panned Speed 2Plot In A Paragraph Annie (Sandra Bullock) and her new beau Alex (Jason Patrick, who I last saw in Lost Boys) are taking a vacation in the Caribbean aboard a luxury cruise ship, which is hijacked by a villain (Willem Defoe) who hacked into the ship's computer system. As they are trapped aboard the ship, Annie and Alex work with the ship's first officer (The guy who plays Jango Fett in Star Wars) to try to stop the ship, which they discover is programmed to crash into an oil tanker.OK is it as bad as people say?? No it's far from it. It just doesn't live up to the first movie. A lot of sequels suffer from that problem. Had this movie just being called Cruise Control and references to the first movie dropped, it may have done better. To put it simply, this is just another routine action movie. The film's final scene, where the ship crashes into the island of Saint Martin, cost $25 million of the film's $160 million budget (which is more than the entire production budget of the first film)As for Sandra Bullock (who agreed to star in this film in order to get financing for her pet project Hope Floats) she remains one of the most talented and beautiful women in movies, and her ladylike sexiness is in rare supply. Any movie becomes promising just by having her name in it's cast. "},{"Title":"Speed 2 sinks to the bottom of the ocean.","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Speed 2 Cruise Control earns its spot as one of the worst sequels of all time, right amongst such ill fated sequels including but not limited to Superman IV The Quest for Peace (1987), Jaws The Revenge (1987), Rocky V (1990), Robocop 3 (1993), Batman and Robin (1997), Mortal Kombat Annihilation (1997), and A Good Day to Die Hard (2013). Riding from the success of the 1994 action blockbuster Speed, the question on everybody's lips were When is there going to be a Speed 2? The answer, the box office bomb Speed 2 Cruise Control which was a critical and commercial failure.Keanu Reeves wisely passed on the sequel which turned out to be an excellent career move. Sandra Bullock returns in her role as Annie from the first movie. This time her new boyfriend Alex Shaw (Jason Patric) is also an LAPD SWAT officer who is also a thrill seeking motorbike riding daredevil, but has opted to keep his career a secret from Annie, instead telling her he is a beach patrol officer. Alex has bought 2 tickets for him and Annie to go on a Caribbean cruise aboard the Seabourn Legend. Unfortunately for Alex and Annie, the Seabourn Legend has been taken over by a disgruntled computer engineer John Geiger (Willem Dafoe) who has sabotaged the ship as revenge against the company which terminated him when he became ill as well as stealing the diamonds on board the ship. Annie and Alex, who have been caught up in the wrong place at the wrong time, must stop Geiger from successfully executing his plan as well as save the passengers on board the ship.Unlike the fast moving action blockbuster Speed, Speed 2 is absolute nonsense that just milked from the success of Speed. The excitement level is minimal compared to the first movie and it lacks all the thrills from the first movie. The stunts are unrealistic and the action sequences are of a below average standard. The dialogue including many of the one liners are also pathetic. I've noticed that the violence had been watered down and bubble gum action has been substituted.Jason Patric is a poor substitute for Keanu Reeves as the lead hero. He was just lame. Sandra Bullock had more character in the first movie, here she is screechingly irritating. I don't blame her in the slightest for her later admissions of regretting to return to this dud of a sequel. Willem Dafoe is the only redeeming feature of the movie as the main villain Geiger. He chews up every scene he is in and he saves this movie from being a complete dud. Speed 2 has harmed Jan DeBont's career as a director and since then he has followed up with the box office flops The Haunting (1999), and Lara Croft Tomb Raider The Cradle of Life (2003). Since then he has disappeared off the radar.It's no surprise that Speed 2 Cruise Control has the dishonour of making every list featuring the worst sequels in history. I don't blame fans of the first Speed who would rather banish Speed 2 Cruise Control from their memory and treat it like it never existed.If you want an exciting action movie, stick with the first Speed. Speed 2 Cruise Control is a disappointing movie that sinks to the bottom of the ocean.3/10. "},{"Title":"I Had To Go To Therapy For What You Guys Did!","Date":"19 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Director Jan DeBont returns with the movie Speed 2 Cruise Control. The film is about Annie Porter played by Sandra Bullock goes on a cruise ship with her boyfriend Alex played by Jason Patric. But not all goes well as a criminal mastermind played by Willam DaFofe who sets the cruse ship on the course of destruction. The film is not that bad but is nowhere near as good as the first but the cast is first rate and the suspense is well done. I recommend it.Rated PG-13 For Frenetic Disastor Action And Violence.2hrs 5min/125min.***/**** "},{"Title":"Yep, a cheesy movie","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I must say, I'm glad I didn't pay money to see this. My brother taped it, and it's downright cheesy! I believe it has no relation to the first Speed except that Sandra Bullock's character is here. The opening chase scene is quite pointless and does absolutely nothing. At the end the ship starts to be destroyed when it hits the dock, and guess who escapes? Yeah, the villian! (only to be killed in a plane crash) It seems like an episode of some bad hour-long action show. Sandra Bullock is annoying and complains a lot, saying the ship hijacking is ruining her vacation. Little character development too.And another thing, why oh why, didn't he just shoot the villian when he was behind the window?! I'm sure the bullets would have gone through, as in The Godfather. A 3/10. Sandra Bullock doesn't deserve to be in films like this and Two Week's Notice. "},{"Title":"One of the worst ever","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  There is a reason that this film ranks on the all-time stinker list. I saw it for the first time the other day and I have to say it is the worst film I have seen since attack of the killer tomatoes do your self a favor and do not put yourself through the pain of watching this film... "},{"Title":"utterly woeful","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The only impressive thing about this film is that someone actually funded it.I'm a huge fan of the first, but this was really scraping the bottom of the sequel barrel. A ship that big managing to get that close into shore? Riiiight.Not even worth a weekly video rental. 1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"'Speed' meets 'The Poseidon Adventure'","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Jan De Bont's sequel to the highly successful 'Speed' rates a distant second. Like all sequels comparisons will be made to the original but the only link to 'Speed' is Sandra Bullock. This film is more reminicient of 'Under Siege' and 'The Poseidon Adventure' than it's namesake. Bullock is now dating Jason Patric (after she dumped Keanu Reeves) and he takes her onto a cruise ship - hoping to propose to her. On board is Willem DeFoe - a disgruntled ex-employee of the cruise liner company who is now terminally ill - now seeks revenge. The Captain is killed, the ship shudders and the passengers panic. Most of the passengers escape via lifeboats but those few (including a deaf girl who didn't hear the sirens) remain on board - the ship now bound for an oil tanker. It is up to resourseful Bullock and hunky Patric to save the day. Bullock plays her usual spunky self in this film. Patric (who has never been in a commercial film since 'The Lost Boys') plays the heroic role admirably. Willem DeFoe sneers constantly. Temuera Morrison (last seen in 'Once Were Warriors'), Lois Chiles ('Evil Under The Sun', 'Sweet Liberty') and Colleen Camp ('Die Hard With A Vengeance' They All Laughed', ' Wayne's World') offer support as crew and passengers who remain on the doomed ship. OK viewing ****1/2 stars. "},{"Title":"Sucks","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" This movie was the worst I've ever seen. SPEED was good and had a lot of thrills and action sequences and kept you at the edge of your seat. SPEED 2, however, will push the seat cushion down causing you to fall a sleep. Don't ever rent it! keanu Reeves made a good decision not taking the roll or his career would be in s**t. "}{"Title":"Ok, I admit..","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I admit that this is not the best film ever made. I'm a huge Sandra Bullock fan, practically obsessed. This movie is no where near as good as the original, and I'd heard that before I rented it. None the less I saw it anyway, because it has Sandy in it. I wasn't disappointed because I knew it was bad, and it was. Sandra looked gorgeous, as always, but if Keanu Reeves was in it, it would have been a little better.What I don't understand is all these negative people saying YUCK! Sandra's annoying, and this was worse than the first Blahdy blah! If you didn't like the first one, why see the second one!!! Serves you right. I didn't think it was as bad as some of the things I've seen. I didn't find the action scenes as exciting as the first, but it was ok.I think Sandra Bullock acted what she could, and she made it better then it would have been without her. I may be young, but I understand things like this. If I had to rate it out of ten.. I'd give it.. 4/10. "},{"Title":"What works for Back to the Future doesn't here","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  There is a special quality some movies have when they defy realism and get away with it.  You are asked to suspend your beliefs and understanding of all sciences and you gladly do it since such movies have THAT quality.This movie was certainly NOT one of them.From some flakey acting (Bullock excepted) to a wafer thin plot to a complete rewrite of physical laws that would make old Looney Toons cartoons seem plausable, I was unimpressed.  "},{"Title":"De Bont is out of control!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Do not let the title fool you, Tom Cruise is NOT in Speed 2 Cruise Control. He´s a smart guy. Sandra Bullock proves that she´s the opposite when it comes to choosing parts. Her excuse to why she signed up for this movie was that she wanted to do Jan De Bont a favor, since she got her big breakthrough in Speed, which he also directed. I don´t really buy Sandra´s lame excuse. Does she mean that, since De Bont gave her career a big boost, he´s allowed to ruin it as well? After a few years, Sandra has managed to get up on her feet again, but she had big problems to find good parts at first. This is pretty understandable, because Speed 2 Cruise Control is really terrible.Here, Sandra has a new boyfriend, played by Jason Patric. That´s because Keanu Reeves decided not to reprise his role from the first film (wise move, Keanu). Anyway, when Sandra and Jason goes on a cruise to the Caribians to relax, a madman (Willem Dafoe) takes control of the ship. But Sandra´s new boyfriend is a SWAT-member, just as Keanu was, and he decides to stop the terrorist on his own.Speed 2 Cruise Control is too long, the effects are laughable and the characters are some of the most irritating ever created. Pretty soon, you´ll wish that the whole ship would just sink, like Titanic. If the ship would have sunk, the film would´ve been great. You can see that the film has a big budget, and the people behind it obviously had high expectations of it, since it´s the sequel of a very good film. But it doesn´t have any of the exciting action that the first one had.Sandra Bullock is very annoying, Jason Patrick is way to dull to carry the film, and Willem Dafoe doesn´t do a good job either. All the supporting actors are just plain stupid. And the dutch director Jan De Bont only proves three things 1. that Speed was one time-hit, 2. that he should go back to the time when he was a cinematographer, where he´s done some very good work, and 3. that he sucks when it comes to writing good scripts.Speed 2 Cruise Control, is one of those films which I will never watch again in my entire life.* out of ***** "},{"Title":"121 wasted minutes","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Speed 2 took two hours of my life that I'll never get back. Two long, dull hours. The boat has energizer batteries--it just keeps going and going and going, even after it runs aground.  This movie keeps going and going and going, and it never really leaves the dock. This review is more entertaining than Speed 2. "},{"Title":"Certainly ludicrous, but it's fast-moving enough to hold one's attention.","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  ** out of ****Wow, this film along with Batman and Robin were perhaps the worst received big-budget sequels of the past decade.  Critics were mostly mixed over Speed 2, but audiences mostly panned it from left to right.  This is a surprise  the audiences actually hate a summer movie far more than the critics did.  Do I agree?  While I do say that this is an extremely unnecessary sequel and that it does take quite a while to get moving, when the action starts there's enough all-out carnage and disaster sequences to keep it entertaining enough to watch, despite the lame story.As a sequel, Speed 2 Cruise Control's link to its predecessor is tenuous at best.  Something tells me its reception would have been warmer had it decided to cut off its connection with the much loved original.  Sandra Bullock is pretty much the only similarity the two films have, as well as some crises involving vehicles, though of considerably different sizes.  As to where the first film involved a bus, this one's a cruise, and a big one at that.The movie begins with Annie Porter (Sandra Bullock) and Alex Shaw (Jason Patric) heading on a cruise for a vacation of sun and fun.  Unfortunately, there's a computer terroist on board, John Geiger (Willem Dafoe), who has a plan to hijack the ship and steal its jewels without anybody knowing. He plants devices all over the ship, causing havoc and it leads the crew to falsely believe there are fires on the ship, thus they must evacuate.As Geiger's plan unfolds, Shaw begins to realize Geiger is the one behind this and searches for him.  He then discovers Geiger's purpose, which is to ram the ship into an oil tanker.  With time running out, Shaw must find a way to veer the ship off its disastrous course.Speed 2 begins fairly slowly and it takes awhile to build up momentum.  The first few action scenes aren't particularly good, but some excitement is created when the crew discovers the ship's final destination.  So, for the last 45 minutes director Jan De Bont stages some well-executed action sequences (actually, it's pretty much non-stop in those lost 45 minutes) that rival the original in its pacing and outdoes it in size and scope.  De Bont basically tries to outdo himself.  In the original, a bus ran into a pile of cars.  In this film, a cruise rams into the port of a small town, destroying virtually everything in its path.  In the first movie, the bus explodes in grand fashion.  In this one, an oil tanker blows up in an even larger explosion.  With all this sound and fury, there's just something missing here the sense of frantic urgency due to the characters.Admittedly, in technical terms, the pacing is frenetic, but you don't particularly care for any of the characters all that much.  This new cast isn't likeable or developed well enough to elicit any real sympathy, unlike the passengers aboard the bus in the original.  The people whom we get to liking the most are a deaf girl and the second mate, but neither are given a chance to really make much of an impression other than be part of the visual spectacle.As I stated earlier, De Bont hasn't lost his flair for action scenes, but he needs a much better script to work with.  The plot's hardly worth mentioning and the dialogue isn't much better.  The worst must be when Annie escapes the grasps of Geiger, who starts shouting, Come back!  You're supposed to be my hostage!  Dear Lord, it's hard to imagine  anyone writing that without some self-parody in mind.The acting is serviceable.  Jason Patric makes a fairly effective action  hero when it comes to the physical work.  He just doesn't exude the charisma Keanu Reeves had.  He also takes the film far too seriously.  Sandra Bullock isn't that different from her previous performance as Annie Porter.  She's still the feisty, fun-loving girl who's out to have a good time.  She's okay in her role, but there's no chemistry between her and Patric.  Maybe it would have worked had the two been complete strangers on the cruise.  Willem Dafoe is quite bad as the villain.  He's among my favorite actors and it's a pain to see him relegated to a role this weak.  Basically, all he has to do is look menacing once in a while, and incompetent as well, which seems required out of movie villains in big summer blockbusters.It seems by now that the movie is considered a dud by virtually everyone.  Even actress Sandra Bullock has disowned it (though, methinks this had more to do with audience reaction and the box office numbers).  Still, there's enough visual spectacle to keep undemanding action fans satisfied.  The script is a true dud and the movie as a whole is still only middling at best, but at least the film acknowledges it's nothing great. "},{"Title":"$110 million down the tubes","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Wow. We know a movie is set to fail when our minds start wandering within 20 minutes. It was the case here. One of the MANY things that made the original work so well is terrific action, good characters and a great bad guy. This does the opposite. Silly action sequences, boring characters, and a dumb bad guy. Rumor has it that Bullock and Patrick did not get along during the filming of this, and they are not good enough actors to hide it. What a waste.  "},{"Title":"Out of Control","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  No where as good as Speed, the original.  Badly misses Dennis Hopper and Keanu Reeves.  Willem Dafoe is a fine actor but is no Hopper.  This is one movie theme that should have been left with the original. "},{"Title":"Hollywood got smart!","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Even though some people are still captivated by movies filled with action, but without any respectful plot -and they´re perfectly entitled to like whatever they want- I think Hollywood finally heard the majority of people´s criticism for going for the money without a serious attempt to produce a serious quality movie.That´s probably when they decided to get smart and began casting at least a recognized and proven star for their entertaining but mindless movies. Just like CON AIR and AIR FORCE ONE needed the help of John Malcovich and Glenn Close respectively, SPEED 2 needed the mercenary-like help of star William Dafoe.I don´t question Dafoe´s motives to enrol in this kind of cheesy project -I would also put up with some embarrassment for the alleged millions he cashed in with this movie- nor I question the producers for signing up a designated hitter to give the movie some credibility. What I do question is the taste and self esteem of those people older than 25 who really, really, really believe this movie had anything good in it. Hey! I still respect their opinion, but I certainly would tell my sister not to date them.Sandra Bullock is charming. True. Did that make her do well in this film? I don´t think so. She´s right to regret taking part in this sorrowful affair. The boat? the speed? the coincidences? Please! There are far better ways to defy common sense and make the viewer realize he/she is just being entertained, not necessarily by insulting his/her intelligence.William DaFoe...don´t feel bad! I would´ve done the same. Keep laughing behind closed doors! Other stars are doing it, why not you? "},{"Title":"Don't Watch This Dog Alone!","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Make sure there are people around to resusitate you when you either; 1 faint from disbelief at some of the incredibly ridiculous/impossible scenarios, or 2 start having difficulty breathing from laughing too much at this obvious comedy. 1000 words is too limiting to express what's wrong with this movie. If you don't really care about laws of physics, go see it.  If you are looking for a 'serious'thriller, beware! "},{"Title":"Well Shot","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Jan de Bont gave this movie a proper feel to it. I felt seasick the whole way through it  "}{"Title":"Most redundant sequel ever made?","Date":"7 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I know sequels are usually a lucrative business, and I know that you can keep pretty much any story going if you push hard enough, but honestly, what the hell can you add to the original Speed? Speed was about as done as a story can get, it had the most Hollywood ending in the history of Hollywood endings. The delightfully entertaining bad guy gets what was coming to him, a bunch of stuff explodes, the world is safe again and Keanu Reeves kisses a still hot Sandra Bullock, we got on with our lives. Then all of a sudden you get this follow-up, which is not only unnecessary but also seems to have an undying grudge against the original. It just takes everything that was cool about the first one and throws it straight out of the window. Why even call it Speed if the entire thing is set on a boat that goes about 5 mph? Exciting times. Why even call it Speed if you're just going to replace Keanu Reeves (he hated the script, what a rascal) with some D-lister who looks about as athletic as a bag of sawdust? Does the name Speed really sell that many extra tickets? Apparently not. I've got to say though, there's one scene in the movie that's almost good the part where the out-of-control ship just ploughs straight through a village. But even that's kinda ruined by the obvious scale models, so just forget I said that. Horrid in every single way. "},{"Title":"A complete shame in action movies!","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Speed 2 Cruise Control ranks with Batman and Robin as rubbish sequels that deserved to be flushed down the toilets and never be made into VHS or DVD's at all.Why did this sequel needed to be made? Where's Keanu Reeves? I know Sandra Bullock is a cutie, but Keanu really made the original Speed a top mark thriller where not only was it a original masterpiece of heroes, villains and memorable characters. Now Sandra Bullock reprises her role as Annie where instead of kind of calm, she's annoying and makes me want to kill myself.Instead of a bus, we have a boat now! Jeez, what can go wrong? After Annie's boyfriend Alex (Jason Patric) risks too many challenges on the job, she wants him to take a break on a cruise ship where all of their problems might go away. Think again. The new villain is played by eccentric and gifted actor Willem Dafoe in a waste where his mission is to blow up a ship just for the fun of it. Dennis Hopper's character in the first Speed was not only a sadistic maniac, but used his threats as a way of ransom. Not only did Hopper's character wanted money, but he wanted to show his accomplishment to prove that villains kick ass.Annie and Alex have to stop the new maniac and save everybody. It uses too much of the original movie where there's no spark to explode this piece of dung. "},{"Title":"Ouch","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" About the only good thing you can say about this film is that there are some beautiful scenery shots. Imagine you're on a cruise ship sitting by a deck pool, and ignore the insidiously absurd plot, and you just might be able to sit through this. Then again, no.Sandra Bullock, normally a fun actress to watch, even in silly movies, just looks painfully embarrassed in this mess. She's up against some heavy breathing guy who sweats profusely (even in air conditioned areas) and likes to taunt people with threats. He's ticked off at somebody, so he decides to blow a cruise ship to bits to exact revenge. It turns out he has another ulterior motive, but you'll find you really don't care, anyway.Who else but the hero of Speed should just happen to be aboard (with a new and very boring boyfriend since Keanu Reeves wisely nixed this one), and is the only person who has any plans to save the ship. Don't know about the ship, but even Sandra couldn't help the movie. Poorly contrived script, abysmal acting, unfunny one-liners, unconvincing action all play a part, but it can all be summed up briefly the film is just idiotic. Look for the ludicrous ultimate fate of an out-of-control cruise ship. Utterly preposterous. Yet, as if that wasn't enough, the movie then assaults you with some over-the-top wanna-be James Bond tomfoolery.Sandra would do well to omit this movie from her job resume. "},{"Title":"Worst film ever.","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" The single worst movie I have ever seen. Ever. First of all. Speed. On a boat? WHAT WERE YOU THINKING??? The first thing that annoyed me almost as much as Sandra's voice was her saying my ex-boyfriend Jack...my ex-boyfriend Jack... The second was who the hell is the bad guy??? He doesn't get an introduction, he doesn't get properly explained. He just IS the bad guy... why do we care? We're trying to watch the SEQUEL to Speed. The only thing it has in common with the first film character-wise is Annie, and her going on and on about her ex-boyfriend jack... I don't blame him for breaking up with her!!! She's so annoying!!! A sequel is supposed to be a developed version of the first one with roughly the same people, this only has Sandra Bullock. Its basically the same movie. On a boat. With bad acting, and a rubbish ending. I wish that I hadn't watched it. And the ending??? SO CHEESY!!! OK that was developed from the first, in a weird way, but it didn't work. It makes the first film look bad. The sequel could have been amazing someone getting revenge for Howard Payne, but not on a boat, there are enough forms of transport that go at high SPEED that they could have used instead. I think that it was to big of a coincidence that Jason Patric's character is in the LAPD with the same boss who is only in one scene. Wouldn't he know who Jack was? There was only one thing I liked about it the guy that Jack took the car from in the first movie is used again, but this time they're taking is boat! Apart from that I really didn't like it, I wish I hadn't watched it. Thats 121 minutes of my life I'll never get back. If you can avoid it then don't watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Just bad, pretty much any way you look at it","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" From the fact that Reeves himself turned down the opportunity to star in this sequel to the pitifully awful pun in the subtitle of the film, this is just so obviously a bad idea, and one with pretty poor execution, at that. The plot is silly, and a weak attempt at recapturing the essence of the first(which, in turn, was a somewhat half-hearted attempt at recreating that of Die Hard, a film that is far superior to either). Taking the idea(which basically originated in Die Hard... Speed just gave it a shot of, well, speed) out to sea was never a particularly interesting one(what does a colossal cruiser far out on the water have to offer that a bus that needs to keep a high speed on the freeway doesn't?), and what little potential it may have had is hardly utilized. The pacing is, much like that of the first, too intense. We aren't given time to stop and breathe, to take in all the(as a result, downright overwhelming) action. The acting, save for one or two parts, is unimpressive. Odd, seeing as such talented names are on the cast. Morrison and Dafoe have given quite good performances both before and after this film... heck, even Bullock has a fair acting job or two behind her. The dialog is dreadful. The characters are half-heartedly written. Why is Annie now such a crummy driver? In the first one, she was said to be fine behind the wheel. And who thought of adding that annoying Scotsman? Anyone who's seen the film will know what I mean. And no, it wasn't his nationality... it was all his character. The clichés return... the new villain also cackles, there's a new hero cop, and the damsel is, yet again, in distress. All in all, this probably shouldn't have been made at all, and it certainly shouldn't have been a sequel to Speed(which, while by no means great, was certainly a whole lot better than this). I recommend this to the fans of the first and of the Die Hard type films who *must* see it, no matter how bad they hear it is(you know who you are!). Everyone else should probably just avoid. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Stop making sequels Hollywood!","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  In 1994 we saw one of the best action movies ever;Speed. In 1997, we saw one of the worst sequels ever; Speed 2. Why does Hollywood think that just because they make one good movie, they have to somehow make another one that outdoes it. I was actually pretty shocked at how bad Speed 2 was. It was nothing like Speed because it wasn't non-stop action and excitement. You really didn't care what happened, it was also longer than Speed 1, something that happens rarely. I'd give Speed 2 a 2/10 just because I got to see more of Sandra Bullock. "},{"Title":"It sucked","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so horrible it was not even worth the gas money to go to BlockBuster and rent it.  I thought it would be halfway decent since the original Speed was a quality movie.  But I was wrong, Speed 2 Cruise Control was not a good movie at all, in fact it was very bad.  Nothing personal, but I'd fire the writer.   "},{"Title":"hey wheres reeves","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Hey wheres Reeves,did he dump her. now Sandra's with a different man. what the beeeeep! if Reeves couldn't make it for the second Speed movie, you  shouldn't have made it. "},{"Title":"Biggest piece of c**p!!!!","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Horrible script, horrible acting, horrible directing.  It is one of the worst action films I have ever seen.  I can't believe they made this film. What was Jan De Bont thinking!?  Everyone thought Keanu Reeves was an idiot turning this movie down.  But it looks like he made the smart move! "},{"Title":"How many ways exist for wasting your time? This is one...","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Usually n.2s are below the expectation and if you're looking for an exception watching Speed 2, you'll be surely deluded. A very poor plot, idiot up to irritating characters playing in improbable situations and without any respect of the physics of the objects metal becomes hard or fragile in accordance to the will of Jan de Bont. Luckily K. Reeves was not on this set. Don't waste your time it's better to watch once more Speed n.1!  "}{"Title":"One of the worst films ever!!!","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  When this film came to the theaters, my brother and friend convinced me to see this.  It is truly one of the biggest pieces of feces ever spawned from the Hollywood machine.  The only saving grace (although a minor one) is the over the top performance of Willem Dafoe, which is mildly amusing.  20th Century Fox should have to give me my $6.75 back.  Avoid this at all costs or falling into a catatonic stupor. "},{"Title":"My most painful movie experience","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I expected it to be bad. I expected it to be really bad. I didn't expect it to be so bad it was painful to watch. I caught myself wincing throughout most of it. This would have to be the most cliched, cheesy, predictable film I have ever seen.The special effects couldn't save this one. Sandra Bullock lost everything she gained from Speed, and then some...As I was watching the movie, I predicted each event and even found myself saying the lines VERBATIM before the characters did. I can't believe I sat through the whole thing - I guess I was stunned into stupidity. "},{"Title":"What a fun movie...To watch really late at night with a bunch of friends","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I wanted this movie late one night with a friend. It was on some movie channel and we had nothing better to do. At the very beginning we knew we were in for a treat. Every time an action piece occurred it was like we were watching the entire plot for a new movie. It was like the most epic piece of crap I had ever seen. I was amazed at how hard they had tried to make every scene so epic and important. We were rolling on the floor. Plus the entire plot can be summed up Boat can't stop. Much similar to the Speed before it Bus can't stop but without the good action and enjoyable popcorn feeling. This movie is pretty bad. Watch it with some friends one night when you need a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as it appears to be.","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"   I'm sure this movie was nowhere near good enough for those (and there are many), who thought that Speed was the most &#145;actionful' and 'suspenseful' movie of all time and I'm surely one of those. The original Speed was absolutely awesome, fantastic action scenes, over-the-to casting, directing, script and wonderful music. As for Speed 2, I have the idea that the producers and director thought that if they did another movie, based on the same material, although with different means, Elevator peril-----Motorcycle chase; Bus danger -----Boat Danger and Subway Danger-----Helicopter/ Tanker danger, would work out well. It didn't. Somehow it didn't, the movie is sometimes boring and slow, almost losing its way after 30 minutes in it. The special effects aren't top notch, and don't satisfact the viewer as much as their mission should. Anyway, it's an entertaining film starring once more the gorgeous beauty/genius Sandra Bullock and Jason Patric (replacing Keanu Reeves) and as his predecessor, fills the screen with beauty and charm.See it and (try) to enjoy it ------------------ 5/10  "},{"Title":"Disappointment comes to mind..","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is really sad. Speed was such a great movie, and then they make this as a sequel. Too bad really. I think this is the first big-budget-action-movie I've seen that I don't like. Needless to say, I usually find action-movies very entertaining. Don't really know what's wrong with this one though. I just didn't like it. Sorry. "},{"Title":" What a Piece....","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  What more can be said than awful. Ok, How about hideous, disgusting, vile, trite, pathetic, and utterly contrived. The first SPEED was bad enough, was there really a need for a sequel, and on a cruise ship, give me a freaking break. Even Keanu wouldn't star in this nightmare movie from hell, that's how truly awful it was. I almost wish I could sue the film company for the hour or so I wasted by watching it when it came on cable. It was like a car accident, no matter how hard I tried I couldn't look away. I practically needed a Silkwood shower after viewing it, and my cat is still have nightmares about it, he screams in his sleep now. I wish only there was a way to erase these things from my permanent memory, and movie history in general. "},{"Title":"What a load of Bullock","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This film truly is the pits. The script is awful, but Sandra Bullock's attempts at trying to give her part some character are laughable at times. So too are the action scenes which are frequently ludicrous. Steer clear at all costs, unless you want to laugh at it, not with it. This is what is known as a turkey.   "},{"Title":"What a horrible, shitty sequel to an awesome film! Disgraceful! A good example of a horrible sequel.","Date":"22 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" You can tell EXACTLY why Keanu turned it down and rejected Speed 2 even though he was offered a $12 million paycheck. Just watch the entire film and you'll see why it's flat out boring and lame. Unnecessary sequel. For me, that was a very wise move, Keanu! I would totally give him the props (bro fist) and five thumbs up, not for ditching Jan and Sandra but for criticizing the film's plot, setting and script. He knows what a horrible, shitty sequel is when he sees it. Even if Keanu returned as Jack, he would truly shine as Jack but that's not enough to save this movie. You're better off watching the first film. Great decision Keanu! You truly deserve a raise! Jason Patrick, although he does do his best to shine as Annie's new policeman fiancé, let's face it NOBODY, not even Jason can replace Keanu's role (no offence). Jack has just the right facial appearance and the right amount of mischief in his eyes to be a born heroic cop. He's the MAN! Although Sandra, Willem and director Jan try to prevent this already waterlogged sequel from sinking to the bottom of the ocean by inserting some twists and turns, a few action sequences and some laughable dialogue, the biggest flop of this sequel is the lack of thrill with a slow-moving cruise ship rather than a fast, wired-for-explosive-destruction bomb laden city bus zooming above 50 MPH through the streets of Los Angeles and ending up at the airport. Even when the ship crashes into a beach town of Saint Martin bringing it to a halt, look at how slow the ship is, even at full speed. It BARELY damaged the area. I mean, look at the substantial amount of deceleration in this film. It was slower and poorer, like a garbage truck or by watching paint dry. As soon as Kenau declined to reprise his role as Jack, Sandra (as Annie) should have followed. The director Jan could have done a better job at the plot line and setting like have Daniel Payne (Howard's son) avenge his father's death by rigging a huge C4 in the cargo area of a Boeing 737 that Jack, his wife Annie and their two sons are flying on vacation to Hawaii activate if it accelerates above 185 knots and ascends above 2300 feet (the captain or first officer gets injured leaving the other pilot to fly the plane with Jack and Annie assisting him. After ALL the hostages parachute to safety from the moving plane, the out of fuel Boeing 737 nosedives into the ground. Jack, Mac and Annie continue to defeat Daniel using a slightly different scam than from the first film. After Jack, Mac and Annie kill Daniel, they all head home into the sunset or eat pizza in a restaurant. That's more like what the plot should have been; on a fast moving vehicle, with Keanu and Sandra's characters married (they make such an adorable couple) and a few newcomer child actors for the two sons. This flopped sequel just killed the speed film franchise. I doubt there will ever be a Speed 3 (Keanu declined the possibility of a third film) and if there is and reunites Keanu and Sandy, I just hope they can still maintain their young looks from the '90s. Annie's character is significantly reduced here. Also, Glenn Plummer, Joe Morton and Sandra Bullock are the only ones to reprise. Jan should have abandoned the project for a sequel when Reeves quit. "},{"Title":"No Speed whatsoever","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Whoever said changing what works is the best idea for a sequel clearly never seen Speed 2Cruise Control. The only highlight of the film is that Sandra Bullock reprising her role as Anne.But as talented as Sandra Bullock is not even she could have saved this film. It follows the same formula as Speed did however this time the film take places on a cruise ship. Now whoever thought this was a good idea is clearly a king of fools.Willem Dafoe as John Geiger, the main antagonist in the film is just how could I put it? Not as smart or dangerous as Howard was in the last film.Speed 2 clearly was made to try and make a few bucks. While Sandra is a wonderful actress and Willem play a twisted character it just hard to find anything worth wild about this film.The acting is pretty much forced not one single out performance in this film. Very bored plot idea and the music is so so in the film.Perhaps the best thing about Speed 2 is that you can keep it all together and not feel guilty about it I give Speed 2 Cruise Control an 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I rather have Sandra Bullock by herself","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Annie Porter (Sandra Bullock) broke up with Jack. Relationships based on extreme circumstances rarely ever work. She's been dating a nice simple safe beach patrol cop Alex Shaw (Jason Patric) for the last 2 months. She runs into him taking a bad guy as a part of the SWAT team. He convinces her to go on a cruise to work out their relationship. John Geiger (Willem Dafoe) is a disgruntle employee who uses his computer skills and inside knowledge to hijack the ship sending it into danger. He forces the passengers to abandon ship. Not everybody gets out as deaf girl Drew is trapped in the elevator. Alex decides to stay behind when he suspects foul play.It's really bad that Jack doesn't return. It's like a Die Hard movie without John McClane. Honestly, if they can't get Keanu Reeves back, I rather have Sandra Bullock save the day by herself. The movie never recovers from it. The first Speed is a manufactured plot but the writing is so good that it never felt fake. This is the exact opposite. Every move in the story feels fake. The first one pulls the audience right in. This one never does. The final boat crash has tons of destruction but it's played almost exclusively for laughs. It feels more like a spoof. It's fun as light weight action goes but I stop caring about the movie long before that. "}{"Title":"Run It Over...Please!","Date":"2 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Speed 2 Cruise Control (1997) Dir Jan de Bont / Cast Jason Patric, Sandra Bullock, Willem Dafoe, Temuera Morrison, Colleen Camp Basically Speed on a boat only a lot stupider. The subtitle references driving a car and the idea that a terrorist is taking over a boat. Sandra Bullock reprises her role and is joined by Jason Patric who plays a cop. Willem Dafoe rigs a cruise ship with bombs that resemble golf balls. From there it is a mad panic to get off the ship (or leave the theatre pending on one's circumstance). Jan de Bont seems to have lost touch with his directing skill. His work in Speed showed great skill and a promising talent for directing action, but alas, nobody figured he fall this badly. Patric and Dafoe are frail images of Keanu Reeves and Dennis Hopper. Patric will rescue Bullock but who will rescue him from this morbid career choice? Dafoe has done better than this and he will hopefully overcome it. Bullock's whiny portrayal of Annie is unnerving. At one point she is even seen waving a chainsaw about. Perhaps she should have tested the blade on the script. What we have here is overspending to the highest degree to the point where a monster truck pile up on TV would be much more entertaining and less pathetic. While Speed is a clever action film with tense action and suspense, this sequel is embarrassing and unnecessary. It is a high budget piece of junk that should be used as shark bait. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"I liked it but Don't get why she disrespected Jack from the last one,","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" This movie was awesome! I am not really a movie critic as much as a movie lover, and it takes a really really bad movie to make me complain BUT, i entirely see where everyones disappointment is coming from. It was more of a money-maker than a real movie, it had no real point at all lol, and the coincidences were just beyond unimaginable. What i really didn't get is why she was bashing jack (Keanu Reeves) so much,, in the beginning she explains why she left him explaining that he was too insane and i didn't understand that, they had such a happy ending, should've never done that; was that the directors way of getting back at Reeves for not accepting the cast? Lol.. Anyways yeaz unless you like everything you watch, don't watch this! "},{"Title":"Flashes of potential, but too many flaws","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I first saw SPEED 2 CRUISE CONTROL at the cinema. I was at the tender age of 16, and I thought it was great action-packed, with great effects and a fun, DIE HARD-style storyline. Well, it still has all those things, but time has not been kind to SPEED 2, and watching as an adult I can see just how poor it is.The problem with the film is the infantile nature of the script, which sounds as if it's been deliberately written for children. Jason Patric's clunky leading man I can forgive, but the supporting characters and their lame comedy are excruciating. The porter and the Scottish guy are bad enough, but Sandra Bullock takes the biscuit with her repetitive attempts at light humour. If ever a film made you despise someone, it's Bullock in this.Otherwise, the story suffers from a little bloating and an ending that goes on way too long, but it does have some stuff to recommend it. The low rent action-man hijinks are a hoot, and Willem Dafoe is fantastic as the over-the-top villain, all teeth and hair and as crazy as he was in WILD AT HEART. The effects hold up pretty well, too.A shame, then, about the child-friendly nature of the production; had this been a proper, adult-focused outing along the lines of UNDER SIEGE it could have been a damn sight better. "},{"Title":"Speed 2 Cruisin' for a Bruisin'","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Speed 2 is an action film that kept my interest and wasn't nearly as bad as some reviewers have described. Sandra Bullock stars so that alone lead me to watch this move, and while this clearly isn't her best work she does a good job. I would have liked to have seen a little more humor in her role, although the early scenes with Tim Conway were funny. She and her boyfriend, an LA SWAT team member, are taking a cruise to get away from it all. In this sequel she once again picks a doomed vehicle to travel in. Willem Dafoe is a disgruntled former cruise line employee determined for revenge with his golf clubs and balls hiding bomb materials, something I've not seen before. There is plenty of action and some fine special effects. My wife and I both thought this move was well worth viewing if you like Sandra Bullock and you like action films without all the cursing that seems to come along with the newer films. All in all it is an interesting movie with a spectacular special effects finish. I rate it above average. "},{"Title":"Cheap Thrills.","Date":"19 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Willem Dafoe is a computer genius and madman with long greasy locks who takes over a huge cruise ship at sea, causes numerous crises, steals jewels from the ship's vault, and tries to run the ship up on the rocks.This is the kind of movie about a vehicle in jeopardy that, as the discerning viewer already knows, must have a sick child aboard. After the original helpless boy, in The High and the Mighty, the child must be a girl. Girls are more pitiful. She needs a kidney transplant or the transfusion of some rare blood type to save her life. Obviously there are going to be problems fitting this stereotypical sick child aboard a cruise ship. After all, if you're going to rush your kid someplace, you don't ordinarily put her aboard a cruise ship full of rich drunks, gamblers, and leisurely honeymooners like Sandra Bullock and Jason Patric. So this pretty little girl is made mute, deaf, and speechless, and she's trapped in the elevator on board a ship that appears to be on fire and sinking. That's the best the writers could come up with. I feel like apologizing for them.However, on the plus side, every other single action movie cliché that you can think of is on reckless display in this piece of dumbed-down and mentally dangerous garbage.Just take the sound track. There is an alarm bell constantly ringing in the background, overwhelming speech, even though everyone is shouting hysterically. (Except the mute little girl, of course, who must use sign language.) The music thumps and stomps most of the screams into oblivion. The camerman wobbles all over the place, probably drunk on excitement.During the first major crisis -- a lifeboat is hung up on the davits -- the editing is so lightning-fast -- a shot of a spinning winch, a terrified face, a cable snapping thread by thread, a body falling into the sea, arms waving, hands grasping for something just out of reach, an explosion of flashing lights, computer screens turning into a fireworks display, the director dashing momentarily in front of the camera and giving the audience the finger -- that you can't follow events. Each shot lasts for one blink of one eye, dashing past like muscae volitantes on speed, until they blend into one another and form a stupefying collage of abandoned movement.I rather liked the original Speed, which was thoroughly mindless enjoyment. This is bigger, faster, more expensive, stupider. You still want to watch it? Take some Dramamine and a good book along. "},{"Title":"Poor choice...","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" It was a poor choice among many to even entertain this sequel. If you were anything like me when this film released, a die-hard fan of the original, sure, you had some expectations, but you went in open-mindedly expecting something grand. Same director, Sandra Bullock? They must have figured out how to make this good without Keanu. But you were young then and this was your first lesson about the cautions one must take where sequels are concerned. Some stories just need to be left told. When they chose to replace the star character with another (played by an actor who was unintentionally and so incredibly upstaged by Sandra Bullock); when they replaced a speeding bus with a BOAT, completely undermining the whole concept, further adding insult to the title's singled-worded zinger...suspicions should have been raised. Maybe then this sadly disappointing flop wouldn't have stung so much. Fortunately, after the hurt subsided, you realized the movie was so incredibly estranged from the original in almost every possible way, that you'd subconsciously come to regard it as it's own entirely separate film. And you've moved on happily regarding 'Speed' as ONE of the greatest action flicks of its time. And that other film with a similar title is completely forgotten save for the part about you having seen it once.But I say, if you haven't seen it already, save yourself the emotional steps it will take to find happiness again and just give the first one another watch. I find I enjoy it every time. "},{"Title":"Speed Sequel a Shocker","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Whoa! What a shocker this film is. Speed 2 is as bad as Speed was good. The plot is pathetic and, I hate to say it, the acting is likewise. The action is not exciting, as DeBont tries to draw each sequence out too much. Even the music does not suit.Worst of all the movie's attributes is the cinematography. Most of the time it appears Jack N Green could not control his camera. The action sequences are confused by this and by the editing which snips from one shot to the next too rapidly. I could hardly tell what was going on half of the time; I didn't care either.Totally humourless too.Saturday, April 15, 2000 - Video "},{"Title":"There's this guy on deck 10 with  leeches in his cabin...........","Date":"8 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" If you have ever actually been on a cruise this movie will bring it all back.The perpetual intrusive chimes from the P.A.system,the faux poshness of Formal Dining,the incessant pushing of Art auctions or jewellery sales,the ingratiating staff angling for gratuities from the minute you step on board.............if you add to that the ever - present possibility that you will go down with some sort of virus that will run uncontrolled through the ship during your Holiday of a Lifetime then a maniac seizing control of the ship might almost be a welcome diversion. However,Mr Dafoe picked the wrong liner because Miss Bullock and Mr Patric were on board to foil his dastardly plan. Armed with bottles of leeches,enough computers to open a branch of PC World and a set of golf clubs(quite where he was going to play golf on a cruise liner is never made clear)that are merely disguised explosive devices,Mr Dafoe(in between laughing maniacally) sets about his task. One of the first things he does is lock a nosy Cabin Steward in a cupboard.Now that doesn't necessarily make him a bad guy,but when he throws the Captain overboard he oversteps the mark a tad. Speed 2 - cruise control suffers in comparison to its ship in trouble contemporary Titanic on every front.Mr Di Caprio and Miss Winslet may be irritating to anyone over the age of consent but Miss Bullock and her beau have an annoyance factor that is off the scale. She squeals and simpers when she should be swearing and snarling as he stalks the ship looking for a charisma implant. The climax has a gestation period of elephantine proportions and still the movie doesn't finish.It stutters along then tiredly flops to the end. The Seabourn Legend is a beautiful ship and I sincerely hope that neither she,nor any leeches, were harmed during the making of this movie. "},{"Title":"dull sequel to Speed","Date":"8 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Speed 2 is a dull thriller with little to recommend apart from a few nifty special effects. Sandra Bullock is game for the role but the terrible script leaves her without any support. Jason Patric, a replacement for Keanu Reeves has very little charisma and practically no chemistry with Bullock. The film is silly and is best enjoyed with one hand on the FF button along with a group of friends. It shouldn't take too much time to skip to the action scenes which are the sole saving grace of the film. As a sequel to the well crafted thriller Speed, Speed 2 is a massive letdown.Overall 3/10 "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"22 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" A waste of money in every way. Me and my friend rented it after having seen the first movie. It starts out like trash and continues in the same fashion through out the entire movie. Not only is the writing bad but the camera keeps moving like a little child with eyes on an ice cream is holding it. Most wont get trough the movie because they will end up sick in the process but if you do you will know for sure that it was one of the most wasted moments in your life. The actors shouldn't have been able to bounce back after this one. Keanu was smart enough to read the script and declined and so should everyone els who watched it. I tried to see this once again a few months ago when it was airing on TV and i was not mistaken from the first run. It is probably the only movie I've given a 1 to and i warn everyone to not watch this. "}{"Title":"My Heart Attack Will Go On...","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" A bad turn for an action movie series. The first one was great, and this one, not so much. The screenplay was bad, and ruined pretty much what the story could be. They also gave EVERYTHING away in the trailer. The casting was bad too, except for William Dafoe. Jason Patric was just a plain bad choice for the main character. Dafoe, however, is a notorious movie villain, and a good one too. Throughout this movie, all ports aren't suspicious of a cruise ship that's off-course, going faster than what it was built for, and won't make contact. Surprisingly, nobody does anything.And since the trailer gives everything away, strangely, when they crash up against the oil tanker or when they crash into land, NOBODY hangs on to anything. They all fall over onto objects, therefore increasing the injury rate on the ship. Also, there are annoying crew members all over the ship. Even if you stay in your cabin, they WILL find you....The directing was good, screenplay bad, and music good.I wouldn't be surprised if Seabourn lost some money after this... "},{"Title":"what?","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" When I saw this movie, I burst out laughing.. It was so bad..The original speed was brilliant but what is this all about? Some times the sequel to a movie is good if not even better but in this case it got worse. The problem was they tried to do the same thing they did with the first one with the second one.. yeah didn't really work. Not only was the movie boring but what happened to Keanu Reeves? I think it was pathetic that they had some one else play him or who ever the guy was supposed to be.I was disappointed by any one who dared have an input in this horrible movie...I loved speed but speed 2 was a waste of money and time! Personally Good bye Keanu Reeves means good bye speed 2. "},{"Title":"First time I was mad at an actress for stealing from me...","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Some are so bad that they are at least fun to watch. This was not.I knew I was in trouble from the beginning when Sandra Bullocks was taking a driving lesson from Tim Conway... Bad.Then she screeched through the whole plot (that should be HOLE plot) about a runaway ship. A ship of course that people couldn't jump off of because the prop would somehow suck you back... (are you kidding me) Then, when they finally figure out to use the bow thrusters to move them over, somehow the bow thruster doesn't simply keep them going into a circle... Geez...(I will not even get into the MILLION of possible ways a person can escape a ship near shore or the incredibly stupid 5 minute boat crash into the cardboard village...Bad - Dumb - and Boring...How it isn't one of the bottom 100 is a testament to how bad movies have to be or how people just don't care.Sandra Buttocks will not get another dollar of mine... "},{"Title":"Boring And Lifeless Sequel, That Should Have Never Been Made, Jason Patric Is No Keanu Reeves And Makes A Dull Action Hero, Sandra Bullock Is Wasted!","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" This is a boring and lifeless sequel that should have never been made Jason Patric is no Keanu Reeves and makes a dull action hero, and Sandra Bullock is wasted!. All the characters are pretty dull, and the story is routine, and not very interesting, even thought it did have a cool few action scenes. If Keanu returned for this sequel it would have been an entertaining ride for sure, and i thought the setting was cool, but it was just too bland to really work, plus the finale isn't that great in my opinion. Willem Dafoe is very good as the main villain, and Sandra Bullock did all that she could, however it's just not enough the action scenes try hard to be exciting when there just not, as it had me yearning for the original, however the ending was really cool.It actually starts of really well and i was thinking hey this might not be so bad, unfortunately it collapses in the 2nd half, due to the dull pace, over length and lack of charisma from Jason Patric, plus Bullock and Patric had no chemistry together. This is a boring and lifeless sequel that should have never been made, Jason Patric is no Keanu Reeves and makes a dull action hero, and Sandra Bullock is wasted!, don't bother with this sequel stick with the original!. The Directon isn't very good. Jan De Bont does not do a very good job here, with OK camera work, so so angles, and keeping the film at a bland pace. The Acting is mediocre. Jason Patric is below average here, he makes a very dull action hero, and is way too serious as well, he also had no chemistry with Bullock, and didn't convince me one bit, and looked bored in certain scenes, where's Keanu when you need him?. Sandra Bullock is not her usual amazing self, because she has barely anything to do, she is still stunningly gorgeous, and was still her likable perky self, it's just she's wasted, she did good with what she did though (Bullock Rules!!!!). Willem Dafoe is very good as the main villain, he is often creepy and very menacing, and is one of the film's lone bright spots. Temuera Morrison is good and adds some charisma as well i liked him. Rest of the cast are OK. Overall Don't bother with this one stick with the original!, which is one of the best Action films ever. * out of 5 "},{"Title":"honestly......watchable","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" considering that the first speed was such a hit, we knew we were getting a sequel. Sandra Bullock carried this whole movie on her shoulders the entire way, i mean bad enough that Keanu wasn't there but we should be thankful that Sandra came back, i feel people judge it too much and they compare it all the time. This movie is good, well, OK, as a stand alone film, YES, it had several plot holes and many stupid lines, Willem Defoe should have been more threatening, he was too....HA HA HA HA HA, which annoys me so much. i felt the film became a real SPEED film when it got to the ending, thats when the pace picked itself back up, from when Jason Patric went under the boat, to the explosion of the oil ship, i found it very entertaining and at some times, suspenseful, when the boat crashed into the island, that was awesome, and it was cool to see TuneMan return(the black guy) great cameo. All in all, if you want to switch your brain off for a while, see this and to Sandra, i tip my hat to you. "},{"Title":"speedy Gonzales","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" this movie was great! i really loved the part with the hovercraft even though it was unrealistic at parts you have to realize that this movie was rubbish. it made me vomit and Pogo because it sucked the penis of Vin diesel. if you look closely on the end scene you see a boat. and that guy of spider man with leeches. ouch that would hurt but why the the golf clubs i mean who would play golf on a boat and why does that guy shoot clay pigeons. that part sucked. and did anyone realize that Sandra bullock is not as hot in this one as the first. this movie should have involved cock fights and corrupt gambling that would have made it good. so next time you hire this movie don't hire it and hire 2 fast 2 furious so that you can dream of movies to come such as 3 fast 3 furious and another Casper movie maybe Casper goes to space. we can only dream ........P.S do you think that Kevin bacon would have played better role than Sandra bullock "},{"Title":"Only #90 on the worst flick list?","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Come on people, add a few more votes for this big budget waste of celluloid, and get it at least down near the middle of the pack. Think of the cash that the studio forked out in order to make it. Think of how they completely overlooked the dumb-ass plot points. Remember the leeches Willem Dafoe used? How he smuggled the gear on the ship disguised as golf gear when you could stroll on a cruise ship with anything you want in your bags? The replica cruise ship they destroyed and which Entertainment Tonight featured for a week running? And let us not forget the main actors chewing the scenery like a pit bull in a nursery... Cast a 1 ballot for this and bring fairness back to the bottom 100!  "},{"Title":"There is no speed in this sequel","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I saw the movie for the first time this weekend, and I knew what I was expecting, a not brilliant movie.I started enjoying the movie in the beginning, despite it was clear it was very inferior that the first one. Some bad acting and no charisma from the characters, mainly the good guy (Officer Alex Shaw) and the villain (John Geiger). The bad guy, played by William Dafoe, was way too much insane and the reasons to destroy the boat were, at minimum, exaggerated. This guy was fired and decided to destroy a ship, just to get a revenge!When the movie moves on, the action truly begins, but also the sickness. The camera always moving around, blair witch style, there was not a single shot that was steady more than a second. Maybe to compensate some weak scenes, they shook the camera to look more like a true action movie!*** Some Spoilers ahead ***Anyway, I still gave a chance to the movie, but after the oil tanker scenes till the end, ruined the last hopes to, at least, be just another bad movie.An oil tanker a mile away from the shore of a parasidiac beach? Maybe the sailors stopped there to take a drink at the beach! As bad enough, the silly scenes and jokes when the boat destroyed the buildings where just too bad. Finally, the beautiful explosion. Does a oil tanker explodes like that? I felt sorry to the islanders, their touristic income gone...*** Spoilers end ***In resume, just another sequel (only by the title, the movie itself has nothing to do with the original), trying to make money at the cost of the original movie, and, like so many times, inferior to the first. To watch once and forget.3 * out of 10  "},{"Title":"They Could have tried getting the technical parts right.","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Ships are designed to be evacuated very quickly. Lifeboats can be launched at up to 35 degrees list and at a speed of 4-5 knots. Same with life rafts.Also, according to regulations, lifeboats have a 10% additional capacity compared to the marked one. On Carnival's Paradise, the 150 person lifeboats are capable of holding 165.Now, my tape fell and broke, but I remember some parts that just killed me! Propellers can't just STOP like nothing. They have to wind down or wind up to prevent shaft twisting. Ships do NOT just start moving at 20 knots. The biggest ones if they really crank up the engine can surprise you but it'll still take a bit to get up to 5 knots or from 5 knots to 0. Giuliano could have effected a much better lifeboat boarding and gotten everyone off. I doubt very much that your average cabin has the vital communications to the engine room going through it. Aside from that, the computer systems controlling everything and being lockable isn't exactly true from my experience. Most ships have an electronic wheel. There are also usually dual tillers that override autopilot automatically, and use separate control lines.Then you have the engine Control Room, which is usually separated a bit more from the engines. All fire doors can be remotely controlled but they all have emergency handles on both sides. How do you expect the fire teams to put the fire out if they cannot enter? Bow thrusters have controls but NOT HAND WHEELS!During the end he stops one of the screws, if memory serves. He might have failed but I cannot remember. If he did the ship would have gone way off course unless they did some fancy rudder compensation.AND THAT SHIP'S WHEEL! IT IS AN ELECTRONIC WHEEL! THEY DO NOT HAVE FEEDBACK! The wheel does not lock up or anything. If the ship is on autopilot, the wheel will not do anything unless you switch off. There is no wheel brake stopping it from turning. If it is active, the wheel will turn with no feedback except from the spring loading to bring it back to midships unless held in place. It will not turn the rudders if on autopilot. Oh well. Your dumb photographer would be turning 35 degrees to each side with his holding on.  "},{"Title":"I'm stuck on a ship, that's going to crash! - In two days!!","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The original speed movie was quite a hit and managed to pull off a new style of good tension and action even though most the movie takes place in the one location, the bus. Speed 2 is one of the worst movies ever, possibly even the worst sequel ever. Half the movie is filmed in low light conditions with a constant flash of lights adding to the incredible tension that the ship is going to crash, in two days. No I was joking, the lighting adds no effect at all into creating tension, It's more like a 40-minute seizure helped by a bad plot in the first place. It would have been embarrassing if Reeves signed on for the sequel, which was probably the best film decision of his life. "}{"Title":"Great fun...if you're intoxicated","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The only way this film should be viewed is with a group of friends, late at night, while drinking. It takes on a Mystery Science Theater 3000 attitude this way, and it's fun. But if you're rested and sober, God help you. The acting is bad (the dialogue doesn't help), and the phony buildings in the finale are a joke. The film was obviously written with Jack Traven's character in mind; Keanu Reeves' decision to pass on it proves that he's not as dumb as most people think. Jason Patric is forced to play the same character (he even has the same haircut!), only with a different name, and he's not very convincing at all.Proceed with caution.  "},{"Title":"speed 2  theater crowd control","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I really didn't like the original Speed, so I don't know why I thought the substitution of Jason Patrick for Keanu Whoa Reeves would make any difference.  But Willem Dafoe is a good bad guy and I respect him for not taking his comicbooky role as LEECH MAN too seriously.There is a scene where Sandra Bullock and Jason Patrick carry on a painfully extended conversation using only restaurant metaphors.  When this scene happens, it's best to put your wallet in your mouth to stop your teeth from grinding, and/or knock yourself unconscious with a brick to stop yourself from strangling total strangers out of frustration and anger.Watch for the two islanders near the end who supply comic one-liners in strained Jarjar Binks accents. "},{"Title":"Disappoints (*spoiler alert*)","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Speed 2 is a quite disappointment to me. The first one was excellent. Sandra Bullock was indulged enough in bus-control, but probably they couldn't rely on a woman for cruise-control, that's where Jason Patrick steps in. I really missed Keanu Reeves in this movie. Sandra Bullock didn't have much to do in this movie, she kept saying OK, OK almost all the time like a talking bird, that's an annoyance to our ears. Moreover, for some strange reason, she stammered almost all the time to show either confusion or fear or something else I'm not sure what, that was not necessary for such a talented actress like her.  "},{"Title":"a big dissapointment","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I was really looking forward in 1997 about speed 2,but I was dissapointed for 3 main reasons1.Sandra bullock is dull-and she is usally wonderful 2.defoe is a good actor but wastes his talent by playing a phooney villan 3.keanu reeves did so much of a better job then this other guy. "},{"Title":"Bad Sequel.","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Yet another bad sequel is unleashed into Hollywood. This time the sequel of Speed! Sandra Bullock is in the film but not Keanu Reeves which was an outrage. Plus the acting and most of the action was abysmal. The best thing i liked about this movie was when the cruise liner crashed. "},{"Title":"What a load of $41t!!!","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  My God. How bad does it become when there is more tension on a bus than a 30000+ tonne cruise liner.From the very beginning of the film I thought to myself that Sandra Bullock deserved to suffer more than the bad guy being pursued in the truck.  He was after all probably just trying to feed his family.  What kind of retarded individual acts in such a behaviour when she is taking her driving test as Ms Bullock.Surely that was worthy of an arrest in itself.Next we move on to a cruise ship where supposedly Bullock and Patric are taking a vacation so that the two can work their problems out and get to know each other better.  Throughout the rest of the movie God only knows why Patric didn't throw Bullock overboard for the simple reason as to get her to shut the hell up.The film could have been some what better had they not billed it as a sequel to Speed.  Take away Bullock and the numerous plot holes and there is just a hint (and I meen a hint) of an OK action movie.  When I say plot holes, I of course use examples such as turning a ship to avoid an oil tanker that turns enough to avoid the head on collision and then fails to keep turning. People flying through glass windows when the ship slows by a knot.  Crashing into yaughts and pedaloes which help the ship slow down enormously.  That kind of thing.I am personally a big action film fan and am normally very happy to shut my mind down and watch great scenes that involve explosions, special fx and mindless killing but not even I could oversee the disasterous attempt that this film produced.Avoid if at all possible. "},{"Title":"Lost at sea","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I've just had the unfortunate mispleasure of sitting through Speed II and it really is as bad as they say.The biggest disappointment of all is Willem Dafoe always been a huge fan and felt he's been understretched, but it's hard to imagine him doing this for anything other than money. A tightly-written character study it ain't.The only good thing I can say about it is I thought the CGI was very well done - often it can look a bit plastic, but it was slick as oil here. (hah!) Still, with $100+ million dollars thrown at it there'd have been a public enquiry if it hadn't looked good.'Speed' is far superior, and whilst essentially a silly movie at least that had charm. The performances here are faxed in and there are no surprises. If Jason Patric could be any more wooden he'd need varnishing.True Story I was supposed to go out and not see the film at all but my friend had an eye infection which meant he had to sit in an unlit room with his eyes closed. So I watched Speed II instead. And I actually envied his inability to see. 'Nuff said. "},{"Title":"Snooze Control more likely","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Take the few good moments out of Speed 1 and you are left with Speed 2. Quite possibly the worst major production ever produced.  This movie STINKS!!!  I can not believe I sat through the whole bomb.  I may have seen worse movies, but they have been blocked from my memory by the sheer mercy of god. "},{"Title":"Horrific and appalling","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I'm guessing either something's completely screwed up in that La-La-Land of theirs or they really get a kick out of insulting the audience. It's probably a combination of both.Speed 2 is a disaster by the numbers... bad acting, bad writing, and bad script (talking Power Rangers suck-arse-dom). What we have here is a heartbreaking story about a zany cybernut (Dafoe) on a warpath to insanity because of some injustice or whatever done to him in his former sane life. He hijacks a cruise liner filled with comical cannon fodder, so that he may acquire some invaluable diamonds for his evil schemes (???). On the good guys side, we have token black guy, moronic crew, bad acting LAPD cop-person (Patric) no one's going to ever hear from again, and Sandra Bullock on her worst day... all of whom are equally worthless in this script. There's really no development or story which is sort of hilarious. All we get are Dafoe's wacky and zany antics and LAPD cop-person pretending to be smart and clever while Bullock whines and grunts every now and then as a reminder that there are other important cast members in this monstrosity. What garbage. But hey, there were plenty of EXPLOSIONS on both badly done and well done sets so I guess it wasn't a total loss, right? LOL.Thumbs down. "},{"Title":"AWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWFUL!!!!","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  There were so many things wrong with this film. No point to the story. No story. Acting sucks. Sucky action scenes. Absence of Keanu. God awful bad guy. PG13 rating. It's a recipe for a cash in forgery from a well made entertaining film. A sequel of Speed wasn't needed. "}{"Title":"Cruising at a very slow pace......","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I am a huge Sandra Bullock fan and rented this movie only because she was in it. I have heard about how horrible it is, and not to waste my time renting it. But I had to see it. You movie fanatics know what I mean.Sandra's acting was wonderful as always. I thought she saved what could have been a pretty bad script. The girl has charisma. )First of all I was not happy with the lighting throughout a majority of the film. My friends and I could not see what was going on! That really bothered me. Secondly, the movie was really slow. Were the first speed took off - this one lagged. It didn't seem to get into the action until a good 40 minutes into the film. The suspense. The thrill. Where did it go? It must still be on the bus.....Screenplay Writing Rule #1 - You should be in the thick of it by page 20. Page 20. Not 80.....Overall I liked the film, but it lacked what the original had. A good screenplay. "},{"Title":"This movie is just awful!!!","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I do not know what Sandra Bullock was thinking when she signed onto this project.  Sandra is even awful in this movie... her acting in this even made me cringe!  If you have yet to see this movie, stay away - stay far away! "},{"Title":"a very bad movie","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the very worst movies that I've seen in a long time. I love Sandra Bullock and I can't believe she agreed to do this movie.  Did she read the script?  What a horrible, horrible script.  She has probably never been worse. The characters were flat and unsympathetic.  The plot was laughable.  "},{"Title":"Oh MY GOD!!","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I'm amazed! At some point in time, some person, somewhere in Hollywood read this script and said to himself Why, this is surely one good movie. Gotta make this one.You know what? He should be soooo fired! The script is so bad it's almost scary. The story line is totally unbelievable, full of cliches, the characters got NO depth whatsoever, and it's just plain boring. The action scenes is unrealistic to the point of despair. I must admit though, some times I laughed(!); but alas - it was because of the totally incoherent plot which seems just as convincing as the plot of a porn movie.Why Ms. Bullock signed up on this one is beyond me. She's totally wasted in the movie. Patric, oh well, it's unfair to judge his acting capabilities based on this one, BUT he's just as forgettable as the cast in a shaving-cream commercial. Dafoe plays a villain, well that's the point anyway, but his part is beneath him and the result is terrifying.To summarize it should never have been made - total waste of such a charismatic person as Ms Bullock. "},{"Title":"heh heh heh this film sucks heh heh heh","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This was not a worthy sequel. It is my feeling that there are some things where it is best to leave well enough alone, and the first Speed, a far surperior film, was one of them. Keanu Reeves at first looked dumb for refusing to appear in this, but now he looks brilliant. The film had very little suspense and made about as much sense. I'm glad I was only charged $1 for admission to this film. I give this * 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Waterlogged sequel","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A request to Jan De Bont Please stop making films.As with Paul Verhoeven, English is not your native language and you have no idea what is good or bad dialogue. Just as I would never choose to tell a gag in Dutch, you should leave movies with dialogue well alone.Trust me, stick to exciting visuals at which you are best because every film you have made since Speed has been dreadful.This sequel may have lots of explosions and the pace rarely flags for a minute, but to have the wondrous Sandra Bullock be completely wasted for the duration is a crime.On the plus side, Jason Patric is a good choice of hero but Willem Dafoe was actually less terrifying than Wile Coyote.To say i am glad i only wasted a couple of hours of my life on this movie and not hard earned cash is a relief at least.Thanks Jan.  Your co-operation in this matter is much appreciated on behalf of me and the rest of the movie going public who like intelligent thrillers. "},{"Title":"Cruise to another channel...","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  if you see this one on your surf. The special effects in no way make up for the dreary plot and unbelievably poor acting. While yes, the 2 lead characters are something to gawk at, this in no way can salvage this dismal outing. I've always enjoyed Willem Dafoe too, but the role was completely beneath him. Everyone involved should be more choosey next time. "},{"Title":"Great Effects, Bad Film","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Speed 2 should've and could've been  better than this pile of garbage. I don't know which idiot thought the script was good, let alone worth spending over 150 million dollars on making it into one of the most niave blockbusters ever. Did they think that the audience wouldn't notice that it had a mental age of about 3? That aside the film has some great effects sequences, such as POSSIBLE SPOILER A cruise ship slamming against an oil tanker at least twice it's size, and the aforementioned cruise ship crashing through a jetty and levelling a town, and the final explosion is absolutely awesome on the big screen.END SPOILER. Unfortunately these dazzling moments are few and far between in a film lasting around two hours, which only needed to be one and a half hours long. Apart from the effects, everything else is ropey, you hate the characters, the story is boring, and the camera work is so wobbly it induces motion sickness (Blair Witch Project eat your heart out). This film is not as bad as The Postman, but if you're not into effects, then you should steer well clear.** out of ***** "},{"Title":"It should be Speed 2 Snooze Control","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This film was so wooden and boring that I turned off after 20 minutes. I'm surprised I even lasted that long.Now I only watch it when I suffer from insomnia.Avoid like the plague. "},{"Title":"Perhaps it should be called know-all passengers!","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie is the first movie I have seen that I hated from the first scene, not to mention the most far fetched!It is quite clear that when your on a boat with a group of Know-all passengers that one of them will save the ship from certain disaster with his large knowledge of cruise ships from the LAPD. "}{"Title":"It did not have a good premise.","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I would like to begin by saying that there were a lot of great action sequences. It was very thrilling. However, I could not find the opening of the movie as all that credible; I mean we are suppose to believe that Sandra Bullock's character tried to have a relationship with Keanu Reeves' character from the first movie, which did not work out, and got a new boyfriend in Jason Patric who's not only a cop too, but also under the same unit that Keanu Reeves was with in the first. It's just too bad that Keanu was not in this movie cause we lost out on the great gag that we could have seen had his character met up with Glenn Plummer's. Frankly, I just did not see the point of having him (Glenn Plummer) in the movie without Keanu. "},{"Title":"I wish I was on speed at the time","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This might possibley be one of the worst films of all time. No joke.   I'm shocked Siskel and Ebert liked it!   Sandra Bullock's and Jason Patric's careers never deserved to recover. Awful awful and awful. "},{"Title":"This movie is terrible...","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Making a sequel to a movie that was never even that great of a movie in the first place without the lead star isn't exactly a good idea.  This movie is terrible.  It isn't funny, it isn't suspenseful, I couldn't pay attention during it, and I kept on wishing the nightmare would end.  I think this one started Sandra Bullock's horrible downfall....  The only movie worse than this that I've seen is Godzilla...even the slightly known Troll is better.  Please, never subject yourself to this movie unless you want to be devoid of 2 hours of your life. "},{"Title":"What's with the leeches?","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film last night on video. It's a movie that I keep passing up and passing by each time I go to the video store and I finally decided to watch it. Not as terrible as others have said but definitely not a great film or as good as Speed was. The whole relationship between Annie and Jason Patric's character was never fleshed out and the original relationship with Jack (Keanu) was dismissed almost entirely. Willem Defoe did a lousy job as a criminal mastermind. Why didn't he leave the ship when he had the chance? Did he just stick around to make sure his leeches were ok? The plot was contrived, the characters were cartoonish but the special effects and some of the action sequences were good. I had to admit this but I actually missed Keanu Reeves this time. (Did I just say that?) I'd use your free bonus rental from Blockbuster for this one but not sure I'd shell out the $2 to actually rent it. "},{"Title":"When you think of Speed you think cruise ship...right?","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I can see the pitch now...Well we have Sandra Bullock but this time she screams a lot more, for no apparent reason. Keanu bailed but we were able to get someone just as wooden, and we put it all on a cruise ship. Wow, someone said yes to this pitch. Go figure.  "},{"Title":"This movie stink. That's right. Stink.","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so unbelievably bad that It's upsetting me to know that I'm writing about it. Jan De Bont is lucky I haven't met him because after seeing this mook of blood clotted excrement, I'm convinced that someone has to hit him across his face with a gauntlet. What the hell was he thinking? This movie is so unlike the original, that it almost ruins the good memories I have of it. If there's one moment in this movie that makes it worth watching, it's where Willem Dafoe bites it. It's so ridiculous, his whole reaction to the situation he's in, that it's actually funny. This movie sucks and please do yourself a favor. Don't watch it. Suicide is more fun and less painful. Rating 0* out of *****. "},{"Title":"A bad follow-up to a really good action movie.","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie just didn't seem to pick up much speed. It had terrible performances, no-name actors, a bad plot, poor music, and a bad Sandra Bullock who is usually a good actress. It really failed at the box office and got really bad reviews during the summer of '97. It did have some good f/x though. The boat crash, the explosion on the oil tanker. It also had good action sequences but they were put together so badly. If this wasn't enough, it's a PG-13 rated action movie. Action movies need to be rated R. Can you imagine a PG-13 rated RoboCop, and I don't mean the third. That one sucked too. When I think about it, it could have been good but it tried to be a different action movie. Keanu Reeves made a lucky guess to not be in this mess. There goes another Die Hard Trilogy down the drain. Speed 2 Cruise Control D+ "},{"Title":"Can it get any worse???","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL.....can I rate it as a zero??  That's how much effort went into this movie.  I'm simply embarrassed I actually watched it to the end.....but I had to see just how ridiculous they'd make the ending.  Did anybody who worked on this movie ever set foot on a ship?  It was chock full of maritime errors.This movie was hoping to score on the title alone.  Acting was terrible, the plot was silly, the story was fragmented, and the viewer's intelligence was expected to be sub-par.Don't even waste your time watching this if your INCREDIBLY bored and its free on HBO.  You'd be better off sleeping....or perhaps reading the back of cereal boxes.  At least then you have a CHANCE of being entertained. "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie entertains mildly until the climax where the viewers intelligence is insulted on all levels.  I have never seen people in fiction or real life act as irrationally as in this movie.  It goes down as one of the worst I have ever seen.  It is a shame that a talented cast was wasted with such a ridiculous story line.  This movie is a prime example of sequels that should never be made.  Pray that this does not follow the Police Academy lead. "},{"Title":"Siskel & Ebert gave this movie Two Thumbs Up,  which is why I don't listen to critics anymore.","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  For some reason, I just had a bad feeling about this movie.  The local paper gave it VERY bad reviews, but Siskel & Ebert gave them Two thumbs up!  I don't listen to critics anymore, but I should have listened to the local paper because this movie bites big time.The opening scene of Jason Patric chasing a suspect had absolutely no suspense.  Willem Dafoe was not a likeable bad guy.  Dennis Hopper was great in the first film.  Even Sandra Bullock wasn't funny.  I have never seen a bad Sandra Bullock movie until this one.  I really wanted to walk out of the theater, but I had to get my money's worth.  I didn't care for what was going to happen to the characters and I didn't care for what did happen to the characters.  Even the music score by Mark Mancina is not as good as the original.  And why does the movie even have the word Speed attached to it. The boat was slow.Compared to another of my all-time least favorite movie, Batman & Robin.  I think this one is worse.  "}{"Title":"*Yawn!*","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Well, now, this is quite a deviation from Speed 1, which was mildly amusing. This movie, to say the least, was absolutely boring.I was predicting the whole script in my head as it progressed, and the characters were really flawed and two-dimensional.For instance, the navigator (Scottish accent) isn't consistent, the first officer seems to be a little lacking in his knowledge of his ship, except for the part where he brilliantly leads our hero through the bowels of the ship via the PA, and knowing perfectly where they are, even though he's technically 'blind'.  You can even hear him when they go underwater. Never did the equipment short out due to seawater.On the 'bad guy' - I mean, he's so transparent, not to mention his crude attempts at humour.  He makes even less sense...But I reckon that all goes in the line of what you can expect from sequels. "},{"Title":"Not bad, better than expected","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes there comes a film which everyone hates for the sake of hating, this was it for 1997! I watched it with absolutely no expectation and was pleasantly surprised. Granted, its not as good as the first one but how many sequels are?. Maybe if Keanu Reeves had signed up the critics would have liked it, who knows. Sandra Bullock is as gorgeous as ever and Willem Dafoe is a great villain. If you want to pass the time and are not expecting wonders then this film is fine. 3 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Bullock comes through this ghastly movie like a trouper","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  One of the worst big-budget movies of the last ten years -- it's only very slightly better than ARMAGEDDON -- this doesn't leave a lot of hope for THE HAUNTING remake, also directed by Jan De Bont.  That is, SPEED was very good; TWISTER wasn't as good as SPEED; SPEED 2 wasn't even as good as TWISTER.  The direction his films are taking in terms of quality is all too clear -- but maybe he can pull himself out of this headlong descent into catastrophe.On the other hand, Sandra Bullock is just fine in SPEED 2, even if her character is very badly written.  Her own personality shines through, and she emerges untarnished.  Wish the same could be said for Jason Patric.One question this is so clearly a movie version of the novel BUZZ CUT by James W. Hall, why isn't he credited? "},{"Title":"GET OUT OF THE WAY, A RUNAWAY TURKEY IS HEADED OUR WAY!!!","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The original SPEED was -and is still- one of the greatest action/adventure yarns ever made. It also was -by Hollywood-standards- low budget, believe it or not. This sequel however had far from a low budget, and the final product is far from a great action/adventure yarn. But I will say one thing With a garbage script the cinematographer, the editor and director De Bont NEARLY manages to save the day. They create a hairraising last 30 minutes with a major norwegian cruise ship (OK, I couldn't help mention it seeing as I'm from Norway myself). Had it not been for this half hour we could very well be looking at the most boring motion picture in history. Another big flaw is the presence of Jason Patric. Sure, he's a likable guy and maybe even a mother-in-law's dream in real life, but this major movie depends on a hero not so, how shall I say... ordinary, dull, average, plain, customary, usual... "},{"Title":"Rush Hour Hits Rock Bottom","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Speed was much better.  If Speed 2 had Keanu Reeves in it, it might have been better.  The villain just didn't seem very convincing.  He just wasn't evil enough.  Jason Patrick wasn't bad, he was actually pretty good.  The break up with Reeves and Bullock from Speed just didn't work.  The jag guy from the first is back, and adds a nice twist.  The ship crashing into the port was also pretty cool, but at the same time, too obvious.  If you haven't seen Speed or Speed 2 yet, pick Speed up, it is much better with Dennis Hopper as the villain.  Speed 2 just cruises to the end, and doesn't hype up...anywhere.     "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie had some ok action. But it should have taken place in the city. A boat really made it a boring movie. It was slow and it had no story. The acting was ok. I recommend seeing the first one. "},{"Title":"Worst Sequel Ever!","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  With out Keanu things just ain't the same. Jason Patric was cute but no as cute a Keanu, and Jason was not a good replacement. I have to admit Sandra did do okay in the movie  and William Dafoe was a pretty good villain except for his character was sickening, but the plot we all know was going to sink with the ship. But overall I liked it when the cruise ship ran into the harbor. What a Debris. "},{"Title":"Dreadful Waste of Time","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Dreadful, dreadful, dreadful. (shudders) Here's the problem...(I can't believe I actually sat through this garbage)...in the first Speed, Annie was a heroine, smart, spunky...I mean, she drove the damn bus! Now, one would think that the reason people would flock to the sequel would be to see Annie (the always wonderful Sandra Bullock) reprise her role in a different setting. Not so. The idiots who scripted this decided to instead make her a weak, superficial wimp who now needs a man (Jason Patric) to save her. YUCK! But that isn't even the worst of it. There's this big scene at the end where the boat actually crashes...no, believe me, you don't even want to know...just trust me...it's one of the most ludicrous scenes I've ever seen on film. I love Sandra Bullock, but throughout this film she has this look on her face like, I'm making a big payday for this crap...I'll just walk through it. And for you the audience member that translates into something really rough to sit through. Even with Willem Dafoe putting forth a noble effort to actually make this look like a story. God, was this awful. (cringing) SKIP IT.  "},{"Title":"What was this rubbish","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The only reason I watched this moovie was because i couldn't get to Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas on PPV before it started...this moovie was free.....but still not worth it...... First thing that sickened me was the non-stop camera movement that in no way seemed artistic or to have any direction.    The dry humor enervated me, as did the dry performance of the entire cast, except that young crew member with the long hair and the Dutch I think accent, he was good until his minute-to-minute Knots countdown.   Cheers to Keanu for declining this, not that he promoted himself as an actor by doing it either.   Maybe this would've been a better moovie if, like its equally appalling maritime counterpart, Titanic, most of the passengers died.............. "},{"Title":"Titanic with a cheaper budget","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Well for one thing I find all the characters irritating to say the least, and I find myself cheering in most cases for the damned ship to actually sink, bad guy, Bullock and all. Perhaps I'm spoiled by the fact that after seeing Titanic any movie about a sinking ship becomes stale, but this one just takes the cake when it comes to the most fake looking condos as well as ship. Frankly I started founding myself laughing as the ship keeps on meeting disasters after disasters.  "}{"Title":"This movie was a waste of time and money","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  What was the point of making this movie? SPEED on a boat? Come on! Stupid! I don't know why this movie was made. Speed is one of those movies that didn't need a sequel. There was really no reason to make a second one, and calling it Speed was a dumb idea. They should have called it float or cruise. If you plan on buying Speed 2, do yourself a favour and buy the original. And if you have the original, save your money. I give this movie two very enthusiastic thumbs down.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  One of the worst movies I have ever seen.  It ranks right up there with Excess Baggage and Rounders. "},{"Title":"What is with the sequel thing?","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Are we getting it yet? Haven't a dozen bad sequels told us already that  sequels don't work? This is a prime example. Not only was it a disgrace not  to have Keanu Reeves in this, but it's sappy, predictable, and Sandra  Bullock should've won the Razzie Award for this one. Speed 2 has joined the  ranks of Sister Act 2, Teen Wolf 2 and Grease 2.  "},{"Title":"Cruise control lost the speed.","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" The sequel to Speed replaces lead actor Keenu Reeves with Jason Patric, who plays cop Officer Alex Shaw. He must prevent an ocean liner whose computer system has been hacked and controlled by psychopath John Geiger (William Dafoe) from crashing into an oil tanker. The action and urgency was pretty exciting, just a bit slower than the previous film. This sequel takes on on a very slow start and also lacks the some of the suspense which kept its prequel captivating. But, the thrills in this movie are a pretty edge-of-your-seat experience, particularly the runaway boat sequence.Patric gave a bland and emotionless performance as Officer Shaw; basically, he did a terrible job in his role. Sandra Bullock returns to the cast and gave a stirring performance as Annie Porter. Overall, it's not as exciting as Speed, but it has a lot of campy action fun.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Speed?","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" This sequel to an overrated original is a voyage to the bottom of the barrel, with Sandra Bullock and bland Jason Patric going for a nice cruise only for computer nut Willem Dafoe and his leeches to hijack the ship. Erk! The witless screenplay consists of characters explaining what's just happened, the title is a misnomer because the pace is so slow and Bullock is bloody annoying, although to be fair she has nothing to do besides whine a lot while looking good. The film's saving graces are Mark Mancina's score (great credits music) and Dafoe, who recognises this for the rubbish it is and hams it up like a right mad bastard. "},{"Title":"Crap Alarm! (Spoiler Alert)","Date":"26 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Well i did like this movie as a child, but today i just wanted to cry! I work on a large ship so i did find so much of the stuff in the movie to be the biggest crap ever!1. Why do the ship get flooded when they open the ballast tanks? To enter a ballast tank off a ship you have to enter a man-hole that is sealed with a hatch and many bolts... It's not open like a big door... Btw, you can't just sink a ship with filling the ballast tanks.2. I have never seen a wheel on the thruster that you can turn and make the propeller turn. Most thrusters are electric so i find this hard to believe... correct me if i am wrong.3. At the end of the movie when they are hitting other vessels they slow down by 1knot every time while the main engine is still running at full. Even if the engine was off the ship would not have lost that much speed of a small impact like that. The ship weight is 9,961 GT so it would take much more to slow a ship like that.4. Yes you can lower the lifeboats when the ship is moving.All in all it's just to stupid. "},{"Title":"Boring sequel  with supercharged  action and  average pacing","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" This embarrassing following with similar artist and technician crew is inferior to original starred by Keanu Reeves, Bullock and Dennis Hopper . This moving movie deals with some desperate passengers threatened who are saved by Jason Patric and Sandra Bullock , based on the characters created by Graham Yost. The daredevil L.A.P.D. cop( Jason Patric) and his love interest (Sandra Bullock) taking on an extreme terrorist (Willem Defoe) who wires a cruise that is triggered to explode and where passengers face certain death . The couple on Caribbean cruise holidays hops on board but the captain (Bo Svenson)is killed and the valiant cop takes the wheel . Mindless, overlong and tiring film is packed with thrills, intrigue, suspense, tension and lots of interminable action. Silly relationship between two main characters, Patrick and Bullock, based on risked circumstances work out pretty bad . Willem Dafoe steals the show as psycho mastermind , Jason Patric is regular as brave, intrepid police and of course Sandra Bullock does her usual role as feisty woman . Ample support cast who play the cruise passengers as Temuera Morrison, Colleen Camp , Lois Chiles, Glenn Plummer , Tim Conway , among others . Ridiculous argument by Jan De Bont , McCormick and Nathanson that dispenses absurd excitement as well as entertainment. Packs colorful and atmospheric cinematography using Steadicam or hand-held camera by Jack N. Green . And stirring and exciting musical score fitting to action by Mark Mancina . The picture is middling realized in his second-time as director by Jan De Bont, a successful cameraman (Basic Instict, Die Hard) and Paul Verhoveen's ordinary photographer and occasionally director (Speed , Twister). The film will appeal to Sandra Bullock fans. Rating  Below average . "},{"Title":"Speed 2 Booze  Control","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Speed was a great movie with an interesting plot and fast-paced action that kept your attention for the whole movie. Speed 2 was an unnecessary sequel which plodding pace makes it hard to sit through even with tons of action on screen.Premise A psychotic computer genius(played by Willem Dafoe) takes control of a ship(via a computer) and tries to crash it into an oil tanker miles away. A couple aboard the ship try to save the passengers as well as stop him.Opinion What a truly pointless sequel this was. Sandra Bullock has never been more annoying. Willem Dafoe was great in Mississippi Burning, The Clearing, Platoon and the otherwise abysmal State Of The Union but here he is reduced to some cornball villain pissing and moaning about a job that laid him off for being sick. What a waste. Jason Patric is okay but he's seen better days on the silver screen. The script looked like it was written by an imitator that admired the first and the special effects are quite dull. Don't waste 2 hour and 5 minutes of your life on a sequel that was rightfully panned. Stick with Speed and pretend like Cruise Control never existed. Im pretty sure everybody else that has seen it has. "},{"Title":"Well it sure isn't as great as the first.","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I seen this about two years ago and I thought it was okay but not great, but then I seen it again recently and I think it wasn't terrible, but it sure isn't no Die Hard 2! So this films starts out with Jason Patric who plays Alex and Sandra Bullock is taking a driving test which doesn't go great. So when Alex has a surprise for her and go on a cruise trip. So when aboard they see keep running into a man named Greiger and is the villn in this who played in Platoon, William Dafoe.He secretly hacks into the ship's computer and runs it on his laptop, and kills the captain, and so Jason Patric goes and stops him. Near the end of the film they are about to crash into an oil tanker. The rest of the film I will not give away. You won't be surprised by much.You wouldn't expect that Jan De Bont did the second film. I think Speed alone is just fine. If you make a Speed 2, you have to include Jack in it. I mean what if in Die Hard 2 John McClane was replaced by his brother or something? I mean, stick with original characters. "},{"Title":"A waste of time and money.","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" It amazes me how Hollywood producers could not be smart enough to figure out that this film would be a dud. It should have been called Speed 2Hokie Pokie. It was like a bad Bond film - with goofy prats and gratuitous gags. If I was Jan de Bont, I'd be ashamed to have my name on this film. (Then again - he did do Lethal Weapon3) Dramatic action could have been directed in such a way that it would have been suspenseful. A ship crashing into an oil tanker is believable, but two guys who had to swim across the entire length of a ship to get to open some valves is reasonable. Then, they just pop right up on deck without swimming back? he could have learned something by watching inferno...Who tied his hands and put all that cheesy crap in? Fiction is supposed to suspend disbelief. Every scene has something that is unbelievable. This movie cannot take itself seriously. You can find better ways to spend two hours of your life, like rearranging you sock drawer. "}{"Title":"Feel the Need to Abandon Speed, er, Ship","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" So ill-conceived from the very first frame the sour sequel begins with a standard chase involving the hero (Patric) on a motorcycle. For some reason, the back of the van he's chasing opens by accident and various objects come spilling out, so he has to avoid them, as if in some primitive video game. Why is all this happening? We don't know, we don't care. Then things really slow to a crawl on a cruise ship, on which our returning heroine, Bullock, and her new beau (Patric) embark to avoid a break-up - will the thrills never stop, er, begin? Enter the villain, Dafoe, terminally ill and with a fondness for leeches. If you're in the mood to just relax and enjoy the Bullock personality out at sea, then maybe this movie's for you, but this was not the reason this picture was made. No, it was to provide spills, thrills and chills! What we get, mostly, is a lot of confusing action on the big boat, much of which takes place in darkness after the villain sabotages everything. Patric appears uncomfortable in many of his scenes; Keanu Reeves passed on this movie, a canny move seems like, and a search was on for his replacement. Hm, so who do they select - an actor known for his moody character roles in edgy dramas; sure, he'll do! A sign of how bad this gets the more interesting point for me was spotting a passenger who also had a small role in the elevator scene from the previous Speed. Plummer also returns, in a wildly improbable turn of events, and manages to be somewhat entertaining - a sad comment on everyone else. Finally, we have the climactic $25 million wreckage scene; it's slow going like everything else. The final nail in the coffin of this pic? It came out just before Titanic. No way would there be two successful big boat pictures in the same year. "},{"Title":"Speed 2 Cruise Control is a great example why you shouldn't make a sequel to a popular film","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Throughout my entire life, I've always been optimistic about sequels because there are some that are really well. I remember when this movie opened in June 1997 thinking why did they make a sequel to a great action film? For years, I had shyed away from seeing this movie(mainly because I wasn't interested) and now, 8 years later I finally decided to watch it. My one line summary of Speed 2 basically summarizes everything I want to say. That is, this film is a great example as to why MOST sequels should not be greenlit. Speed 2 Cruise Control has everything you love to hate about a movie or a sequel in general bad acting, paper thin plot and a terrible script. Jason Patric(in place of the more charismatic Keanu Reeves) is the hero this time around and does not live up to what an action hero should be. Sandra Bullock, this time around does not come off as cute or charming but rather annoying in this bland sequel.If I had to really think, I would probably say Willem Dafoe is the only good thing about this movie but even he is terrible as the film's main villain itself. I think the main problem with Speed 2 is that it severely lacked the charisma the first Speed had. Overall, I hope the producers learned their lesson with this one. By the way, who's genius idea(sarcastically) was it to rate this film PG-13? In the end Speed 2 Cruise Control was a lame attempt at cashing in on the success of the first film but ultimately fails in doing this. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I really wanted to vote this movie a 0, but 1 was the lowest I could go. Sandra Bullock should be banned from acting after this one. Keanu did a good job by avoiding it. The only one that has an excuse for being in this movie it is the cute little dog, and he didn't have a choice in the matter. I can't begin to describe how bad this movie is, bad writing, worse directing, terrible acting. If anyone can think anything in this movie is even remotely believable,(yes, even by movie standards,) I'll sell them a cheap ticket to Bikini Bottom so they can go meet Spongebob Squarepants, which is where this movie should be, on the ocean floor. I'm ashamed of myself and have put myself on double secret probation for having watched it. If I ever watch another movie this bad I'll put my own eyes out. "},{"Title":"Stupid, stupid, stupid.","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I don't think anybody expected this to be a good movie, but it was so boring that it didn't even qualify as campy or entertaining. I usually don't find action movies very interesting anyway (and I really dislike de Bont) but I genuinely enjoyed Speed (the original) despite its faults. It just worked. In this sequel, de Bont basically took the EXACT SAME PLOT and moved it to a boat. C'mon. In Speed 2, the lovely but dull Bullock trembles and stutters and screams, Are you crazy? Are you insane? fifty times before leaping in to help save the cruise ship. Her boyfriend, Patric, is the absolute most boring and unemotional actor I've ever seen, and that includes Keanu Reeves. (Whom, by the way, I gained a good deal of respect for after learning that he'd declined the idiotic role in Speed 2!) This movie would have been a lot better--though I guess it would have been over faster--if the people involved were intelligent enough to get off a boat once in a while. There's an oil tanker involved in the film, and the cruise ship approaches it for about half an hour while the people on the oil tanker panic and run around in circles despite being maybe 100 feet from land. Jump off the boat, you morons. Even the people on the cruise ship spend the movie acting as if they're sailing across hot lava or something. De Bont throws in some bit about how they'll get sucked into the propellers if they jump into the water, but there are plenty of opportunities to do so. The ship stops, the ship slows down, etc.When it smashes through a resort town, crushing condos, the people there are leaping out of the way at the last second--what the hell? How did they all somehow manage to not notice this cruise liner bearing down on them at 5 knots (which is slightly less than 6 mph?) I gave this 2 stars instead of one because it was on a boat, and I like boats. Otherwise, I'd have rather watched Family Guy's predictions for Speed 3. A glacier moving at the horrifying speed of 2 inches a year? I'm there! "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie is beyond terrible.  It is the polar opposite of it's counterpart and bigger brother SPEED.  It's sort of like the movie Twins.  SPEED is Arnold's character, the guy who gets all the good traits, and Speed2 is Danny DeVito's character, the guy who gets all the bad traits.  SPEED is the best movie ever, Speed2 is the worst movie ever.  SPEED has everything, from Jeff Daniels to Dennis Hopper to Keanu Reeves.  Speed2 has the leftovers, second rate actors like Jason Patric and Sandra Bullock.  Wait, I take that back, Speed2 has second rate actors like Jason Patric and William DaFoe.  SPEED has an exploding BUS, Speed2 has a stupid boat.  SPEED set the bar for edge of your seat live action, Speed2 set the bar for worst sequels ever.  SPEED won Oscars, Speed2 won Razzies.There are a few changes that would make Speed2 an awesome movie.  The first is to replace Jason Patric's character with Keanu Reeves.  Next you replace the boat with a bus.  You then move the location from the Carribean to Los Angeles.  Next you have to change the bad guy from William DaFoe to Dennis Hopper.  You have to give Keanu a partner to shoot in Jeff Daniels. And finally, you have to make the intent of the villain to blow up the bus if it drops below 50mph unless he gets $3 million dollars.  Only then would Speed2 be a good movie. "},{"Title":"WWWWWHHHHHYYYYY??????","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Seeing the previews and whatnot for Speed 2, I knew that if Keanu Reeves (who is in a way,underrated) wasn't participating in this, what point would there be for me to see it. Having missed it in theatre I decided to take a chance and see this on video.  Knowing that I saw this at all is regrettable. It is somehow one of the worst movies I have ever seen, and certainly one of the worst of the last ten years.  Sandra Bullock, Willem Dafoe, and especially Jason Patric have to take a look at themselves and ask what was in it for them-- besides the money?A complete waste of time, money, energy,etc., etc.,.... "},{"Title":"one of the worst sequels/films of the decade","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Contrived, illogical, dishearteningly awful sequel centers around survivor Bullock who's feeling down after losing her driver's license. Hoping to cheer her up, her boyfriend Patric&#x97;an LAPD officer&#x97;takes her on a cruise that's hijacked by afflicted, wild-eyed maniac Dafoe. The only ones who can thwart him are Patric&#x97;because he's a cop&#x97;and Bullock&#x97;because she's been in this situation before. Weak, senseless sequel suffers from ridiculous plotting, silly characterizations, and bland action scenes that add no life whatsoever to the viewing experience. Not really any valid reason to watch this film; a total disaster after the success of its predecessor. * "},{"Title":"The biggest problem with this movie was that it was called Speed 2!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Speed was an awesome movie, and an exciting, original concept, IMO.  Let's face it, it was pretty hard to follow with a sequel.  Added to that the fact that you didn't have the majour hero star, well, it was pretty impossible. Yet, the producers decided to soldier on.  They got a new hero, and Sandra Bullock, and they made a go of it.  It's not brilliant, but let's face it, I don't think they we're trying to be brilliant.  Frankly, I believe that the largest problem with this movie is that it tried to be a sequel to the first movie.  Also, it was on water, which had been done to death e.g. The Poseidon Adventure, Under Siege, one of the Airport movies, etc.  Strictly as a stand-alone feature, it may've done better without referring to the original.  Mind you, maybe it would've been better as a direct-to-video feature.  Looking at it strictly by itself, I liked it, but I've been known to like crappy movies in my day.  I certainly wouldn't rate it higher than a 5 out of 10.  It's no Speed, and it's not even worthy of being a sequel to Speed, but it's got its merits.  It's not a compleat piece of crap as some would have you believe. "},{"Title":"c**p, complete c**p","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The only thing good about this movie was the fact that it wasn't longer. This had it all, fiberglass sail boats exploding, 14 year old deaf girls falling in love with 30 year old dumb men and a computer programmer that gets copper poisioning from the electro magnetic field produced by computers. I think there's certain questions that movie makers need to ask themselves before they make a movie, like will this still be a good idea when I'm sober.  That's right folks the answer in this case is NO.  This movie had more plot holes than the first one and didn't have the added entertainment of Keanu acting.  The best acting was done by the jar of leaches that the mad bomber carries around with him to clean his blood.  I'm deeply frightened by the fact that people will think it's believable that a oil freighter can be blown up by an aluminium float plane pontoon.My faith in humanity is shaken by the fact that there's people that produce movies like this and try to pass it off as entertainment.  It was entertaining I will admit, but not for the reasons that the producers intended it to be (I think). "},{"Title":"decent","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The original is a lot better but this isn't bad, there is some really great action in it I think they spent more on the big time explosions in this film so that's a plus, but the acting and script is really bad, but if you just love action movies see it, I don't care much for Sandra Bullock I don't think she's a good actress I think perhaps she slept with a bunch of producers, so to speak..., to land these parts... I rate this movie a 5 "}{"Title":"What an awesome movies!!!","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so awesome, it makes the original Speed and all the other 1997 releases look bad.  I was on the edge of my seat throughout this whole movie.  You never knew what was going to happen next.  This movie should have at least locked up a nomination for Best Picture.  And Sandra Bullock should have gotten a nomination for Best Actress for her brilliant performance in this gem.  I definitely recommend this movie!!  I give it up 4 stars.  I can't wait until Speed 3!!!  This time I'm guessing it'll probably take place on an airplane.  "},{"Title":"God Awful Sequel","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I can be quite concise in my comments.  It's one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  So bad it's laughable.  Although Bullock tries her best, she can't save the show.  She should have done like Keanu Reeves and said No Thanks to Speed 2. "},{"Title":"Extremely underrated","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Speed 2 stars sandy bullock, who reprises her role from the original. It also stars Jason patric (who is as good as reeves in my opinion). It is the most underrated movie ever made also. The plot? * A man on a holiday with his pretty girlfriend * A madman with a desire to set the cruise ship they are on to destruction.* Two crashes involving a cruise liner * People who hope to enjoy a holiday * 2 speedy chases at the beginning and the end Speed 2 has a spectacular visual sense. It uses the bahamas as a bubbly backdrop for the ships final crash (which is the best action scene ever filmed). All of the Cgi and models are very convincing also. Bullock and Patric are fine in their roles and bring charisma to their characters. The ship is great to look at and the destruction is first rate. Speed 2 cruise control is not a bad movie at all. It's a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Good yet somewhat typical movie","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I thought that this film was a well directed film but it was a typical movie. I also thought it was a good film because of the setting. The tropical setting makes this movie enjoyable. Sandra bullock and William and Jason patric and others played very good roles in this movie. If Keanu Reeves was in this film it would be slightly different but not enirely. But Jason's acting was entertaining. There is something about William that makes his evil roles in some way make you want to see him acting whether it doing something of evil matter or whatever. If I were directing this movie I would extend it significantly. The only downsides to this film is the duration the typicalness of the film and etc. "},{"Title":"Under Rated Thriller","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Good action thriller pop corn B movie that is meant to entertain and is not the kind of movie that should be taken too seriously.Another one of those TERRORIST based stories.Has a good action thriller genre lampoon humour quality to it.Bullock looks nice here.Good CGI effects.This movie could have beeen a classic if it had better script/ screenplay and editing.Only for fans of the genre who are also big fans of any of the lead actors......... "},{"Title":"A Sequel That Was Not Needed","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Speed 2 tries to match its predecessor, but fails miserably.  This time Sandra Bullock and LAPD Swat specialist Jason Patric are on a cruise which has been overtaken by a disgruntled ex-employee of the liner (Willem Dafoe).  Director Jan De Bont continues to show that he is a one-hit wonder.  The original Speed was outstanding, but this film and the equally unimpressive Twister show that De Bont still has a lot to learn when it comes to developing films that actually have a screenplay.  A major disappointment.  2 out of 5 stars.    "},{"Title":"Sandra goes overboard!!","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  this movie is definitely not better then Speed because Keanu wasn't in it. Jason Patric was cool though but it still would have been A LOT better if Keanu had stayed on the project. Sandra is annoying in this but the action scenes are good like the boat the hits the beach and stuff. watch the first one instead. "},{"Title":"A great sequel to the smash hit!","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie is great.  I recommend it to people who have seen Speed.  Great inside jokes, cast, and dialogue.  One of Sandra's best performances!  A 10! "},{"Title":"What's everyone's problem","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Speed 2 isn't that bad! Okay, it was ruined by critics and totally bombed but it has everything that an action movie needs. Its fun, humorous, exciting, goofy, and has excellent special effects. It's recommended for action movie fans, and ITS NOT THAT BAD. "},{"Title":"Sandra & Jason dazzle!","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Wow! Sandra Bullock and Jason Patric dazzle as a tough S.W.A.T. team officer and his lovely girlfriend! The first time I went on a cruise, I asked my mother what would happen if some madman tried to hijack the ship, and she said, Oh, that's not going to happen. I thought that Annie (Sandra Bullock) and Alex (Jason Patric) looked good in the attire they wore when they were dancing with each other. There was only one character I got scared by, and that was Geiger (Willem Dafoe). Other than that, I loved this film! If you liked SPEED, you should see SPEED 2 CRUISE CONTROL. You're in for a real adventure and treat if you haven't seen it, so go rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "}{"Title":"Pitiful","Date":"2 September 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe adults were responsible for this movie, it is so utterly stupid that the it seems like the patients escaped and decided to make a movie and call it Speed 2.  Completely horrible from beginning to end, as obvious as the sky, and boring.  Poor Willem Dafoe...well, at least there won't be a third Speed.  I thought the original was totally overrated also. "},{"Title":"It's out of control and as bad as it gets.","Date":"22 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" This thing is beyond lame. The entire cast is about as unlikable and impersonal as can be, and the plot is as thin as the news on CNN. It's a huge problem for any movie, if the characters become annoying from the outset of the movie. This is partly due to bad acting and bad casting. The male lead (Jason Patric) is as believable as an action cop, as it would be to watch a 2 year old fly the Concorde. Sandra Bulldog is annoying beyond hope, due to the characters exaggerated amount of stupidity. The rest of the cast, is just bland and as memorable as a rainy Monday. The only two members of the cast that I find the slightest bit interesting are Christine Firkins and Susan Barnes. The plot, well, it's a ship out of control. The main problem with this is, that the director and producer did not take the time to make it believable. There are so many technical errors in this, it's ridiculous. They did not take the time to find out, how a cruise liner works and that way could have eliminated the ways of stopping the ship in a believable fashion. These technical plot holes just go on and on through the entire movie and ends with the biggest blunder ever. If you have any nautical knowledge and knowledge of ships, you'll find yourself covering your eyes due to sheer embarrassment on the behalf of the writer, director and producer. Ship wreck does not even begin to explain what this movie is, a nuclear blast is less of a disaster than this movie is. "},{"Title":"I just bought a condo here.....","Date":"18 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Annie is thrilled when her boyfriend Alex presents her with two tickets for a cruise to the Bahamas on a Norwegian luxury liner. The trip is a peace offering presented because Annie has just learnt that Alex is a police officer who's been lying to her about his job. Alex lied because Annie didn't want to date any more cops after what happened with the bus in Los Angeles. The cruise ship's passengers include members of a diamond dealers' association, who have filled the ship's vault with valuable diamonds. Little do they know that passenger John Geiger, the designer of the ship's computer system, has planned to take over the ship, steal the diamonds, and set the ship on a collision course with an oil tanker. Geiger was fired and cast aside by the computer company he worked for, and he wants revenge......Nowhere near as bad as what people are saying on here, the film is dumb in many ways, but it's a little bit of fun, very bright and breezy, and features a really good explosion at the end.Bullock does her ditsy shtick here, and it really grates at times, so we switch to Patric, who looks more concerned about getting wet and wondering what happened to his hair in The Lost Boys, a dull hero.So we are left with Dafoe, who is clearly having a ball and enjoying the sun and fat pay-cheque.For some reason, UB40 are on the ship, but you never see them again, and then guess who pops up near the end, the annoying bloke from speed, and they homage his scenes front that in this!!!It's lethargic at times and knowing that the budget on this was $160 million, would make anyone hate it, but it's not a bad film and certainly not De bongs worst film. "},{"Title":"Speed 2 if anything at all shows the importance of musical score & camera work...","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" So this movie takes place a few years down the road from Speed, And Sandra Bullock has found a man she thinks she can hang onto for a while -and is very excited as such- The guy, is Jason Patric, they want to get away from the hustle & bustle of life around L.A. And decide to take a cruise, to relax. But an over-zealous & calmly crazy computer hacker, wants the ship for his own reasons, then it just gets crazier from there.There's a lot you can say about Speed 2 Cruise Control, but unless you detach yourself from the overwhelming love, appreciation and die-hard devotion to the original, than your going to hate this beyond belief. Let me say this movie is FAR from horrible, or the worst movie ever made seriously, sequels follow under 2 categories. A. returning characters/places/events in another installment. Or B. a movie in a similar vein as previous film. This movie is mostly B. (with a sprinkle of A.) Most sequels somehow come off great being all in the first category, no matter how unrealistic it is (c'mon every main character in a Hollywood movie is always in danger & never catches a break? get real) Just because Keanu isn't in this shouldn't be the first step to shooting this movie down.The decision to make this another speed adventure instead of the next chapter in the same storyline shouldn't be a deal breaker in itself either. They evolved a story (regardless of an actor coming back or not) and made an action flick. Its the same deal as a company working on another year of improving and changing, an executive can look at their product and see the reasons why they might need to change. But suddenly you ask a die hard fan who lets his feelings for the product get in the way, you wont get the same understanding of the change at all.That being said, you cant help but think yeah still though Speed was better no kidding. but before you say not enough shooting, explosions or battle of wits collide you gotta realize one thing about movies, setting & story dictate everything else in a movie (including how the action goes). So you take that away, Speed 2 if anything at all shows the importance of musical score & camera work, that can make or break a movie. The pacing of it all, does get cumbersome at times (the movie has more time for story development so they did it). **But if Speed 2 kept up the same camera work (angels, shots, cuts & editing) along with a more similar musical score to the original (more tension, less tropical) than most people would give this movie a 6.0 easy.At the end of the day Speed 2 is not as good as the original, in its own right its actually a decent escape from a lazy Saturday afternoon's boredum.*If you've actually watched badly made movies before then this is an easy 6.5 not horrible, but not great, just good. *If all you watch are top of the line, Oscar contenders or triple A grade action/drama's then this should be about a 4.5 to a 5. ***If the first Speed was one of your top (10 or 15) favorite movies of all time, your better off pretending this doesn't exist, this isn't for you, don't watch it. (Now for those who think this is the worst piece of crap on the planet, trust me you haven't watched enough movies. go watch Chinango, Direct Contact, Deadly Prey & pretty much anything Billy Blanks made as a movie back in the 90's, then wish you had Those hours of your life back) "},{"Title":"Not to beat a dead horse, but this is simply dreadful","Date":"18 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" The original Speed was a fun, wild ride that exploited a great gimmick of a bomb-wired runaway bus, terrific chemistry between leads Keanu Reeves and Sandra Bullock and managing to peak on a variety of action fronts. It was a given that there would be a sequel, but did it have to be this stinking inept? Wags bad-mouthed Reeves for backing out of the sequel, but the world owes him an apology. First, the sequel is just plain lame-brained and lacks any sense of fun or suspense that characterized the original film. The gimmick of a runaway cruise ship on a collision course with an oil tanker just never seems especially riveting and the ridiculous way that many of the passengers get trapped aboard the ship, including the lead duo, never makes much sense. Willem Dafoe turns out to be a poor substitute for Dennis Hopper as the villain of the piece - a disgruntled computer hacker with lead poisoning (or something) that require the administration of leeches. Anyone who thinks Reeves cannot act at all needs to explain how it is possible for him to have succeeded so well in the first film, whereas Jason Patric - his woebegone replacement in the sequel and widely considered a far better actor than Reeves - is completely at sea. Patric is not charismatic or dynamic, shares zero chemistry with his leading lady and comes across as lumpish. And speaking of Bullock, why has her charming character from the original been re-imagined into a ditzy, incompetent, nagging boob? The opening and closing comedy sequences where Bullock attempts to regain her driver's license with beleaguered driving instructor Tim Conway is played for laughs, but it is inappropriately ludicrous with its broad comedy, and it would have us believe that the expert driver handling the out-of-control bus from Speed has devolved into a total dithering idiot behind the wheel. The first dialog scene between the leads is a hint of things to come with Bullock discovering by accident that Patric (who wants to marry her) is - horrors! - a cop who faces danger every day like her prior boyfriend. Apparently Bullock's Annie has become so timid, she cannot handle any relationships involving stress...good luck on that one! If the writing is tragic, then the direction is on the same level. Returning director Jan DeBont cannot come up with so much as one memorable action sequence in the whole shebang. Trust me when I say save your money and watch the original a second time. "},{"Title":"Number 1 Great Movie & Will Be For Many Many Years. Number 2 Great Turd & Will Contain Crap For Many Many Years","Date":"15 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Annie and her policeman boyfriend Alex decide to take a romantic ocean cruise together. Once at sea, however, one of the passengers, a disgruntled computer genius named Giger, disables the ship. Alex must now foil Giger's plans and bring everyone back safely to shore, but how can he outwit a man who can control the entire ship from his keyboard? Now The Original Yes Is A Great Great Movie & For A While Was My Favourite Movie But Its Not Anymore But Its Still A Good Movie & With Movies That Blow People Away There Can Only Come A Poorly Made Sequel. There Is Nothing New To This Movie. No New Action Scenes, No New Characters (This Alex Guy Is A Copy Of Jack Travern) All This Movie Will Do Is Remind The Viewer Just How Good Some Movies Out There Really Are. The Ship Going Onto The Land Was Nearly Hysterical If The Writer Didn't Make This Movie So Sad For The Viewers...I Mean The Puppy Lives. How Many Movies Do We See That In? I Have Lost Count. Wow It Took Longer To Write This Review Than It Did To Write The Movie. "},{"Title":"Doesn't deserve quite so much negativity","Date":"28 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" This movie really doesn't deserve the 3.3 out of 10 it currently holds. True, if Oscar winning performances through skilled acting is what you're looking for, then stay well clear. That is not what the Speed films are about however. They are about the action - the plot and the drama. For me, this movie really stepped up the plot from the first Speed, with some truly dramatic scenes (lifeboat evacuation) and some quality disaster moments (oil tanker collision). Willem Dafoe's character is interesting, and he plays a classic villain. I also found Sandra Bullocks uninspiring yet satirical attitude not cheesy or ridiculous, but somewhat amusing. For whatever reason I saw Speed 2 before I saw the first film, and personally I felt the reversal from a cruise liner disaster to a mere speeding bus was a bit disappointing, yet the first film garners way higher reviews. "},{"Title":"It Could Have Been Better!!!","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I don't hate this sequel, but it's okay for what it is. It doesn't exactly feel like a 'Speed' movie, but more like another action film with characters from the original Speed in it. It has been two years and Annie Porter has broken up with Jack Traven and has someone new named Alex Shaw. She thinks Alex works as Beach Partol, until she finds out that he is actually an expert of the LAPD SWAT team. Alex surprises her with a trip to the Caribbean, on the cruise ship, the Seabourn Legend. After having fun in the sun, a man named John Geiger takes control of the ship and threatens to blow it up. While everyone is evacuating the ship, Alex stays to find Geiger and stop him. I'd probably recommend SPEED 2 CRUISE CONTROL!!! "},{"Title":"Speed 2 Cruise Control","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" From Razzie nominated director Jan De Bont (Speed, Twister), this sequel to the fantastic action thriller was obvious to be a failure when you don't have Keanu Reeves coming back. Basically Annie (Razzie nominated Sandra Bullock) feels her boyfriend, Officer Alex Shaw (Jason Patric) isn't spending enough time with her, but then he surprises her with a pair of tickets for a luxury cruise to the Bahamas. Also on the cruise ship are some diamond dealers' association members, and of course the mad villain John Geiger (Razzie nominated Willem Dafoe), designer of the ship's computer system, with some bombs hidden in his gold clubs and balls. So once in the middle of the ocean, Geiger puts his plan into action by disabling all the ships controls and communications, get to stealing the diamonds on board, and setting th ship to crash. Alex and Annie of course are trying everything they can to stop more explosions, gain back control of the ship, and stop the madman from succeeding. Also starring Temuera Morrison as Juliano, Brian McCardie as Merced, Christine Firkins as Drew, Michael 'Mike' G. Hagerty as Harvey, Colleen Camp as Debbie, Moonraker's Lois Chiles as Celeste, Saw II's Glenn Plummer as Maurice, UB40 and Terminator 2's Joe Morton as Lt. Herb 'Mac' McMahon. This film is very boring, apart from maybe one or two big explosions, and the biggest fault is that the ship keeps growing and shrinking in size quite a lot of the time, a ridiculous and unnecessary sequel, just bad in nearly every way possible. It won the Razzie for Worst Remake or Sequel, and it was nominated for Worst Picture, Worst Original Song for My Dream, Worst Screen Couple for Bullock and Patric and Worst Screenplay. Pretty poor! "},{"Title":"So ridiculously tedious it's unbelievable!","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I usually only review movies I've just seen, whether I've just seen them for the first time or have just revisited them, but I've decided to make an exception here. Late in 2005, I rented Speed, the 1994 action blockbuster, and this 1997 sequel, Speed 2 Cruise Control, together. I found the first one, though flawed, to be a great adrenaline rush for the most part. Then I saw this sequel, aware of its bad reputation beforehand, which I could fully understand after watching it! Early last year, I watched the original again. This time, I thought it was mediocre, so I obviously wasn't going to re-watch Cruise Control, which I found to be far below average the first time! So, I haven't seen this 1997 flop in over 3 ½ years, but I think I still have enough to say about it.Annie Porter has broken up with her boyfriend, Officer Jack Traven, and now has a new lover, Officer Alex Shaw. Alex has been lying to her about his profession. He is actually another police officer, and Annie wouldn't have dated him in the first place had she known. To make it up to her, he gets two tickets for an ocean liner cruise, so the couple can go on a romantic vacation. However, this vacation doesn't go according to plan. Annie and Alex don't know that there is a dangerous passenger on board the Seabourn Legend cruise liner with them, a man named John Geiger! He is an ex-employee of a computer company, who was fired from his job due to ill health. Seeking revenge, he disables the ship's controls, and sets it on a collision course! It's now up to Alex to try and foil the madman's plans and rescue the passengers! My memory of this film is fairly vague, but I clearly remember my feelings as I watched it. I found that it started out mediocre and just got worse as it went along. By the end, it felt like the dragging adventure had been going on forever! For that reason, after seeing the entire film, I thought it was horrendous! I found that it was far from even being in the same league as the original Speed! Never before had I seen a sequel THIS far downhill from its predecessor! Since it's been a while, I can't remember the dialogue in this film very well, but that seems to be something this film is criticized for. I noticed some cheesy dialogue during my second viewing of the original, so I'm sure there's more of that in this film. Same goes for the acting. However, for me, the main problem (a HUGE problem) was that Speed 2 was so boring and probably more ridiculously tedious than any film I had seen before! If I saw this awful sequel again, I'm sure I would be able to write a more insightful review. However, since one viewing was bad enough, I do not intend to spend another two hours sitting through this crap again! Even my second viewing of the original Speed was much better than my only viewing of this follow-up! It seems most sequels are generally considered inferior to their predecessors, but not as far inferior as this one! Of course, most sequels feature the main character from the original film, and this one doesn't. Keanu Reeves refused to return as Officer Jack Traven, but even if he didn't, this movie probably wouldn't be any better. If you like action movies, you might like the reasonably popular original 1994 blockbuster, but regardless of whether you do or not, Speed 2 Cruise Control should probably be avoided at all costs! If you pay to see it, you just might wish you could get a refund! "}{"Title":"More of the same, just about","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" An unfailing, expectation-satisfying sequel. Jan de Bont has set himself quite a task, not only in trying to follow the success of the the first - and without Keanu Reeves - but also in having to continue the concept without repeating the unimprovable original bus ride sequence.Well, he (and, no doubt, a legion of others) came up with a boat and more besides best of all they put the Willem Dafoe's nutty bad guy on the vehicle. This is a nice addition to the formula, putting the bad guy on the vehicle and changing the dynamism of the thriller. Kinda. In fact what there is is more action, tension and whining members of the public bookended with a self-parodying romance between Jason Patric and Sandra Bullock. Neat, fast and fun. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Despite it's bad reputation I'll give it a five out of ten.","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Speed 2 Cruise Control starts as the hero from the original Speed (1994) Annie Porter (Sandra Bullock) unexpectedly discovers that her current boyfriend Alex Shaw (Jason Patric) is in fact an LAPD SWAT team member. Upset & worried Alex reassures Annie & then says he has two tickets for a cruise to the Caribbean on board the Seabourn Legend (the TV edit strangely changes the name to the S.S. Legend) where he intends to propose, excited Annie agrees to go on the cruise. However disaster strikes when a bitter computer programmer named John Geiger (Willem Dafoe) decides to hijack the Seabourn using his expert knowledge of the ship's computer systems in order to steal millions of dollars worth of diamonds & then crash it into a huge oil tanker to cover his tracks, that is unless Annie & Alex can stop him...Co-produced & directed by Jan de Bont this was the mega budget sequel to the smash hit action flick Speed which has become regarded as one of the finest action films from the 90's, a general opinion with which I am in agreement with. However conversely Speed 2 Cruise Control has become regarded as one of the very worst action films of the 90's, a general opinion that I am not in agreement with. OK sure Speed 2 Cruise Control isn't any sort of masterpiece or even a good example of the action genre but I thought it was alright & the current IMDb user rating of 3.3 really is too low. The script Randall McCormick & Jeff Nathanson feels like a cross between The Poseidon Adventure (1972) & Die Hard (1988) & was in fact originally intended as the third Die Hard film but luckily the producers of that franchise saw that the script didn't work & went with something else, I suppose with this script lying around Fox decided to turn it into a sequel to Speed but Keanu Reeves didn't want to come back so the main character had to be rewritten & the whole dynamic & familiarity between Reeves & Bullock that could have been explored here is missing. Reeves was replaced by Jason Patric who is a really bland & forgettable actor & the fact that his role is so badly written doesn't help, this is the occasion when we need a Sylvester Stallone or a Bruce Willis or a Keanu Reeves or someone who has on screen presence as an action hero because Patric doesn't have any. The story feels half hearted as well, ironically for a film called Speed it's strangely slow going & lethargic. In the original Speed the action was none stop here it's extremely sporadic & forgettable. I didn't like the villain that much either, he was just one guy, he never kills anyone & he even stops the boat so all the passengers can get off! What kind of a bad guy is that? Having said that he was played by the always watchable Willem Dafoe which helps.Director Jan de Bont turns in a good looking film for sure but the action scenes drag, there's very little threat or menace & there's some irritating comedy relief too. Then there's the subplot about the deaf girl that goes nowhere, the silly scene where Dafoe places leeches on his body & some even sillier scenes bookending the film showing Annie having a driving test. The sequence at the end where the Seabourn crashes into St. Martin & destroys half the town looks visually impressive but isn't exciting in the slightest. The original Speed had an out of control bus careering through Los Angeles while this has a cruise liner sailing through the open sea, the energy & high octane action of the original just isn't here. Also being a PG-13 the violence is really toned down, there's hardly any fights, I can't remember anyone being killed & the language is also squeaky clean which is not what most of us expect from our big budget action flicks.With a supposed budget of about $110,000,000 Speed 2 Cruise Control should have been better, sure it's well made with that big budget Hollywood polish but it's so lethargic & pedestrian. In an interview Sandra Bullock described Speed 2 Cruise Control as 'the biggest piece of crap ever made', Gary Oldman turned down the role of the villain to do Air Force One (1997) instead (good choice) while Jason Patric has not got a leading role in a Hollywood film since. According to the credits the band UB40 are in here somewhere.Speed 2 Cruise Control (wouldn't it have been great if this had stared Tom Cruise? You know, because of the title...) is nowhere near as good as the original Speed but isn't as bad as many make out, it passes the time & there are a few big budget spectacular set-piece sequences that are pretty to look at. If you want to see a proper action film set on a big boat watch the Steven Seagal flick Under Siege (1992) instead. "},{"Title":"Great sequel to a amazing film!","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" This movie is so badly criticised, one question i would like to ask.....how could you criticise a film like this? i thought it was great, a very good way to spend 2 hours of a Friday night!The film is basically about a computer genius (Max Zorin) who sets a cruise on course for an oil tanker, which in the end just misses it and heads on course to an island, causing much destruction!Towards the end of the film, i saw comedy being inserted, which i liked (i laughed more than i did when i watched The Green Green Grass earlier in the night!)Overall, i really enjoyed this film, can't wait for Speed 3.7/10 "},{"Title":"Nothing compared to the first.","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" My Take A much-maligned sequel to the highly-successful SPEED has none of that film's thrills, but it ain't as bad as most say it is. Movies during the summer don't depend themselves much on smart, clever situations and characters, and SPEED 2 CRUISE CONTROL is no exception. This maybe it's year's dumbest action flick, with everything happening implausible overdrive. Yes, it is dumb, but when it comes to its action sequences and tight pacing, SPEED 2 is a could-be-worse summer fun, as long as audiences expect less than more from the writer's intelligence. Having said that, the movie does have its share of huge problems and plot holes that could sink the Titanic. Instead of a traveling Los Angeles bus, SPEED 2 takes the danger to a Caribbean cruise liner. Sandra Bullock returns to her lovable role of Annie Porter from the first SPEED, with much less to do, rather than the usual damsel-in-distress behavior. She goes with her boyfriend Alex (Jason Patric), an LAPD, lacking the heroic charm of Keanu Reeves' Jack Traven role, on a Caribbean cruise on board the Seaborn Legend. Unlucky for them, and for the other passengers, to board a ship with John Geiger (Willem Dafoe) on board. See, he's a crazed computer engineer with vengeance, after being fired when he gets a certain ailment, he believes, came from a technical malfunction of the ship, which he helped control. After he takes over the ship, he sends it speeding towards an oil tanker at a rush. This gives time for Patric to flex his action muscles, while also giving Bullock a chance to say her distressful dialogs like I swear, I'm never leaving the house again!.Director Jan De Bont is back on the fast lane (if i may say so) directing this sequel to his summer hit. This time, though, he doesn't do very great job, unlike that he did for the first film. De Bont uses a lot of the Shakycam, shots that follow the action sequences, but gives the viewer a dizzy feeling. He gives these treatments, even to moments that don't require them. The plot, of course, is highly preposterous and implausible. Firstly, no ship moves at an incredibly fast like how it was pointed out in the story. Once more, we also get a dull dose of characters, a lot less colorful and busy like the ones in SPEED. The film loses a lot, basically, from the lack of Keanu Reeves' character, and Patric's isn't much of a good replacement. Bullock's role here isn't quite as charming as how she did the character in the first film. The only character that has much dimension is Dafoe's Geiger, but he seems way too over-the-top to be any plausible than a comic book villain.Nevertheless, despite all the flaws, SPEED 2 manages to make a thrill ride of itself. The special-effects take on a life of its own during the film's better action sequences. My favorite, is the ship's collision with the giant oil tanker, which is where the bigger-budgeted effects are best observed. De Bont, despite his tired and uninspired direction, manages to produce a couple of good moments.Perhaps as long as the audience doesn't think even once the moment the theater lights have dimmed, SPEED 2 CRUISE CONTROL might be worth a look, but with so many flaws and gaps in reality, it doesn't even come close to what it could have been. Stick to the original; at least Keanu Reeves was smart enough to do that. Rating ** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Not quite as awful as you've been led to believe.. its simply average.","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Many people knock Speed 2 for one major thing.... a lack of Keanu Reeves.Frankly, I couldn't care less whether or not he was or was not in it, for me Sandra Bullock was by far the more interesting character, Keanus' Jack Traven was as clichéd an action hero as you've come to expect to emerge out of a Hollywood scriptwriters 'imagination'.Keanu Reeves is essential in only one series of films, The Matrix trilogy, anything else and his 'loss' is not felt.I agree with the criticisms about the choice of transport in Speed 2, the clue in the films title is 'speed', and lets face it, a cruise ship doesn't quite convey images of that.Willem Defoe was unusually over the top, with maniacal grins every two seconds, and the spot with the leeches just seemed to be some stupid scriptwriter trying to give the bad guy some interesting quirk!Jason Patric? An OK actor who has never really gone as far as he probably should. He's been in some fine films over the years, but compare him to his peers of the same era, Julia Roberts, Kiefer Sutherland to name two are doing quite a bit better! But he fills the Keanu role fine.Sandra Bullock is Sandra Bullock, and what you expect of her is exactly what you get.The direction is sound, you certainly get a feel for the amount of money being splashed around on screen. The action sequences are suitably grandiose and over the top, but thats what an Action movie is supposed to be.The effects are good, and the storyline perfunctory, it doesn't offend nor does it provoke much in the way of thought.Is Speed 2 Cruise Control the best movie in the world? No Is Speed 2 Cruise Control the worst movie in the world? No Is Speed 2 Cruise Control guilty of stretching a sequel premise a little far? Yes Does Speed 2 Cruise Control deserve its low IMDb rating? No, most certainly not, too many sheep out there that can't think for themselves so follow the herd and say its crap!Its not a movie I want to add to my DVD collection, but its also a movie I would quite happily watch if it came on TV. Speed 2 is an adequate distraction if you've got nothing better to do. Certainly the film doesn't deserve the stupidly low IMDb rating that its garnered so far, quite how this film can be remotely compared to Battlefield Earth is something I'm not entirely sure is possible.I gave it 5 out of 10 because it was average, anything less than that is sheeplike, disingenously masquerading as an individual opinion. "},{"Title":"one of the worst things ( why call it a film )","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" This movie was exactly like getting stuck in bumper to bumper traffic for two hours. You feel angry, sick and most of all you curse yourself because you could have just have well stayed home.This movie is very close to nothing. How could it be less? If they had a writer that tried to write and failed instead of a writer who did not want to write? If they had an actor as bad as Ben Affleck? If they had an actress as bad as ( oh wait they did have Sandra ) two hours of constipation -- thank god I had some xanax with me or I would have had a seizure.To Hollywood -- once again, a fine job of doing nothing. "},{"Title":"Slowness","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" As far as brainless action movies go, Speed 2 is probably undeserving of the barrage of abuse it has received ever since it first hit cinema screens back in '97. That isn't to say that it's a good film &#150; it isn't. In fact it fails on nearly all counts. But it still isn't the absolute disaster so many people seem to hysterically claim. That it would fail was an absolute certainty. A cruise liner travelling on an open ocean at around 20mph just isn't going to push the thrill button the way a runaway bus careening around the streets of America at never less than 50mph does it's like staging Die Hard 2 in a one-bedroom flat. And having Sandra Bullock reprise her role as the borderline dippy Annie Potter merely serves as a reminder of the gulf between Speed and Speed 2.When we meet Annie she has dumped Jack Traven because he lives life too much on the edge for her comfort, and taken up with Alex Shaw who, to her surprise, turns out to be as much of a life-edge liver as the hunk she's just dumped. The couple decide on a romantic cruise together to overcome the shock to Annie's system but, this being a sequel, lightning is about to strike twice as they have chosen the exact same cruise on which bonkers John Geiger (Willem Dafoe) has set his sights. Geiger worked for the company that designed the liner's on-board computer system, but was sacked when they discovered he had a weird leech fetish and a violent golf game. Outraged by this injustice, Geiger plans to hijack the liner and ram it into an oil tanker after first relieving it of a load of jewels.The main problem with Speed 2 is that it is almost totally lacking in tension. Only for a period of about thirty-seven seconds as Shaw and the ship's photographer (don't ask) repeatedly dive underwater to do something clever with a wheel to divert the liner from running into the oil tanker is any kind of suspense generated. Willem Dafoe certainly appears to be enjoying himself, but director de Bont really should have asked him to tone his performance down a bit &#150; he flashes those huge gnashers and rolls his eyes like a complete loon which just makes him look ridiculous rather than menacing. He has also written one of those computer programmes that present the kind of screen that only ever appears on Hollywood movies. When I punch the wrong access code into my computer, I get a little grey box about two inches square saying incorrect user password &#150; Hollywood computers get flashing messages in size 24 font dramatically announcing that access is denied. Bullock is relegated to comic relief for much of the film, and is merely another helpless female for the rest &#150; she's also pretty annoying much of the time. Speed was the film that catapulted her onto the A-list and we can only assume there was a clause written into her contract stipulating that she star in any sequel &#150; either that or they offered her a shed-load of cash for which she was prepared to risk her career.Bottom line go into this expecting an average run-of-the-mill action adventure flick and you will probably only be mildly disappointed. Expect something on a par with its predecessor and you will be as hysterically indignant as the majority of reviewers. "},{"Title":"You Know Why Keanu Not in the Movie","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" When I first saw this movie I thought it would be bigger and better than the original. After watching it, one of my expectations came true, it was bigger but not better.Speed 2 (Spoilers******) Sequel to the original 1994 action blockbuster, Dutch director Jan de Bont comes again to tell another thrilling chapter after a three year gap. For the first film the studio was not sure whether this foreign film director can carry a different action movie, but after its unexpected success, 20th Century Fox studio makes his return in a bigger way and in a different canvas.But things went wrong there, first of all absence of writer Graham Yost and even Joss Whedon, they got replaced by new writers. Resulted a script originally intended to be a installment for the Die Hard Series. Knowing this Keanu Reeves turned down the project and accepted a much more respected film called The Devil's Advocate.But Fox was well set for this sequel, making a sudden rewrites in the script the story begins with Annie Porter (Sandra Bullock), the troubled civilian from the last movie falling in love with a new cop, Officer Alex Shaw (Jason Patric). They go for a dating on a cruiser ship but things went wrong when the bad man John Geiger (Willem Green Goblin Dafoe) tries to control the 'speeding' ship.Scripted by Randall McCormick and Jeff Nathanson for the story of Jan de Bont and Randall McCormick themselves, brings this second thrilling experience. In fact I enjoyed the movie (I thought Keanu Reeve's original character, officer Jack Traven was re-casted by Jason Patric!), but major thing missing was those tight tensions, over the edge shots. Surely it came bigger, from a bus to a size of Ship, from road to the deep sea. But the producers failed to create those extreme circumstances.Even so, the soul created for this movie from Mark Mancina and Christopher Ward tried to connect the sequel to its original. Mancina's score tried to flesh out the excitement like the action scenes on the speeding bus, however major portions of the sequel suffer from arrhythmic, more dissonant cues. Sandra Bullock in the other hand didn't know what to do, whether she has to reinvent the character or go on with the same stage, she was totally lost in establishing her role in the sequel.All in all it's a great movie if you didn't see the original. I gave this movie 8 out of 10.Speed 2 = Too Slow. "},{"Title":"heh. Sequels? Not this one!","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Since IMDb is requiring writing 10 lines I will begin.It proves that 1. Jason Patric is just an opposite of an actor.2. Willem Dafoe is even worst.3. Sandra Bullock can do it just for the money. Does that making her a prostitute? ) Guess not.4. Making sequels is equal to making bad movies (in Hollywood, proved awfully many times) 5. This line deliberately left blank.6. What does Hollywood needs most? 6.1 Good script writers.6.2 Good actors. Not like these above.6.3 Not so greedy producers 7. Summary - bottom 100.Definitely. "},{"Title":"Exciting and even funny","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" It's too bad this movie didn't start with Annie's driver's test, but this wasn't really a comedy. Instead, Annie's new boyfriend Alex is chasing after the criminals who stole some computers.But eventually we do see what has to be, to the horror of the poor license examiner effectively played by Tim Conway, the worst road test in the history of driver's licenses. Wonderfully hilarious! And they even catch up with Alex.The movie gets off track briefly, but once Annie and Alex go on the cruise, things get better again. Alex and Annie's relationship ceases to be entertaining, but that's okay because John Geiger is upset over losing his golf clubs ... which are not merely golf clubs. And neither are his golf balls just golf balls. Things are about to get exciting! John Geiger worked for the company that designed computer systems for the cruise ship, but when he got sick they fired him, and he wants revenge. Once he sets out to take control of the ship (Get it? 'Cruise control'.) it is a non-stop thrill ride right to the end. And about the end it's like Count Basie's 'April in Paris'.All I've ever heard about this movie is how bad it was. I didn't get that impression at all, although the slapstick ending of the cruise ship story was kind of weird and possibly inappropriate, given the fact that some people might have died or gotten seriously hurt (though we didn't see it). But I couldn't help but laugh.Willem Dafoe made an chilling and even borderline insane villain, though I have seen better. I liked the humorous way his character explained ending up on the ship's bridge. Sandra Bullock once again ended up reluctantly trying to save the day, and she did a nice job, even showing her funny side at times. Never again, though, was she as funny as when she took her driver's license test (Okay, once, but I have to leave some surprises).Several characters deserve mention Drew, the adorable blonde 14-year-old who can't hear, manages to be quite a charmer without saying a word. Alex knows sign language and they have a cute conversation when they first meet. Later, Drew manages to get lost as things start happening, but she does a capable job of getting at least part of the way to safety. She does speak at several times, but with difficulty. There was also Dante, the annoying photographer. I wish we had seen more of him, though he did play a role in rescuing the others and preventing disaster, and, while he wasn't funny in those situations, he was okay.There were a couple of other characters I liked but I didn't catch their names. One seemed to be like Gopher on 'The Love Boat' and he not only couldn't seem to do anything right, but he encountered all sorts of bad luck throughout the movie. I mean more than the passengers and crew in general. Also, there was the captain of the boat at the Caribbean resort. Now there was a character! Poor man didn't want to risk his boat to help save the day, but mon, what choice do he have?This certainly wasn't one of the greatest action thrillers, and it didn't live up to 'Speed', but it was no disaster ... unless you happened to live or work at that Caribbean resort. "}{"Title":"Not the worst in the world...","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Yes, this is not a classic. And Jason Patric was not up to the task of headlining a major movie -- or, perhaps, any movie. His next big role was in The Alamo -- nothing more needs saying. Nonetheless, the first half of the story was pretty good. And the music was quite good too. Willem Dafoe as the villain was terrific, although hopefully there were some special effects involved with the leeches. But the key to this movie is Sandra Bullock. As far as I'm concerned, a movie of her reading the phone book would be at least a 4. With her, it was watchable, and parts of it were quite entertaining. However, if you are not a big fan of her's, then you might want to find a different way to invest 2 hours. "},{"Title":"The Opposite of Titanic","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Speed 2 is not a must see but worth seeing for its humor and good real special effects. The story didn't convince me but if the director wanted to create an action thriller he succeeded in doing it. Sometimes I thought I'm watching Titanic. I think that the story of Speed I was much more clever developed than this. The casting made a solid job; perhaps the role of Sandra Bullock was too passive and she should have taken more responsibility. William Defoe was interesting to watch in his role as the bad guy and Jason Patric was great in action scenes. I am wondering why I didn't see him in other action films till now. All in all a good entertaining movie that deserves 6/10 but as I told before don't expect too much. The actual vote on IMDb of 3.3 is too underrated. If you liked this try BAD COMPANY that has also much humor and some good action. "},{"Title":"What I liked and disliked about the movie.","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" What I liked about the movie was how action packed it was,like when the ship is about to hit the oil boat (or ship). What I did not like was the leeches that Giger uses to clean his blood (to me that is just sick!), Annie is with a different police officer and marries him when in the first movie it looked like she was in love with her other police officer boyfriend, and when Giger has this freakishly stupid laugh right before he gets blown up with the airplane at the end. I have to agree it is not as good as the 1st Speed. I honestly think that this movie should have never been made in the first place because to top it off, it stunk! Anybody who is reading this, don't waist like 2 hours of your time watching it. "},{"Title":"The movie s(t)inks","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Not only is this film a serious waste of time. The very reels are a serious waste of space. Anyone interested in studying film making at its absolute worst or just in for a laugh at a real goof could probably be entertained by it, but for the rest of is, this is as embarrassing as it is breathtaking - NOT the way its makers intended. Hand-cranked bow thrusters? Capable of turning a huge cruiser? Phew. What a lot of nonsense. The goofs sector for this film should have a heyday. I am only taking time to write about this to warn others from seeing it and waste their precious time doing so. Is it possible to give this piece of rubbish a *negative* rating? "},{"Title":"Absolutely shocking","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this film for the first time today and just could not believe how bad the dialogue was. No-one seemed to care that diaster had struck and seemed more keen to try and make a witty quip (that wasn't funny) rather than deal with the perilous situation that they were in. Apart from that, things that people said were simply ridiculous, ie Oh, an earthquake! No, it can't be, we're at sea.There were huge problems with parts of the plot as it just didn't make any sense at times too.All in all, it just came across as ultra unrealistic. "},{"Title":"Major disappointment","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie was very disappointing, especially after seeing the spectacular Speed 1. Jason Patric just isn't Keanu Reeves even though it's obvious he tries his best. And Willem Dafoe isn't Dennis Hopper. The whole plot was just, here we go again and didn't have that fresh atmosphere that the first film did. I tried to like this film, I really did, but still I would rate this film the worst sequel of all time, even worse than both Jurassic Park sequels. Nothing fun or exciting here.don't's vote 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I actually liked this movie.","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I do not like Sandra Bullock's movies, generally speaking. But I did like this one! I recommend, however, that you seriously suspend ALL disbelief when watching this. There are MANY occasions where the characters do something that adds to the suspense of the movie, but YOU could come up with a much easier solution that would have solved the problem 30 minutes ago. OK, it's stupid in places. But, it's colorful, fun and suspenseful without being heavyweight. Sit back, enjoy, and make fun of how stupid the characters are. Fun! "},{"Title":"One of the worst ever!!","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This must be one of the worst films I have ever seen. The plot is really stupid and as a Master Mariner and Captain on a big ocean going ship I have found so many unrealistic things. Maybe they used Donald Duck as nautical advisor.... I think the worst scene is when they take the elevator down into the water ballast tank which also is the laundry!!! And also the scene when they are turning the bow thruster manually!!, the bow thruster is also for some reason under water. The mate on the bridge that seems to know nothing about the ship and it's equipment makes a really stupid impression. The actor performances is overall poor. The rating for this film is a solid 1 and it really deserves it's place as one of the worst 100 ever. "},{"Title":"Thanks for the warning!","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I watched the trailer, this shows the whole film, no need to watch the complete film...thank you very much as i didn't want to waste 90 mins watching something below standard. Speed 1 was ok but why make a poor 2nd film ? if the producers were after money hopefully they didn't make what they expected. "},{"Title":"WHOA!!! What a mistake THIS was!!!","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  WHOA!!! What a mistake THIS was!!!  Somehow between 1994 and 1997 they forgot what made Speed great and put this sorry excuse for a movie together. How dare they even put Speed as part of the title.  A COMPLETE insult as far as I'm concerned.  I always think of this movie as the rubbish one without Keanu Reeves.That brings me to the first thing I hated about this movie.  I missed the obvious on-screen chemistry between him and Sandra Bullock and is it because Reeves didn't take part in this film that the writers turned his character (Jack Traven) from being a really cool guy sound like a complete jerk. The guy they replaced him with was CERTAINLY no Keanu Reeves and I wouldn't be surprised if this film ended the actor's career (I've yet to see him in anything else).Cruise Control's villain was far to comic for my liking and lacked that certain 'something' that made Dennis Hopper's portrayal of Howard Payne a worthy adversary to Reeves' Jack Traven.  Dennis Hopper's acting in Speed was FANTASTIC and, again, the chemistry between him, Keanu Reeves, and Sandra Bullock was strong and not lost among the BRILLIANT Special Effects and EXCELLENT stunt work unlike Cruise Control.The acting talent and chemistry between the characters in Cruise Control is totally lost and nowhere near as strong as that in Speed.Even the special effects in Cruise Control don't seem to have the same impact as those in Speed.Reeves and Hopper ARE missing from this and noticeably as well.  Reeves because he declined to appear and Hopper because his character lost some...height...in Speed and Bullock should NEVER have been in this at ALL!Avoid Cruise Control like the plague!!!  See Speed NOW!!! "}{"Title":"Worst ever!!!","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  As an old AB sailor I hereby come to the conclusion that this is the worst film I have ever seen! Please mr. director - get your ridiculous facts right!First, you don´t stop a full speeding cruiser weighing 30.000 deadweight tonnes by dropping an anchor... Neither does it take 15 seconds to pull hundreds of meters of anchor chain out of the water, more likely 45 minutes... Furthermore, it is impossible to hold a mooring rope under hard pulling force with only one turn on the nock... Also, trying to stop a revolving 18 tonne propeller under the influence of an 25-30.000 horsepower machine is like stopping a runaway train with a shoestring... Last, since there will be no air to breath within 10-15 seconds after a haloon system is set of, you can only launch it, after a long alarm, from a separate location.... Thanks for nothing mr. director! "},{"Title":"Very hollywoodesque but also quite entertaining.","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I keep hearing that this movie is a total flop but I do not agree. I admit the movie is very much Hollywood. But I still liked it. The script is actually not bad. The first half an hour is very good because of its comedy, action, and romance that is all rolled into one. The acting is pretty good considering neither of the lead actors wanted to act in this movie. Sandra Bullock, Jason Patric, William Defoe act the same kind of characters that they usually play in movies. Another thing that was good about the film is the music. UB40 were one of the many performers in the movie. And I just love UB40's music. What is bad about the movie is that the movie tried to contain too much at once. I mean there was too much over the top action in the film. Some of the under the water scenes looked too unrealistic. Overall, the movie is very entertaining. I recomend it to people who just want to watch some pure entertainment. I do not recomend it to those who have to much of a critical eye.  "},{"Title":"I can't believe there are some people voted 10 for this movie!","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Speed 2 is a horrid movie, if you compare to Speed (the first movie) this is a big blooper! Sandra Bullock is even worse in this movie, she really shows how bad she can act! The story line is causing nausea, and I really don't know what to say...TERRIBLE, IT'S TERRIBLE!!!!  "},{"Title":"Awesomeness!!!!!!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I love this film. It's a great Action/ Adventure/ Thriller film. It's a thrill to watch. It's a rush hour thill ride!I love this film. The first time I saw it was like a month ago. I had a free DVD hire, and a friend recommended this to me, because I love Speed. I rented out the 3 day DVD and didn't watch it the first two nights, frankly because I wasn't really up to watching this film. It's mostly because the IMDB rating and bad reviews. On the last night I had it, I popped it in. It was real good, until it went from good, to amazingly awesome. It looked so good on the DVD, perfect widescreen, the nice scenes, it was excellent.This is one of my favorite action films. I liked the story, the characters and everything else. The music was still awesome, sometimes even sounded better than the first. Great cast. Sandra Bullock still looking good.I would rate this high up in the action film genre. I found it fun and entertaining to the max! I would definitely watch it again and buy it on DVD. It's awesome! I can't believe it's got such a low rating around 3 out of 10 on IMDB. I give it a solid 10! "},{"Title":"Could be worse","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I can see why this film gets a lot of flack.  It certainly doesn't live up to Speed 1, and I have to agree with about 90% of the viewers that Jason Patric doesn't quite have the same appeal as Keanu Reeves (which is a pretty bad insult, bearing in mind how much I hate Reeves).However, it does have the odd entertaining moments, and if you ignore the plot holes and Sandra Bullock's whinging tone you can enjoy it.  No disrespect to Ms Bullock, she rules, but the script sucked.  One disaster after another and all she can talk about is her ruined vacation.  As if she's the only person on the ship having that problem!Something about this film that has annoyed me since I first saw it (yes, I have seen it more than once, sue me, there are worse films out there), is the mass of destruction in the final scene and the comic way it was dealt with.  It had a very cartoon-y feel too it, and seemed as if it was being played for laughs.  Oh darn, I'm about to be crushed by a big ship *cue Wylie Coyote style grin and wave at camera before death*I'd give this film a 4/10.  Watch it if you can't find anything else at Blockbuster but don't make a beeline for it. "},{"Title":"Sandra & Jason dazzle!","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Wow! Sandra (Bullock) and Jason (Patric) dazzle as a tough S.W.A.T. team officer and his lovely girlfriend! The first time I went on a cruise, I asked my mother what would happen if some madman tried to hijack the ship, and, she said, Oh, that's not going to happen. I thought that Annie (Sandra Bullock) and Alex (Jason Patric) looked good in the attire they wore when they were dancing with each other. There was only one character I got scared by, and, that was Geiger (Willem Dafoe). Other than that, I loved this film! If you liked SPEED, you should see SPEED 2 CRUISE CONTROL. You're in for a real adventure and treat if you haven't seen it, so, go rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as #1","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Speed 2 isn't as good as the first one,but it's acceptable and has a few good scenes, however Sandra Bullock is awesome. if she wasn't in it i'd give it two thumbs DOWN, but with her i give it one up. See it and remember that it's okay, but definetly see the first one!  "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This film has been unfairly dismissed as a stupid sequel. It isn't, the film is stupid, but it's meant to be, anyone who takes this film seriously obviously doesn't get it. It's meant to be fun, like action films are. It has one of the most spectacular boat parking jobs ever put on film, and the film makers weren't afraid to throw money at it. Just because Keanu Reeves isn't in it doesn't make it any worse, Jason Patric well an truely makes up for him, with his character. And Willem Dafoe is one of the most perfect bad guys, with that creepy grin and gangly hair. This film shouldn't be put down so much, it's simply a good way to spend two hours without having to think too much. Also, top marks for including Temuera Morrison in the cast, a very talented NZ actor. "},{"Title":"is this a joke?","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Did the crew who put this crap together expect the fans to enjoy this? They must have been blind if they didn't see the sheer stupidity of this film. What kind of action movie stars the damsel in distress anyway? Its the good guy against the bad guy, not the annoying chick's relationship with her boyfriend. This isn't even an action movie, its an annoying comedy. How much money did this make anyway? Even $1 million would be a lot for this junk. This is definitely Bullock's worst film . "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  OK, lets list the things that are good about this movie Sandra Bullock.Now let's'list the things that are bad about this movie First of all, Willem Dafoe and Jason Patric just don't cut it when compared to Dennis Hopper and Keanu Reeves. Especially Dafoe as the bad guy is laughably bad, he probably was to lazy to put in an effort. The whole setting (an out of control cruise boat) is much more unbelievable then an out-of-control bus. As a result, the action sequences in this movie are far-fetched, boring and unintentionally funny. Which is in a way a good thing, because the INTENTIONAL humour in this movie is, well, terrible. To top it all of, the special effects look like the budget for them was about $ 12,75. To wrap it all up, this is a terrible, terrible movie that should be avoided at all costs. NO stars "}{"Title":"where this went wrong","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The main problem with this movie is not so much the bad acting (it wasn't THAT bad), or the absence of Keanu Reeves (I don't blame him for avoiding this), or the fact that it was set on the water (as many good movies were). The main problem is that the original Speed set up a specific premise and got you to imagine the possibilities There's a bomb on a bus on a Los Angeles freeway; it goes off if the bus slows under 50 mph; how do you get the bus to safety and get everyone off?  When you walk into the theater or put the movie in your VCR, if you haven't seen it before, you're already wondering.Speed 2 doesn't do that.  The premise of Speed 2 is there's some kind of a bomb on a boat somewhere.  So? "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I'm very surprised by the enormity of the negative voting here for Speed 2. I enjoyed the first Speed just as much as everyone, and yet I believe that Speed 2 was a decent sequel. True, without Mr. Reeves it doesn't feel quite the same, but I think Sandra Bullock does an excellent job with a poor script. And Jason Patrick would be a good hero if only people would give him a chance. Willem Defoe is a terrific villain in his role, and overall the movie has more good elements than bad. The fact that it's a sequel to a fantastic movie is what makes it so hard to be objective. I hope more people will realize that Speed 2 is not as bad as they think. "},{"Title":"The most painful sequel ever!","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  What possessed Sandra Bullock, coming off films like Speed, While You Were Sleeping and The Net, to sign up for this atrocious movie?? The film moves slow as molasses, the action scenes are totally unbelievable and dull, and go on forever. Add to that the fact that Willem Dafoe (a fine actor, CERTAINLY above this dreck) is totally laughable as the villain. The one redeeming factor the film has is Days of Our Lives' Patrika Darbo in a small, witty role. The sequel that should have NEVER been made. Steer clear, you have been warned!  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as they say","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  May contain a few spoilersFirst of all It's nowhere near the original. The original wasn't a masterpiece, but it was a classic example for big fun!This one has some good performances, good direction, great action sequences, but a terrible script. Who wrote this shit?!? (The credit shouldn't be 'written by...', but 'accused of writing trash...')If you like good action, hit the fast forward button to the last half hour, (SPOILER WARNING!!!) when the ship crashes into a village and a tanker, The Eindhoven (!) Lion explodes! Now, if the whole film was like this, it would've been great, but it isn't so we (the audience) have to sit through one and a half hour of cliches and characters. What were that Dante- guy and the deaf girl doing there, except being annoying?Sandra Bullock was fine as Annie, but Jason Patric can't let us forget Keanu Reeves.If there will ever be a Speed 3 (which I doubt after the disappointing box office gross this one made), please pay at least a little attention to the script. "},{"Title":"Good, but could've been so much better...","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sandra Bullock reprises her role as Annie Porter in Speed 2 Cruise Control. She has, apparently, dumped Jack because he was a risk taker.  If they were looking for a way to explain Keanu's absence in this sequel, they really could have done better.  Especially since her new boyfriend is even more extreme than Jack.Speed was an excellent action film, with some nice acting and a great plot to boot.  Speed 2 makes an excellent attempt at a follow-up, but with plot problems like the above and acting that is, from everyone but Sandra Bullock, not nearly on the level of Speed, it just doesn't have the appeal of the original.After the excellence of the Speed, Speed 2 is a real disappointment.  Oh, its still a good film in its own right, but when compared to the first it really is just a drab copy.  While there is a good amount of humor, many of the jokes are just restatements of the jokes from the original.  Much like the entire plot, which is largely the same, except that they use a boat this time instead of a bus.  There ARE other things that the word Speed could suggest, guys.Like I said, though, it is still a good film.  It just falls short of the original, despite the fact that it is very obvious that everyone was trying their best.  Speed was a sort of miracle combination of acting, plot, and stunts that just doesn't happen twice, but Speed 2 does a good job trying. Watch it. "},{"Title":"I advise you to start the evacuation procedure.","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  That's not a quote from Willem Dafoe, but what the cinema manager came and said to me during the screening of this film. Yet Speed 2 is perhaps an unfairly derided sequel, particularly in regard to its predecessor.For 90% of negative comments surrounding this movie are comparisons with the 1994 original. Most of these points are, however, without foundation. Take criticism of Jason Patric for a start. Okay, a man with a receding hairline might be a daring choice for heroic lead, but slating him for wooden acting? I admit he's not the most expressive of men, but the original starred Keanu Reeves, for goodness' sake! And where Dennis Hopper admitted at an awards ceremony that his villain had no motivation whatsoever, Willem Dafoe's blood-infected victim does at least have a purpose for his actions.That's perhaps where the reappraisal ends. In the annals of villainy, a golf fanatic is unlikely to feature. Sandra Bullock's limited role is almost entirely reactionary, and her trademark kookiness (TM) is overdone and perfunctory, like most of the humour on display. And as the Cruise Control subtitle tells us, a boat is hardly the place for fast-paced action.The functionality and patronising blandness of the dialogue soon starts to wear as thin as Patric's hair, and clock-watching becomes a necessity. Gratuitous musical cameos scream desperation (didn't UB40 have a career before they starred in this?), while a racial stereotype is tagged on the end to desperately add some pep to proceedings. Also look out for a bizarre &#150; and irrelevant &#150; subplot involving a deaf girl.I wonder what the producers thought when they saw the finished product? Man the lifeboats! couldn't have been far from their minds. I actually found this almost entertaining the first time round and watched it again with a positive redress in mind. However, time, distance, and common sense have worked their magic on me, and so I now cheerfully admit that this film is a complete pile of pants. "},{"Title":"The 2 in the title doesn't guarantee the quality of the movie, which in this case is just slightly better than Speed!","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Speed - that's one title you'll remember. I'm sure, because one wouldn't see Speed II if he/she never heart of the first one. That can be a mistake. You don't have to see the original movie to enjoy a sequel. Mostly, people are curious to know if the second movie is better or worser than what they've experienced before. Let me get to the point Speed II Cruise Control is good, it is better than Speed but just slightly better. The fact that the bomb is gonna explode inside a boat doesn't change the path of destruction we're used to see. A boat can do a lot of damage, that's what I know now!  And so we end up with the endless list of what-makes-SpeedII-so-dull...First of all it looks too much like part one. Second of all it ìs too much overdone -again!  Last thing to mention I like the happy end, but I wonder if Annie would divorce since in her opinion ' a relation based upon extreme situations usually fails ' or something like that.Last but not least the Speed is all you Need. The kick of going fast makes Cruise Control good and great. The explosions and extreme situations of tense and panic are right where they belong. That's positive. So I have to say it wasn't such a disaster after all... "},{"Title":"Go Sandra!","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sandra Bullock looks really great in this film.  Too bad she wasn't in the Titanic instead of that bratty little juvenile.  Of course if she were in Titanic that prissy little boy would have to be replaced with a real man.  Does every film have to star little kids?  Anyway, if Sandra Bullock were in Titanic maybe she would have been naked for that scene.  Wouldn't that have been great instead of that fat little brat.  But Sandra Bullock probably would have kept her clothes on because she's not a tramp like that little brat who takes her clothes off for just about every director she meets.  Sandra Bullock is the sexiest woman alive and rules the planet.  Speed 2...a must see because the goddess Sandra stars.  Go Sandra! "},{"Title":"Truly Great Comedy","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  People just don't seem to realise this was not meant to be taken seriously.  I have rarely laughed so much at the cinema.Some of the basic ingredients of any disaster movie are water (and lots of it), people in evening dress, and a small dog - and this has them all!Cannot be faulted. "},{"Title":"kubrick references","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A lot of Kubrick references seem to go into Jan de Bont movies.  Of course they are fairly obvious.  Sandra Bullock is watching Lolita in her cabin and later we see the little deaf girl giving Jason Patric the eye.  In Twister there was a guy actually named Kubrick. The movie that was playing at the drive-in that was destroyed was the Shining. Just thought it was interesting. "}{"Title":"Awful movie, but won't exagerrate","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I won't exagerrate like many others have posted their comments by saying that it was the worst movie I've ever seen, because I've seen movies worse, maybe Air America or Spiceworld or Lethal Weapon 4 ring a bell to some people's ears.But anyway, Speed was a real thriller, on-the-edge of your seat stuff, but Speed 2 definitely isn't. The part when the cruise liner is about to crash into the oil ship is by far not as thrilling as a bus trying to jump a missing part of a bridge like in Speed.Willem Dafoe acts like an idiot, but did a pretty good job, I liked how they put a Scotsman and a Kiwi in the cast as one of the crew of the cruise liner, but Jason Patric shows us why many of us had probably never heard of him beofre this movie. He's just a bad actor, especially as the hero-type guy. Sandra Bullock remained herself from Speed, which made at least one main character act decent in a otherwise awful movie.Last but not least, When the Cruise Liner crashed into that town on the water front, well that looked sooooooooo increddibly fake, or did they really spend most of the $100 million on that scenario?, and one last thing, it was funny to see that jamaican dude who gets his car and cell phone destroyed by Keanu Reeves in Speed, this time gets some damage to his boat and fishing line and interupted while on a date by Jason Patric.  "},{"Title":"A pathetic attempt to make a movie similar to Speed","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is a pathetic excuse for an action movie. I find it hard to believe that the same people who made the great movie Speed can make a movie this poor. The villain was a typical foreign terrorist (and not a very evil one), not comparable at all to the genius obsessed with explosives portrayed by Dennis Hopper in the original. Parts of the movie were painfully unrealistic, especially the ending. It lacked three of the four main characters from Speed, and the character it kept wasn't the hero or the bad guy, it was the civilian who happened to be in the situation. I'm sorry, but this is the worst movie I have ever seen in my life. "},{"Title":"The WORST movie EVER","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Speed 2 is the rare movie that gives sequels a bad name.  It is, without much competition, the WORST movie I have ever seen.  The script is full of meaningless tidbits that amount to nothing.  Currently, my greatest fear in the world is that there will be a Speed 3. "},{"Title":"Speed Up To The End Please","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I'm usually an enthusiastic movie viewer but this one left me wondering if I could have spent two hours working on my golf game rather than watching this movie.  The plot was so apparent and predictable that it left me disappointed.  Great special effects but good acting was curtailed by a poor script. "},{"Title":"Flawed To The Extremes","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw Speed 2 in the cinema I, quite unbelievably in retrospect, failed to notice how bad it actually is. 'Sure', I thought, 'its not as good as its predecessor, but how many sequels are?'. This view was obliterated last night upon rewatching it. It is appalling. Basic Plot- Sandra Bullock and Jason Patric (Keanu Reeves turned it down) go for a cruise trip. Predictably it is hijacked by a crazed maniac. Cue many explosions etc. along the lines of every terrorist film. Ever.Speed 2 offers nothing new. It travels the same path as Die Hard, Under Siege etc. and every set piece can be seen from a mile off. Patric and Bullock do their best- the film's failure is not down to them, more to the appalling script they have to deal with and the sheer unoriginality of the movie.Speed 2 should be avoided, unless you are determined to see every example of its genre, or are compiling an 'All-Time Worst' list. If you want to rent a film of this kind, I strongly recommend the original, or Die Hard. If its on the television, it may be worth a watch if the alternative is snooker. Enough Said, I think.  "},{"Title":"ok, but not as good as the first","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I am in the minority on this, but I actually found this movie quite entertaining even though it was not as good as the first Speed.  I think the biggest mistake of this movie was to call it Speed II.  It automatically forces one to compare this movie to the first.  Since the first rates up there with Die Hard as far as action films go, there was no way this movie could compare and thus many people who have seen this movie have been harder on it than they probably would have had it been titled Trouble at Sea or some other name.  Additionally, the character of Annie is totally different in this film than the first and the references to Jack make one compare Annie's new fling who also happens to be a cop.  This decent movie just kept torpedoing itself with all the comparisons to the first, and thus we have a good ship er...movie that sunk itself and forgot to bring a script er life-raft equal in caliber to its predecessor. "},{"Title":"It has been under-rated, it wasn't too bad","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  So many people have said this film was horrible. Sure, it lacks credibility at times, but the special-effects are good and it has a few laughs. Willem Dafoe is miscast, as is Jason Patric, but Sandra Bullock is what makes this film tick. It isn't nearly as good as the original, but it's not too bad. The plot has changed a lot, as has the cast (unfortunately, Keanu Reeves turned down the sequel idea), but the film is not disappointing and the end is exciting. It rates 7 out of 10 on my scale.But if you're looking for something special, see the original. "},{"Title":"Don't Watch This Dog Alone!","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Make sure there are people around to resusitate you when you either; 1 faint from disbelief at some of the incredibly ridiculous/impossible scenarios, or 2 start having difficulty breathing from laughing too much at this obvious comedy. 1000 words is too limiting to express what's wrong with this movie. If you don't really care about laws of physics, go see it.  If you are looking for a 'serious'thriller, beware! "},{"Title":"Bad movie with lots of special effects","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sandra Bullock regretted making this movie - I can understand why. Willem Dafoe is totally miscast as is Sandra's boyfriend, who rather reminds of the doll Ken. A plastic movie not worth wasting your money on !!!! "},{"Title":"Bad movie with lots of special effects","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sandra Bullock regretted making this movie - I can understand why. Willem Dafoe is totally miscast as is Sandra's boyfriend, who rather reminds of the doll Ken. A plastic movie not worth wasting your money on !!!! "}{"Title":"Speed 2 slows to a crawl...","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  It was supposed to be good.  But, unfortunately, it wasn't.  Speed 2 Cruise Control, 1997's disastrous follow-up to '94's Speed fell completely short of its goal a fast-paced, action-packed disaster movie.  Instead, it is full of contrived performances, formulaic actions sequences and stunts, and a story with incalculable holes.  Bullock returns as the perennially in trould Annie, but her performance here lacks the innocent, but feisty quality she possessed in the original.  Jason Patric takes over for the above sequels Keanu Reeves (anybody remember Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey), and does a fine job, only to be hampered by a utterly deplorable script.  Wilem Defoe, a terrific actor, is pathetic as the film's madman computer nerd villain, who seeks revenge on the cruise line that fired him (I'm not lying).  In this film, director Jan de Bont tries way too hard, as in some vain attempt to live up to both Speed and 96's Twister.  However, he only succeeds in giving us an awful disaster of a disaster movie. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood by the masses, appreciated by the few...er. OK, by one sad person.","Date":"3 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Where, oh where to begin? Why do I feel so alone in liking this movie? Why did I go see this in the cinema, have a fantastic, giddy time watching it, only to come out and have my enthusiasm be greeted by hoots of derision and worried looks? ''You *liked* Speed 2?!'' Um...yeah. Sorry. Can I have my medication now, please, nurse?I think Speed 2 Cruise Control is a misunderstood movie. I think people miss the point. I think some people think I'VE missed the point, as well as some of my marbles. Whichever of those it is, I think Speed 2 Cruise Control is a disaster movie homage on amphetamines. All the disaster movie staples are there; the imperilled citizens (although, unlike big bad daddy Speed, they feel more cartoonish and symbolic, as if we've seen this so many times that we have been allowed to fill in the blanks ourselves), the mass destruction of vehicles and buildings, imminent death, a lunatic adversary, and so on and so on. What makes this slightly unusual is the frenetic editing and high voltage images that infuriate most and I gormlessly salivate over. Well, I'm sorry, but if you don't like oil tankers vanishing in eye-popping, booming explosions and cruise ships sideswiping oil tankers, well that's your loss, sweetheart.The film's camerawork-as hyperactive and as restless as a energetic 10 yr old, and taking the same delight in destruction-is, admittedly, sometimes too much. Jan de Bont actually creates vivid, gripping visuals, but at times, it was just a tad TOO vivid, and I felt a bit giddy and sea sick. On the other hand, some of the visuals were awesome, especially the  shots of; Annie and Alex kissing underwater as a swarm of bubbles swirl around them in the ultra-blue water; the jaw dropping, one-shot oil tanker explosion at the end (CGI, wouldn't ya know-check out www.rythm.com to find out more!); and the one take in which the camera follows Annie and Alex along the deck, and then pulls back and back and BACK, until the cruise ship is seen sailing off into a red sunset. De Bont did a similar trick in the opening scene of The Hunt for Red October.Sandra and Jason had strong chemistry. I don't see the problem; Bullock is a total charmer, easy to empathise with and to like, and a real looker. Physically, Jason Patric looks better prepared for the role of akshun herow than Keanu (though slightly less charismatic and appealingly vulnerable), and besides, one is as pretty as the other, and Jason gets extra points for getting his shirt off. ;)I did miss the dark edge that Speed had (remember Helen going under the bus? ), but it was also good to see some little risks being taken with the characters, like the deaf 15 yr old girl who falls for Alex, and then offers herself up to him after he saves her from drowning.While Speed 2 doesn't have the same exhilarating sense of speed and lets -break-every-highway-code-rule-there-is-just-to-save-this-bus of Speed, it DOES have a sense of the sheer awe-inspiring mass of a 510 ft cruise ship plowing through the water, ripping up waves, boats, and, eventually, bricks and asphalt. Hence, what we have is not necessarily exciting, but certainly has a kick all of its own. With that in mind, it might be pertinent to point out that Speed 2 may have benefited from being a film all of its own, rather than a brother of the original, and I say this despite the genuine and successful efforts to keep the continuity between the two films going. Narrative joins well; tone doesn't. Mind you, Cruise Control is a rubbish title. "},{"Title":"Oh, come on, it's not THAT bad!","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" The problem with being a sequel is that you have to live up to the original. Nowadays, this isn't much of a problem because hit movies are easily predicted, and the masses flock to the best advertised ones like sheep. But Speed was an unexpected success story, and because it made a lot of money, a sequel was put into the works. The result was a film that was vilified by the critics and public alike.I'm honestly surprised that the reviews of Speed 2 Cruise Control are so vicious. While I won't deny that the original is better (a LOT better), the sequel isn't as bad as some people make it out to be. It contains its share of flaws, but it does a lot of things right.After the events of the original, Annie Porter (Sandra Bullock) is liking the peaceful life. She has a new boyfriend, Alex (Jason Patric), and he surprises her with a week-long cruise. Someone should have warned him about her propensity for disasters (and NOT just because she's a bad driver). Also on the cruise is John Geiger (Willem Dafoe), a psychotic computer genius with an ax to grind. Shortly after the couple gets on board, Geiger takes over the ship and sets it on a course for disaster.The film's biggest mistake was doing casting Jason Patric as Alex. Keanu Reeves turned down the role to tour with his band, but judging by his performance, they should have offered Reeves more money, or gotten someone else. Patric is awful. His performance is so wooden it makes Reeves, who is not a versatile actor either, look good. At least Sandra Bullock is back as Annie. Annie is adorable as always, and she is used to this sort of thing, so she gets to give a few one-liners, which are pretty funny. As Geiger, Willem Dafoe is great. He's creepy, and not just because he puts leeches on himself. Dafoe is so good that he gives Dennis Hopper a run for his money. Rounding out the cast are Temura Morrison, Brian McCardie, and Royale Watkins.Director Jan de Bont has a lot of fun with this movie, and it shows. He doesn't take this sequel as seriously as the first, so there are a lot more one-liners and jokes. But he still manages to get some thrills packed in the movie, and that's the important thing. One thing I didn't like is that he used slow-motion too much, and in some scenes he has a tendency to move the camera a lot.Speed 2 is not as good as the first movie, but it's still fun! "},{"Title":"So bad, it's not so bad","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Much maligned sequel to one of the greatest action movies of all time, isn't as bad as they say, really! Sure, there are episodes of The Love Boat with better casts; sure, Bullock is absolutely insufferable sure, there's no movie in history in which absolutely all of the destruction planned by the villain comes true (and then some !) but hey, the preposterous action scenes are original, entertaining and well made. And regarding the movies biggest detractor, Sandra Bullock, whose always complaining about what Speed 2 did to her career well, how about Forces of Nature ?, how about 28 days ?, how about 2, yes 2 Miss Congeniality movies ?! I'm not about to watch this movie complete again but I've definitely seen worse action films "},{"Title":"Do not watch this movie - it is one of the worst ever!!","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I really liked the first SPEED and looked forward to seeing this sequel. But what a huge disappointment - everything about this movie absolutely stinks - the storyline is more stupid than you would think possible, the acting is bad - no one seems to want to be in this stinker - and no one can blame them. The director must have known what a disaster he had created - shame on him for not burning the master tapes. I'm sure Bullock had herself paid handsomely - but has she starred in anything good since? Speed 2 should stand as a warning for all filmmakers and actors - this is what happens when absolutely no creativity or talent is involved in a movie making process. Do not waste a single cent on this movie - you will regret it till the day you die. "},{"Title":"not as good as the first one,but still fairly entertaining","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" while i don't think this movie was a s good as the original,i also don't think it's as bad as the rating here(3.3/10) indicates.true,it doesn't have Keanu Reeves,or Dennis Hopper as the bad guy.however,Sandra Bullock does return.and it does have Jason Patric,who's pretty good actor with some charisma.and let's not forget Willem Dafoe as the bad guy.he's makes a good villain,in my mind.just like the first Speedthis one has some decent action sequences,but they are less frequent ans less flashy than the original.also,there is one scenes which completely shatters believability.the story itself is not as compelling.in fact,i think there is less depth to this one.Jan de Bont and Graham Yost are also behind this one,but for whatever reason they fail to capture the same magic.still,it's a highly entertaining movie.for that reason,i give Speed 2 7/10 "},{"Title":"I don't care what horrendous thing someone did in a previous life...no punishment needs to be THIS cruel!","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Since Speed was so interesting, it begs the question why, OH WHY, did they have to make such a God-awful sequel?!!!!!!!!!!!! As it was, this was part of a troika of dreadfully worthless sequels in summer, 1997 (the other two were The Lost World and Batman and Robin). Obviously, it's debatable which was the absolute worst, but I think that I can make a case here.Anyone could have seen that the dialogue was so terrible, the concept so phony, and everything else so bad, that Speed 2 Cruise Control was pathetic at best. It should be the sort of situation where the movie is so bad that it's good, and/or that you root for the villain. Unfortunately, the movie is just plain bad; so bad that you wish that the ship would sink. And whereas the bad guy in the original was really cool, this villain is a waste of money. I would rather get skinned alive than have to sit through this litany of stupidity again.All in all, avoid this flick at all costs. YOU DO NOT WANT TO WASTE YOUR TIME AND MONEY ON THIS AWFULNESS!!!!!!!!!!!! There are PLENTY of good movies out there. "},{"Title":"Brrrrr!","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I'm not a particular fan of the first Speed movie, but the sequel is completely hopeless. Despite attempts at decent performances by Jason Patric and Sandra, the movie ends up being nothing but a collection of intolerable clichés, with the otherwise quite capable Willem Defoe's bad guy character being particularly horrid.What makes me moan most about both Speed movies are the completely unnecessary explosions at the end. In the first movie, the story is basically finished, but, oh, as a kind of after-thought, they just have to blow up a plane. In the sequel, the mandatory Big Boom (TM) is an oil tanker which is again blown up for no reason that has any shred of relevance to the story (and the explosion is obviously fake, too). This is the kind of thing that characterizes the worst kind of bad action movies - a category into which these movies most certainly belong.My rating of Speed 5 out of 10.My rating of Speed 2 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It's certainly on cruise control...","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Disappointing, unnecessary sequel sees returning Bullock boarding a ship with new boyfriend Patrick, only for the cruise to be interrupted when hassled, angry terrorist Willem Dafoe takes the vessel hostage in hopes of getting a personal vendetta sorted out.Surprisingly directed by Jan De Bont (Speed) and with some good actors, this overblown sequel lacks the punch, creativity, originality and downright ferocity of the original. It feels very different, more corny, less hard (what was R is now PG-13), and very contrived. This isn't a series that lends itself to returning characters in the same way as Die Hard, particularly because it's not any good the second time around. (It could have been, perhaps, but...)Keanu Reeves turned this film down after reading the original script. That tells you something about it. Still, not one of the worst films I've seen, and certainly passable--if you don't let grudges blind you.Speed 5/5 Speed 2 Cruise Control 1.5/5This is a sequel that's on cruise control, all right! "},{"Title":"Why the heck would this be a bad film???","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  --- SPOILER WARNING! ---Now, I'll admit that I haven't watched the first Speed film in a long time, and that I'm probably not watching the sequel with some pre-concieved notions about the plot and the characters (those who return and those who do not return). But that really makes no difference; WHY THE HELL was Speed 2 Cruise Control a box-office flop? And why the hell is it rated in the Internet Movie Database's bottom 100 hundred movies of all times!? Now it's just getting ridiculous...First of all, I can't even begin to imagine why the film would garner such bad reviews and poor box office flow. Speed 2 has a great plot about a suicidal man who used to develop the computer systems for ocean liners, who's just been fired because of a terminal illness, and decides to take over one of his huge cruise liners and pointing it straight at a huge oil tanker, in an oh-so-sinister fashion. Willem Dafoe is pretty cool as the main baddie, who resounds with sinister pleasure as he threatens to destroy the liner, and all the passengers left in it, for purposes of revenge.The other actors play out their roles excellently, too, especially a slightly battered and bruised Jeremy Hutz (brilliant stand-up comic, by the way) as one of the cruise liner's many employees (a bellboy, or something like that...) His comedic talents really shine through during the final half-hour of the film, when the huge Seaborn Legend is heading straight for a small island. Oh yeah! And there's also that cool guy who plays Jango Fett in Star Wars Episode II Attack of the Clones, that does a really good job of playing the gravel-voiced ship officer.The other players in this high-budget, effects-packed film aren't particularly excellent, but nor are they horrible, like many seem to think. Why would anyone criticise the acting talents of this totally respectable cast? Are you people out of your *&^%@ minds?And, no matter what anyone else on the planet says, the effects in this film are pretty darn excellent. Think about it in what other movie are you going to see a gigantic modern ocean liner plow straight into a tiny island dock village, smashing and crashing through the streets, piling up debris and flaming huge explosions as helpless bystanders flee for their lives? There ARE no other movies, trust me. And, on that note, there ARE NO OTHER MOVIES THAT ARE SO MIS-INTERPRATED AND SO UNDER-APPRECIATED as this one. Seriously, come on now, a totally respectable film like Speed 2 Cruise Control, # 65 in the bottom 100!?You mean to tell me that you think that Speed 2 is a worse film than Friday the 13th Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan? Which rates in at #82 in the bottom 100!? You people disgust me...I've never, ever, in my entire movie-going life, ever been so disgraced by movie audiences, and by the would-be critics who so willingly post up on the Database that this is one of the worst films ever made. Well, at least I'll be content with knowing that the movie is not at fault, but rather the endless crowds of slack-jawed, glue-sniffing punks who've got nothing better to do than bash this film. I think it's quite a tragedy that Speed 2 Cruise Control was a flop with the critics and the audiences. But, I'll live with the hope that maybe, just maybe, it will live on in our memories and on TV, where it will gather a cult fallowing, and then finally have the recognition it deserves. To all the creators, directors, producers and crew of Speed 2, I SALUTE YOU!!! "}{"Title":"Sandra & Jason dazzle!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sandra (Bullock) and Jason (Patric) dazzle! The first time I went on a cruise, I asked my mother what would happen if some madman tried to hijack the ship, and she said, Oh, that's not going to happen. I thought that Annie (Sandra Bullock) looked VERY beautiful in the black cocktail dress she wore and that Alex (Jason Patric) looked good in the tuxedo he wore. There was only one character I got scared by, and that was Geiger (Willem Dafoe). Other than that, I loved this film! If you liked SPEED, you should see SPEED 2 CRUISE CONTROL. You're in for a real adventure and treat if you haven't seen it, so, go rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"James Bond meets the love boat","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I didn't see that this film was as bad as I had heard. I admit it was just another action movie, but I've seen much worse. Willem Defoe was fine as the lunatic with a grudge, Jason Patric was decent enough in his role of the macho cop, and Sandy was, as usual, fabulous. I felt the corny one liners and James Bondian asides were not needed; people under high stress simply don't verbalize this silliness. The collision between the 2 boats, and the dock ramming by the cruise ship were the high point of the whole shebang. It was worth seeing if you like action pictures.  "},{"Title":"good but not as good as the first","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Speed 2 Cruise Control was not that bad, but i did like the first Speed movie better. Speed 2 was rated as a PG and Speed was rated as a 15. Speed 2 was set on a Cruise Ship, Keanu Reeves didn't star in this movie but Sandra Bullock did starr in this one. I give this movie 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":" A GREAT ESCAPE FILM FROM REALITY!","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"                   If you want to watch a great film to just plain escape for a few hours from the world's reality and not be critical of the film and its plot, then just sit back and enjoy Sandra Bullock(Annie Porter) The Net and her boyfriend Jason Patric(Officer Alex Shaw) 3 Days of Rain '02 run around a ship trying to capture Willem DaFoe(John Geiger) Once Upon a Time in Mexico '03.  There are lots of laughs from the very beginning of the film with Annie Porter's driving test, and  Alex Shaw trying to put a wedding ring on Annie Porter who is madly in love with her, but she does not think so.   This is a film to sit back,  relax and enjoy, no criticism is necessary, we know the actors did not get an Oscar for their great performances, so lighten up and view this film! "},{"Title":"Ludicrous Speed","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Summer 1997 - a high-octane trailer for Speed 2 precedes Con Air in cinemas. Audiences are impressed. That looks good, they say. Con Air is a number 1 hit in early June. One week later (Friday the 13th no doubt) it is knocked-off the top spot by Speed 2. Audiences are still shell-shocked by the trailer and by memories of the 1994 hit. By the following week all goodwill that anyone was willing to lend the film had evaporated and it plummeted from the top spot at the box office to fifth. Two weeks later it would be out of the top 10. A bad result for a $110-million movie.Speed 2 was originally scheduled for release in the UK in October 1997 but was switched with Volcano (another Fox production) for an August 15th release date. Apparently Fox wanted to be done with the movie as soon as possible. This was before the internet allowed every minute detail of a movie to be scrutinized before its release. Speed 2 wasn't released worldwide as much as it was purged.I hate Speed. Keanu Reeves is a terrible actor and I have called his performance in that film one of the worst efforts in the past two decades. He is superseded in Speed 2 by the much more likable Jason Patic as Alex Shaw, an LAPD renegade who takes Annie Porter (Sandra Bullock playing up the ditzyness) on a cruise on the Seabourn Legend (a real ship) in the Caribbean. Their holiday is interrupted by John Giger, a likable maniac in the Travis Dane mold who seizes control of the ship and plans to rob the purser's safe in revenge for being fired by the parent company.Most of the passengers are evacuated onto lifeboats, leaving a handful in danger as the ship heads forward at a whopping 14-miles-per-hour on a collision course with an oil tanker. It is incredibly dumb and stupid, but is still very entertaining and infrequently exciting. The running time is a little bloated, and it could have excised all of the running around in dark corridors scenes for a superior final cut. There is also a very, very annoying Glaswegian character (who speaks correct English, which no Glaswegian has done since the dawn of time) called Merced, which is probably the most far-fetched thing in the entire movie as people from that particular place are never called Merced. They are called disgusting names like Stuart McGeechnie, or Colin McGillvary, or John Muirhead. They are not called Merced. If he were also cut from the final product it would most certainly raise the overall rating.One of the more curious things about Speed 2 is that it was rated PG in the UK (compared to the 15/R-rated original). Usually I would cry sacriledge at this family-friendly rating but it barely caught my attention back then and in retrospect it actually helps. Speed took itself very seriously. Speed 2 does not, and the jokey, goofy tone makes it much more enjoyable.Mark Mancina raised the bar on action scoring with his iconic effort in 1994 and he delivers probably the best score of his career with Speed 2. It really proves what one can do under pressure as Mancina was scoring Con Air when he was called away early to work on Speed 2 (leaving Trevor Rabin to finish Con Air) and had a very tight deadline. It's not the tinny, synthy sound of Speed anymore, he uses a HUGE orchestra which might be the only thing bigger and more bombastic than the actual premise of the movie. Really amazing stuff and it's most definitely worth hunting down the limited edition CD.There's a lot to like about Speed 2, and it doesn't deserve it's reputation. If you want mindless action, implausible set pieces, sunny scenery, and lots of destruction then look no further. "},{"Title":"Movies are better when you expect them to be rubbish","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" My main comment about this movie is that I though it was much better than Speed. Speed I hated because it was boring and nothing really seemed to happen. But this is Speed II and not Speed. Because of my disappointment with the first movie, I wasn't too keen on seeing this one, but my brother hired it from the video store and basically I was pleasantly surprised. I approached this movie with a lot of cynicism and saw that it wasn't as bad as I though it was.Speed 2 wouldn't go on my list of all time best movies though as it was just average. The bad guy wasn't all that great. He was a computer programmer that was dying of some blood disease and was sacked because of that so he decided to hijack a ship to vent his frustration. It was similar to the bad guy in Speed who was upset with the fact that he didn't get much after retiring. The guy tries to make a statement but nobody is really interested in what he is saying and thus it doesn't make an impact. There is not tug of war between the bad guy and the corporation, and as far as I can see, the corporation was not attacked by anybody else because of their actions.Alex (Jason Patrick) was a far better hero because he had a noble side to him. He was a Swat officer and his when his girlfriend found out she wasn't too happy with that, but still, he had a much more noble side to him especially how he spends most of the movie trying to propose to her, and I felt for him when she blatantly says that she is not interested in a permanent relationship (before he has even asked her). I originally thought that Jason Patrick was simply replacing Keanu Reeves and remaining the same character, but I realised early on in the movie that this is not true.I guess the main thing I learnt from this movie this that it is not true that the sequel is always worse than the original. "},{"Title":"Compare it to Titanic and you could say its much better","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" What's so bad about this movie? Speed was great but any sequel to a good film is usually good and this film didn't disappoint.People - you're being far to critical. You need to analyse how entertaining it is before you give it a score. and... the movie does entertain. If you compare it with Titanic (OK, no ship sinks in this one, only crashes into land) its miles ahead. It doesn't exceed time like a lot of highly rated movies do and those highly rated movies are probably the sh*t ones of this world. Its got better actors. DiCaprio sucks and i go back to my original point, it entertains which is what makes a movie, a movie, something Titanic could never get near. Sandra Bullock first. She's a decent actor and seems to know what she's doing. Jason Patric hmmmmm. Can't say i'd heard of him but he delivers an OK performance. Shame no Keanu Reeves. But so what?Have to say though, quite enjoyed the other performances of Willem Defoe who's gaining a name for himself after Spiderman. Weirdo who takes over the boat cause he designed the computer systems for them and knows how to hack. Golf balls, clubs that are mini-bombs. Funny when he pretended he was drunk and messed up the equipment. Also, liked the idea of the leeches sucking out the poison from his blood. Can understand he was pi*sed after being rejected from the business just cause of a lame illness. But better still is Temuera Morrison and Brian McCardie. Nice to see some British bloke on board. 10 knots, its working, yes, he's turning the ship, 5 knots, 3 knots, 2 knots, 0 knots. Yesssssss - its stopped.Come on, its not that bad plus Temuera Morrison is the bloke you may have seen in Star Wars, although he does better in this. Its just a fun, sort of thrill ride. However, lose 1 mark for the dodgy CGI toward the end when the Seabourne Legend collides with the Eindhoven Lion and also the dodgy houses which get gobbled up by the cruise ship. But, it still entertains, so i don't really care.They spent loads on this you know, and came up with the goods.Great Movie "},{"Title":"My *ss a great movie","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  There is something seriously wrong with this movie.  Although the plot is adequate, characterization is all fu*ked up.  Only Sandra Bullock gives a good performance, nobody else.  The actor who replaces Keanu Reeves' role (not as Jack Travern, as a different character) gives a very poor role and he is too cocky.  Why would Willem Dafoe be a bomber and also need the use of leeches to heal himself for?  The movie immediately fails to deliver as it roles on the screen.  Speed was a much better movie, understandable plot, better characterization, and great action.  The action in this movie is weak and a pile of horsesh*t.  I would rather watch Speed instead. This movie was an obvious mistake. "},{"Title":"That's a good one.","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A common fact among successful movies is a sequel. Normally, they are terrible Free Willy 2 & 3, Neverending Story 2 & 3, etc. But this one was great! The actors were very cool and it was full of suspense and action. And, why do they think this movie was bad? What do they expect of a movie? If this movie was not as good as Speed, it doesn't mean it's BAD! It's just WORSE, but not TERRIBLE! This movie was great and deserves a recommendation to everybody. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Good, Great, Action packed, Comedy, one heck of a movie, if you haven't see it see it...it's awesome better than the first. "}{"Title":"Everybody's wrong about this movie! Speed 2 was great!!!!!!!","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I know all the critisism that this movie got. People hated it,they said it was one of the worst things in 1997, all thatnonsense. But I ignored everyone, and saw this movie anyway, andI thought to myself What was with everyone? This was a greatmovie! I enjoyed this film so much that I defended it fromeveryone else. Speed 2 was great because Sandra Bullock reprisedher lovable role as Annie. (People say she ruined herself foracting in this. They're wrong.) Then there's Jason Patric. Heproved to be just as good as Keanu Reeves in the last movie.The Caribbean sea where the film took place was great. I enjoyedthe scenery. Willem Dafoe was great as the bad guy. He waspsycho, and he played his role with enthusiasm. Actionwise, the moviewas thrilling. The opening mortorcycle chase was great. Everyonecomplains that only the last 15 were good. As soon as Dafoe tookover, the movie really paced up. Jason Patric acted like KeanuReeves here. But a really special thing is that Jason Patric andSandra Bullock have something special in this movie. I liked thelove story. They were made for each other in the film. Finally,I think everyone should be more respectful about this film, andnot act so immature about it. "},{"Title":"Blu Ray version is worth getting a player for if you don't already have one","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" To be honest, I was apprehensive to see this film due to the fact that the stars included Sandra Bullock (The Blind Side anybody?), Willem Dafoe and Jason Patric. But as the winner of both the Audience Award and Grand Jury Award at the 1997 Sundance Film Festival, I had to check it out. I'm glad I did. Speed 2 Cruise Control is a story of an illiterate 26-year old yachtsman (Patric) whose estranged father has just gotten his mother pregnant...for the second time. Officer Alex Shaw lives with his abusive, scathing, retched mother played by Connie Ray. (There are not enough adjectives to describe how despicable this character is). As Officer Alex Shaw attends an alternative school (against his mother's demands), we see how he struggles with his self-image, her family commitments and her attempt to prevail in spite of the horrors surrounding him.Although Jason Patric has no real experience acting (he mentioned playing in Solarbabies in his school's production of After Dark, My Sweet !), he superbly becomes the role. A subtle, makeup-free Sandra Bullock plays a social worker, completely transcending all of the negative press she's received for her past roles. But most impressive is Willem Dafoe, a black comedy legend, who portrays the evil of his character frighteningly well. While we mostly see his character's evil behavior, a powerful scene with Patric reveals her character's own vulnerability. The material may be a bleak portrayal of modern America, but the film somehow manages to be visually beautiful and completely transcends genres.Gave this movie a shot. I just don't understand what is so moving about a story that, unfortunately, is commonplace in our society. I suppose it's important that it finally got the real publicity it needed to be undeniable and in your face. But I suppose that shows how sad we, as a people, we really are if it isn't in a movie, it doesn't matter. "},{"Title":"Speed 2 Cruise Control!","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" One of the most explosive and epic action sequels is Speed 2 Cuise Control! It stars Sandra Bullock, Willem Dafoe, Jason Patric, Bo Svenson, Temuera Morrison, Brian McCardie, Christine Firkins, Michael G. Hagerty, Colleen Camp, Joe Morton, and Glenn Plummer! Bullock is good. Jason Patric was good. I like how his character is. Willem Dafoe is excellent! He's cool, he's mean, and he means business! Dafoe was perfect in My opinion! Morrison was also very good. Plummer was also is funny and Morton and Svenson also performed good. The action is really great and you never know what to expect. The music by Mark Mancina is good and the direction by Jan de Bont is very good. I think that Speed 2 Cruise Control is an excellent sequel which is always exciting! If you like the cast mentioned above and want to see Willem Dafoe in a great performance then I strongly recommend that you watch or even buy Speed 2 Cuise Control today! "},{"Title":"The Worst Sequel's Reviews I've Ever Read !!","Date":"16 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I remember in 1999 when Empire magazine made a questionnaire about the worst 10 movies in history that this movie was in it. Moreover, I noticed that it somehow ended Jason Patric's promising career back then. And aside from hundreds of offensive reviews all over the internet, Sandra Bullock, the movie's lead and producer, referred to this movie as the biggest piece of crap ever made. !! OK, something is wrong in the world. I call it The Parrot Theory. Just one person on the plant says that this movie sucks so millions of people just replay the same thing over and over again perfectly blind, ending up with believing themselves !. On the IMDb it happened so many times when all the reviews says it's the best, it's the greatest, bla bla bla or simply the same thing in the same words then you watch the movie (or the real stinker) to understand that maybe 1) these people have an awful taste, 2) these people most probably didn't watch the movie!, 3) perhaps the major studios hired many persons to log in the site and write good, mostly very naive, reviews to promote their film, or 4) all of the above ! Just read the majority of the reviews in cases like (Dukes of Hazzard &#x96; 2005), (Pirates of the Caribbean Dead Man's Chest - 2006) then watch the movies themselves and believe me you'll going to be surprised.. Truly surprised.Of course when it came to (Speed 2) with all of the aforementioned I got axiomatically a very bad idea about it. So I kind of avoided it many times. But when finally I got the chance to watch it, I find myself so confused out of all the ugly reputation or rather the ugly propaganda that this movie had ! I even began to recall rare opinions for friends of mine that said once some things like Keanu Reeves was mistaken to not do this, this is a cool flick, Sandra Bullock was never prettier.First of all, as a disaster movie it's different and very good. The action sequences were well written and directed. Even the Hollywood exaggerations weren't that badly made or seemed silly. Yes, it was strange that LAPD man could handle the situation in a ship but he's the maverick heroic lead, that the script didn't put him in illogic frame or granted him an over-the-top Superman's halo. Yes, the evil man is crazy, but that's the prototype in the American action blockbusters during the 1990s (so intelligent, so advanced, so evil, so mad!), and according to this formula this movie didn't go wrong; on the contrary he was a victim for the company who's seeking a fair revenge on it and a huge amount of money as well, using his experience of controlling the ships to destroy one brilliantly, let alone the details about his sickness (the leech) which were new, distinguished, and gave some sympathy for the character. There is big fuss about the movie's end where the ship bisects the harbor and part of the city, while it's unprecedented, quiet ambitious and so clever sequence that I've never seen in movies of that kind. And the CGI, the special effects, the set designing all was ideal. The acting was very good, I was sick of the way the viewers smashed Jason Patric ?? saying that (Reeves) was better ?! Basically Patric is charismatic as Reeves or higher, and please Patric is surely better as an actor and not based on the fact of (Come on, anybody is better than Reeves!), but because Patric did it fine here and in other movies too. It's so sad how the producers exiled him out of Hollywood, not even giving him the chance like many others while he's better than working so-called stars that we suffer from daily !The soundtrack's songs were excellent, especially the holy Make Tonight Beautiful by Tamia which's one of the most memorable romantic singles ever been in a movie and one of the 1990s' marks that got a dinky extremely sensual video clip too. By the way Tamia delivered no less memorable cameo in here, saying her immortally sexy line because I'm wearing no underwear Harvey!Maybe because it doesn't own the unstoppably explosive persona, the bolt-of-the-blue effect or the theme music of the original; it was disappointing for the first movie's fans. They went to see the same thing to find another structure with for instance a 20 minutes long start about many talking characters, a cool cruise, and 2 hesitated lovers, instead of unbroken breathtaking cliffhangers from the opening credits as part 1. Plus maybe the tension of the ship's lights (on then off repeatedly at one point) was a bit annoying, maybe (Titanic) was around in the same year with sinking ship also (and a Billion Dollar profits !). But definitely as a whole it didn't deserve the reviews that got after. I know that I enjoyed it as an escapist, solid big action, and smart disaster movie.To all the ones who banned it non-objectively or without seeing it, talking in parrot fashion this is the worst sequel sorry but I had to replay these are the worst sequel's reviews, being clueless or deluded or hungry-for-deformation anyway. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Why did they have to do this. Speed was an unforgettably great movie that everyone loved. But then they make this junk! This movie is nothing like it's original. Sure it's exciting and entertaining, but it does't have the right tone. If I'm not mistaken, it's almost as if they are trying to make a comedy out of this movie. The humor they put into it during the should-be suspenseful scenes makes this movie horrible. It was going in the right direction, but they blew it with that leech scene. To make up for this, they ought to make another speed movie, and this time, they should have a million times more suspense an action, and less humor. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie!","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A great movie with a little bit of everything in it.  Some suspense, some laughs and great cast.  Sandra Bullock did a great job in this  movie.  Without her the movie wouldn't be as good.  She makes it good!  Watch it, its worth it!  I recommend this to everyone! Excellent movie! "},{"Title":"WOW","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  How do u come up with a sequel that is equal to and better than the original?  The answer watch Speed 2 Cruise ControlFrom the breathtaking beginning the film slows down a bit two introduce us to the characters.  But from then on the film is ACTION ACTION ACTION.  Jan DeBont can direct and Jason Patric is better than Keanu ignore the negative reviews watch the film and enjoy.10 out of 10 "}]