[{"Title":"let's be fair here","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"35 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I was browsing the worst 100 films of all time here on the IMDB, and came across this one.  While, from an adult point of view, I agree with all who don't like the film at all, I think it's a little unfair because we are, after all, not the target audience.  My son is 8 years old and he absolutely loves it.  I feel sure that if there was a poll conducted of, say, six to twelve year olds, this one would be in their top 100!  Oh dear!  That was all I wanted to say, but the rules appear to insist that I provide ten lines.  Right, that appears to be nine, (ignore this, it displays differently when you're typing it in) so I'll just extend it a little bit more...............  OK that should be ten! No - They don't like that either so - What is an Egyptian King's favourite chocolate?  Pharaoh Rocher.  (Ben, aged 8). "},{"Title":"Bad story for most of the thing, followed by fighting for 1/2 minute.","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie starts out with a martial arts match between one of the power rangersout of costume, and some other guy, in which the ranger is thrown from the ring, and hurts his leg or something. So they end up replacing him with his kid brother or something as equally stupid. When he morphs, he puts on the costume, then grows to the size o an adult. Anyway, they get new zords, which are actually cars. Way to go, robots at least made the show seem cool, now they have cars. They have to rescue some little alien thing, which is the love child of an Ewok and Gizmo from gremlins. Along the way, the new pink ranger twists her ankle or something after falling into the water, and the alien heals her with his glowing finger. No ET rip off there. They take him...somewhere, and then they have this boat. The boat takes them to the island, where the rangers have to fight the old red and pink rangers who are being mind controlled. Did I mention that they have a sub plot going where bulk, skull, Jason and Kim are prisoners of the enemies? Well, yeah, they get mind controlled. During the fight, the big evil thing on the island is released, and the rangers can stop fighting Jason and Kim because the alien used his powers to fix their brains. The rangers go out to fight the big guy, who's being called all powerful, and being completely overhyped. They call out their cars, and start up this 8 minute sequence where the cars drive around, the rangers wave their hands around, and the cars go together to form a giant robot. They then proceed to hit the guy once. Once with the sword. That's all it takes, and he blows up. I sat through that whole movie, and that's the end? They kill him in one hit? The fight was shorter than the robot forming sequence. There is no excuse for that. "},{"Title":"This is not a movie...","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is not exactly a sequel from Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers The Movie from 1995 'cause it doesn't follow the events that took place on the film, this is more like a 90 min. long episode to start the 5th season of the series (The Turbo era). In fact, if you don't see this film and see the rest of the season you wouldn't be able to figure out how everything started.I don't hate the movie that much, I just hate the fact that it is a movie. This is, like I said, more like a 90 min. long episode. The movie could have easily been left out and make the storyline a III parts episode. Unlike the first film, this movie follows the rest of the series, it is set in the same universe with the same people, with the same sets, with the same suits...(Unlike the first film in which everything was different).Personally I highly recommend this film ONLY and EXCLUSIVELY to Power Rangers' followers, NOT to the general audience. "},{"Title":"Stick with the first one","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Turbo A Power Rangers Movie is a film that has to be seen to be disbelieved. The first film, 1995's Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie, brought the six butt-kicking teens from the Fox Kids series to the big screen for the first time. That movie was not all that bad. It had some decent special effects, a somewhat interesting bad guy (Ivan Ooze), and the six young actors who play the Power Rangers were fun to watch. Plus, that film had a bigger budget. But they went back to the cheapness of the TV show with Turbo. The special effects, production design, and costumes are so cheap and cheesy that you wonder why 20th Century Fox gave the go-ahead to let these filmmakers (who are close to the TV show) make this film. Also, the script is much worse than it was in the first movie. Bulk and Skull have more screen time here. It has one of the least interesting villains of all time (actually, a villainess). It's very, very, very, very, very, juvenile. And the Power Ranger actors look as if they want to escape this atrosity. So I have one question. Why did they release this movie to theaters? This should have been released straight to video. Or better yet, release it as a TV movie, were this series started in the first place. This movie was totally inappropriate for the big screen. * (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Not the best movie","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" At first, I was expecting this movie to be like the first one - cool costumes, original zords, great special effects, etc. In that regard it was quite a bit of a let-down. It was really more of a 90-minute season premiere than an interesting stand-alone movie.Still, it had its moments Tommy and Kat in the jungle (that snake scene looked so fake, and when _hasn't_ Kat hurt her leg?!), the two Rangers becoming evil. And it did have a little bit of big-screen drama. The effects weren't exactly morphenominal, but they were pretty much consistent with the show.The biggest disappointment was the sorry storyline and lack of explanation of where their new powers came from. Of course, there was purportedly an earlier storyline in which Billy returned from Aquitar in need of the Zeo crystal and a scene explaining their new powers, but they cut that part out after David Yost's unpleasant departure from the series.To sum up, probably wasn't worth it to pay six bucks to see it, but it's definitely a must for any hardcore Power Rangers fan (especially since you kind of needed to see it for the TV season to make sense). "},{"Title":"Good if you're a PR Fan, Horrible if you're not.","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I just got the PRT movie on DVD and saw it for the first time and I have mixed feelings about it.   The movie was basically a PRT episode with mildly better effects.  As for Justin, he wasn't as bad as I thought he'd be.  Sure, he was annoying at times, but by the way everyone kept talking about him, I thought he'd make the movie completely unbearable.  It was cool to see Jason and Kim again (damn Kim was hot), but they didn't really have big parts.  Bulk and Skull were more ridiculously used than usual.  The forming of the Turbo Megazord was done a lot better than they did on the show.  The most annoying thing in the movie was actually a person, Divatox.  She was just a completely obnoxious and annoying villianess, and I don't go for that one bit.  Overall, it's a decent movie if you're a PR fan.  If someone is not a PR fan, the only reason for them to watch it would be to see Kim and Kat looking hot.  (PR Fans 7 1/2 // 10   Non-PR Fans 3 // 10)  "},{"Title":"I loved it when it first came out, but obviously not so much anymore","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I was eleven years old when this second Power Rangers movie came out. I know some fans had gone off the Rangers by the time they were that age, but I didn't mature as fast as them. So, I was still a big fan when this film came out (I was even still a big fan a year later), and remember watching it over and over for a while. Now, believe me, if I didn't see it then, I would NOT have bothered watching it ten years later, but because of the wonderful memories, I decided to do so. Obviously, it wasn't the same.Divatox, an evil alien pirate, plans to go to the island of Muranthias on Earth, where she intends to release an evil creature named Maligore and marry him. In order to do this, she will need Lerigot, a good wizard, so she plans to have him kidnapped! Fortunately, the wizard manages to escape to Earth, seeking help. Tommy and Katherine go to find him in Africa, and teleport him back to the command centre. However, Lerigot soon decides to surrender after it is learned that Divatox has captured his wife and child! After this, the evil space pirate and her crew head toward the island, and it's obviously up to the Power Rangers to try and stop her, but before they set out, Zordon and Alpha 5 give them new powers called Turbo powers! Where do I start in describing this movie? Well, first of all, there are some pretty poor quality characters. I would say the worst is probably Divatox, who was the Rangers' main enemy in the Power Rangers Turbo series. She basically acts like a bratty kid, and it seems her antics are supposed to be funny, but at an adult's perspective, they're quite embarrassing. Hilary Shepard puts on a VERY poor performance in this role! Nobody in the cast is very impressive, but most of them do a better job than her! Another character who brings the movie down in quality a bit is Justin, the new Blue Ranger, who is a lot younger than the rest. He's certainly not the only character with lame lines, but it seems his are often worse than most of the others. None of the characters stand out as really good, but clearly, some do stand out as remarkably bad.As you can probably tell from the above paragraph, this movie has a poor script, and the acting generally isn't so good. If you're an adult who is at all familiar with Power Rangers, I'm sure none of this surprises you. Now, sometimes when a movie is bad, it can be unintentionally funny. A few months ago, I watched Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie (which I had never seen before), and around the beginning, I found that it was mildly amusing, but was disappointed to find that the amusement soon went away. Watching this movie after that one, I was hoping for some more unintentional humour, but didn't really find any of that, apart from the scene where the Power Rangers have just gotten their new Turbo powers, and say things like This is great! (with a thumbs up) and This is awesome! As a straight male, there's one thing I got out of this movie that I wouldn't have when I was eleven, which was the looks/physique of certain female actors, including Nakia Burrise and Catherine Sutherland who play Tanya and Katherine (the two female Rangers of the time), and I guess even Hilary Shepard who plays the dreadful main villain, but this obviously didn't make the entire film for me.Now, I must admit that watching Turbo A Power Rangers Movie again after all these years wasn't quite the same as watching Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie for the first time earlier this year. It didn't seem QUITE as bad, even though it's generally considered inferior to its predecessor. In fact, call me crazy, but I found that some parts weren't too bad at all, though I wouldn't say I exactly enjoyed the movie. However, I guess the fact that I actually saw it in my childhood is a major part of this, and if I just watched it for the first time, it probably would have been very similar to the experience I had with its predecessor, watching it for the first time way too late. For those who saw this movie in their childhood and are now adults, if you're curious to see what you would think of it now, I wouldn't say that's a bad idea, but not a very good one, either. For everyone else beyond their childhood, I think you know to just stay away. I may look like a fool watching Turbo at my age and then writing a long, negative review (after all, it is a kids' movie), but like I said, it wouldn't have happened if I hadn't seen it at a much earlier age. "},{"Title":"Power Rangers + Transformers + Magic Crystal let me think about that for a minute... no","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I love Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers The Movie, some good clean fun, but this movie is just embarrassing, and nowhere near as fun.The plot centres around an extraterrestrial wizard named Lerigot, who goes to Earth in order to avoid capture by a crazed alien queen, Divatox (no, seriously). She plans to use Lerigot to open up a portal so that she can marry an evil dark creature, Maligore, and unite their powers. Naturally, the Power Rangers must stop this.Turbo A Power Rangers Movie is nowhere near as much fun or cool to watch as the first movie. Most notably, Aisha and Billy are completely missing, with no explanation, and Kimberly is no longer a Power Ranger either for some reason, even though she has an important part in the film, thankfully, along with old regular Jason. Rocky is technically there, but he suffers an injury at the start of the film, as if trying to get him out of it, which is sad. Then we have a new blue ranger, Justin, who really is much too young to be a Ranger.A more serious problem is the Zords. The whole mythology around the Power Rangers is much lamer here. The Zords are no longer kinds of animals, they are now all cars, called Turbo powers, which just feels nowhere near as imaginative. At a pivotal point of the film, the car Zords merge into what I find hard to describe as anything but a Transformers rip-off. Even worse than that, though, is the fact that the Power Rangers, in Power Ranger form, have so little screen time.Furthermore, the plot is terribly paced, and not very fun to follow. The Rangers have to travel to another dimension via an old pirate ship. Seriously? In the first half hour, a lot of time is wasted with the Rangers trying to find Lerigot, and some insufferable scenes of him wandering around the jungle. Nothing hangs together at all. Remember how central the very concept of being a Power Ranger was to the first movie? Here, it feels like little more than a gimmick.Lerigot is a body-sized puppet who looks like an extra from The Dark Crystal. With his wide doe eyes and nonsensical slurring, he gets on your nerves very quickly, and he just does not stop. The rest of the supporting cast is just as bad. Divatox's henchmen are just laughably embarrassing, especially the insufferable Elgar. Remember Goldar, and Mordant? Those were entertaining henchmen. Maligore, for a supposed unstoppable force of evil, is incredibly ungainly and ineffective. Divatox herself is amusing and Hilary Shephard Turner clearly has a lot of fun with the role, but her overacting gets a little over the top. All the puns are so self-conscious as if the writer were self-aware how bad it would turn out. The special effects are much poorer than in the first movie, too, especially Zordon (he barely looks like he's talking) and Maligore's crater (amateur bluescreen mistake there). Thank goodness Alpha is as good as ever.The best part of the movie is an amusing cameo from Rita and Lord Zedd. That's about a minute in length, and it made the movie for me. Too bad that the rest isn't as fun to watch. Not even having Kimberly and Jason there can help, really. There's none of the spirit of adventure from the first movie. Do yourself a favour and pass this one up, you're not really missing anything. Watch Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers instead. "},{"Title":"Turbo A Stupid Ranger Movie","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a bad movie. Bad as in, it sucks. I'm a Power Rangers fan, even today I watch Power Rangers, but this was bad. Not as bad as the series (Power Rangers Turbo) which permierd a mounth after the movie was in theaters. But The Movie does have it's good points. Like, Jason and Kimberly returning and then turning evil. The big fight sceen at the end. But, I think this series didn't deserve to go to theaters. I think the Power Rangers series with the plots should have went, like Power Rangers In Space, Power Rangers Lost Galaxy, Power Rangers Lightspeed Rescue, Power Rangers Time Force, or even the newest series, Power Rangers Wild Force. Those are the ones that deserve to be in theaters just like the first movie did. Turbo should've been made for TV and not for theaters. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made - I'm a big Power Rangers nut and this sucked","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is the first (and likely the only time I'll ever give a 1 on IMDb) this movie is horrendous. I dressed up as a Power Ranger for Halloween for two years growing up. I had watched at least 8 or 9 different seasons of Power Rangers growing up. You can't rightfully criticize something unless you know something about the source material.This movie sucked. Period. The rangers themselves JDF (Jason David Frank) is badass, Adam AKA Johnny Yong Bosch was okay. The little kid (Justin) was annoying and the two girls have no personality whatsoever and are not even worth mentioning.60% of the movie consisted of Jason David Frank and the others floating aimlessly on a ship with no sense of immersion or action taking place.Fun fact. Due to how awful this movie was, the Power Rangers license was almost canned in North America and cancelled until ultimately the follow up season, Power Rangers In Space, saved the franchise from extinction.That's how awful this movie is. It almost silenced Power Rangers for good. An 8-year-old fanboy of the series could of written and produced better junk than this.Easily one of the worst movies ever made and I'm sure it'll continue to be labeled as that 15 years from now. "}{"Title":"I like it","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Okay, so I know that the Power Rangers Turbo series is one of if not the most hated season in the Power Rangers universe, even among Power Rangers fans. I know that I've read a lot of bad reviews about this movie, but I don't think that it's bad. I find it to be quite good and entertaining. It is a good setup up for a series and makes you want to see more of it. But I also get the feeling that there is not enough in it. A lot of good scenes were rumored to be cut. I will not go into detail about that here in this review since I don't want this to have any spoilers. I just hope that all these good scenes were filmed and will pop up in a future release someday. I don't know all the people who hate this movie. I will tell you right now, if you aren't a Power Rangers fan, there is no reason to watch this movie and no reason to flood this site with bad reviews because if it. But I like this movie and I recommend it for Power Rangers fan. It isn't as bad as some people think and I figure you might enjoy it to, provided you liked the classic seasons. "},{"Title":"It's not movie material","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Saw it once at 9-10 years old did not care for it although I was syked when I heard Jason (Austin St. John) the original Red Ranger and the greatest ranger of all time period! Saw it again yesterday and same thing did not care for it. It looks like the TV show the effects which for a movie of this supposed magnitude should have rocked the house with the then new improved CGI instead looked like LASER FLOYD anyone remember that one neither do I. The plot is really thin and the spoilers are given away almost immediately with the trailers and interviews the only part with the Turbo Megazord was too short 5 mins and face it if there was no zords the show would not have lasted as long as it did or less than that MMPR the movie's Ninja Megazord had at least 15-20 mins of screen time and had impressive CGI at least at that time it did. The major baddie Mali...something was not threatening at all MMPR had more impressive monsters than this rubberized reject but I give it a four because of a hinted romance between Jason and Kimberly I mean who goes out with a girl solo and still be just friends plus they acted a little too friendly around each other flirting and whatnot and were hardly seen without each other and only fraternizing with each other if that doesn't say love I don't know what does. Even though we get the big three of power rangers I mean everyone knows these guys Jason (the compassionate leader) Kimberly (The heart of the team and she's pretty damn hot) and Tommy (the favorite and pretty boy of the group) the character development well face it there was none plummets this from movie to one overlong action kiddie show. I also give it a four because out goes Rocky Jason's replacement and the most annoying of the original MMMPR and then Blue Zeo Ranger YES!!!!! and enter Justin the other immensely annoying Blue Ranger NOOOOOO!!!!! All in all the return of Jason and Kimberly couldn't save this one from the pointless action sequences thin plot and annoying character of Justin it was better off with a direct to video release even Die Hard fans may want to steer clear of this one "},{"Title":"Reason for being unsuccessful","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I think the reason why this movie was so unsuccessful is because it wasn't your average movie. Usually in a film, everything starts there, and ends there. This movie didn't start at the beginning of the movie, it started in the series, and followed through into the next season. So typically, it didn't have an ending either. That way, nobody could understand or enjoy it without being a die-hard fan of the series. There didn't seem to be a lot of elements throughout the movie that a person who hasn't seen Power Rangers before could understand. For example, Kat all of a sudden trying to morph when she's about to fall in the water...a non-regular viewer probably would think what's she doing? Also, they wouldn't know who Kimberly and Jason are either...unless they have followed the series beforehand, knowing that they were former Power Rangers.That's for the non-viewer...but I think the reason why some (some...not all) Power Rangers fans aren't too appreciative of this film because it's somewhat hard to follow, and not edited very well. A lot of things were not explained in the feature, and I think I know why. I read somewhere recently in an interview with one of the producers that the film was originally 3 hours long, so they had to cut out about half of it; which included some main elements of the movie. Such as Billy coming from Aquitar and telling the rangers about the Turbo powers and such. The editing was not the best, cause in quite a few parts, you can tell that something in the plot was missing. Probably because so much of the main storyline was cut out. If they would have edited it better, or left the movie the way it was, it probably would have been more successful.Personally, I sort of liked this movie, but not half as much as the first one. The first one was amazing, and perfect for the big screen! I'll bet this one could've been good too, but should've been made WAY better. But keep in mind that I'm a big Power Rangers fan, and I know what's going on with the whole thing. I think it would've made a better direct-to-video release; or a multiple part episode. "},{"Title":"The First Movie Was better","Date":"19 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Power Rangers Turbo The Television Series is better than Turbo A Power Rangers Movie! Yes, it should be the other way around, movies are meant to be better than TV, but they got it very wrong here!The series was filled with Elgar the comical mutant dropping jokes all the time but I can't even remember if Elgar is even in the movie! Adding to this, I don't like that short stupid looking creature that appears in this film. About the only pleasing part of the film was interesting footage of the submarine and that just comes from my liking of submarines.The first Power Rangers movie was a lot better than this and it is not too hard to understand why Turbo was the last PR movie! "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Simply perfect.  What a work of art.  A Nobel Peace Prize should be given to Shuki Levy for this AMAZING film.  The plot, the cinematograhpy, the dialogue, and everything else in this picture made it a must see for all ages.  Arguably the best film in the past millenium.  "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Turbo is a fairly decent movie.  It's no comparison to the original Mighty Morphin Power Rangers  The Movie  but it does well in transitioning from Power Rangers Zeo to Power Rangers Turbo.  In addition, the movie stars Catherine Sutherland, so therefore it can't be too bad ) "},{"Title":"It was bad as","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I am probably one of the minority of intelligent teens who liked the first movie (even though I have just turned 18).So I watched the second one and I have to say it was as terrible as a sequel can get.  They used CARS.  That might have been great for any other movie but seriously, making the Turbo Zords CARS?  That's something I cannot believe.The movie concerns the Power rangers saving a wizard called Loriglot from evil being Divatox.  And there were no fights.  basically, it was a very disappointing movie.  The only good point was the return of Kimberley.  And the climax was exciting (albeit really really stupid)Other than that, stay away from this film at all costs. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I was completely disgusted by this movie. It is just another example of how they butchered what used to be a great tv show. I loved the first movie, but this one is so horrible, you couldn't pay me to sit through it. The story line was dreadfully cheesy, the acting was worse than usual, and the special effects were definitely something to be laughed at. Take my advice, and don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Turbo Drive Over This Crap Film.","Date":"29 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Turbo A Power Rangers Movie (1997) Dir Shuki Levy, David Winning / Cast Johnny Yong Bosch, Amy Jo Johnson, Catherine Sutherland, Blake Foster, Austin St. John Candy coated worthless piece of nothing about a wizard being transported to earth and a villainess who wishes to use his power to open a portal to a demon. One of the Rangers is injured during training and replaced by a kid who seems to be the same size as the others when he puts the suit on. The writer gave him every advantage including not needing a license to drive one of their ordinary (excuse me) extraordinary cars. The villains are in search of people yet they spend nearly the entire duration of film in a submarine. Dialogue consists of such lines as, Listen, because I hate to repeat myself, I hate to repeat myself, and Hey you guys. Look at this! It took the combined efforts of Shuki Levy and David Winning to direct this elementary crap with special effects that look every bit as effective as an episode of Barney. Terrible acting by Johnny Yong Bosch, Amy Jo Johnson, etc. Nobody will win any Academy Awards here. The best they can do is leave the screening with their jackets over their heads. The kid may take the prize for the worst performance although he only barely edges out the others. Absolute junk that should be tramped upon then deposited in a dump where it belongs. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"Why Why Why ?","Date":"4 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" In 1996 I started to move away from Power Rangers when Zeo Started I just got away from the series.And then much to my horror I lay eyes on this film. Yes I'm talking about Turbo A Power Rangers Movie.There is hardly anything that is even worth good to say about this film the only highlight of it for me was Seeing Amy Jo Johnson returning as Kimberly and Austin St.John returning as Jason who was my favorite ranger as a kid.That is pretty much the highlight of this film for me but let's review it.The story is suppose to be set in the same universe as the series. This film is suppose to serve as the introduction to the Turbo Power Rangers.Turbo is the main reason I got away from Power Rangers and looking back it was the best thing. The story in this film is again just a introduction to how the Turbo Rangers become to gain their powers. But it just plain at best. It just a 90 story that is pretty much a bore.Plus Divatox is such an awful villain one of the worst villains in TV history I mean I have seen way more better villains. Also I didn't care for this cast of Rangers.There is nothing worth making this film watchable unless you want to Kimberly and Jason there is nothing.If you want to watch a better Power Rangers film go watch Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie.I give Turbo A Power Rangers Movie an 3 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Feels like watching an extended episode, but I like it","Date":"28 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Turbo A Power Rangers Movie is about a wizard name Lerigot, who is being hunted by Divatox and her space pirates as he travels to Earth to find the Rangers. One of the Rangers name Rocky, who was the second Red Ranger from Mighty Morphin Power Rangers and the Blue Ranger from Power Rangers Zeo has injured his back while training with Tommy and Adam for a charity fighting competition for the Angel Grove Youth Shelter. So Zordon calls the Rangers to find Lerigot, while Divatox travels to Earth and has finally capture Lerigot as well as Bulk and Skull, and the original Red and Pink Power Rangers Jason and Kimberly. The Rangers get new powers, along side with Justin being the new Blue Ranger goes on a quest to find Lerigot and rescue their friends in order to save Earth. The movie itself feels more like watching an extended episode of the show, while the other Power Rangers movie feels more like watching...well...a movie. Nevertheless, I actually do like this movie, and I appreciate it for what it is as it is in the style of a B movie for using practical effects of the Megazord, and other objects. The acting is alright, and I don't need to go into much detail about it. The movie does have some catchy songs along with some exciting action scenes. Also, I don't hate the character Justin for being the Blue Ranger as much as what the haters are saying. That is just my opinion. I do say that I like the movie more than the actual show. Although I would have like it if they ever do a director's cut release to see the Rangers using their Zeo powers for one last time before turning into Turbo Rangers. Also, maybe a bit more on storytelling and some character development. Not a whole lot to say, but I do think the movie is good, but I like Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie more. I give this movie a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"So boring...","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" As a kid my older brother liked power rangers a lot. The original show, was very similar to the Batman show in the 60s. It was cheesy, silly but in all very entertaining for its camp value. The movie was okay, but with its clichés and dumb pointless moments kind of killed it. In 1997 a kind of sequel came out and it's as exiting as...watching the grass grow. There was only 25 minutes of time where you see the power rangers. 25 MINUTES!!! The plot (or at least as much plot as I could find in this) is that some lady named Devatox is hunting down a wizard, Laragou, who looks like an ewok with the face of Dr. Zaius from planet of the apes, to of course, take over the world. The power rangers have no choice but to intervene. I should also mention that about five minutes of the time the power rangers are in there costumes there looking for the bad guys lair. I mean WOW... I mean why is even called Power Rangers? Why not KIDS WHO FIGHT BAD GUYS AND WEAR THE SAME COLORS EVERYDAY, at least that would make sense! SPOILER The final battle looks like crap. Somehow, they made the megazord look MORE like multi-colored cardboard boxes...In all the movie sucks, and is a big disappointment to anyone who loved Power Rangers like I did. "},{"Title":"Best Power Rangers Movie Ever","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I was shocked,surprised and horrified by the negative reviews and the low ratings I would see on the web,i don't know why anyone hates that movie and why is it called the worst movie ever?I thought this film was a very good power rangers movie it was one of the best movies i've ever seen in my entire life Not worse than Disaster moviebut the 1st Power rangers Movie (Mighty Morphin Power Rangers the Movie) was pretty goodthe Zords are great the acting is awesome the plot makes sense Jason and Kimberley are in it but Too bad That Billy and Trini and Zack are not in itthe best part in the turbo movie was the part when the 4 rangers got the turbo powersthe funniest part of this movie is an amusing cameo from Rita and Lord Zedd.and it was a great film all the kids and Power Rangers fans enjoyed it, including myself,Turbo a Power Rangers Movie was a Big first Episode before Power Rangers Turbo and it's the best power rangers movie It's not bad as the people that give it a 1 I say.Trust me, this is not a 1 star movie, Superbabies Baby Geniuses 2 and Son of the Mask and Disaster Movie are 1 star movies.if you never watch Mighty Morphin Power Rangers the Moviethen Turbo A Power Rangers Movie is what you wantit's not the worst movie ever, It's a must see for any Power Ranger fan! and fun For the whole family "},{"Title":"Sexy B-Movie with no action or budget.. for kids!","Date":"21 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" My experience with this horrible waste of celluloid was bringing my 3, 6 and 9 year old, all Power Ranger fans, to this stinker. Although enraptured by the first movie, none of them could sit still for this one and ended up rolling in the aisles rather than watching it. This movie does everything wrong... Talking vs Action The worst thing you can do with a movie is to put in too much dialogue and this has WAY too much in spades - ESPECIALLY for a child's movie! Most of the movie is nothing more than actors walking around sets explaining plot details with absolutely no action until 50 minutes into the movie! 50 minutes of talking and explanation in a child's movie?!?! Really? Who wrote this?! Not only that, the Power Rangers don't actually get involved in any action until 1 hour and 10 minutes into the film!!.... Sex over Budget It's a common B-Movie mantra that when you don't have money for location shoots, special effects or name actors - let loose the cheesecake! I can understand following this maxim in a slasher flick or teen comedy but a child's movie?! The main 'villainess' is clad in full dominatrix gear showing plenty of ample cleavage, thighs, legs and even her navel as the costume has a line going down her stomach. Much of the movie she poses and mugs at the camera while giving commands - fine for a regular B-Movie... but Power Rangers?! There are numerous close-ups and elevator shots of the female cast members including an elevator-to close up shot of the blond power ranger ending at her bust and another fade-in to close-up of Kimberly's butt as she lays face down on the island. My nine year old actually made a comment that Kim's butt was basically the whole screen. I'm no prude but WHO is this movie written for? What does this make up for? No action and an ending where the Power Rangers fight a guy in a rubber suit!? Summary This is the perfect example of a movie put together by a director who had absolutely no idea what he was doing. This is bad as a kid's movie and bad as an adult movie - it's just plain bad! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movies doesn't get close to the good rep that it should have. I thought the movie was great. It had more action and adventure than the show or other movie ever did. Though the theater version had most of the action and the VHS version had many parts cut out, makes it in my opinion ripped off. The video seems to have a blooper after Tommy and Kat get out of the water, but in the theater, they encounter a fight. A fight that was cut out for I guess the lack of time in the VHS. The powers are stronger and the first time being showed that they make them themselves. All around, two-thumps-up for the theatrical version of the film. "},{"Title":"Not to bad, but it could have been better.","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" To Recap, Divatox wants this creature named Larigo to get his key like crystal to bring her groom to be to live. Meanwhile on Earth, the boys are training for the karate tournament while the girls are returning from an softball game. During training, Rocky injures his back and pretty much ends his ranger career. Alpha calls the rangers about Larigo and Justin overheard this and eventually joins them. In the jungle, Tommy and Kat finds him after they fell to the falls to escape an snake. Larigo heals Kat's leg and they head to the chamber. There they first learn about the Turbo Powers and Tommy, Kat, Tanya, and Adam becomes the 1st group of the Turbo Rangers. Eariler, Kim and Jason gets kidnapped by Divatox and she wants to exchange Kim and Jason for Larigo. It turn's out that they were dummies. Still, the now 5 Turbo Rangers trails Divatox to an island frees their new and old friends. The Turbo Megazord with the rangers in it, fights Marago and wins. And that's all. Overall, I like on how the story lines went to play, and the appearances of Kim and Jason but, the producers could have made it better. And on that note, I give the film an 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I totally loved it!","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I just wanna say that I am already 12 and I am a HUGE power rangers fan. This movie, along with the other movie and the rest of the series, rocks. I love it sooo much I watched it over and over again. If you watch the movie attentively, you will notice there IS a plot. "},{"Title":"Loved the movie.","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I personally loved Turbo, most likely because, for reasons I have yet to discover, I am completely and irrevocably stuck on the show.  I believe it is safe to say that, if you like the show, you will almost definitely want to see this movie.I saw it multiple times in the theaters, purchased a copy as soon as it came out on video, and never get tired of it. "},{"Title":"When I was 9 I said...COOOOL...Now I say CRAAAAP","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I was a fan of the series even into '97. This movie made absolutely no sense. When I was 9, I thought it was cool to have a kid be a Power Panger...now I look back on it and cringe...they must've been desperate to keep people interested. And I do believe that we've already had a classic animated series in the '80s featuring cars turning into giant robots and it has a hit movie out now with Shia LaBeouf (Shia, if I spelled your name wrong, I'm sorry) called...I don't know...(cough)TRANS-(cough)-FORMERS(cough)! Bottom line, this movie would have a tough time surpassing Jaws 4...there I said it, as ashamed as I am to say it. (aside I use Jaws 4 as a comparison to other films that are worse than bad to try and give an idea of how bad a film really is). "},{"Title":"True Power Ranger Moment (Includes Spoiler!!!)","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Well, I can honestly say that yes, this is definitely a children's movie, its aimed at children under the age of 12, because if they were any older, they'd be looking at the power rangers' bodies and not their actions. BUT, as a devoted Original Power Rangers Fan (trust me I don't watch any of the new power rangers, they will never be as creative as the original series) I will still cherish this movie, because of the amazing return of Amy Jo Johnson (WB's Felicity) and Austin St. John (Martial Arts Guru, and my future soulmate!), who respectfully played the original Pink and Red Mighty Morphin Power Rangers, Kimberly and Jason.MAJOR SPOILER ALERT!! (DONT READ IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN IT YET!!)In this movie, Kimberly and Jason get kidnapped by the evil but quick-witted villain Divatox, because she needs them as sacrifices to release the evil Maligore so he can destroy the Earth.  Now for about the first hour, we see great scenes between Kim and Jas as they try to escape from the underwater ship where Divatox has them hostage.  But, that plan fails and they are again held captive as they are taken to the volcano where Maligore resides. Soon, however, as Kimberly and Jason are being lowered down into the lava, the New Turbo Power Rangers come to try to save them, but as hard as they try (not really) they can't make it in time, and Kim and Jas are dipped into the burning lava, to become Maligore's evil children.  Here's where it gets good.The red eyes good touch;  The super strength great challange; but what really got me excited is their evil looks and great interactions they had with the other rangers.  This scene was the best scene in the movie, I think, because we truly see how horrible it would be if ex-power rangers became evil.  Also, Kim and Jas are amazing as complete opposites of who they really are, with Jason showing signs of jealousy against Tommy, who in the TV series surpassed Jason to become the leader of the Power Rangers; and Kimberly knocking out Kat, the new Pink Ranger after Kim left the show. Kat is also dating Tommy now, who was once with Kimberly in the TV series. She expressed all of her hidden internal anger in just one perfect line, Oh yeah and sweetie...pink is out! and kicked Kat down, as Kimberly then gave an evil smile, stared off and walked across the screen.I was upset that when they made the first Power Rangers movie, they had already changed three of the original rangers, Jason, Trini, and Zack, but when I heard that two of the originals, including the amazing first Red Ranger, Jason, were coming back for the second one, I knew I wouldn't be dissapointed.  They definitely added a sense of royalty to the movie, and Amy and Austin absolutely played true to their characters and were loyal to the history of the show.  I wish I could thank them in person, but hopefully one day, they might all come back and talk about their experiences themselves.  I wish Thuy Trang could have joined them as well, but I know that they will have something special for her, and have great memories of her.  Thanks Amy and Austin, you truly made one Original Power Ranger Fan happy! Go get Turbo!      "}{"Title":"Everything a Power Ranger fan could want!","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  MUCH better than the first Power Rangers movie Saban made, this film has everything a power ranger fan could want! New powers, a new ranger (and a really cool one at that), action, fantasy, scenes of them driving through the desert, appearances by old rangers, cool villains, rangers being thrown into lava, literal Tommy bashing and a cool soundtrack (much better than the MMPRTM one -- It's all PR music here, don't expect rap or anything). I left the MMPRTM theater wondering WHAT THE HECK WAS THAT? It sure wasn't Power Rangers!. I left the theater for TAPRM very happy, and wanting to see it again of course. ) If you were disappointed by the first movie, and can't stress enough not to skip this one because of that! It's a must see for any Power Ranger fan! "},{"Title":"Clones","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I remember reading the Roger Ebert review for the first Power Rangers movie and above all else he hated the fact that the Rangers were, essentially, color coded clones with only thin streotypes as personalities.  Well, I'm dying to know what he thought of this entry.  It emphasises Ebert's point in the scene where a little kid who was allowed to stand in for an injured Ranger gets the magic armor on... and in the dissolve, we see him replaced with an adult sized armored stuntperson.I'm what kids consider a cool adult.  I don't hate boy bands, I can name all the Pokemon, and I enjoyed the first season of Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers as I'd enjoy an old Godzilla flick.  This movie was when I started to get a tad disillusioned with them. "},{"Title":"Friends","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I liked the movie because of all of the action and martial arts. I also liked it because they were trying to save an orphanage shelter from closing. There was one thing that I did not like about the movie was the foul language they used. "},{"Title":"Turbo A Power Rangers Movie is the big first episode before the TV series & it the best movie!!!","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Turbo A Power Rangers Movie (Power Rangers Movie Part 2) is anther of my favorites Rangers movie. It take place when Rocky DeSantos (Steve Cardenas) had been hurt after fell off the Karate fighting ring. So the other 4 Rangers been call to the Power Chamber by Zordon (Winston Richard) at the same time as Justin Stewart (Blake Foster) was hiding under Rocky's bed. The Rangers went to the Power Chamber to see what was up & help a alien name Lerigot (Jon Simanton). Jason & Kimberly was kidnap by Divatox (Hilary Shepard). Now the Rangers have to save Lerigot & his family, As well as Jason & Kimberly too with the help of the new Blue Ranger-Justin Stewart (Blake Foster). They have stop Divatox & Maligore (Michael Deak) from distorying the earth. Maligore is gone but Divatox want to stop the Rangers for distorying him.Power Rangers Turbo (season 5) Divatox want to get earth for her next target. The Turbo Rangers save the day in Power Rangers Turbo TV series. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is the movie that turned me off from power rangers. I really dont like how the kid, justin, is the blue ranger. it needs to be a teenager. however i did like the Cameo of Kimberly (pink ranger number 1) and Jason (red ranger number 1)thought it to be really cool that they still acknowledged that they were a part of this story. Needs to be a reunion Special or something of the Classic Power Rangers. it would so make me Happy. but other than that there are several problem i have with the movie Justin is just not a convincible power ranger. The Villians arent the greatest either. Ivan Ooze was so much more villianous in Power Rangers the movie. Of the 2 power ranger movies, this one comes in second. if Justin wasnt the blue ranger maybe id change my mind "},{"Title":"What the hell?","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" First of all, Power rangers are themselves bad but this is unbelievable. The first movie should appeal to children under the age of 8 and had one decent villain followed by the worst $0.02 CGI transformation sequence in the history of mankind. However, compared to this, that movie seems like the Godfather. Nothing will make sense if for some unfortunate reason you find yourself watching this. It is pure and utter garbage and is'nt funny no matter how you try to look at it. Its disgusting. Its not a movie. Its not a show. Its guano. Most people wont watch it anyway so why am I wasting time writing this? I don't know. The only thing I don't understand is why this is'nt in the bottom 20 list? Make that bottom 5. "},{"Title":"A Major Letdown","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Just another bad sequel to a great movie. A Power Ranger fan's worst nightmare, which isn't really saying much so to speak. This really kills the MPG franchise. Why wasn't Billy in this one?, Why wasn't Jason the Gold Ranger? And what happened to The Machine Empire? There's nothing in this movie but very weak plot but that's about it! Even the series to this movie was lousy! To say the least! All though I liked Power Rangers in Space but the following Power Rangers series like Lost Galaxy,Light Speed Rescue,Time Force,Ninja Storm,Wild Force,Dino Force and S.P.D. where pretty crappy! Watch Voltron The Third Demention instead. Don't waste your time or money watching this disappointing no film! It just ain't worth it. "},{"Title":"# one on the worst movies","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I hated this movie so much i destroyed my friends tape, i only watched ten minutes of it and blew it up. I hated the t.v show's,this movie, and the memorabilia. the t.v shows got old the movie was gay and the memorabilia was like pokemon cards. "},{"Title":"in my bottom five","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Like I said in my previous review of Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie, this movie is horrid.  However, unlike the original, I could not find a single thing worth laughing about in this movie.  This movie is a disgrace.  It hurt my eyes.  In the middle of the movie I turned on my CD player and listened to Lucinda Williams.  LUCINDA WILLIAMS FOR CRYING OUT LOUD!  I LISTENED TO RIGHTEOUSLY.  RIGHTEOUSLY, FOR CRYING OUT LOUD!  I started asking myself what had happened to the spunk, the interest of the bad guys that was with Ivan Ooze in the original.  Why am I closing my ears whenever the Power Rangers speak?  Why don't I just chop the film up and scatter its pieces into the wind in defiance of the piece of crap I rented? (Well, actually that's the reason I didn't harm it.)  I wish I could forget this experience.  But you don't forget a headache like that any time soon, do you? "},{"Title":"Do yourself a favor and see this movie!","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Without a shadow of a doubt, this is the greatest movie of all time! Forget The Godfather and Shawshank Redemption, step aside Lord of the Rings, there's a new show in town and they're kickin' some theatrical butt! THAT'S RIGHT!  Go Go POWER RANGERS!!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"Take it for what it is!","Date":"24 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Power Rangers must journey towards an island that houses the evil Malagore, in order to stop Divatox from unleashing the creature of pure destruction...In my opinion the film was fine but what followed was the end of the entire series in my opinion...The film had a good cast, brining back characters like Jason and Kimberly...But what really annoyed me was the addition of Justin the kid Ranger!!!This wasn't like the previous movie, with new versions of armoury..it was just a very long episode...The end fight scene was satisfactory but after waiting throughout the whole film for an amazing fight scene it is kind of disappointing to only witness 3-4 minutes worth of action....It was entertaining nonetheless... "},{"Title":"Grossly Unneeded","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The original Power Rangers TV show was a fun, much loved, admittedly tacky, but often enjoyable series. The first movie was similar in description, but I think it surpassed the show in several ways. But by the time Turbo A Power Rangers Movie came along, I realized that it was just going on nothing. The film has one of the stupidest titles I have ever heard, and from that, we get more bad things. The actors are bad, but they were bad in the show too. The villains are the lamest and blandest in the entire long running series. And the turning a boy into a ranger. Blech. Why did they bother? It has redeeming features. Tommy, Adam, Jason and Kinmberly, my picks for the best power rangers are in the film (Billy, who is absent, is my fifth pick). The monster Maligore is bloated and lingually challenged, but cool. And...well, that's it. See the first one. It's also on the bottom one hundred, but it's considerably better than this. "},{"Title":"my opinion","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" In my opinion this is really bad.. I watched Power Rangers ever since the first episode (Day of the Dumpster) came out on ITV.. GMTV in the UK at 8.55am on a Saturday.I enjoyed it although some of the scenes were obviously pathetic. After watching all of the episodes up to 'white light' in episode 2 I was getting more interested with the introduction of the white ranger.. I was always fascinated with the green ranger. After a while the scenes got over used and it seemed the same was happening with the same boring action sequences. When the new power rangers came I was interested but losing the attraction towards power rangers.. Then the first movie came!!I loved it.. the effects.. the costumes.. it seemed that a lot of care and attention that was never put into the episodes was put into it. I loved the computer animations allowing the zords to move fast as a futuristic megazord would. I loved seeing the interaction between the power rangers showing them as friends and the relationship between Kim and Tommy. Well that's the first one..I watched the episodes 'power rangers ninja' whatever.. with that blue thing.. ninjar or something.. I was expecting to see something good but again it was the same as the episodes.. Really dragged out..Then a new movie came.. I was excited.. was I going to see everything the first movie showed or even better. As I watched the scenery.. the words they used.. it was pathetic.. there was no thought in this.. just another stupid screw up of a money making scheme clinging onto the original movie.. The good thing indeed was the injection of the old rangers but there was nothing good in this movie that could even stand up to the original.. come on..dressed up guys trying to look like zords with no detail and repetition?orcomputer generated zords interacting with detail? "},{"Title":"More Than I expected","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I was thinking it would be good too see a second Power Rangers Movie. I saw the first one and it disappointed me that the show did not follow the course of the movie but Turbo A Power Rangers Movie really does. I do like the Idea of them bringing Justin to take Rocky's place, What would you have done if you were in Rocky's shoes? You sure couldn't risk Justin telling everyone about what he saw so it was a great strategy bringing in Justin to take Rocky's place. The actors Jason David Frank (Tommy, Now back in Power Rangers Dino Thunder), Catherine Southerland (Kat), Johnny Yong Bosch (Adam), and the others are very cool but I think the character that steals the audience's hearts is Blake Foster (Justin). I give the movie 7 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"2.2/10?","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Turbo A power rangers movie 2.2/10? This movie wasn't awesome but it deserved more than 2.2/10. The only thing that REALLY bugged me was that there wasn't a fight scene until half way through the whole movie. And It says non- stop fantasy action/ violence. It should say non-  start till half way fantasy action.More like ***(out of 5) "},{"Title":"The Power is far from back!","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I never expect sequels to be better or as good as the original, but I never expected a sequel to be so bad. This movie is filled with problems the acting was bad, the story was weak and the special effects were even worse. The first movie was at least entertaining and had a good premise. This movie was really just a set up for a new television series that was the worst of the bunch in my opinion. Here's hoping that if for some reason they make another movie, they learn from the mistakes of this one. "},{"Title":"The Old School Power Rangers Are Always The Best!","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Remember when you were a kid in 1993 or so and every afternoon after school, it was time to sit on down in front of the television screen and watch Mighty Morphin Power Rangers? Yes, seeing all the different colored Power Rangers as well as seeing things transform into huge robot monsters sure seemed very, very exciting! This is 100% boy material! And this, Turbo A Power Rangers Movie, is an even longer version of this exciting show! So why give this a 1 when you can use all your power and give this a 10! The very first Power Rangers are still the best! 5...4...3...2...1...The Power Rangers Are Go! Go! Go! Go! Go! Go!....10 out of 10 stars! "},{"Title":"wot the bloody hell was this!!!!!!","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This was shown on TV on Sunday and I don't really know why Everything about this film was just stupidly dialogued and with cheapo special effects. The control room with that annoying little ay ay ay robot was just so lazy it was beyond belief. The evil guys were stupid and the costumes were ridiculously over the top. Then theres that fat furby looking thing! How can anyone care for that thing! The actors that played the rangers themselves looked ridiculous talking to it in a soft voice and it made it hard to watch. I can't remember much about the series but i hope that it was no way as near as bad as this trash ridden piece of junk. What do you expect from a cheap hollywood script and untalented actors and an extremely low budget. Apart from that it does have one good thing about it. It makes any other film look like a master piece!!!!! (If you can't tell already, i hated it with a vengeance!!!!!!!!1 "},{"Title":"Pink is out, the movie is in","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I remember why I went to see this movie. For one I was a Power Rangers fan, #2 it was hiliarious when Kimberly (Amy Jo Johnson) on the ad commercial seemed to be evil and went pink is out to the Pink Turbo Ranger. I had irregularly watched Power Rangers ever since ZEO came out, but let me say - this movie is way better than the first Power Rangers movie. This one really flows and you can see an improvement in the acting of course. Not to mention, the original Pink and Red Ranger are back in this movie (not as Rangers but as their alter-egos Kimberly and Jason). I especially liked the scene when Jason was fighting Tommy (Red Turbo Ranger) because it always seemed on the show that when Tommy came (as Green then White Ranger), he stole Jason's thunder as leader of the Power Rangers. Anyway, if you want to see a good piece of Power Rangers history, I recommend this movie highly. "},{"Title":"Some of the most incompetent filmmaking ever!","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Now, I knew this was going to be a bad movie. But OW! I didn't think it would be as bad as this! First of all, if you haven't watched the show, you'll have no idea as to what's going on. Second, the dialogue is incredibly bad. One example When they rangers see their new cars, one comments something like, Those are just ordinary cars. She's answered, No, these are EXTRAORDINARY cars! I was rolling on the floor with some of this bad dialogue!The movie is also badly edited and directed. Take the scene when the green car, floating on water, moves out of the ship and into the open water. We never actually see the car moving out of the ship - the camera is placed on the deck of the boat, several feet back. From what we see, it's obvious the floating car was hiding next to the ship all along.There are two cretins for comic relief - neither of them is funny, or serves any purpose to the plot. The acting by everyone is HORRIBLE! There isn't any real action scene until half the movie is over! The rangers don't actually become rangers in action until the last 20 minutes or so!This would be a great movie for MST3K, if it was still playing. "}{"Title":"Stick with MMPR The Movie","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I went to the theater one time to see this movie, where my friend told me that this film was better than the first. After watching it, I asked myself why I blew eight bucks on this film.Turbo is essentially a movie version of the television show... literally. If you watch the follow-up TV series, you'll notice that the exact same sets were used from this film. Also, the special effects, spandex costumes, and zords look good to be on TV, not on the big screen. Not even bringing back former Power Rangers is enough to make this adventure too big for TV.Don't watch the Turbo movie and stick with the original movie. At least that one was worth watching. "},{"Title":"Bad...really bad.","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I can't believe an atrocity like this was made. This movie was so bad it was almost funny. The plot was horrible, the characters sucked (and they can't act whatsoever), the effects were lame, and in general, it just left a bad taste in my mouth. I went to see this in some run-down theatre, and the arguably high point of the movie for me was when some latino woman and her seven children behind me were screaming at the movie to stop. Good times...Bottom line Oh...you're better off watching the show. It's not worth the five dollars to rent this from the video store. And seeing as how my quota for filling up ten lines isn't up yet, Bush sucks as a president. "}]