[{"Title":"secretly wonderful","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"121 out of 138 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I'm going out on a limb here.  I've just bombed Joe Dirt, and now I'm going to do an about-face on modern comedies and argue that A Night at the Roxbury is brilliant.  Most critics didn't see a distinction between these two bombs, but I do.Comedy oftentimes depends on suffering.  Comic protagonists always take a beating, and we either laugh with them, or at them, or maybe we laugh not at all because we couldn't care less.  The essential question is, are the protagonists of A Night at the Roxbury lovable losers or just totally annoying dweebs who deserve all the grief they get? You know my answer already.  I love the Butabi brothers.  They have a strong fraternal bond, they're obsessed with Emilio Estevez, and they can't get any play.  What's not to love?  Dan Hedaya is great as the brothers' disgruntled dad, and Chazz Palminteri does a hilarious cameo as an entrepreneur obsessed with ass-grabbing.  Richard Grieco demonstrates a remarkable sense of humor about himself by allowing the Butabis to build him up as a big celebrity, when the joke is obviously that he's a total has-been.  What a sport, eh?Nice song, too.  I like this stupid movie.  Really, I do. "},{"Title":"10 thumbs up","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"109 out of 136 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" THIS MOVIE IS GREAAAAAAAAAT! i guarantee you'll be laughing throughout the movie. I'v read some reviews about this movie and i can't help but wonder why people say its horrible? Maybe your not the type who enjoy a good comedy once in a while. The two brothers are absolutely hysterical. They just keep the laughs coming. AND, what about the music? The music just happens to fit the movie so good that i think its a 'must see movie'. I'm a proud owner of this movie. When i'm in need of a good laugh this is the movie i watch. The story is wonderful, and the actors and actresses have done the greatest job on this movie. If i could i'd give it 100 OUT OF 100 ) "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"91 out of 116 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Yesterday, I watched A Night at the Roxbury for the first time and I absolutely loved it! I think Chris Kattan and Will Ferrell did a great job and were an awesome team. They were VERY funny and kept me laughing and cheering for them through the whole movie. The music in this movie was also great, it made me want to get up and dance (maybe even the head bop! lol)This movie also had the *perfect* ending. I enjoyed all the characters and liked the twists the movie took. I would definitely recommend this movie for a good laugh for anyone, even critical friends. Nomatter who you are, there is something for you to enjoy in this awesome comedy. A Night at the Roxbury is a must! "},{"Title":"Great and really funny movie.","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"83 out of 102 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" What's up? - Either you love it or you hate it. Actually to me Roxbury is one of my favourites. Of course the two guys are hilarious - but that's what they're supposed to be. This movie is full of great innuendos to disco chicks (Is this your first time?), to stupid and bored upper class people (Do you like my new chin? Is it better than last years?) and to some movies (You had me at hello!). Even after watching it the 3rd or 4th time you still can discover some new hints and gags.It's a funny movie but certainly not dumb!Emilioooooh! "},{"Title":"Misunderstood","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"84 out of 119 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" If you think this movie sucks, well, it's really your opinion. But my opinion is that it's one of the funniest movies ever made. For those who disagree with me, it all depends on your taste. This movie is more of a weird/cheap humor kind of thing, and that's what a lot of people like. But a lot of people also like smart humor, in which this movie doesn't offer (that much). So this movie (and all other Saturday Night Live movies) are meant to be weird. It's funny to see how some people could act in real life. So people who's of weird and cheap humor, this movie is great! But for those of you smart alecs out there who like smart movies, this one (or any other Saturday Night Live) movie really should'nt be your pick 10/10 "},{"Title":"one of my top 10 comedies of all time","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"59 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" When this movie hit the screens in the summer of 1998 (or was it 99 in Turkey - anyways), no one knew what it was in Turkey and a very few people went and saw it, I was one of the more fortunate ones to have done so, and i did this twice!!Yes, i laughed my head off.. Once with my best pal, and the next day with my brother.It is one of those movies which keeps that stupid smile on your face all through the movie. The Butabi brothers and their relationships with the whole world and their fascination for clubs, women and EMILIOOOO! is a must see for everyone who likes a good laugh.I can't get the scene where the brothers are loading the flowers into the van. Some really funny stuff.I bought this on video and have watched it dozens of times and it never gets old. Definitely recommend it... "},{"Title":"One of the best.","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"59 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" A Night at the Roxbury... I loved this movie incredibly the first time I saw it because it seemed to be the story of my relationship with my own sister embodied in a film. With such amazingly hilarious actors as Will Farrell and Chris Kattan, and also Molly Shannon, how could anyone pass up the opportunity to at least watch it once? The whole idea of two regular, lazy, semi-lame guys trying to fulfill a small but radical dream while following the right paths in life is very appealing to me. But that's not to say it's not a film for adults... Indeed, there was some profanity, but I'd say it was relatively minor and only added to the hilarity of it all. I think what really got me was the soundtrack for this film, in particular the recurring dance song What Is Love? by Haddaway. By the end of the movie, it becomes sort of an anthem. It's almost strange to find yourself watching these two younger men and their rich but meandering lifestyle and think Man, I wish I could do that! Overall, I'd say this movie is guaranteed to make you laugh IF your comedy preferences are not too strict. And it's even better if you watch it with your friends, because it makes a lot of inside jokes! I'd suggest this movie to anyone looking for a good Will Farrell/Chris Kattan movie, especially if you have your own brother or sister to relate it to. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and Good","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"59 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I saw it this weekend and just could not stop Laughing!My Moment is at the end Of the Wedding were the Beautiful Eva Mendes, is stunned when Doug Stops the Wedding of his Brother.I just still see it before my eyes.Everyone just stood there stunned, and the song  What is Love just kept on playing.The Plot actually is that That Doug and Steve Butabi two very, ambitious boys are working for there Father (Kamehl) ho owns a Flower Shop. But The Two Brothers plan two run a Night Club. Their Father isn't Impressed with the idea, but allows them to look around. Richard Grieco (An Owner Of Many Night Club's in the Movie) Help's them.The ending isn't predictable and thats what is good.It was Hilarious and Good!The overall Movie was excellent and very funny, it's sure to give you a good night Of laugh's!My Score  8.4Groeten Gerrit "},{"Title":"Funny movie!","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"54 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie was better than I expected! These two are such dorks, but that is what's funny! The outfits, the attitude, the car are all part of the comedy too. Best part Is that a mirror in your pocket, because I can see myself in your pants. Also the spoof of Jerry Maguire is great too. Watch if you are in the mood for a good comedy with funny humor.  "},{"Title":"Wicked Awesome","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"38 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is my all time favorite movie ever. If you are ready to laugh your head off then grab a bunch of friends and watch this movie together.Doug and Steve Butabi come out with the funniest sayings that you'll be repeating with your friends for a long time. They have got tons of catch phrases you can use everyday. Are you two brothers? No... Yes! get em every time! yea Doug's hilarious! I've practically memorized the whole movie! You've got to see it! Chris Kattan and Will Ferrell work wonderfully together and provide non-stop laughter for people of all ages. If you haven't seen this movie then I suggest you see it and then spread the word on how good it is!  "}{"Title":"great feel good movie","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"46 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" This movie is fun. It is a relaxed movie about two brothers. Their hobby is visiting clubs. But they have a problem....they are not the two coolest people. Dressing with nice clothes and driving in a BMW does not really help because they act stupid. But they have a dream - to own a club - and maybe this comes true. The movie is set in LA and has nice disco-music in it.the comment on DVD says it is the dumb and dumber of disco...and they are right..it's something like that. I think it is entertaining enough to watch more than one time because a few scenes are really hilarious. See it for your self. "},{"Title":"Did I Like This Movie? no.......YES!!!","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This was an awsome movie! Chris Kattan and Will Ferrell are awsome in this movie! It is amazing how they can do the head bob walking!! This movie had everything! Laughs, tears, head bobbing, clubs, romance...............SCORE! I would love to go to a club where the inside looks like the outside, and the outside looks like the inside. I recommend this movie to everyone! That's right.. everyone! 9.2/10 "},{"Title":"A good movie.","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  If you like to watch good and funny movies then watch this one a night at the roxberry it's a real good movie trust me you want to know why well then I'll tell you because it's funny, it has some sad parts in it and it has parts in it when you just have to laugh so hard that it's stupid. I would rate this movie 7 out of 10 because of some of the parts are just stupid as I said before. My favorite actor in this movie would be Chris Catten who plays in Undercover Brother which is a kind of good movie, my favorite actress in this movie would be the girl plays as Candy in a night at the roxberry who plays in i don't know but she played good in this movie. I would recommend this movie to anyone who likes real funny movies. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" this is a classic Ferrell movie super funny he even plays a not exactly smart guy like most of his good roles everyone who acted in this movie was funny. i just loved this movie think I've seen it about 70 times. Steve and Doug Butabi man were just egg salad and i usually don't like Chris Kattan movies but i really enjoyed this one it was some funny stuff very memorable quotes.i could go on about this movie but i really don't want to cause its to late and I'm trying to fill those 10 lines funny funny funny thats pretty much all u can say bout' this movie it had a good story line too the plot was good and the ending is a classic man classic. "},{"Title":"The best film of all time!!!!!!!","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"31 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" The best film i ever saw. Cris and Will are at their best. Don't miss that for anything it's the note that everyone have to read.I enjoyed every part of this masterpiece. Watch it you won't regret it.When i first saw the title i thought it is garbage i check it here its 5.0 out of 10.I thought it is not worthy but when i watch it i had a different idea of how movies are made.This is the comedy that can express all of what others can not.The story of two brothers who aren't very smart and try to get to the best club in town is a great adaptation.It broke all the clichés.Well thanks for your attention Good bye...A and did i mentioned that this is the best movie of all time!? "},{"Title":"Good to the last laugh...","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Apparently, not many people are being very fair about the movie, by rating it at 1 or 2 on scale up to 10. Please people, understand that this movie was not made to get Oscars, or Grammys, it was made for the people entertainment, so don't go off giving that crap about i dont like will ferrell or chris kattan so it sucked cause if you don't like them, DONT WATCH THE MOVIE IN THE FIRST PLACE! as simple as that.I myself am very fond of this movie. I think it is a great comedy, and sure it's not for the whole family, in fact, I'd only recommend it to people who enjoy the stupid comedy on Saturday Night Live.The movie basically goes like this - Doug (Chris Kattan) and Steve Butabi (Will Ferrell) are brothers that try to get into the town's best night club, the Roxbury. Although they aren't successful entering the club on their own, they get help when actor Richard Greico's fancy little sport car rams into the back of Doug and Steve's van. Richard doesn't want the boys to sue him, so he invites them all into the Roxbury as a little appology for the car damage. Doug and Steve meet a few foxy ladies, get their freak on with them, and get rejected by them. harsh harsh. then the guys get in a huge argument about all the unfortunate events that happened that day, and doug ends up moving out of their bedroom into the guesthouse right nextdoor. and as steve puts it I just miss doug dad says well he's right next door and that things like a mansion! steve says but theres no cable dad says sure there is. steve says BUT THERE'S NO HBO! haha yeah anyways, steve begings dating the college girl that works in her dad's lamp store next to the brothers father's flower shop. the dad had always been trying to hook steve and the girl up, so in the end they're getting married and.. yeah, you watch the rest yourself.The music choices in the movie were awesome, pure awesome. the cd is G for Great! anyone who has seen this movie and hates it, hasn't paid enough attention to it. Stop looking for the negatives, and you'll see how funny this movie really is. It isn't meant for the big award shows, remember, it's made for fun, comedy and entertainment. if you don't enjoy any of those things, DON'T WATCH IT. and DON'T HATE will ferrell or chris kattan, cause they're my homeboys and I love them.peace "},{"Title":"About the movie","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie is way cool......there was nothing wrong with it as far as i can see.....songs went well with it also....best part i like is when they were getting it on for the first time and Steve was doing the ambulance noise...lmao.....so let Imdb know how you feel about this movie and others also.... What i like best about imdb is if i can not remember a movie or a song from a movie it gives all the information i need here at this site......two thumbs up for imdb...Peace out "},{"Title":"Its 2004, 6 years after the film was made","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  and i still love it to when i watched it back in 1998. this film is one of those comedies that just hit you in the face with how stupid people can be, and in effect make us laugh. I have actually met people like those in the film, and it adds to the laugh.Watch it and enjoy, though it may be old, most new comedies are rubbish like  BRUUCE_ALMIGHTY  never liked it. "},{"Title":"Wasn't expecting much but...","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I haven't laughed this much since Something About Mary. Funny how the critics raved about that one , and gave this this the flick. Also, much better  than the similar Dumb and Dumber...and not a fart gag in sight In it's naive, good-natured way , it was more like Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure or Wayne's World  but out of all these films , Roxbury is my new favourite. "},{"Title":"Butabi Brothers + Richard Grieco = HILARITY!","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Oh my god, this is one of the funniest movies ever made.  The Butabi brothers, who are always funny as loser clubbers in the SNL skits, prove to be just as funny with their pathetic personal lives.  The 80's references in this movie are a huge source of hilarity, with the zenith being Richard Grieco's role.  ABSOLUTELY EVERYONE should see this movie as soon as possible, since it is by far one of the greatest I have ever seen. "}{"Title":"Full of laughs and great music","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Simply a great movie. I have watched it about 20 times by now and my friends usually put it on when they visit. It also has great eurodance music from the early 90s so you can even have the movie rolling in the background.But I think this movie is mostly appreciated by us who were out clubbing a lot during the 90s. You recognize the great music, queuing to the coolest club and maybe even some more embarrassing things from the movie. To me, Blues Brothers and Wayne's World wasn't funny at all. On the other hand I wasn't clubbing to blues in 1980 and doesn't like heavy metal from the 80s.A Night At The Roxbury is a very funny movie with great music for the ones that wasn't sitting at home in the weekends during the 90s ) "},{"Title":"Funny Stuff","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Well the first time i saw this film it kind of reminded me of how me and my friend used to joke around and it really made me feel dumb about myself cause something i would act dumb like that too. I really thought this movie was funny in my point of view. The music in this film is probably the best music in any film to me because i love trance and house music so this was a good movie to watch. In the movie Steve and Doug dont even look like brothers but they sure act like it. I love how they do slow moving shots. makes you laugh and wanna watch at the same time wondering what is going to happen. One of the best parts of this movie are the lines, like did you grass my butt, or you outta town you new, aiight. There are plenty of them in the movie and i even use them in everyday life cause its just funny. This movie should be ranked higher in the imdb. In my opinion i give it a 10 rating. "},{"Title":"Funny movie with a great storyline!","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I reluctantly rented this movie for my husband.  He wanted to see it at the theatre but I didn't want to - I had never seen SNL (which DOES make a difference.  If you don't know the skit, you don't really 'get it').  So one night I picked up some movies, including this one - and I became hooked!I could NOT stop laughing.  I thought it was so funny.  I loved their clothes and their hair looked great.  Since then I've seen this movie a million times!One of the things I liked best about this movie is that it really WAS tastefully done.  There was virtually no swearing in it, and no sex scenes (which disgust me).  It almost seems like they were discouraging vulgarity...I had to respect Chris Kattan when his 'one night stand' (Eliza Donovan) said Yeah, yeah, yeah.  Joanie loves Chachi.  But does Chachi give a flying - f*** about Joanie?  He kind of looked at her and made a face that showed he was turned off by her language.I would actually feel comfortable enough to let my 2 year old see it (which she has and she's decided she has a crush on 'Crissattan'.)The boys come from a close-knit family with money.  But somehow, they don't see any of it.  They look nice when they go out and it's cool to see brothers who are so close.  Will Ferrell is a tremendous talent. The music is AWESOME! )I cannot STAND Molly Shannon.  I don't even understand how she got on SNL in the first place.  She is just AWFUL.  She's unattractive, perverted, and all of her characters on SNL just seem to be the same.In all, this was a terrific movie.  I loved it!  Just watch it with an open mind and remember that it's a SILLY COMEDY, not an Academy Award Winner!  "},{"Title":"Fantabulous","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie is amazing. Oh my goodness. Will Ferrell. That is all I need to say. This movie is greatness personified. Oh my goodness. Did I already say that? I must be trippin', but only because I just saw this movie and was trippin' over how delicious Eva Mendes was looking. This movie is a hoobanga. Its no Ladies Man, and doesnt reach the greatness of Old School, but this dont mean it aint spectacular. "},{"Title":"Pretty Funny Movie","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  First, before any of you read my comments for this movie, I shall warn you that my comments are biased since I loved the skits that this movie was based on SNL.The skit that the Butabi Bros. did with Jim Carrey was definitely one of the greatest SNL skits I've seen.  The head bobbing gig turning into a movie turned out to be great.  Dan Hedaya did a great performance along with Mr. Zadir. and Lochlyn Munro.  Speaking of Mr. Hedaya, he was perfect for the funny-hardass father type characters.  The soundtrack does have some other nice tunes besides Haddaway's What Is Love, which is played over and over again.Do I recommend this film to others???    Noooo.....YESSSS!!!!! "},{"Title":"An Instant Classic","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  A Night At The Roxbury was an awesome movie. When i first watched it i laughed so hard. My friends and i would watch it a lot. One night we watched it 5 times and just couldn't get enough of it. Sad enough I pretty much can recite the whole movie. There should definitely be a sequel. My friends and I always joke around when we hang out about the movie, always going around and being Up Top! and all the lines from the movie. This is definitely on my top ten list. Chris Kattan and Will Ferrel are the best comedic actors. I recommend this movie to who ever likes SNL and is looking for a good laugh. "},{"Title":"A must-see","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that you never bother to check out because you didn't hear good things about it, and then one day someone close rents it and you end up loving it. Note I've never seen the SNL sketches, I never watch it because I think its terribly unfunny, so I didn't watch Roxbury with prejudice or bias.What I love the most about it is that its a comedy for all ages. This is something that you can watch with your kids or family and not be grossed out and embarassed by all the dick and fart humour, or the cruel humour. While the characters are silly, and you do laugh AT them, you can't help but like them. They are loveable in their own stupid way, but that doesn't pigeon-hole the movie into predictable physical gags like Dumb and Dumber or what-have-you. The dialogue and characters is what actually carries the movie, and it does a great job for the most part. The Jerry McGuire spoof ending is absolutely hysterical and that alone is worth the price of the rent. But you also have the wonderful music, every single track that plays was a great hit in its day.I'm a video rental store clerk and I put this movie on the main TVs once a night...it's in my very small circle of movies that contain good enough dialogue to be enjoyed at any given moment, alongside the likes of Big Lebowski and Pulp Fiction, though not quite at their level.A mere 4.9/10 rating? I suppose it needed more pie-****ing and swearing to please the IMDB audience? "},{"Title":"funny as hell movie","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  a night at the roxbury is a head bobbing hilarious ride. when steve butabi (will ferrell) and doug butabi (chris kattan)realize that they cant get into the roxbury there bumbed,but the annoying emily sanderson (molly shannon) trys to get steve to forget about it so he will go out with her. kahmeel butabi (dan hedaya) doesnt even want them to go out to clubs.when they run into there idle richard grieco (richard grieco) he takes the butabies into the roxbury where there life will be drenched with the thought of having there own club.doug and steves mom (loni anderson doesnt mind them going out every night.when they get to the roxbury the meet all sorts of new people like the owner mr. zidere (chazz palminteri),the girl club hoppers cambi (elisa donovan and vivica (gigi race)the limo driver dooey (collin quinn),the greedy priest (mark mckinny).of course theres the people that doug and steve do know like the high school friend craig (lochlyn munro) the lamp store owner mr. sanderson (dwayne hickman), and the credit vicson (meredith scott lynn)plus a dance till you drop soundtrack.after watching a night at the roxbury you will be asking your self what is love? "},{"Title":"funny as hell movie","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  a night at the roxbury is a head bobbing halirious ride. when steve butabi (will ferrell) and doug butabi (chris kattan)relize that they cant get into the roxbury there bumbed,but the inoying emily sanderson (molly shannon) trys to get steve to forget about it so he will go out with her. kahmeel butabi (dan hedaya) doesnt even want them to go out to clubs.when they run into there idle richard grieco (richard grieco) he takes the butabies into the roxbury where there life will be drenched with the thought of having there own club.doug and steves mom (loni anderson doesnt mind them going out every night.when they get to the roxbury the meet all sorts of new people like the owner mr. zidere (chazz palminteri),the girl club hoppers cambi (elisa donovan and vivica (gigi race)the limo driver dooey (collin quinn),the greedy priest (mark mckinny).of course theres the people that doug and steve do know like the high school friend craig (lochlyn munro) the lamp store owner mr. sanderson (dwayne hickman), and the credit vicson (meredith scott lynn)plus a dance till you drop soundtrack.after watching a night at the roxbury you will be asking your self what is love? "},{"Title":"A Forgotten Gem","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Going to see NATR I was not expecting much. But when the opening begins you can sense this is a step above most over mindless comedies. The two Butabi brothers entertain the whole time with thier hilarious antics. As the story goes the brothers dream of owning the coolest night club. The problem is they can't even get in to the popular clubs never mind run one. One night they catch a break and find their way into the club business but as quickly as the next day it goes wrong. Throughout the movie Katan and Ferrel act their parts perfectly. Two spoiled brothers living with thier parents and get everything they need. There complete idiotic actions make this movie a great film to just sit and down and watch with some friends. "}{"Title":"The Roxbury Rocks!!!","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Chris Kattan and Will Ferrel, give an outstanding performance in this off-the-wall comedy. A must see movie for the young - and young at heart. Any fans of Chris and Will's routines on Saturday Night Live,will surely not be dissapointed. So,make a date and have yourself a night on the town,come on down to the Roxbury! "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!!","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of my absolute favorites!  The comedy is great, you don't go for 5 minutes without laughing.  I could watch this movie everyday for a week and not get tired of it.  Chris Kattan and Will Ferrell make a *great* comedy team! "},{"Title":"I can watch it again and again and laugh","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  A Night at the Roxbury is not usual comedy. My opinion is that it is a good parody with good music. There are many scenes in the movie, you know they won't happen in any other movie. The way how those brothers talk with each others after wedding, and all those stuff, it is really genius. There are many good jokes in that movie, and if you don't laugh to them, it won't spoil the movie. It WON'T TRY to make you laugh and it is good thing. Because movie won't be spoiled, if you don't laugh. But there are so many good jokes in the movie, that usually it MAKES you laugh.A very good movie with 80's and 90's music. This is a cult movie in it's own genre. "},{"Title":"This movie brings back the good (and bad!) memories of he 90s clubbing scene.","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  If you experienced the clubbing scene in the 90s then you will no doubt relate big time to this film. It will have you in stitches as you recall your own memories of clubbing - whether you used to be a dag yourself (go on, you're a big boy now - you can admit it) or you cringed whenever you witnessed the least likely guys try to pick up the most stunning girls in the club.And the excellent music score can't help but create a feeling of nostalgia and longing for those carefree clubbing years.Sure, not everybody that grew up in the 90s was into clubbing (probably more like boot scooting or bowling) and probably these people will be totally perplexed by the humour of this film.It's a cult film, no doubt about it, and I love it. "},{"Title":"no doubt in my mind!","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  this movie was a great film experience. Not only did I laugh, I also found the Butabi brothers lifestyle very amusing. Actualy I wanted to live like them myself. They kind of became my idols ). I saw the movie after I had seen the clip on saturday night live, the one with Jim Carrey. And o my god, I just couldn't stop laugh, It was surley  one of the best comedies I've ever seen. Personly I think this movie is worth more than 4.8, it's more like a 8.0 movie. If you have'nt seen it, go and rent it right away, you won't regret it!  "},{"Title":"FANTASTIC! Dumb and Dumber go Clubbing!!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I fell in love with this movie about 3 years ago and we've maintained a healthy, rewarding relationship since. (I watch it at least 3 times a year) It gave clubbing a whole new meaning.  I have coerced many of my friends to watch it and now have a trail of converts behind me.  My quest continues. Roxbury and Life of Brian are cinematic bibles.   "},{"Title":"An absolute cult classic","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I completely understand why someone would not care for this movie.  In addition to the whole 90's club environment (which many people may not be able to relate to), it's silly as hell.  But I must say, in my opinion, A Night at the Roxbury deserves legendary status as a comedy. To be honest, I didn't think it was all that funny the first time I saw it, but much like the movie Austin Powers, it really grows on you after repeated viewing. I've seen it at nearly 20 times and I'm still not sick of it. I know at least a dozen people - friends and family members - who absolutely LOVE this movie, and I run into people all the time who say they love it as well. Okay, it may have initially tanked at the box office, but SURELY A Night at the Roxbury has accumulated enough profit through VHS and DVD sales to warrant a sequel. To the studio please, for the love of god, MAKE A SEQUEL!!! "},{"Title":"always makes me laugh","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie!! Everytime I see it I laugh. I love SNL and Chris Kattan and Will Ferrell are two of my favorite cast members. I think the movie is a lot funnier than the skit on SNL. Will Ferrell is funny in any role he plays and Chris Kattan is so cute. One of the funniest things about this movie was how Doug (Kattan) and Steve (Ferrell) act so dumb. Especially Steve. And I think it's sweet how they love each other so much. And not many brothers are like that!! Emily (Molly Shannon) got on my nerves. She turned out to be this whole different person when she and Steve finally got together. I can't stand people like that. Anyways. This movie is funny and cute and great entertainment. A must see for any Saturday Night Live fan. (Like me!!) Well, talk to you later and thanks for reading my review!! Bye!! "},{"Title":"Awesome Comedy","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  After watching this movie on television, I automatically went on the net to find out what other people thought about it...I was extremely surprised to see that Roxbury wasn't even given an average higher than 5, many people expressing their disgust for the movie...But, I Loved it. I have never laughed so much during a movie, and there was an actual point to the movie. Some of the gags has me laughing for at least 10 minutes, and I still laugh thinking of them (the ambulance noises, the Emilio story, LoL). I can't believe so many people don't like this movie, it's a great comedy, much better than horrible flicks like Dude where's my car, and Saving Silverman. At least this movie has a point, I came to like the characters of the Butabi brothers. Was this a Good Movie? Noooo....YES!  "},{"Title":"I loved this movie,","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie was one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. If you are in a bad mood just put this movie on and you will be laughing in no time. I love Chris in this movie. He is soooo cute. I own this movie and I have watched it over 35 times. Each time it gets funnier and funnier. I LOVE YOU CHRIS!!!! "}{"Title":"Catchy and Fun","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is a film that is better than you expect it to be.  It's sort of Last Days of Disco meets Wayne's World.  It is based on an idea that came from Saturday Night Live about three guys who are trying to get into discos/parties and are so uncool.  They all bob their heads to the music in a funny fashion and try to pick up women, which of course they are useless at but think they are excellent at.  The third person from this original skit was Jim Carrey.  For whatever reason Jim Carrey was not in this movie but the other two are and despite Carrey's absence the comedy has his distinct style in many ways, particularly with visual comedy.The music, if you like European 90s disco/house is very good and the support actors are excellent.  There are more than a couple of people from the original Clueless film if you can spot them all.To give you a basic plot, which in this type of movie isn't really important anyway, you have two sons of a rich LA shop owner.  They live for parties and think they are well into the scene but their dad thinks they are a waste of space.  They try to get into a club called the Roxbury which is more exclusive and through a series of events, mistaken identities and so on move into the partying fast-lane.  There are some ups and downs for our two guys though but in true tradition there is a happy ending.If you liked Wayne's World and Dumb and Dumber there is enough similar humour for you.  It's worth seeing in my opinion, I gave it 7 out of 10 and I'm normally quite tight. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This has got to be one of the funniest movies I have ever seen, Steve and Doug Butabi make the movie very entertaining as they constantly bop their heads to the song What is love by Haddaway. Also lines by people such as Mr. Zadir constantly asking Did you touch my arse? and Steve asking everyone What's up? make the movie even more enjoyable. Not only is A Night At The Roxbury a damn good movie it also has a killer dance soundtrack, one of the best I have ever heard with Haddaway, Faithless, N-trance, Brainbug and many more good artists. "},{"Title":"unforgettable!!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  oh man,what a movie!By far the best of SNL movies and one of the best comedies ever..Will Ferrell & Chris Kattan have managed to outclass their tv show performances with this unique and hilariously entertaining movie.Soundtrack is also first class,making you want to go clubbing everytime you see this movie.If you want to see a funny movie,forget everything else.get night at the roxbury.You just wish it would never end  "},{"Title":"The film that defined a generation!!","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I love this film!! It was funny, visually exciting, and the best soundtrack since Saturday Night Fever. In fact this film is similar to Saturday Night Fever in the way that it helped define a part of popular culture.Anyone that is not already going to dance clubs should, first, see this film, second, get to the nearest hot night club and dance to the sounds that were so well presented in this film. I promise, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"How did this not win academy awards?","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Well, maybe academy awards are a bit much but this movie is hilarious. It is so silly, I laughed the entire way through. Therefore I recommend this to anyone who wants to laugh. Will Ferell and Chris Kattan are both very funny in this movie about thirty year old men, who have a dream to one day enter the Roxbury. Very funny movie. GRADE A- "},{"Title":"Dumb & Dumber At The Disco","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Here's another modern-day comedy which automatically means two things lots of sex jokes and stupid-but-harmless characters. This dumb and dumber movie featuring two geeks who want to enter a disco and later want to own one.....all to get chicks, of course.It does feature some very good disco music; somewhat likable leads; an entertaining supporting cast - from the parents (Dan Hedyaa and Loni Anderson are a hoot!) to the bimbos to the exercise trainer. The movie also is short, which was a good move. You can only take so much of these idiot Butabi brothers, played by Will Ferrell and Chris Kataan.This gets a little sappy at the end when the brothers feud, but overall it's a pretty good lightweight comedy with a good share of laughs. "},{"Title":"EMILIO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"22 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie dozens of times and it gets funnier each time and it never gets old! Although the humor is not very sophisticated, and the target audience is 12 year-old boys, it is still a very funny. Based on an old SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE skit, A NIGHT AT THE ROXBURY stars Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan as brothers Steve and Doug Butabi. Steve and Doug are always out clubbing and partying, but they are never successful with women. Their goal in life is to get their names onto the list of the famed Roxbury nightclub. Most of the movie is just Steve and Doug head-bobbing to What is Love? by Haddaway. Although the plot runs very, very thin and is not backed up by a very strong supporting cast, it is a very funny movie, and is great to watch over and over.  "},{"Title":"My comments","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  A Night at the Roxbury was one of the best movies ever written. I know it seems as if everyone on SNL has a movie or two, but this movie was by far the best. Chris and will are funny as hell, my side hurt for at least a week from laughing. I would totally recommend this movie for anyone who loves SNL. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites!","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I don't know why people trashed this movie. You can't compare it to Gone with the Wind, if you do something is wrong with you. If they had an Academy Award category for comedies, this film would have gotten nominated. This movie is supposed to be crazy fun! I watch it every time it's on TV. Lighten up people! "},{"Title":"Many Laughs, Good Plot, Good Story Arc, Passable Acting","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"21 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I really don't understand the low rating of this movie. For me and the people I've watched it with, it was literally a laugh a minute.For the record, there is no underlying theme that the brothers are gay, some people just don't understand intense, nonsexual love between two men.Nor are Doug and Steve losers as some people have said. They're just differently successful. ;-)Nor is it the film's target audience 12 year old boys. It's fun for people who were of age during the 80s, and my nearly 16 year old daughter and her intellectual friends love it, though it's annoying to watch it with them because they've memorized all the lines.Some people have complained that the movie has no plot, but it does have a plot, and it even has an arc to the story line, actually multiple arcs to multiple story lines, which is why the end of the movie is so satisfying, because each of several conflicts is resolved in the last ten minutes.This is an excellent film, entertaining throughout. I gave it a 10.  "}{"Title":"Come on, it's F-U-N-N-Y!","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  No, this isn't an art-house flick, and it's not ground-breaking comic genius, but who cares!?!  If that's what you are looking for I don't imagine that you would go to see this movie in the first place.  What this money is, however is fun, and a lot of it.  It's cheap, laugh-a-minute style is quick and harmless, so that even if only one out of 5 jokes hits your funny bone, you will still have a great time.  Personally I don't like the skit on SNL, but found that Katan, Ferrell, and the writers did a wonderful job fleshing-out these loveable doofs.  If you can't take this movie for the light-hearted, good-natured comedy it is, then look in the mirror and ask yourself if you shouldn't be spending less time in Starbucks and watching Casablanca, and more time just goofing off. "},{"Title":"Fun to watch!","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is a fun movie to watch! You follow 2 guys who cant go to the roxbury(the best club in town) so they try every way to get in. They always wanna pick up babes but it never works, until the 21jumpstreet star crashes their car. He let's them in the roxbury but it isnt what they expected... so they want to build there own club. The movie has a great soundtrack and if you like to see watch a movie with guaranteed laugh pleasure see this one! "},{"Title":"You'll definitely 'score' with this hilarious film!","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I'm not a big fan of Saturday Night Live, or the many comedies that have evolved from skits appearing on the show. However, A Night at the Roxbury stands high above the crowd. You won't stop laughing from start to finish. My friends and I watch this movie repeatedly (I've seen it more than 20 times in the past two years) and constantly quote the lines. It may not be an Oscar-contender, but it's a cute, laugh-so-hard-you'll-cry kind of film. A great movie to watch on any occasion with a group of friends at a party, with your significant other or if you're merely feeling down in the dumps and need a good laugh.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Funny!","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  When I first heard that the two club hoppers from SNL were going  to have a movie, my first reaction was disgust.  Most of the skits they were in were stupid and unfunny.  A friend ended up dragging me to the movie and I was shocked at how funny it was. I was surprised how such a bad skit could turn into a terribly funny movie, but it happened.  No matter what you think of the skit, give this movie a chance and you might end up liking it. 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"An extremely funny film.","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This film was so stupid, it was funny. And I mean that as a compliment. If, one night, you feel like watching a movie where you can just check your brain at the door, sit back and laugh your head off while watching this movie. I'm not saying this movie was good as a whole, but if your in the mood it's fun to watch. "},{"Title":"I really liked it.","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is a fun movie if you can laugh at people totally without a clue. The two brothers have no idea whatsoever and constantly make fools out of themselves although they think they're the coolest people on the planet.The story isn't to much to care about, it's the situations that arise wherever the two brothers show up that makes the movie worth watching.A comparison with Dumb & Dumber isn't all wrong but 'A night at the Roxbury' isn't as childish as that one, the brothers aren't really that stupid, just clueless. "},{"Title":"What a pleasent surprise!!","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  WOW!  I was tickled!  I was pleasently surprised!  I laughed so hard that I was crying!  But you have to have a good sense of humor and be willing to just accept things because this movie will undoubtedly get a lot of bad reviews, and I can see why, but don't be afraid to just let loose! I am going to try and rent it right now as a matter of fact!If you are in a good mood and you don't like to criticize things all the time, then this is the perfect movie to rent! "},{"Title":"A New Cult Classic!","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  We watched NATR originally at a friends insistence, well, it has become one of those movies to us that we can watch over and over again. Like a background movie. Sad to say, my girlfriend, best friend and I can quote most of the movie. Obviously, it's a goofy movie, it's supposed to be, but we feel they did a wonderful job with the plot they were given.  "},{"Title":"Really funny flick","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Movie was hilarious.  Characters were great.  I will definitely rent this one again; probably will buy the DVD (once I get a DVD player!)Some people take things way too seriously.  If you carry the world on your shoulders, don't see this movie.  I loved it but then again, I am 37 years old and like the WWF.............. "},{"Title":"Steve and Doug Butabi get thier groove on.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie is hilarious.  Some people will say it's stupid, but that's why it is so funny.  Will Ferrell and Kattan are so funny, and there are some great comeos.  Colin Quinn gave a good performance too.  It is hard to say what is so good, you just have to invite a lot of people over, and this flick will make you laugh! "}{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  A cult classic. This movie has comedy for the whole family. Some people thought that it was a horrible movie about an over used SNl skit. Some people are fools. The dance scenes are better than the ones from Saturday Night Fever. Buy the movie or your life is not worth living. Also get the great soundtrack. "},{"Title":"A movie about dreams...","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so funny that you will laugh your heart out. Its about 2 guys and thier life. They have a dream and thats to build a nightclub. Well... I wish I could tell more about it, but I can't. Do they get the club or they dont? That's the question.I will recommend it to see it. Its a DAMN funny movie.... See this movie or watch The Simpsons.... "},{"Title":"Funny... really funny.","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Now, I know that the majority of the people who have seen this movie hate it, but I have to admit, I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.  It's certainly not a movie that people should take seriously.  The comedy here is upfront, and if you were to just let yourself go, then I'm sure you would enjoy it just as much as I did. "},{"Title":"Two thumbs up","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. I can't see why it's not rated really high. Usually movies made by Saturday Night Live are really funny and they do well in the box offices. Chris Kattan and Will Ferrell did a superb job in this feature. It was probably hard to come up with 82 min. worth of film when your just used to 2-3 min. Okay for those of you who haven't seen this movie...If you don't Like Saturday Night Live, then you probably won't like this movie. BTW this movie has a Kickin' Sound track. "},{"Title":"An all around great movie!","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so good! Me, I am a Chris Kattan fan, and he gave a wonderful performance in this film. The movie is just fun to watch, and just lets you remember the times back when Disco was alive. It's a great party movie, or just if you want a good laugh.I give it a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Our Movie of Choice","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Granted, this movie may be a little corny at some points, but I can safely say that for my friend Lisa and I, this was our movie of choice for the summer of 1999.  We first rented it in May (I actually had to be persuaded to rent it because I thought it was going to be unbearably dumb), and over the course of the summer, we watched it more than any human should watch any movie.  Not to mention all of the great quotes that we got from it.  We ran around all summer No...Yesing a lot.  Her parents just kinda looked at us like we were a little off (which we never denied) and inevitably laughed at us. Bottom line, I would recommend this movie to anyone...I guarantee you will get at least one laugh out of it. Enjoy!! "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is a excellent film filled with comedy and adventure. It received bad reviews and i can understand why. It is a crazy goofy film about 2 brothers that spend their lives at clubs trying to pick up chicks. They share a unique comedy that not many actors possess. If you enjoy their skits on Saturday Night Live or Have a very open mind, This is a film for you. If you are looking for a comedy from serious actors. this film may not be what you are looking for "},{"Title":"great fun and a great sound track!!","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie is about a two brothers who are trying to get into a club called The Roxbury. They are always trying to get in,but never get in. When that happens they club hop all night long. This movie is full of great disco fun. The songs are cool too. The two brothers argue over many problems. They eventually solve their problems. It is a happy movie that will make you cheer!!This movie is based on a skit from Saturday Night Live! "},{"Title":"Only 4.9? Lighten up, people!","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I will be the first to agree that a great many SNL skits have translated poorly to the big screen. This isn't one of them. Unfortunately since so many of these SNL films have bombed, most people seem ready to trash them if they aren't classics. The last time I checked, the only SNL film to reach classic status was the Blues Brothers. A Night at the Roxbury is no Blues Brothers, but there are still more than a few laughs in it.I like this film. I'm not ashamed to say it one bit. It makes me laugh. Chris Kattan and Will Ferrel are hilarious as the Butabi brothers who try too hard to be cool, and always fail to get into the best clubs. Will Ferrel has seen his career blossom since this film was made. Kattan has had less success, but I think he runs circles around Ferrel in this one. He is basically the snotty, whiny, and spoiled son of a rich man who sells silk plants. Ferrel is his dim-witted brother. There are quite a few nice supporting parts by veteran actors who now probably wish they hadn't been in the film due to its poor reviews. As I said earlier, this is no classic. In fact the last 20 min or so where Ferrel is planning to marry Molly Shannon are pretty dumb. I do find other parts particularly amusing, though.How about their walk down the beach in those very European-looking bathing suits? How about them getting ready to go out clubbing while that Rod Stewart song is playing? How about them being too chicken to actually score with those club vixen when they get the chance to? Their ride home from the failed meeting with Mr. Zadir was also rather funny. I guess I'd say this Don't let the fact that this is a SNL movie scare you off. Give it a chance. This is a good film to watch with your friends before going out on the town, for example. I'm sure at least someone will spout a one-liner or two from it before the night is done. A solid 7 of 10 stars.So sayeth the Hound. "},{"Title":"Good Fun","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I was quite a bit skeptical of this film being very funny when I first saw the previews.  The skit is funny on SNL in 3 minute increments, but an hour and half of it could be pretty bad.  So, I had pretty low expectations going into this film.  After seeing it, I have to say that I thought it was great and MUCH funnier than I thought it would be.Chris Kattan and Will Ferrell are a spectacular duo!  The both did a great job with their roles.  Dan Hedaya and Chazz Palminteri were nice additions to the cast, they both did a good job.  I have to say that Elisa Donovan, Gigi Rice, Meredith Scott Lynn and Jennifer Coolidge looked spectacular throughout the film, VERY beautiful women!  Lochlyn Munro (as Craig) was great too, I've only seen him in a few movies, but he really seems to be a great actor.  I was very happy to see Colin Quinn in the film.  This guy is great!  It was also cool to see Michael Clarke Duncan in the film, even though he had a very small part in the film.  I don't know what it is, but there is something about Molly Shannon that really bugs me.  Sometimes, she can be really funny, but other times I just can't stand her.  Maybe it's because she always acts the same, in all her films, I don't know.All in all, I thought the film was hilarious and was much better than I anticipated.  There are a number of scenes that make me laugh just thinking about them.  If you like the SNL skit at all, then you should probably see this film.  I really hope that you enjoy the film.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "}{"Title":"Controversial or what?","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Wow. I never knew this film could cause so much controversy. Opinions seem to be split around fifty-fifty as to whether it's a wonderfully funny piece of comedy, or a ridiculous pile of garbage. Personally, I love it, but I can see why people might hate it. If you try to take a film about women-starved idiots too seriously, you're bound to hate it. However, if you accept that the film is inherently stupid, and you're just meant to laugh at the characters, maybe you could enjoy it just a little. Maybe not, but I did.Obviously this isn't everyone's cup of tea, but it's worth a laugh. If you want a film that will have you giggling hysterically (if your sense of humour's as weird as mine) then see it. If not, and you're looking for an intelligent commentary on American nightlife in the nineties, forget it. Anyway, I like it.  "},{"Title":"I laughed my ass off","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie was really funny, but, the plot was dumb and it didn't make much sense. I find those guys from Saterday Night Live really funny, but, they talk about dirty stuff too much and that ruined the movie since I was with my Mom when I watched it. Thats why I gave this movie a 6. "},{"Title":"Great dumb comedy - if that is what you are looking for.","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Most of the comedies now days are just either plain stupid, or too confusing that you have to think. Night at the Roxbury is a simple, stupid, yet very funny comedy. Director didn't use the dumb approach where everything revolves around farts, falls and stupidity, this movie is much better than that. This is the movie where you will laugh out loud if you really want to see a movie that involves 80's and the dance era that made us all wonder did we really look like that? We did look like that, but its only Will and Chris who can put it into the move to perfection. This is a must see comedy for anyone who wants to laugh a bit, and if you like any of other Will's movies, you will very much enjoy this one as well. "},{"Title":"Best Movie Based on a Skit Ever","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" This could just be because I like Saturday Night Live, or because I like Will Ferrell, but I have to say that this is a really great movie. It only got a 9 because it is so short. This would be a 10 if it had at least 90 minutes. It would be better with Jim Carrey, but...taking what we have...this is really great.The Roxbury Guys is one of the greatest recurring skits, only 2nd to Celebrity Jeopardy! (But Roxbury is the best that is eligible for a movie).So, in closing, I'm gonna say that A Night at the Roxbury is great if you have a good weekend. 9/10 just for length. So, if you have 81 minutes of spare time, A Night at the Roxbury, maybe? "},{"Title":"an instant classic","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie was hilarious. The two actors were awesome in the movie, and the dancing was very funny, and good. Overall an excellent job in filmmaking. There are many good lines in the movie, which i remember well. The ending is the best part, when they use a jerry maguire scene "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!!!","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie! I loved the humor, and there was a lot of it to be laughed at. Doug and Steve were both so dumb, you couldn't help but laugh at everything they did.This is one of those movies that will definitely put you in a great mood, no matter how bad your day is. I highly recommend it!Did you grab my ass? No...should I? "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie is funny. It is great to see funny skits go to the big screen for a longer time. This movie never loses its steam. But there are a few corny and oddball moments. But it makes it through to actually get laughed at. In a mood for a comedy, then this is the one to rent. "},{"Title":"Sweet","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  When my sister first told me about this movie, I thought it would be some wack movie. But it turned out to be my favorite movie. I laughed through the entire thing! And so we watched it 5 times that weekend. Then I rented it for my family to watch and they just loved it. But do I really like this movie... NO, Yes!! Ok, just everything about makes it a wonderful movie. I mean how oblivious and ignorant the two boys are makes it a blast to see. I think that anyone with a sense of humor or good taste in movies would appreciate this film!  "},{"Title":"A funny movie...","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Who hasn't gone clubbing and not seen 2 swingin' single guys in love with themselves like the 2 young men portrayed in this film?  I went to college in the 80's and you could always guarantee you would see 2 guidos like this in any bar that you went to.  The only problem is that the 2 characters in the movie weren't driving a Trans Am with a gold emblem on the hood like the people I used to run into in the 80's. Bravo to the script and to the soundtrack for taking me back to my clubbing days in the 80's. "},{"Title":"Another SNL Hit !!!","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I've been a fan of these guys ever since the FIRST sketch with them aired. I always Prayed that they would come out with their very own movie, and then one day... THEY DID !!! I was so overjoyed, and got tickets for opening night. Well, let me say, I think they did a GREAT job in turning all those 3-4 minutes sketches into an 80 minute movie. I was reading some of the previous reviews, and I couldn't believe it when I read, It wasn't funny. Well, maybe it wasn't in that person's point of view, but let me ask this person... Is that the only reason why you went to see it ? Because you thought it was funny ? Well, in my opinion, that was a mistake. I know it wasn't entirely his fault. I mean, the previews made it look funnier than it actually was. My advice, don't just rent this movie because you heard it was funny. It wasn't just a comical movie. It had action, tragedy, and romance too. My Point... Some people saw this movie as a Tasteless, Not-Funny Movie. But me ? I saw it as a story about two guys who had a dream, and pursued to make that dream come true. I give this movie as a 10 !!!  "}{"Title":"Makes you want to nod your head.","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  A lot of people tried to put me off seeing this movie, but given that I like SNL, especially the old school SNL, I went along anyway. I'm glad I did. I haven't laughed so much at a film for ages. The music is pumping, the brothers completely out of touch with reality, and the psycho bunny-boiler girlfriend is genuinely scarey. Makes you want to nod your head in time to the music, just like the Bizarre Butabi Brothers. "},{"Title":"The Best SNL spin-off movie since Wayne's World and a must-see for all devoted SNL fans!","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I admit, it's not as good as Wayne's World, but then again WW belongs in a class by itself.  In spite of the recent string of bombed out SNL feature films, A Night at the Roxbury really hits the mark for true fans.Panned by critics, as always, because they don't appreciate the sort of humor that die-hard SNL fans crave.  Finally, after years of drought, the show has regained that fresh comedy they were founded for--and that freshness is alive and kicking in this movie.Oddly enough, one of the things I liked best about the movie was the trailer, because they didn't give all the best jokes away.  There were many pleasant surprises waiting for me, and I laughed harder than I had in a long time at a movie.I give it a very enthusiastic 4 stars out of 5, understanding that this movie is NOT for everybody.  If you've never heard of the Roxbury Guys before, and/or you do not currently believe that Chris Kattan and Will Ferrel are two of the most brilliant comedians SNL has seen in the last 3-4 years, this movie is probably not for you.Personally, I enjoyed it tremendously and cannot WAIT to see it again!Favorite Line  My dad already paid for the caterer. "},{"Title":"Good laughs, Wassup!","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I came into this movie knowing it wasn't going to be a classic, but I knew there would be lots of good laughs, and there were.  Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan have great chemistry together on screen.  It's worth the money, it's fun, go see it.  A great spoof of Jerry Maguire at the end. Score! "},{"Title":"A great movie,with a cool sound track","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan plays two brothers who is caught by the disco fever. Many of you will recognize Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan from the saturday night live show,and they are as you all know really really crazy and hilarious. And like Saturday night live,they also show their funny side in this movie.They are so stupid and funny that you are going to laugh your tongue out.This movie features also one of the best sound tracks ever,there are so much 80's dance music there,and it all goes excellent with the movie. I dont think 80's music is great,but in this movie it works perfectly.Just see this movie,I guarantee that it will be one of the funniest movies you have seen. "},{"Title":"This movie is sweet!!!","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  If I could recommend one movie, this would definately be it! This movie is definately sweet! If you like dance music this is a great movie jam-packed with it, it's a definate head bopper. So all I can say about this movie is that it definately rules, and that you should definately see it. "},{"Title":"Bigger than SNL","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Is it the perfect comedy? Noooooo....yesssss!!! Well, maybe not perfect, but it is a stroke of comic genius. This Saturday Night Live spin-off really tears up the big screen with the hilarious antics of two swingers. The nightlife is where it's at for these two clowns, and that is where they belong. The unappreciated comic stylings of Katan and Ferrel are well before their time, and (hopefully) will someday be fully understood by the public. I loved this movie, it's a must see. "},{"Title":"If not for SNL, for Chris Kattan","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  If you don't see this for Saturday Night Live, see it for Chris Kattan. I have to admit that my opinion is biased because I enjoy him so much but this movie, though lacking a very persuasive plot to sustain it, was amusing. The best parts, one must admit, are Chris Kattan's relation with a woman working as a creditor and the disruption of Will Ferrell's wedding. It was definately more than 2 hours of head-bopping however, and maybe not worth 9 bucks at theatres, but definately a movie to rent. I give it a B. "},{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure, Simple Fun,","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" A Night at the Roxbury is a great movie with a well written storyline and an outstanding comedic cast. It's a really funny movie, I know there isn't much about it that makes it an excellent, unforgettable comedy, but I simply have so much fun whenever I watch it, it's really simple, the storyline is easy to follow and every scene is basically just a set up for some pure laughs between Ferrell and Kattan. It's certainly not a perfect movie and it has many flaws, the first hour of the movie barely has a story, and they're clearly trying their best to cram in a bit of a storyline in the last half hour, also some jokes were repeated much too often and others went further than necessary. The cast are certainly the movies highlight and if it wasn't for the fact that they all were clearly having a great time filming this and seemed interested, this movie would have been terrible, obviously the most praise must go to Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan, but there are also some very funny and memorable performances from the likes of Richard Grieco, Dan Hedaya, Loni Anderson, Meredith Scott Lynn and, one of my favourite characters in this film, Lochlyn Munro. It's definitely not perfect, but if you find the two leads as likable as I do then you're sure to enjoy A Night at the Roxbury, and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a good comedy. Two brothers, Doug and Steve Butabi, try to follow their dreams of starting their own night club, but this becomes an issue when they can't get in to the biggest one in town, the Roxbury. Best Performance Will Ferrell Worst Performance Gigi Rice "},{"Title":"One of my guilty favourite comedies","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" This movie is such a guilty pleasure for me. I don't know how many times I've seen it now over the years, but every time I catch it on TV it still makes me laugh. Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan are embarrassingly good as loser, poser brothers Steve & Doug. Trying their hardest to get into the best club in town, score with some hot chicks and stop working in their father's silk plant store. I love how this movie just takes it to the next level with their coolness. The music is good, if dated now and there's a great supporting cast here too. It's just a fun time.The scene at the end where the brothers make up after their big fight and it feels like its going to be a big climatic romance kiss is too funny. This is one of those comedies that you don't take anything away from but you'll get several laughs while you're watching it. 01/13 "},{"Title":"Even donks can run a successful nightclub","Date":"18 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" This is one of those movies which I saw an ad for and decided that I wanted to see it. My first impression was that it was about two guys in the vein of Bill and Ted. Afterwards I began to have second thoughts yet I still went along to see it. My final opinion of this movie is that it is good, and quite funny in parts. When the movie's gags stick in my mind then the comedy has succeeded.A Night at the Roxbury are about two brothers who cruise the nightclub circuit of Los Angeles looking for girls. Their dream is to own a night club, but they really are not all that cool. In fact they find themselves thrown out of more night clubs than let into them. Their jokes are funny to them but nobody else. In fact, they live in their own little world in which they want people to be apart of, but the serious people think they are pure donks. What ends up happening is that the owner of the Roxbury, the best nightclub in Los Angeles, actually likes them and wants to implement their ideas, yet his driver thinks him mad and does not like them.This is not the plot though. The main focus of the movie is their relationship with their father. Their father has great plans for them, but they don't want to pursue them. One of them is really unsure, and after they have a fight, he is easily taken away, forced to marry a woman that he really does not like, and to run a business he does not want to run.There is an interesting warning in the movie - don't jump on the woman that chases you around because you will discover that she is trying to mould you to what she wants you to be. I can think of a woman who is like that, and fortunately my friends managed to pull me away from her.I can't really think of any deep or meaningful thing to say about this movie, but that is not its point. A Night at the Roxbury is not a deep movie, it is a fun movie. It shows you that what normal people consider donks can succeed in their bizarre plans. It is interesting that they get their nightclub and become partners with the most prominent nightclub owner in the city. It gives us an idea of what the night life is like, but at this point in history it is something that we don't need to know. I still liked this movie though. "}{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" This movie was funny as hell! I was laughing hard throughout most of the movie.Well, lets get down to business shall we? The story in the movie was pretty straight forward, easy to follow and quite catchy. Lots of funny moments and you easily got immersed in the characters portrayed in the movie.As for the cast, well... They were simple amazing. Lots of talented (and funny) faces on the screen. Every single person was doing a really good job with their respective roles, making the movie work so very well.If you like comedies, then you definitely have to check this out. It is one of Will Ferrell's better movies, or at least I think so. "},{"Title":"I know it's retarded but it's hilarious.","Date":"27 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" A Night at the Roxbury is an SNL production. Most of Saturday night Live productions are pretty good. Excluding Superstar, which is obviously bad. SNL has done films such as Waynes World, Waynes world 2, and Mean Girls. A Night at the Roxbury isn't SNL's best film, but it's hilarious. I know the movie is pretty stupid, but I appreciate it for many reasons. The only problem I have with it is Will Ferrell. Ferrell is a moron in this movie. Who am I kidding? Both of them are retards. But the difference between the two of them are that Chris Kattan is actually stupid funny. Will Ferrell is just stupid.The Plot The Butabi Brothers, Doug and Steve, are bar hoppers. The two of them try to get into this club called The Roxbury. But are always turned down. So one night when Richard Greico accidentally hits them with his car, he gets them into the Roxbury this way he doesn't have to pay for damages. While in the club, the two meet this casino owner named Mr. Zadeer, who changes their lives.As silly as A night at the Roxbury is, it's enjoyable. Most people don't appreciate the humor that the film has to offer. I wouldn't want to be with Molly Shannon either Will Ferrell. I don't like Molly Shannon. It seems to me in every movie she plays this dirty, irritating bitch. She is in this movie. Chris Kattan is awesome as Doug, the more likable brother. I recommend this film for the same reason I recommend Zoolander. They're both hilarious movies. "},{"Title":"A decent SNL movie that brings back a rush of memories.","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" A Night At The Roxbury is yet another in a string of Saturday Night Live sketches to make it to the big screen. Not as classic as Wayne's World, while not as terrible as It's Pat!, this flick finds a happy medium. It's not comedy gold, but at the same time, it's mindless and innocent fun. Those who are fans of late 90's SNL in particular will revel in the nostalgia it induces. And even if you're not of that percentage, it's worth a gander to see Will Ferrell in one of his earliest movie roles, as one of two Butabi brothers, opposite Chris Kattan, who has sadly faded away in comparison to Ferrell's success.About the movie The Butabi brothers live a simple life. By night, they cruise the city, hopping from nightclub to nightclub, failing to gain entry to the holy grail that is The Roxbury. By day they sleep it all off, while managing to find time to work in the plastic plant store owned by their father. Their dream of becoming night-club hot-shots comes true when Richard Grieco (of 21 Jump Street fame) rear-ends them, and in lieu of a lawsuit, agrees to get the brothers into their dream club. From there they make a new, high-profile connection, hook up with a couple of gold-diggers who give them some much needed life-experience while simultaneously proving to the world that they aren't massive failures and/or losers. Starring opposite Ferrell and Kattan are other SNL alumni Molly Shannon, Colin Quinn and Mark McKinney, as well as Lochlyn Munro, Dan Hedaya, Loni Anderson, Michael Clark Duncan, Eva Mendes ad Jennifer Coolidge. The movie has got limited appeal and screams 1990's but if you're willing enough to let your guard down and enjoy a light-weight buddy comedy, A Night At The Roxbury will do just fine. With Will Ferrell showing some early comedic chops and obvious improvisation, as well as a strong nostalgic sense, it's the kind of movie that is hard not to at least crack a smile at. "},{"Title":"Show Stopper","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" A Night at the Roxbury has to be THEE funniest movie of this generation. With its witty and memorable quotes to its catchy music that makes you just want to get up and join them. 80/90s music has been revived here with full-force. The outrageous outfits keep you guessing about Will's sanity while trying to contain your laughter. I loved it because it actually did have a storyline in it. My boyfriend introduced this movie to me and now I can't stop talking about it. It made me laugh, cry, and cry while laughing. All around it's a funny show and definitely worth a look when you're in a laughing mood. The outrageous characters in themselves are incredible. They bring such charisma to the screen that you can't help but fall in love with them. As always, the Saturday Night Live crew brings light and energy to the big screen. With input from Jim Carrey, you can't go wrong. From the nice black bathing suits to the perfected dance moves, they bring it, and in the end..they definitely SCORE in my books. "},{"Title":"Bacon","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" This is the best movie ever made!!!in the world!!! so funny, unbelievable! The music is so good as well, What is love. The best song ever. Aby would agree. Bacon is good as well. But this movie made me want to be like them. thats my goal in life to wear suits like their's and go to clubs! Thats the life. And that is so my future, besides the not getting the girls part, i would get all of them. Because i am so good looking i have to say. Aby would agree with me. Yeah i have no idea what to say, no idea whats so ever, no idea, i thought this would be a short thing but no. 10 whole lines man, but this movies rocks my socks could see it a million times and not get bored. Thats right, its a have to see. "},{"Title":"Just too GOOD!!!!","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Chris Kattan and Will Ferrell.I did not even know them before this movie.This was i think one of the best movie i had ever seen because of the brotherhood and the warmth the film gives.The actors have displayed their talent so well that i actually started feeling great at a few scenes such as in the beginning and the end when the song what is love starts.It was just brilliant.The movie revolves around two brothers Chris Kattan and Will Ferrell,who are disco crazy.They somehow get access to the best club and for the rest,you actually have to watch it.The ending when the song starts,is just too good.If you want to wish your brother a great birthday,give him this movie DVD or VCD.It will change your relationship.I guarantee it.Laugh out aloud for this movie,and keep singing the tune all the way to your home. "},{"Title":"A comedy you'll never get tired of watching","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" It's one of the funniest movies I've ever seen! My friends and I listened to the soundtrack 2 years after we first watched it and the tunes brought back memories. The head-banger dance is still one om my favourite dance-moves when I'm gonna act like a fool. If you've some of Will Farrels new movies, like Anchorman, you'll love this one. I still think this is his best work so far. ENJOY,ENJOY,ENJOY,ENJOY,ENJOY,ENJOY,ENJOY and ENJOYIt's really hard to please this comment-controller, this is my first comment,so i hope this is to your liking. I had to splitt words to get it to allow my comment. "},{"Title":"Funny, Hip, Great Music, Pretty Girls. A++++","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  If you have a good sense of humor and like hitting nightclubs then you'll probably enjoy this movie. You'll probably even understand it better.I've read a lot of negative comments from other users, but most of them don't seem like avid club goers. And if you're going to enjoy this movie, like any movie, you're going to have to be able to relate to it in one way or another. Otherwise, you won't find it very appealing. So why would Joe Shmo over in Mississipi find this movie to be boring. Maybe a cow tipping scene would of got his attention.To us over on Hollywood Blvd., It was a gas. Amusing, funny, and enjoyable to watch over and over. After all, that's why you go to the movies, to have a good time, and that's what this movie is, a good time !I'm sick of the sit down and figure the plot out type of movies or the we'll tease you all the way to the end movies. I don't want to go to the movies after a long day at work to sit there and concentrate and have to use my brain to figure out what the directors are trying to accomplish.I like the good old, bonehead, braindead, sidewalk humor films. They're fun to watch. That's why movies are categorized as entertainment although some films tend to look like they should be categorized as psychological and analytical rather than entertainment. Those types of movies just put me to sleep.Go Roxbury ! Go Romy & Michelle !HEY ! Who grabbed my ass ? "},{"Title":"Very funny movie )","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  just saw this movie, and it was outstanding! ) don't miss this one!!When is Part 2 comin' out? ))) "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  From what i heard, this movie didn't go good with what people thought.  I liked it.  Even though based on a skit, it has a story to it.  My favorite part is the reference to Jerry Maguire.  It doesn't have too many funny parts in the movie, but the few ones there are; are great.  See it at least once, despite what people say.  You might actually like it.  (And they don't do that head shaking thing the whole movie either.)  "}{"Title":"Excellent Film,Stop Whining!","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  A Night At The Roxbury was a terrific movie,funny at a lot of parts,and brilliantly displayed.I loved the set-up of the movie the characters were very likeable.Although the upsetting scenes weren't really well put off,the rest of the film was excellent and well worth the $7.50... I am also tired of people whining,such as I was going to walk out of the theatrethat is the most stupidist thing i have ever heard,you're really that low...??You'd even jump out of a theatre because of a movie,i mean those comments are ridiculous,grow up people and enjoy the movies. "},{"Title":"A Fun-Filled Comedy","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Yet another Saturday Night Live skit has inspired a full-length movie. The Butabi Brothers' head-bobbing antics have made it to the big screen. This ultra-clueless, night-clubbing duo have only one goal in life get into L.A.'s #1 night spot -- the too-cool Roxbury Club -- and become the movers and shakers of the club scene. I give A Night At The Roxbury an 8 out of 10 stars, a must-see for fans of the skit. "},{"Title":"FUNNY, well Worth the price of the Rental","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I have to agree with all the other people who've reviewed this movie, it's really funny. The humor can sometimes be lagging, but with hilarious performances by Molly Shannon and Will Ferrel, you just can't go wrong. Also notable was the priest, (played by SNL's and Kids In The Hall Mark McKinney). Also don't get me wrong Chris Katan was just as good as the rest of them.My favorite scenes were the ones involving the credit vixen.It was brought to a good ending, and there might even be sequel material left.BOTTOM LINE Go and rent this. "},{"Title":"Roxbury Rocks Apathy stems from ennui","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Roxbury succeeds at more than one level, and for the generationof Americans that currently suffer from a general social malaiseand ennui, this movie will definitely hit at all levels. Kattansculpts his character with fervor, leaving the heavy hittingFerrel no chance for a bust. While some scenes may be soludicrous as the question the value of the celluloid it isprinted on, the movie only asks from the viewer that theyattempt to relate to the brothers. A dash of physical comedythanks to Kattan's physical flexibility allows this movie tomove beyond the normal tried and true character building--and itain't scared to risk all the marbles. No halfway sell out of amovie. This is SNL at it's best, second only to Wayne's World 1.The subtle acts, dominated in this movie by Kattan, is whatreally makes this film rewardin "},{"Title":"Mindless fun!","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  For SNL fans this movie delivers! Although not deeply thought provoking it was worth the 7.50 price tag. Kattan and Ferrel bring Doug and Steve to life in a way that makes you believe. Another score for Lorne Michelles!!! "},{"Title":"Laugh your ass off funny!!","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't expecting a whole lot when I settled into the theatre seat to watch this spin off of Saturday Night Live; however, it was worth the money!! It puts the audience in a feel-good mood and takes one away from the problems of the day.  I would recommend this film to anyone who, not only enjoys the antics of the Saturday Night Live cast, but anyone who is looking for a laugh. "},{"Title":"Night at the Roxbury","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  In my opinion the movie was very good..it was so funny and I really liked it.  Those two guys are crazy and very good actors.  I never saw them on Saturday Night Live but I bet they were great.  My favorite part of the movie was when Steve was going to be married and his brother came out with the music.  The movie was good and I would recommend it to anyone who likes comedy.  I can't wait for the soundtrack because the movie had some great music. Night at the Roxbury was cool! "},{"Title":"Two really close brothers are eager to start their own night club","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  What a funny movie, it cracked me up.  At first I thought it was sort of a stretch to make a movie out of that SNL skit.  The thing is, it takes a little while to set in.  When you reflect on it a couple days later, you'll realize you liked it and will want to see it again.  I know I do!  Chris Kattan rocks!  We have the same birthday.  "},{"Title":"better than expected","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  It was fun, the Butabi brothers are surprisingly endearing (I'd expected them to be irritating), not surprisingly dim-witted. It definitely helps if you're already familiar with the characters from SNL. Just check your brain at the door and have a silly good time!  Loved the spoof of Jerry McGuire. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was REALLY good....would recommend for anyone, really funny.... "}{"Title":"Score! Lots of Head-bopping!","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  If you luv the Roxbury skit with these guys on Saturday Night Live, then you'll luv the movie.  The movie is filled with comedy (not the kind where youre rolling on the floor laughing, but still pretty funny), plenty of music, and an actual plot (not that idiotic). It's much better then the other SNL movies out there...better then expected! There are moments when you feel just like getting up and dancin' in the theatre! It's a great movie to check out with your buds for a good time. It may be a waste of $8-6 bucks for some, but at least check it out in the dollar theatres.  "},{"Title":"Good Old SNL Humor Returns","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  A Night At The Roxbury seems to return the SNL films to the standard set by Wayne's World in the early 90's.  It makes up for such bad films as It's PatThe Movie and Stuart Saves His Family.  A Night At The Roxbury, staring Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan, is pretty much a one and a half hour version of the skit from SNL.  Will and Chris do a good job, but the real laughter will come from the supporting cast.  This movie has some characters you won't soon forget.  I really enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"I never wanted it to end!","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  If you love Saturday Night Live, then this is the movie for you.  This was like a monster SNL skit that went on for over an hour.  It is by far the funniest movie I have seen in a long time.  The casting, the lines, and the acting were all first rate, in my opinion.  When the movie came to a close (and believe me I didn't want it to end!) I was ready to go out and do some clubbing of my own!!!   "},{"Title":"Two Tumbs  Way Up!!!!!!!","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  A Night at the Roxbury is a very funny movie.  The movie is basically a long version from what Chris Kattan(Doug Butabi) and Will Ferrel(Steve Butabi) did on Saturday Night Live.  If you're a fan of that, you should like the movie.  Actually that was one the reasons why I like it.  The Roxbury Guys were the first thing I ever saw of SNL, and fell in love with them and the show.Another reason why I loved this movie, because it is one of those movies where you go to it and you don't have to think.  You just sit there and have a good time, and not try to figure out who done it.  If you watch this movie and start to think, I doubt that you will like it.In closing if you like the Roxbury Guys or other SNL movies, go see this movie now well it's in theatres.  If not wait to see it on video. "},{"Title":"Slow in some spots..but the funny parts are hysterical!","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I enjoy these guys on SNL and enjoyed this as well.  It was slow in some spots, but the comedy was sooooo funny, we laughed out loud in several spots! "},{"Title":"Funnier than expected","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie was funnier than I thought it would be. I was unsure how they would expand the SNL skit, but they did it and did it well. However, perhaps the funniest one liner came from Chazz Palminteri. And Richard Grieco as a therapist was great. Love the music. "},{"Title":"Funny movie that I do not see around the place too much.","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" A Night at the Roxbury is an awesome comedy that I personally think deserves to be a famous one. The movie is about 2 people one being Steve Butabi(Will Ferrell) and Doug Butabi(Chris Katten) are two men who's life dream is to get in to the Roxbury and get some ideas to make their own nightclub. The movie is good for a number of reasons 1. It has loads of laughs in it 2. Will Ferrell and Chris Katten are perfect as Doug and Steve Butabi 3. It has good cameos and is unpredictable. Overall I think this movie deserves an enormous rating something like 73%. So watch this movie for a few laughs and you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Like Dude, Where's My Car?, it shows that movies can be stupid and funny at the same time.","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Just imagine every dopey duo (e.g., Bill and Ted) and imagine them trying to get into a cool club, and you basically have A Night at the Roxbury. I had never heard of Will Ferrell before this movie came out, but he did a hilarious job here and has of course seen his career proliferate since. He and Chris Kattan play slacker brothers Steve and Doug Butabi, trying to get into a club. Well, that's the official plot; but like other such movies, it's basically an excuse for a bunch of crazy situations.I've seen some of the SNL episodes that had this skit. My favorite one was the one with Sylvester Stallone. It ended with something that I'm probably not allowed to write here. "},{"Title":"Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan's best","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  A Night at the Roxbury is an amazingly hilarious movie. There are no slow sappy parts where the story drags on like a comedy should be. It is a movie about two brothers Doug(Kattan) and Steve(Ferrell) Butabi who are always trying to get into the perfect nightclub, The Roxbury. It keeps you entertained in the fact that the two don't have a clue about woman or good bar mannerisms but they are always getting after women and are always out clubbing. The music goes perfect with the movie for that year's club dance scene, mostly Ace of Base and Haddaway. Their outfit's, which are worn during most of the movie, are funny in being silk purple and blue. Richard Greico makes a couple of appearances as himself and Lochlyn Monroe(dead man on campus) is funny as the brothers best friend and physical trainer. All in all a very entertaining and somewhat touching movie.  "},{"Title":"A documentary of my life as 18 something... Absolutely hilarious!","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Now that I've seen it some 20 times it still gives me a laugh. I totally see myself in these guys. Enobody who has ever been to clubs in the age around 20 should see this film. In this film the parody really hits the target you. Everyone of us have been this kind of idiot when younger and it's really nice to see somebody catching the essential in that time period of your life. On the other hand if you feel that you have missed this period of your life or are unable tó laugh at yourself you should not watch this movie. In that case you don't get the jokes and you only get frustrated. This movie is for males, those ones who always love the incomplete barhopping younger themself and understand the utmost goal in life Scoring!  "}{"Title":"Embarrassingly good","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  We're all supposed to hate this kind of movie -- the bonehead comedy, combined with the whole lovelorn-losers shtick. And to be honest, I almost always do. But it was on TV last week. I fell into it during the first 10 minutes and stayed through the end, even though I had things to do. It's FUNNY. It's not a masterpiece or at all Oscarworthy, but it's more than just a check-your-brains popcorn flick. A few specific scenes stand out as memorably cute, most especially the way Doug (Chris Kattan) interrupts the wedding. Kattan's lines, mannerisms, and expressions are probably most of what elevates this film above the crap it could have been, but they're not the overdone mugging one sees in, for example, Jim Carrey (whom I can't tolerate, but who I understand co-wrote this film - hmm.). I think most everyone else's performances were enhanced by Kattan's presence.Obviously nobody who hates the song What is Love should see this film. But for the rest of us, it really was a serviceable romp and I don't think I would've been upset if I'd paid money to see it in a theater.  "},{"Title":"Awfully good...","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  'Sounds goooood! It certainly does if you're a fan of Dumb and Dumber and you read the box. This film is...mmm, let me think of the word-watchable. It certainly is, I've seen a ridiculous amount of times. Why? Even I know this film should not be classed as a 'good movie'. But since when has something had to be good to be enjoyable? Try a summer night's fishing with no interest and plenty of beers (Ray Road near Molesey Heath... Ernie!). It's just SO stupid and SO short that last summer (2000) me and my close friend (Ross Batchelor) couldn't get enough of it. To be honest, the first time I watched this film I was not impressed, but then it began to grow on me. Each time I watch it I notice another element of physical or verbal stupidity which was slowly but surely transformed into a big laugh. The Butabi's are ass-wads&#133;moronic no-hopers with small brains and big hearts. I like it. I laugh whenever I watch it. But don't let that suggest this film is any good. It really is down to your state of mind (or lack of mind). With my other recently favourable films including Happiness (1998)-also featuring Emily Sanderson Butabi (no, really, it sounds better), Buffalo '66 and Rushmore, anyone who has seen A Night At The Roxbury and all of the above must be very confused. Should you see it? NO!... YES! Try it, you just might like it. "},{"Title":"a great movie for all you Saturday Night Live fans.","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Any Saturday Night Live fan will love this movie. Classic Will Ferrell doing his bit from the sketch off of Saturday Night Live. This is a type of movie that you need to see the skits first. Chris Kattan and Will Ferrell are extremely funny in this movie. True the story line is not the best but any Saturday Night Live fan can see the true meaning of the film and that is Doug and Steve Butabi! Anyone that gives this film a bad review is not a Saturday Night Live fan. This movie based on the classic Saturday Night Live sketch of 'A Night at the Roxbury' and does a great job of bringing the Saturday Night Live to the big screen. A night at the roxbury is a wonderful film if you love Saturday Night Live.  "},{"Title":"A Night Wasted.","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" A Night at the Roxbury (1998) Dir John Fortenberry / Cast Chris Kattan, Will Ferrell, Dan Hedaya, Loni Anderson, Molly Shannon Although not a promising effort, the title demonstrates the desire of two males who wish to be more and see the Roxbury nightclub as a place of purpose. Chris Kattan and Will Ferrell play brothers who stand in line every night at the Roxbury only to be rejected. Dan Hedaya has a pushover role as father who employs them in his fake plants store. He informs Kattan that he is a loser and he brain washes Ferrell who cannot make decision for himself to marry a high class snob. Every buddy cliché is in tact with a predictable outcome. Director John Fortenberry makes fine use of flashy locations. Kattan often overplays a role that isn't interesting to begin with and certainly never draws sympathy. Ferrell on the other hand contains a few laughs as Kattan's brainless brother pushed in a direction he wishes not to go. Hedaya is typecast is typecast as their ruthless father. Also featuring Loni Anderson who obviously had an empty schedule the week she was offered this tripe. Molly Shannon can be very funny but nothing in this can render her remotely effective in terms of humour. Instead of an interesting comedy about growing up it is a mindless geek show that applauds idiocy. With that said viewers may see the Roxbury as the place to avoid. Score 3 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"As Bad As You Would Expect","Date":"19 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Two dim-witted brothers dream of owning their own dance club or at least getting into the coolest and most exclusive club in town, The Roxbury.Roger Ebert observed that the sad thing about A Night at the Roxbury is that the characters are in a one-joke movie, and they're the joke... It's the first comedy I've attended where you feel that to laugh would be cruel to the characters. That may be a big harsh, but it is not at all wrong. As many have commented, when you take a skit that is funny for a minute or two and try to flesh it out, it rarely works. (Besides Wayne's World, few SNL skits really have a life of their own.) Apparently the film has a cult following. I am not sure why. I cannot say I regret watching it, but I also cannot say I feel the need to ever see it again. "},{"Title":"What the hell is this?!","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie today and I'm very disappointed of how it turned out. My biggest gripe with this movie is the two main characters, Doug and Steve. I love Comedies of all types, even stupid Comedies like Old- School, Airheads and Hot Rod, but this is not the good kind of stupid. The two characters are such idiots, they deserve all the hate they got from their peers in this movie. Not to mention, they are the biggest creeps I have seen in a movie in a long time, flirting around with every woman they see, and they don't even freaking care. They just have no shame. I do sympathize with Will Ferrell's character a bit because he isn't as dumb as Chris Kattan's is, but they are still complete idiots that show no respect. I would have laughed a lot more at this movie if it hadn't been for those two characters. That killed it for me. I know it sounds very biased, but it's kind of hard not to sound like that when a movie is killed because of a couple of atrocious characters. I'd give it a 4/10. "},{"Title":"A Will Ferrell film i didn't no existed","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" A friend told me about this film recently, i had seen the you tube clip with Jim Carrie where they all nod there heads to had away which is hilarious! you can imagine my excitement as i found out there was a film!Will Ferrell is why I watched the film, although will is good hes certainly come along way i mean anchorman is amazing! he still very funny in this film. this film is worth a watch it has LOL moments throughout, the dancing, the humping, the nodding its all funny! this film has a lot of catchphrases to no? yes!!!!shame Jim Carrie wasn't in the film as he is in you tube clip for Saturday NIGHT LIVE!overall WATCH IT! "},{"Title":"Well Goofy Hollywood Comedy !","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" On 31/8/2001 I rented it. Its commercial title in Egypt stood for an evening that will drive you crazy. Frankly the reason to rent it in specific was a photo I saw from it earlier in a magazine named (DVD) where 2 chicks by the names of (Elisa Donovan) and (Gigi Rice) were dancing in tight micro-skirts; which was pretty sexy for me (more than the 2 girls themselves), plus I thought that the movie is a crazy dance movie! Of course I wasn't right. But this movie wasn't that wrong either. I like it. And I have my reasons.Here's what I wrote in my remark page right after finishing it  so the rich dumb guys became the heroes of today's movies? Huh ?! too philosophical I think ! However among the movies that I rented at that summer, it wasn't bad at all. In that list there were Gladiator, Thelma & Louise, Who am I, Space Cowboys, The Replacements, Pret-a-Porter, and The Perfect Storm (Yes, I list the names of the movies I watch!).From a *disco* point of view you must love it. Since (Can't Stop the Music &#x96; 1980) the presence of the disco clubs in the movies became obnoxious. However suddenly in 1998, (A Night at the Roxbury), (Forever Fever), (The Last Days of Disco) and the real obnoxious (54) came together with disco clubs playing big part in them one way or another. It makes me happy to see hot girls dancing on colorful floor anything but Hip-Hop. Did I forget to tell you that I'm a Can't Stop the Music's fan?!In the buddy movie history there was always the serious rational, kind of smart guy (Mickey Mouse, Dean Martin, Ernest Wiseman) and the funny nut job, purely stupid one (Goofy Goof, Jerry Lewis, Eric Morecambe). Where normally the first got the best of luck with the girls. But after the success of (Dumb & Dumber &#x96; 1994) both of the dual became nut job purely stupid guys who got no chance with any sane girl! The producers clearly loved the idea, so (Dude, Where's My Car &#x96; 2000), (Dumb & Dumberer When Harry Met Lloyd &#x96; 2003), (Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle &#x96; 2004) were made. (A Night at the Roxbury) is no exception (remember the Jim Carry's reference), but it's more mild and innocent than most of this wave of followers.After years of the first viewing, I caught it on some channel to re-watch it again. But with a second viewing or not; I loved moments like (Will Ferrell)'s spasm of What's up ?!, the perfectly goofy dance, the meeting between the 2 brothers after seconds of losing their virginity to discuss about it, and the lousy (Emilio Estevez) story that turns the girls off; OK, everyone of us sure had one!(Chazz Palminteri) is one scene stealer in here. He's double the charisma of every lead. And the did you grab my ass was a clever one. It's something to remember this movie with. Save Ferrell's so deliberate white make-up, the 2 leads looked nice and worked together finely, giving a natural performance with no forced moments, being totally these radiantly dressy, visionary, 30-year-old adolescent misfits. It's sorrowful already while Ferrell's career came off after, (Chris Kattan) didn't achieve anything equal. Despite his obvious talent I didn't watch him in good movies, rather movies, after this!By the way, this is the best damn movie Mr. Unbearable, the Horrible Movies' God, aka Richard Grieco has ever been in, spoofing himself and playing kind of a mentor. Watching him saying wise lines was the weirdest comedy this movie got! I think he was brought because at one old point he used to be for the 90s's twenty-something youth, so the movie's leads, including the movie-makers maybe, an idol. And not anyone, he's a one that got lost. Or in another word the one who the losers love, feeling lucky and successful compared to him. That's a little of bad tasting. But it's this movie's way to honor the 1980s while sneering at it too.Wanna know the truth  (A Night at the Roxbury) isn't an evening to drive you crazy or drive you home, yet it's well goofy Hollywood comedy to rent in any night. It's diverting 90 minutes. A lot of smiles but not laughs. And the best about it is its ruling childish sense. True that the end was very easy, but that's usual in a light joke of a movie like this where the word Hollywood means Feel Good mood or dreamy optimistic time to soothe the remains of the day a bit. And it didn't neglect in the same time having a story about 2 brothers who back up each other's ugliness and dumbness; this is part of the reason why (ANATR) isn't an easily forgettable stuff. One last reason; with Haddaway's What Is Love, No Mercy's Where Do You Go, Ace of Base's Beautiful Life and more; the soundtrack is a terrific piece of nostalgia for the 1990s if you were a regular dancer in that era's nightclubs, or just someone used to listen A LOT to the radio back then! "},{"Title":"a must see movie","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" One of my favourite movies. The soundtracks are brilliant from the early 90's. You can be with them in the clubs especially when you hear the music. Fantastic. All respect for the music one more time!!I watch this movie not just for the story even for the soundtracks. The story is funny. They are like dumb & dumber just in expensive suit and with the father's BMW. The two real losers who want to change their life. Their main goal is to get in the famous, biggest club in the town called Roxbury. They tried to get in there many times but they always failed. The other funny thing in the movie is their speech. How they repeat the same story to the girls and how act when telling it. They got different cool/funny sayings when they just approach the girls or try to enter in the club. Most of the time they act like children. A must see movie who likes this kind of comedy and the club music. Have fun, i can just recommend this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Funny SNL movie","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Well I just saw this movie and it was really funny especially if you like SNL.  Their whole head-bopping deal was really the kicker though because in the theater everyone was doing it . It was definitely a movie to have fun to.   "}{"Title":"I wish life were still like this","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" This movie has 90's written all over it, from the clothing, to the music, the personalities, the style and life of the nightclubs. This movie is so good that it makes me cry sometimes knowing that this life style is now gone. You're not a true 90's kid if you haven't watched this, this movie will make you want to sway your head to every 90's song you hear especially what is love by Haddaway. Chris Kattan and Will Ferrell are amazingly funny together, the comedy is brilliant. If i had the money, i would buy a nightclub, rebuild it into a 90's themed nightclub, where everyone has to dress like they're from the 90's and the only music played will be songs from between mid 70's to late 90's. This movie shows that back then, people would go to night clubs to have fun and dance, now when i hear my friends about going to night clubs, i hear about fights, drugs and other crap like that. Where's a time machine when you need one? ( "},{"Title":"10/10 for Superbly Stellar!!!","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I am the HUGEST Will fan! Talladega Nights, Anchorman, Kicking and Screaming, Superstar, Elf, Stranger Than Fiction, Step Brothers, YOU NAME IT i've seen it!! That's why i was so surprised to find this hidden Gem Stone of delight!!!!! This classic club life, 90's reminiscing movie is ridiculously amazing! Literally the funniest movie i have probably EVER seen. My all time favorite! I have memorized nearly the whole thing and have watched it just short of one hundred times,(no really). And of course it fits all the Classic Will movie guidelines  1. he sings 2. he takes his shirt off 3. He has a temper tantrum . If you haven't seen this movie you are truly missing out! I suggest you watch it immediately! NOW! "},{"Title":"Is this an underrated gem? No........YES!!!!","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I'm 14 and I recently watched A Night At The Roxbury for the first time. The only reason why I wanted to see it in the first place was because of Chris Kattan (one of my all-time favorite comedians). But I was surprised. Yes, the film is incredibly dated, but so what? The gags/jokes flow perfectly, Ferrell and Kattan's performances are hilarious, the film doesn't dwell on SEX like what most recent comedies do and the soundtrack is the icing on the cake. It also might have one of the most rewarding and just simply perfect endings I've seen in any comedy. The bad things for the film is yet again, the film is INCREDIBLY dated and I noticed a lot of similalities to Wayne's World (yet another SNL film) like the psycho-girlfriend. It's pretty much Wayne's World but with early-mid 90's techno music instead of rock/metal tunes.Overall, quite an underrated comedy gem. Check it out (and the soundtrack too).7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Grossly Under Rated","Date":"5 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I would like to start by saying I absolutely loved this movie. This is one of my all time favourite comedy movies.This isn't exactly Oscar Wilde humour. It is run in the mill cheap but absolutely adorable humour. Will Ferell and Kris Kattan are so funny as the brothers Doug and Steve Butabi and try all you want to not laugh, you will end up splitting your guts with laughter.Richard Greiko has some a little but very important role to play and he does well, really well.I watched this movie with some good friends, some good pop corn and a couple of beers over a weekend and we all laughed so hard. This is quite the rib tickler.My rating 7/10. Must Watch !! "},{"Title":"Back when Will Ferrell was FUNNY","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Ahh, a pure 90's comedy. You don't see many like these nowadays.Put simply 2 brothers Doug Butabi (Chris Kattan) and Steve Butabi (Will Ferrell) are just looking to party but are constantly held back by daily troubles such as work. Until they are approached by Richard Grieco at the Roxbury one night. Then their lives change.Performance wise not bad. But don't go watching expecting academy award winning stuff here.Will Ferrell was actually FUNNY in this! I personally think that aside from this and Anchorman, he should have stuck with SNL. Comedy movies do not seem to be his 'thing'.There was a great score of party music which is one of the main reasons I like this movie. And of course the famous head bobbing.Over all good movie, just don't rent expecting the blowout comedy of your life.7/10 "},{"Title":"Stupid But Funny","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" This Film Is probably one of the most stupid movie I've seen but every time I see It I Still laugh-out-loud watching this movie.It a comedy classic very funny.The movie is about two brothers Doug and Steve Butabi(Chris Kattan and Will Ferrell) who are stereotype guys who go to the clubs every night until they find out about a fancy club called the roxbury they try everything they can to get in the club from seeing if there name is on the list or bribing the bouncer with $5 dollars.at times there about to give up but they get a fender-bender from Richard Greico and trying to avoid a lawsuit Richard helps the guys get into the club.when they do they meet Mr. Zadir and two hotties and experience something they have never did go out and dance with a girl and score at the same time.This a funny-Stupid film with there jokes and screw-up really make you laugh out loud for example the scene where there in line to get into the Roxbury they have that memorable Emilio estavez scene which is funny.or when Doug bangs his head in the window and breaks it while bopping his head to his favorite song What Is Love.As for acting it solid for a stupid movie Chris Katten gives a good performance as the older brother but Will Ferrell steals the show with his stupid lines and coping everything what his brother does from picking his nose to doing his hair It's Funny.Dan Heyaya who plays the Dad Is funny as well when he's yelling at his sons.Molly Shannon who plays Steve's girlfriend however is annoying and gives an over-the-top performance.As for everyone is they do a good job with what there given so that's really the good acting.Overall funny movie go it you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Great comedy!","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" have you ever seen this film stoned? it is exactly like Half Baked! every single time you watch this film, you'll find something new, something surprising ;) When I'm watching this movie sober, it is like normal average comedy. nothing special, nothing funny or interesting, but after some hits ) it gets another dimension! just think about music in this film... or how many-colored it is... or notice those effects, fast movements... How stupid main actors are, how is the end created, how ORIGINAL are Doug's and Steve's ideas, and at least... this film doesn't end with happyend... and many comedies do that! see? originality is the word that describes this movie. "},{"Title":"forgot one of the goofs in the movie","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" when they are in the bedroom , and Steve sticks a candy in his brothers nose , the next seen he puts it in his mouth and his brother says ewe that was just in my nose. the candy he puts in his brothers nose is red the candy he puts in his mouth is orange. ) but still i love this movie. i must have seen it a dozen times .i think they should do a movie where the night at the roxbury boys meets with romy and michelle. remember the movie romy and michelle's high school reunion? two idiots with two idiots . lol they might make genius baby's lmao .just a thought though .if they would make that movie it couldn't possibly turn out to be one of my fave's because i love movies about idiots. its just so much more funny . like dumb and dumber "},{"Title":"this movie rocks","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This was cool, or should I say is cool! This was funny from beginning to end. I've seen this movie hundreds of times. If you like SNL you'll like this movie. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good comedy! This movie ROCKS! "},{"Title":"Even Chris Kattan's pedantics and 81 minute running time don't detract","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Let me start this off by saying that movies based off Saturday Night Live skits are generally not too good. Besides a few exceptions (Blues Brothers, Coneheads, etc), most of them have fallen around the reigns of movies like Superstar.Night at the Roxbury is an exception, it's right down the middle. It's an enjoyable, light hearted comedy with some very witty dialogue and acting. Chris Kattan is a bit weak in the lead, but Will Farrell makes up for Kattan's lacking humor and delivery. Molly Shannon is likeable as Emily, Farrell's squeeze, and the brilliant standout is Dan Hedaya is what might be his greatest acting performance of his career. Hedaya, in my opinion, is one of the best character actors of the 90s, and has been in many great roles in many great films. For some reason, his acting and dialogue fit perectly, and result in some lines and scenes that make you stop the DVD because you're laughing so hard.The plot is very thin, there's not much to it outside of Kattan/Farrell's rompings, but it is enjoyable and somewhat unique. It results in an expected but humorous ending.Chazz Palminteri, also, in an uncredited role (not surprisng for how this movie looked to most people), is extremely funny as Mr. Zadir, the owner of the Roxbury. He offsets the extremely unfunny and very predicatble Colin Quinn who plays his bodyguard and is in almost every scene that Palminteri is.Because the plot is so shallow and thin, and the entire movie is situational, it weighs in at a very unhefty 1 hr 21 minutes. This is very short for a comedy, and it runs by very fast, but it was probably a good choice to keep it that length, else it might get very repetitive.The result is an extremely funny situational comedy with a light fun story and some great one liners ( and bring your dancing monkey boy brother with you ). It's on my recommend list as a good movie to watch a few times when you've got a bit of free time but not enough to watch a normal whole movie. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Stupid but funny","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that has a good feel to it. In its stupidity and poor story line, it is quite hilarious.Although this film will never become a classic of cinematography, and although it will not be remembered as one of the funniest movies to hit the screen, i enjoyed it and recommend it to those that enjoy simple comedy films such as Dumb and Dumber.I cannot see why it has scored so lowly -4.8. Maybe a 6 is more like it. "},{"Title":"Not so damn bad","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Night at the Roxbury is surprisingly entertaining.  Maybe more so for me because I actually had a friend fix me up in one of those 80's style suits (Of course it was only 1990) to go pick up women.  It didn't work but it makes for a damn funny movie. The characters are fleshed out as much as possible, Doug(Kattan) is the smart(er), weasely one, while Steve(Ferrell) is the dumb, lovable one.  The two of them have some good moments together, especially when they're fighting.  It will remind you of how you fought with your friends when you were younger.  Like when you were 8.Molly Shannon shows up and miraculously, is pretty funny.  She's a horny broad from next door who tries to get Steve to make out with her all the time.  Plus the guy who was in Scary Movie, Lochlyn Munro, plays Steve and Doug's trainer at the gym.  He's always telling them how he's very concerned about their triceps.  And Chazz Palminteri is a club owner who asks everyone (even if they are clear across the room) Did you just grab my ass?So anyfrigginwayz check this one out on cable.  I don't know if I would say rent it because then expectations go up.  Better to wait for the almost-free version. 2 stars out of 4. "},{"Title":"SNL plus more","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed it quite a bit as I am a great fan of SNL. Having said that, I must confess that even though both lead actors rely considerably on the show to generate the humour, there are quite a few scenes which are fairly original and entertaining. I was also impressed by Dan Hedaya's role as the boys' domineering father. Overall I'd give the movie 7 /10.  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you think","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I didn't vote on this movie because I wouldn't know what rating to give it. I was surprised at the number of lousy comments for this film.  I think the film was actually quite good.  I saw most people thought of it as a SNL (Saturday Night Live) spinoff, but the only thing that it has in common with SNL is the fact that there are 2 humorous people in it.This film about 2 eccentricly close brothers (who AREN'T gay) who are just trying to be cool and fit in with the almost unobtainable upper class of clubbers is a must for all die-hard 80's people out there.This film isn't as bad as most people think.  If I were looking to rent a movie, I would definately give this one a try. "},{"Title":"A stupid, but funny film","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  A Night AT The Roxbury is the kind of film you don't see in the theaters. It's a waste of 8 bucks! But I did and I was surprised. It was very funny at times, and at other times it was the stupidest movie I had ever seen.Most of this movie is purely fun, and it is the story of two thick-headed, disco club lovin' brothers trying to SCORE! It is worth 2.50 to rent, so give it a try.My rating 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A nice surprise","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Sitting down to watch this movie I was expecting another run of the mill same joke comedy, and what I got was slightly better. Only slightly, but slightly in a good way.The two leads hold the screen well in their Romy and Michelle-esque roles, but its the supporting cast that bring the major laughs. Joe Magtegna as the owner of the club and the Richard Grieco in a hilarious part playing himself to surprising believability (makes a change).A great feel-good movie and anyone who sees different just think one thing 'It's just a film'. "},{"Title":"Three Cheers For Loni","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan play the Butabi Brothers who want to get into The Roxbury night club. They're geeks who aren't suave enough to even get into this, the most prestigious club in Los Angleles.Some of what they do is funny and if you've seen the shorts you know exactly what they are but still A Night At The Roxbury has some moments almost worth the price of admission.These brothers are in the groove, even in lifts, even to elevator music and that's impressive.If you don't know who Loni Anderson is (I didn't) she plays herself in the film, asking everyone to admire her new plastic surgery chin and that's groteseque.Dan Hedaya plays their Dad and he's not a police sergeant and that's unusual.Lachlan Munro plays an air head steroid muscle boy with a buck toothed, vacuous grin and that's hilarious. "},{"Title":"You get what you pay for","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Ok, this isn't real cinema.  It's a fun flick, meant to be fun.  If you are looking for quality, look elsewhere, but if you are looking for a film that is full of fluff and nonsense, this is it.  Those of us who grew up in the 80's often look back at Sixteen Candles or Meatballs with fondness.  This seems to be the 90's version.  The music is great and there are a few clever jokes, including one about the music toward the end that make it worth the price of a video rental. "},{"Title":"A fun,and sometimes funny movie","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  A Night at the Roxbury is a fun movie. Sometimes funny also. It's kind of the same type of humor in Romy and Michele's High School Reunion, and Dumb and Dumber. I thought it was funnier than Romy and Michele's High School Reunion, but not as funny as Dumb and Dumber, but A Night at the Roxbury still has laughs. It is also entertaining. All in all a fun movie. I give this movie **1/2 out of **** It also has great music in it too. "},{"Title":"Very disappointed!","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I was totally looking forward to this movie, I love those guys on SNL, but all I have to say is SNL is where they should have stayed.  I was so disappointed, I almost left the theatre.  This movie is definitely not worth watching.  Don't waste your money!!! "}{"Title":"Subtle","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is quite a subtle comedy. A thinking man's film. I expect that many of the jokes went straight over the heads of many viewers thus causing them to defensively deride this gem. For us few who can appreciate it, it is simply a breath of fresh air. The movie definitely hearkens back to the good old days of eighties movies. It is interesting to note that many of the actors as well as the music have connections to that decade. Gigi Rice and Jennifer Coolidge both were 30+ at the time and of course there was Richard Grieco. I missed the beginning of the movie and look forward to seeing that when next it runs.  "},{"Title":"Changes I would make to the film.......","Date":"19 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Don't get me wrong, the playlist songs of the 1990's were so awesome in which I'm really glad whoever added them into this movie. But I just think the movie would've been better if they made Molly Shannon's character dress more disco then actually dressing up as a brunette Polly Pocket doll. It just doesn't suit her as an actress to play a girly girl in my opinion.With Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan, the only times they were hilarious enough was when they were dancing like goof-balls and trying to impress the ladies with their moves. However, I think their jokes weren't so funny really, it was like trying to think the joke then laughing at the joke straight away. I suppose this was before Will Ferrell became famous during his time in SNL.If you feel like dancing and don't bother with the comedy, I say just go for this! "},{"Title":"Doug and Steve's Adequate Adventure","Date":"23 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Los Angeles-area brothers Chris Kattan and Will Ferrell (as Doug and Steve Butabi) have a serious case of arrested development. The adult men share a bedroom in their parents' home and dress like idiots. They dream of someday opening their own disco, but neither Mr. Kattan nor Mr. Ferrell seem smarter than a fifth grader. One of their greatest skills is bopping their heads, in unison, to Haddaway's What Is Love? They love the nightlife and wanna boogie, but can't even gain admittance to the popular Roxbury nightclub. One evening, the brothers are lucky enough to get into a fender-bender with Richard Grieco. To avoid blame, the 21 Jump Street star gets Kattan and Ferrell into the club. They score with attractive women and lose their virginity...All good skits from the late-night TV series Saturday Night Live seem to falter around 30 seconds before they end. Curiously, many go on to become feature-length films. Kattan and Ferrell (as the Butabi Brothers) follow this progression. On television, they were sometimes joined by Jim Carrey; here, he does not appear. We do get to see old favorites Loni Anderson (WKRP) and Dwayne Hickman (Dobie Gillis ), although the word old will likely never accurately describe Ms. Anderson. She would have no trouble being admitted to the Roxbury and finding a dance partner. The cast and crew do a nice job and the script seems logical, but the motion picture never seems to stretch. That's okay, because an average movie is certainly better than a dud.***** A Night at the Roxbury (10/1/98) John Fortenberry ~ Chris Kattan, Will Ferrell, Dan Hedaya, Molly Shannon "},{"Title":"One joke over and over again","Date":"1 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Clueless brothers Steve (Will Ferrell) and Doug Butabi (Chris Kattan) can't get into the Roxbury and dreams of opening their own club. They are still living with their parents Barbara (Loni Anderson) and Kamehl (Dan Hedaya) working at the hated family flower shop. Family friend Emily Sanderson (Molly Shannon) lusts after Steve who can't stand her. The guys get rear-ended by 80s star Richard Grieco and they finally have an in into the Roxbury. Gold-diggers Vivica (Gigi Rice) and Cambi (Elisa Donovan) sees the guys talking to the owner Zadir (Chazz Palminteri) and assumes that they have money.The guys and writer from SNL Steve Koren are just piling stupidity onto the Butabi brothers. Steve is slightly more likable because he's just stupid whereas Doug has a real mean streak. The problem is that the movie does the one joke over and over again. It's a little cute at times but mostly it's boring. If Doug is a lot nicer, then it would easier to root for the guys. If there is any hope for this movie, it's the bromance with the brothers. This could have been another 'Dumb and Dumber'. Only Doug is way too angry. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Movies of All Time!","Date":"17 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Not just a comedy but an awesome storyline as well.. I have to say I have watched this movie well over 100 times as when I was in college I let it play continuously on a loop partly because I liked the soundtrack so much. I could totally relate to the two oblivious/loser brothers who aren't ready to face the reality of growing up. I'll have to say though the first time I saw it I was not that satisfied with it and I think I even stopped watching it so if you 've only seen the movie once but enjoy comedies watch this movie again and give it another try because it's the type of movie where you catch things second, third time around that you didn't notice before.I love all the catch phrases from the movie especially Mr. Zadir  Dooey did you grab my ass My favorite scene from this movie is the wedding scene at the end which marks the climax of the film. They way everything just came together full circle and then the new club what a perfect way to end a movie. "},{"Title":"10/10","Date":"25 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" A great film, enjoyable to watch and just has some memorable bits in and till this day it is still my favourite movie,but I really don't get how it has 6 out of 10, if you don't like comedy that much then don't watch this, because only huge comedy fans will notice that this film is one of the best of all time.it has what all comedy film needs which is lots of laughter, and I would say if you are a huge Will Ferrell fan then you will definitely enjoy this movie.so if you are just wanting a laugh then i highly recommend watching this film. "},{"Title":"I broke the window again.","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" When I saw this movie, I was laughing my head off. Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan are just the best. Two club-hopping brothers who don't like to do anything other than hitting on girls and go from one night club to the next. What really made me laugh my head off is when they are bobbing there heads to the song What Is Love. The scene in the roxbury was just amazing. The reason these guys are so lovable is because they are so stupid and they are big losers. And they always get rejected by girls because of the way they make advances. I have watched this movie so many times and I still laugh my head off. Actually I am rolling on the floor laughing. If you want a really funny movie, I would recommend this. It will make you laugh so hard you will have a hard time breathing. That is how funny it is. You will not be disappointed. It is a must see. "},{"Title":"Get away, dance and play, go all the way with the Butabis and music from Haddaway.","Date":"26 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" John Fortenberry, with some uncredited assistance from Amy Heckerling, directs this expansion of a SNL skit, starring Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan as the hapless Butabi brothers.If the above introduction has made you vomit, roll your eyes in disgust or simply tut in disapproval then stop reading now as things aren't going to improve. This movie is for fans of Ferrell and Kattan doing their stupid schtick and, as such, is never going to convert anyone opposed to their brand of patented enjoyable silliness.The lads play the Butabi brothers, two guys who are actually pretty hopeless in life although their self-belief doesn't allow them to see that. All they want in life is to get into The Roxbury, an exclusive nightclub they never seem to be able to gain entry to. Will they ever make it? Will they ever actually make anything of their shallow, vain existence? And will Richard Grieco somehow be involved? With a supporting cast including the aforementioned Grieco, Dan Hedaya, Chazz Palminteri, Molly Shannon, Michael Clarke Duncan and Jennifer Coolidge this movie puts a good variety of faces into the mix and always provides at least some minor chuckles for those who approach the material in the right frame of mind.Director Fortenberry has nothing much else on his résumé (outside of TV work) that stands out and, rather unsurprisingly, shows nothing here that makes him stand out as a director of comedy. That's just fine, however, as most of the movie feels like a simple point and shoot with Ferrell and Kattan vying for the centre spot. Things move along at a decent pace, the music is lively and used to good comedic effect and the script delivers the goods even if it doesn't really provide any BIG laughs.Good fun that you may only watch the once but that will stick the song What Is Love? in your mind for a long, long time after it's finished.See this if you like Undercover Brother, Zoolander, Wedding Crashers. "},{"Title":"Often remotely funny at least, but overall forgettable","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I think I saw just a little bit of this silly comedy in June 2001, on a coach bus on the way to Québec City for a week-long school trip, near the end of my last year before high school. I didn't pay much attention to most of the movies shown on that trip (which is why I could only remember a little bit of this one), and didn't know this one was called A Night at the Roxbury at the time. A few years later (2005 or 2006), I saw some of it on TV (knowing about one of its two stars, Will Ferrell, by this time), and recognized the part where the two main characters are thrown out of a building. It took many years for me to get around to actually sitting down and watching the entire film, but it has finally happened. However, aware of its rating here, it wasn't surprising when I found the film a bit bland.Steve and Doug Butabi are two dimwitted brothers who often go to nightclubs and attempt to score with women, but never succeed. During the day, they work at their father's fake plant store. The brothers dream of getting into the Roxbury, the best club in town, but since they're not on the guest list, they are always denied entrance. They also dream of opening their own nightclub. One night, when they go out in the fake plant store's delivery van for another attempt to get into the Roxbury, the vehicle is hit from behind. The one who hit it turns out to be the famous Richard Grieco. Knowing he can get the two into the club with his celebrity status, he does just that in order to avoid a lawsuit. Inside, the Butabi brothers meet the club's owner, Mr. Zadir. They also meet two young women, Vivica and Cambi, and actually score this time! It appears things are starting to work out for the brothers, until they are denied permission to enter Mr. Zadir's office for their meeting, then it all goes wrong! Even though I didn't laugh very hard for most of the film, quite a few parts made me at least snicker. I can't think of too many great highlights, but there are some notable gags, such as scenes involving the main characters pathetically trying to score with any attractive young woman they see (whether they're in a club, on the street, or on the beach), Steve (played by Ferrell) flirting with a female police officer, Steve getting emotional while describing silk flowers to a customer at the fake plant store (this may be the funniest part), and eventually some of the conflict between the brothers (most notably the part where they're on the road). Some of the gags are kind of lame, though none of them are memorably disgusting, unlike gags I've seen in a number of other crude modern comedies. For much of the time, I was fairly bored, and I get the feeling even my 6/10 rating just might be a TAD too generous, but probably not.Like Dumb & Dumber and Dude, Where's My Car?, A Night at the Roxbury is a raunchy comedy about two stupid guys on an adventure that involves a lot of sexuality. It was made in between those two films, and I would say it also comes somewhere in between them in quality. I think Dumb & Dumber is definitely a funny movie. It's one of those comedies which show that films can be silly and immature but funny at the same time. I've never cared much for Dude, Where's My Car? This 1998 comedy is basically a mixed bag. Comedies like this are really funny to some viewers and strongly hated by others, but with this particular film, I come in between those two crowds. I can't say I didn't laugh, but also think it could have made me laugh a lot more&#x85;or a lot less, like certain other modern comedies I've seen, especially the horrendous Epic Movie, which didn't even make me laugh or smile once! "},{"Title":"Totally unexpected.. best humor ever........","Date":"25 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" i expected so so... but it made me speechless..... this is the best natural humor i have ever seen... i m gonna put this movie forever with me... hope some1 could make like this again.....chris kattan is awesome at his role.. he makes th movie more interesting & funny. he is th main character of th movie...i wud like all of u to watch this movie....& music tracks of this movie reminded me last 10 years greatest hits... totally awesome.... fully humores... great movie... i have watched it thrice & i m still abt to watch it again... what a movie... made me laugh till it ends....good... excellent work...... "}{"Title":"That '90s Show","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" When I first saw the SNL skit with Jim Carrey, it blew my mind. I loved it from the start. Two years later, I saw the movie...Having been slightly disappointed by the absence of Jim Carrey (who, according to Benny Zadir, was at the Roxbury, but remained off screen), I kept on watching. And here's what I think the story is sure a bit clichéd, with the happy ending and all, but it's still refreshing when we have two immature idiots as protagonists. Kattan and Ferrel's acting was great, and the supporting cast couldn't have been better. But there's one thing that makes me wanna watch the movie over and over again the soundtrack! I grew up in the nineties with a brother who loved that music and made me love it as well, and many of the tunes brought me back in my childhood. This is actually the most nostalgic nineties movie I've ever seen.Overall, what to say... this movie is a great no-brainer with great actors and an excellent soundtrack. What else to ask when you're too tired of following a long action movie, or just want to have pure fun? That's right, nothing. "},{"Title":"2008 Super Bowl commercial","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" In case you missed it, there was a Pepsi Super Bowl commercial that was a take-off on A Night at the Roxbury. What is Love was playing in the background. At first, everyone was falling asleep. After drinking Pepsi, they was bobbing their heads to What is Love, like Steve and Doug. At the end of the commercial, Chris Katten comes out of a store to see two people bobbing their heads, and yells Stop it! The commercials are on the web at sports.aol.com. Click on Super Bowl and there will be a link to the commercials. This one was shown during the first quarter.Now, will this commercial ever be shown again? Most Super Bowl commercials are shown only once. Oh well. "},{"Title":"Lotsa tidbits","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Taking a Saturaday Night Live skit and stretching it into a movie can end up anywhere between a disaster and amazingly good. Many have tried. Many have failed. This one comes somewhere in between. It's entertaining. That's a step above mildly entertaining. The Saturaday Night Live skit was always funny and guest hosts made the skit even better. Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan playing it dumb makes it hard to get through some spots. That doesn't help the fact that the movie won't ever become a classic. But, there's enough tongue in cheek humor, in-house humor, and well written jokes to enjoy. Too bad Chris Kattan's career hasn't taken off. "},{"Title":"A NIGHT AT THE ROXBURY *1/2 of ****","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" The SNL movie curse adds another victim to it's long list of failures with the release of A Night At The Roxbury, concerning the Butabi brothers (Will Ferrel & Chris Kattan) who hope to open up their own club someday, for they can't get into any ones themselves. At first, the film deceivingly passes itself off as fun, and slowly moves into the type of humor now found in Zoolander or Dude, Where's My Car? (basically, stupid charactered humor). With some small resemblance to Dumb and Dumber, Roxbury has far less promise, and to my pleasure, a shorter run time.VERDICT *1/2 of **** Not recommended "},{"Title":"What is Love?","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" ...PAINFUL!!!***MAJOR SPOILER***Another lame comedy based on a SNL bit. I rented this with my daughter, hoping we'd get at least a couple of laughs. Well, what we got was 81 minutes (it seemed longer) of hell. You'll find out only after only a few minutes why Chazz Palminteri is appearing unbilled in this mess.I laughed exactly once, at the SAY ANYTHING bit, where Doug Butabi (or was it Mango?) held up his boom-box playing our heroes' theme song to woo Steve Butabi ( or was it Craig the Cheerleader?) out of his wedding and back to the nightclubs where he so rightly belongs. There, you now have A NIGHT AT THE ROXBURY in a nutshell, and if I've ruined this movie for anyone, consider yourself lucky. You're welcome. "},{"Title":"Great When You're Bored","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie is great when you're alone. I don't recommend watching it with other people, unless you want them to think strange things about you. If you want to see how demented kids and just people in general are today this movie is actually a pretty good example. I don't remember a time watching this movie I didn't laugh at least a dozen times, for each time I rewound a certain scene over and over again. I've probably seen it over 50 times and I'm still into it. And yeah, I'd pay to go see NATR 2, by myself.Anyways, I give this movie a 10/10 for being completely ridiculous, pointless and retarded. It's not every day we get to see stupid movies that are actually worth watching. Ever see KungPow? Horrible.To the critics, not all comedy has to have some ingenius design behind it. You can laugh at anything you want. "},{"Title":"DON'T EVEN THINK ABOUT IT","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  WARNING!!!! Please step around this movie with caution. Do not let yourself down by watching this movie or even buying it. It is a discrace to the paramount movie company and it is an emmbaressment to the crackpots who made this pile of s***. This movie is full of crummy jokes and horrible acting. It is a total rip-off of the classic 1994 hit movie Dumb And Dumber. Please do not waste 2 hours of your life watching this movie, I would personaly rather be eaten alive by a seafull of hyper Piranahs while having my head dipped constantly into a barrel of burning acid. Yes, thats how bad it is. This movie makes Spy Hard look like a masterpeice, and believe me..... Spy Hard is BAAAAAAD.    "},{"Title":"Hey, what's up? You from outta town?","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie is actually quite funny and definitely worth more than the terrible vote its currently running at. Ok, its basically a one gag film but it plays it out well, doesn't try to be anything it isn't, and actually has some real laugh-out-loud funny bits (my wife cracked up at the 'checking the diary' scene for about 5 mins!). I also watched Stuart Little - the rankings of these two movies should be reversed! My vote 6/10 "},{"Title":"A Great Night Out!","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Night At The Roxbury is a great night in watching two goofballs having great nights out.  We found it funny in the same way as Something About Mary and Dumb & Dumber are funny.  The humour is derived from the physical antics of the lead characters and their inability to identify that they are misfits. This is one to watch when you've had a hard day and need a good laugh! "},{"Title":"A fun comedy","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I'll be the first to say after the first 5 minutes it looked as if the next 70 or so would be difficult to get through.  I was wrong.  It came across stupid but fun.  The soundtrack was also one of the bright spots.  A movie I recommend for those of you looking to laugh without thinking. "}{"Title":"general movie about everyday losers that end up on top","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  movie was funny at part, but after seeing it... you wish you only saw the commercials.. ie..the commercials alone were good enough, but if you see the movie, it's a disappointment. "},{"Title":"In-jokey movie is great fun to watch with a group of mates.","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  A very in-jokey movie. If you're a Saturday Night Live fan, and especially if you like these two characters a pair of juvenile brothers think they're party animals, but nobody else does.The unsaid joke that runs through this is that these guys are gay and want to give each other man-cuddles.If you're sick of homophobic comedy, and are prepared to move on, then this movie might look a little old-fashioned.Because its such an in-jokey movie, though, and because its such great campy/cheesy fun that doesn't take itself seriously, its the perfect sort of movie to watch with a group of makes, so you can repeat the jokes to each other for weeks and even years later.7/10, for that reason. "},{"Title":"Good talent put to waste with a contrived script.","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  The SNL skits I found funny, but placing such a short one line joke into a feature narrative isn't easy. The storyline is decent but not too exciting - what is worse is some of the totally excessive and forced dialog of the side characters (a la Kevin Smith's less polished moments). The ending is very uninventive, typical of comedy writers who view the ending as we just wanna wrap it up fast as opposed to making a strong comedic punctuation. This film would have been better if Farrel and Katan had a good long schedule and were allowed to sit down with the others (some of whom are pretty solid actors) and improvise some more scenes and situations. However, with the limited cartoony characters they play, it's not an easy task to make it so interesting to begin with. That said, there are some good simple laughs here, but nothing of the level of humor that even a good Laurel and Hardy film can bring.   "},{"Title":"Just so very, very bad","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Since I live in Holland, I don't know Saturday Night Live so I saw this movie without any bias or prejudice. My seeing this movie was part of a bad movie night, where I get together with friends so we can watch crappy movies. Occasionally, some of the 'crappy' movies that get picked turn out to be not half bad. Unfortunately, A Night at the Roxbury doesn't fall in that category. Sure, it's not the worst movie I've ever seen, but it comes pretty darn close. Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan are patently unfunny, their schtick stops being funny after... oh, say, three seconds and all in all, it was a prime candidate for the bad movie night. A few 'celebrities' (using the term very loosely) even have cameos, among which former 21 Jump Street star Richard Grieco, playing himself. This movie isn't worth the rental price, unless you're going to view it the way I did -- to see if it's really as bad as people say it is. And it is. "},{"Title":"What a waste of film!!!!!!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I tried to sit thru this movie, but couldn't. Roger Ebert was right when he said that to laugh would be more cruel to the characters than to not to. It is no doubt that these actors are still on SNL. I couldn't find one scene to laugh at, that's how unfunny I found it! "},{"Title":"brain damage from all that head bobbing","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Content.  No freakin' content.  A shallow concept stretched to the maximum.  It tries TOO hard to be funny.  Technically, though, it's very good.  The lighting and overall direction -- standard Hollywood systematized unoriginality.  (Gee, what a surprise.)  But CONTENT was low.  Monotonously low.  Come on, now.  You can actually tell when they're trying to get a laugh.  You can actually freeze frame and pinpoint the exact moment when Chris Kattan is trying to do comedy.  They're ugly and they can't act.  Somebody scared these SNL guys because it seems like they were intimidated.  It completely fails.  The movie is boring.For God's sake, Loni Anderson is in it.  Doesn't that just say it all... "},{"Title":"A Comment on why this film sucked","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  How do you take a two-minute SNL (back when SNL wasn't funny) bit that featured no dialogue and a bunch of pathetic idiots bobbing their heads to a song called what is love? YOU CAN'T. What the hell were the producers of this garbage thinking when they made it, it's not funny. The movie contained no laughs, I felt bad to laugh at these losers and in the mean time I felt like kicking the director in a private area for making this movie- it's not art. Comedy can be an art but this isn't comedy- it's nothing. This movie isn't even so bad it's funny (campy movies like the John Waters retrospect- for he is the true master of comedy). Chris Katan is wasted, he has some talent but it never comes out in this dull script that tries way too hard and never achieves. Whats worse are that movies of this genre allway included the same eliments dudes vs. big busness, love side plots, the guys being nice guys and many other clashes. Stay away from this movie, stay away, this it the type of movie that makes you feel like jumping from the highest point of the stadium seating theater because you feel like an idiot for wasting an hour and a half of your time. No one I know of found this junk funny. "},{"Title":"Not that bad!","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  As most other people have said, movies based on a SNL sketch tend to suck. But if you go into a movie expecting it to suck (or just watch it on cable) then sometimes you're pleasantly surprised, like I was during A Night at the Roxbury. It's one of those movies that you have to watch a second time, then you'll find yourself quoting. So give it a chance! You want some of this? How about a little of that?  "},{"Title":"Dumb fun","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This has all the laughs of an SNL skit, padded to 82 minutes, but the whole thing is still funny in a dumb way.  The soundtrack is great, leave your Pearl Jam at home an play me Faithless' Insomnia anytime.  Sure, this isn't anything brilliant, but I didn't expect that in the first place.  Score a 6 from me. "},{"Title":"One word...","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I had been told this movie was bad.  I started to watch it with an open mind.  Then I slapped myself.  This, is bad.  Due to the guidelines i am not allowed to use profanity, but...this was so...so....so...shocking!!!! This type of movie sets the trend for more *god damn* Saturday Night Live stars to try their hand at movies.  Adam Sandler did it, but his movies were funny! This is appauling.  The acting is bad, the music is tedious and annoying, the plot reeked of that brown stuff.  I'm crying now.  It was just so bad. I'm sorry. I'm going to have to leave now. "}{"Title":"Recipe for A Night at the Roxbury","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Take an un-funny SNL skit, and stretch it into an hour and a half movie. There you have it.Honestly, I have yet to see a good SNL movie, and this is no exception. Don't see this movie! "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I am a big fan of the Roxbury guys on SNL, and after seeing the preview for a Night at the Roxbury, I was eager to see it. What a waste of money. Almost all of the funny moments were taken and put in the preview. There are few moments that are funny. The roxbury guys are funny in 7 minute increments on SNL, but for 80 minutes, they are obnoxious, stupid, and not very funny. "},{"Title":"I saw this movie for free and often thought of walking out!","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  If I hadn't seen a free preview of this flick I might've asked for my money back.  There were a few humorous touches that garnered sympathy chuckles. The movie has its strongest moments when it desperately lifts scenes from other, better films.  Why do people get paid to make movies like this? "},{"Title":"My Little Rant about this Movie...","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  On October 2, 1998,  my friends, my mom and I went to see A Night at the Roxbury.  We are SNL frecks (well, I'm the SNL freck, my friends just like it).  We saw the movie so we could have a good laugh, and we weren't let down.  We loved it!  Then I hear that one of those friends was channel surfing that weekend when she came across the Sickal and Egbert (or whoever they are). They gave it 2 thumbs down. I've come to one conclusion with this critics to not know how to have fun. This is why you never see those really funny movies everyone says is the funniest movie they've seen and all the critics have to say that the writing was bad and they think it was a bad movie. A Night at the Roxbury was good and was very funny.  If you apreciate comedy it was fun and very silly, indeed, but isn't that what comedies are supposted to be? You know, this is all just my opinion.  I could be wrong. "},{"Title":"I love The Roxbury Guys!","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I'm a major fan of Saturday Night Live. And I love the Roxbury skit, if you're a fan of Saturday Night Live... You will like this movie too!!! Chris Kattan, Will Ferrell and Molly Shannon are so hilarious!!!!Anyone with a good sense of humor, go see the Roxbury guys!!!!! "},{"Title":"A couple laughs, but really bad","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie after a terrible day at work; my girlfriend sent me to the video store with instructions to get really bad movies. So I wasn't expecting much. That said, this movie is bad...but it doesn't belong in the IMDB bottom 100.For those of you who haven't seen the Saturday Night Live bit this is based on, Chris Kattan and Will Ferrell reprise their duo of trapped-in-the-80s disco dummies, although the movie gives them some dialogue. It will never be mistaken for a great comedy, but there are some funny moments (a good parody of the movie Say Anything, and a great self-effacing cameo by Richard Grieco). Still, it's not worth spending 90 minutes of your life on unless you're really a fan of these characters. 3/10. "},{"Title":"Disco Fun","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't sure what to expect from this film, but I was thoroughly entertained. It's a daffy cross between CLUELESS and 54 with some SATURDAY NIGHT FEVER (and LIVE) as well as DUMB AND DUMBER thrown in. The two brothers are deliciously out of touch, but their innocent thick-headedness causes them to make the world bend to their own view of reality. It was definitely a fun film.  "},{"Title":"The excitement, once again, alludes me","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" We can thank producer Lorne Michaels for giving us such wonderful comedies like both the Wayne's World films, but we can also blame him for giving other Saturday Night Live characters their due in feature-length films when some of them barely had the charisma to carry two minute long sketches. From The Ladies Man to Superstar to MacGruber to now A Night at the Roxbury, Michaels has sought out each Saturday Night Live character and exhausted every opportunity that could be done with the character.Whether or not that's a good thing or a bad thing is your opinion, but in my own humble one, each one of these SNL films has been a mediocre, less-than-average affair, with A Night at the Roxbury easily cementing itself as the worst film from the long-running sketch comedy series thus far. This is one of the most grueling comedies I've seen in quite a while; one that seemingly struggles to concoct a coherent plot and instead resorts to cheap skits that cobble themselves together and frequently punctuate themselves with the agonizing tune What is Love by Haddaway.This combined with the abysmal ratings makes it hard to believe that Will Ferrell became a sizable star after allowing this film to be his debut leading role. However, not long after the release of this film did Ferrell find ways to make his absurdist-style of humor known and demanded throughout the world. But when it comes to A Night at the Roxbury, both Ferrell and Chris Kattan find ways to be grating and dimwitted to the point where comedy doesn't even seem to register on the radar.Ferrell and Kattan play the brainless Butabi brothers, Steve and Doug, two young club-freaks who have a love for hard-partying. The only issue is that both of the morons never seem to get access to their desired club, the L.A.-based Roxbury due to the club's love for high-profile celebrities over the common people. By day, Steve and Doug mindlessly slave away, running their family-owned fake plant store, anxiously anticipating all the night has to offer.The plot kicks in when the van Steve and Doug are driving to The Roxbury is rear-ended by 21 Jump Street's Richard Grieco, who agrees to allow them access to the elusive nightclub in hopes the two don't press charges for the fender-bender. Finally, Steve and Doug no longer have to live in the shadows of their favorite club and can be one with the party. A subplot also involves the woman who works next door to the plant-store named Emily (Molly Shannon) at a lamp store, cutely named Bright Idea. The brothers' father blatantly hopes that Steve will wise up one day and marry Emily so that the wall between the two stores can be demolished, effectively creating the first ever plant/lamp store.So A Night at the Roxbury goes on, doing what I thought was impossible in the regard that it makes seventy-seven minutes feel like an unreasonable, laborious amount of time for a film. With the notable exceptions of The Blues Brothers and the two Wayne's World films, each SNL-adaptation has run into this issue, only proving that these particular characters, setups, and instances were never originally intended to sustain feature-length but rather two to three minutes on an hour-long sketch show. And even at their original intention and length, I don't find these particular characters funny. The opening credits show them forcefully gyrating against women and frantically dancing in a crowded nightclub, illustrating pretty much what the sketch comedy skits were like and even those weren't that funny.Just last week in my high school journalism class, learning about satire and parody, we watched numerous faux-commercials from SNL taken from as far back as the 1970's to the present. I, shockingly, found none of them funny and surprisingly desperate attempts at generating humor from what seemed like a child creating names to coincide with stupid products. I state that this because maybe it's not just that the excitement and interest of this concept involving two brothers who frequent nightclubs and embrace the party entirely alludes me but the excitement and interest of SNL alludes me. I couldn't tell you.Starring Will Ferrell, Chris Kattan, Molly Shannon, Michael Clarke Duncan, Richard Grieco, and Loni Anderson. Directed by John Fortenberry. "},{"Title":"Wait a minute, did you just grab my ass?","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan co-star as Steve and Doug Butabi. They are club hopping brothers whose father only wants them to work in his fake plant store. Steve and Doug share one dream - to open their own nightclub. This is complicated however by the fact that they can't even get into the one club that they'd give anything to be in. Things start to look up for them when one night they get into a car accident with Richard Grieco (played by himself) who gets them into the club where they meet two hotties, Elisa Donovan as Cambi and Gigi Rice as Vivica. Molly Shannon also stars as the goody-two shoes college girl who Steve's father wants him to marry.------------------Doug Butabi You can take our phones and you can take our keys, but you cannot take away our dreams. Steve Butabi Yeah, because we're, like, sleeping when we have them.-----------------------Doug Butabi Is that a mirror in your pocket? Cambi What? Doug Butabi 'Cause I can see myself in your pants! "},{"Title":"Funny movie, drags in the middle.","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  **Minor Spoilers**The movie can be summed up in 3 parts.The Beginning From the theme song to when Doug and Steve fight in the van is great.  The music is still fresh, almost all the gags are funny.  I had about 5 or 6 laugh out loud moments.  Most of which happened during the hilarious opening segment.The Middle This is when it starts to get a little ugly.  Doug and Steve just aren't funny unless they are together.  Steve's interaction with Emily is worth a few chuckles, but nothing more than that.  Doug just drags along when he is alone.The End This is when Doug comes out with the boom box to interrupt the wedding.  Everything from here to the end is great again.  Doug and Steve have a sappy, yet funny conversation and the final club scene is also fun to watch.Overall 5/10 "}{"Title":"Worth a laugh...but","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  The night I saw Night at the Roxbury I wasn't in the best mood, but after seeing it...I felt the same...I mean the movie was funny...but kinda got old after a while.  The laughs are definitely there...but will be there as a rental as well.One word of caution...as kids will be kids...and imitate what they see...please...leave the whipped cream alone. Inhaling nitrous oxide isn't a joke...but the way it was portrayed makes it look harmless....it's not! Take it for what it's worth... "},{"Title":"Did you just grab my ass?","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I'm sorry, but I just had to say it. This movie isn't a good movie. It's a quite bad one, but not a total waste. Although I didn't like most of the jokes I must say that Chazz Palminteri and Dan Hadaya are absolute great in this film! If you like them, see this film, if not....well...avoid it! By the way, this movie has one of the greatest one liners jokes everChazz - Did you just grab my ass? Guy - Sir, from where I'm standing it would be physicly impossible  Chazz -  I know you trix.Too bad the rest of the film isnt't pretty good.4/10  "},{"Title":"NO SCORE!!!  OR...WHAT THE HELL WERE THEY THINKING?","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Why didn't they call this flick What Is Love?  Wouldn't have that been the obvious choice?  Same title as the song these two guys are bobbing their dumb heads to in the Saturday Night Live sketches this so called flick is based on?  The folks who made this know how to be funny.  So how come almost all these films based on Sat Night Live sketches almost always suck?  Let's see...let's take a five minute Sat Nite Live sketch and stretch it out to a two hour movie!  No wonder all these sorts of movies bomb at the box office...later gator...and all that jazz... "},{"Title":"Yeh! Another SNL Skit Turned into a Lousy Movie","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I am so glad I didn't pay $9.50 to see this garbage (love those NYC movie prices).  The premise is interesting at first glance two losers who live at home dream of nightclub glory.  One problem though, I have seen this a million times.  It is bad enough that the Butabi brother's skit is on almost every other SNL these days, but it is a knock-off of the Wild and Crazy Guys characters Steve Martin and Dan Akroyd used to do.  If that isn't bad enough, there is no real story to frame the hit and miss jokes around.  The guys who play the Butabi brothers are okay but for me this played like a boring Wayne's World knockoff.  Now I can't wait a year for Superstar to show up on cable because I'm sure it's much better (not!).  Hey Lorne (Michaels) can't wait for that Goatboy and the preppy cheerleaders movie.  "},{"Title":"stupid humor","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  A ridiculous movie about two utter morons, A Night at the Roxbury had a few amusing moments. However, The main characters' repulsive behavior ruined any humor there was to be found. The only time I'd recommend this movie is if you are with a bunch of friends, and you are really in the mood to laugh while you are making fun of a movie for its stupidity. "},{"Title":"A Night at the Roxbury","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Silly film derived from an eight minute SNL skit...and someone thought it would be a good idea to make a movie out of this 8 minute skit. Well, if you can get through 8 minutes without wanting to smack these morons in the head, you must have a lot of patience...and yet no culture!  "},{"Title":"what were they thinking?","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I thought that the movie looked great from the commercials.  All the funny parts from the trailers were dished out in the first ten minutes and somehow presented in a way that I didn't even crack a smile, and I laugh at everything.  Cheesy rip-offs all throughout the movie that should be funny but just aren't like an obvious one from jerry maguire at the end.  What I don't understand is when the film makers saw their finished product they didn't just release it straight to video or debut it on SNL because it has drastically reduced my impression of Heckerling and SNL.  One exception is a dance sequence in the middle which is, well, hilarious.  That almost made up for the rest of the film but didn't make the cut.  The only thing I am waiting for called A night at the Roxbury is the soundtrack.  Lots of groovin tunes including What is Love. "},{"Title":"Typical SNL movie...not that good","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Expecting this movie to be a good comedy, I left the theatre with disappointment. A funny movie, if you already haven't seen the trailers on TV. The funniest parts of the movie are on the trailer, leaving the movie with little else to laugh at. I was very dispappointed with this movie....which actually was quite boring and just plain annoying at some times. You'd have to pay ME to go see this movie again. But what else can you expect from a SNL skit that's hit the big-screen...it was just fine to see these two guys once a week on SNL.   "},{"Title":"What can I say?....","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  It's a bad film altogether, but I was filled with a morbid curiosity about the main characters; wondering what was going on in their world...and in their vacant heads.It's interesting to see but only for Chris Kattan. Utterly forgettable otherwise...and the dance music is just plain annoying.  "},{"Title":"Go to the dentist instead.","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Don't let the 81 minute tally fool you.  This movie is 75 minutes of jaw-droppingly bad movie making.  I saw it for free and I actually consider walking out.  It's one thing to rag on SNL movies; they are easy targets to be sure.  Night at the Roxbury, on the other hand, opens new doors.  The holes created by stretching the dead-horse TV skit to movie length were too big to be filled-in by boring cliches already shriveled from years of overuse.To be fair, there are several chuckles in this movie.  However, this may have simply been a knee-jerk reaction from the need to find something, anything to laugh at in the midst of this horrible flick.  As it turns out, one of these funny moments was lifted from Say Anything (I have been told). I think Will Farrell is (usually) fantastic and his was the only line delivered that made me guffaw.  Overall, the performances weren't even phoned in, they were delivered bulk rate.  Don't get me wrong, I love stupid, even bad movies if there is something likeable about them; an earnestness, some charm or good humor.  This has next to nothing in the redeeming qualities basket. "}{"Title":"Hmmmm - okay I guess.","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Never having seen this skit on SNL the material was new to me and I found myself bored by it halfway through the movie. If you start watching this movie and expect nothing, then you will rewarded with exactly that. This is one of those movies that you will probably wind up watching late at night, simply because nothing else is on. "},{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is a terribly unfunny movie.  It could have been a lot better, the concept is quite amusing.  The main problem with the movie is that it just isn't funny. The main characters are so stupid, you just want them to go away.  They have no likable qualities and little personality.  There is one good scene where the Butabi brothers dance with 2 girls to Amber's This Is Your Night.  Other than that, one of the worst movies I have seen in a long time.  "},{"Title":"The definition of an awful film","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Twenty minutes into this movie, I asked myself what the point of making this was. There was no plot or storyline I enjoyed. The Butabi brothers going club hopping. Chris Kattan and Will Ferrel star in a movie that its plot makes no sense. I can't believe actors such as Loni Anderson, and Richard Grieco added their names to such an awful film. DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME OR MONEY on this film. "},{"Title":"One Of The Worst","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  A Night At The Roxbury was one of the worst movies that I have ever seen. I didn't even laugh one single time and believe me, I am easy to impress. If you want to see a real comedy, go see There's Something About Mary Please do not spend A Night At The Roxbury. "},{"Title":"A Long Night","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Hearing of the abysmal reviews this movie has earned, as well as seeing the name Amy Heckerling (Clueless) during the opening credits, I feared for the worst.  However, A Night at the Roxbury proves that no one is perfect, and all film-makers can bounce back.Doug (Chris Kattan) and Steve (Will Ferrell) Butabi are two very atypical young adults.  They work at their father's silk flowers store, ringing up customers and making deliveries.  They still live at home, and have no goal in life except to go clubbing and score!  Although, they own expensive suits and drive (dad's) expensive cars, they just can't seem to get with it.  One night after being tossed out of the famous club, the Roxbury, the brothers get the idea of one day starting their own club. Therefore, the rebellious brothers leave the reins of their father (Dan Hedaya) and begin going into business for themselves.This movie, which was directed by John Fortenberry, had many weaknesses to begin with.  First off, since the movie was produced by Saturday Night Live's Lorne Michaels, Roxbury had a very small budget.  It also was very unable to achieve the big names that a movie like this could have used.  Only washed up actors like Loni Anderson and Richard Grieco made the big names list, with fellow SNL cast members Molly Shannon and Colin Quinn getting large billings as well.  Second, the movie starred two characters that previous to this movie didn't have names, identities, or lines longer then `Wanna dance?'I found myself laughing on many occasions.  Though I was never rolling around on the floor busting a gut, I wasn't bored silly.  The storyline is weak, and the acting is fairly sub-par.  However, the set design and the soundtrack, which features the Butabi brothers' signature tune What is Love, are a very notable highlight to the film.Overall, I guess I would have to say that although this was not nearly one of the funniest movies I've ever seen, was not bad either.  I say, if it's raining next weekend, and you don't have anything else to do, check out A Night at the Roxbury. ** "},{"Title":"Mediocre SNL Comedy, that's Unfunny and quite tiring","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" A Night At The Roxbury is very unfunny, as It took me a while to get through it, as I was only amused a couple of times, and it gets quite silly when the brothers get into a huge fight and way too sappy, plus while Chris Kattan, and Will Ferrell make a good team are way too annoying, as I just felt like slapping them, plus what was a quality character actor like Dan Hedaya doing in this he was OK but I often wondered why.The soundtrack is great no doubt about that, and it has a decent cast, but the problem is gets too tiresome way too quickly and never once did I laugh out loud, plus The ending was pretty stupid in my opinion. Most of the Saturday Night live movies are pretty lame in my opinion, as they get too tiresome too quickly, and I just don't find 2 morons bopping there heads throughout amusing, plus Thankfully Will Ferrell has moved onto bigger and better things. Overall this is an Unfunny tiresome film that I say you pass on unless you have something better to do. *1/2 out of 5. The Acting is OKWill Ferrell is OK here but not as funny as usual, he also tends to over do it at times, and I just found his character more irritating then anything else, not one of his better performances. Chris Kattan is even more annoying he is so unlikable and selfish, I just didn't find anything funny about him. Richard Grieco plays well himself. Loni Anderson and Dan Hedaya are amusing but not much else as the parents. Lochlyn Munro is unfunny in his role I didn't laugh once. Molly Shannon is somewhat amusing, but never laugh out loud funny as Emily who is obsessed with Ferrell. The rest do OK as cameos and short roles "},{"Title":"The soundtrack is what you want.","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Following such spin-offs such as Stuart Saves His Family and It's Pat, it would be understandable enough if the next Saturday Night Live feature would have been responsible for the largest mass suicide in modern history. Thankfully, Roxbury is a feature that comes off at only below-standard. Which is a good thing, really. Will Ferrell would move on to better things, and the soundtrack is impressive enough for a good 90s flashback.Brothers Steve and Doug contend with family and their own problems while trying to get into the Roxbury, all the while dreaming of starting their own outdoor nightclub.There's one thing you can do, really, to say you've enjoyed the movie. Fast forward to the club dance scene where they all start dancing. It's the best part in Roxbury, with the choreography and the club beat. Otherwise, the rest of the film is pure torture as the brothers fight with their father, and themselves, to realize something that wouldn't even happen in the movies if it wasn't a Saturday Night Live skit. I suggest the soundtrack, and only that to save you your time. "},{"Title":"One word -- BAD","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  The premise seems to be Two men who are gay but think they are straight cruz for chicks.Said two men are also brothers, which is doubley disturbing because they seem to be in love.  Not the brotherly way!The only reason I gave this a 2 and not a 1 was because of the wedding scenes near the end.  These were saved by the appearance of Mark McKinney (Kids in the Hall) and Richard Grieco... Just thinking about Richard Grieco and Mark McKinney in the same place makes me laugh.Every other moment in the film was a bit like having your nails ripped from you fingers in tiny strips. "},{"Title":"Don't spend a night at the living room watching this sour comedy.","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Paramount has impressed me with a few good movies recently, so why does A NIGHT AT THE ROXBURY have to get so moronic and tasteless to easily consider this a box-office flop? This is a very poor parody of the disco life that took 1998 by storm through efforts of revitalization (i.e. 54, THE LAST DAYS OF DISCO, maybe BOOGIE NIGHTS). Neither of the two loonies (Chris Kattan and Will Ferrell) take advantage of handling what should be comedy flavor; the movie isn't even worth a single grin! The return of the head bop is too awfully planned to stage a cultural comeback. But what more can you ask in a movie that's got plenty of hoochie-koochie gals wearing tight outfits above the knees? So terribly dull from start to end, this definitely lives up to my list of 1998's bottom ten Hollywood stinkers! It's only worth buying the soundtrack album if you're into the disco dance music craze.   "},{"Title":"A definite must-not-see","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Once in a very long while -- perhaps once or twice a decade -- someone makes a movie that is so funny you absolutely MUST see it.  You watch that movie and you'll wet your seat laughing.  You'll recommend it to all your friends. Take it from me do yourself a big favor and go see that movie instead of A Night at the Roxbury.The first hour of Roxbury is tolerably unamusing.  The last half hour is moderately pathetic; I found myself laughing mostly because I was sick and tired of not laughing.  If you want to see a hilarious comedy about losers, rent Clerks, or Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure, or even Police Academy 4... but please don't waste a night on The Roxbury. "}{"Title":"So many bad things to say...","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I had an ongoing debate with myself while watching Roxbury as to whether this was the worst movie I'd ever seen, but in the end it comes out just slightly above such classics as Bio-Dome, mostly because it isn't trying to be patently offensive.Unfortunately, it's trying to be hilarious and misses that mark by light-years. As some others have pointed out, most SNL spinoff movies fail miserably, with the two exceptions being Blues Brothers and Wayne's World.This one should fall into a class of its own, though - it had utterly failed in the first three minutes, which is probably a record. Put it this way when you make a movie, whether intentionally, that starts off looking like someone shot it on a Sony Handicam in their basement, you're not setting yourself up for success.And of course, then you get smacked in the head with the idiot story, the moronic dialogue, the forced nature of pretty much everything - the conflicts that fly up to drive the plot are among the most ridiculous and hackneyed pieces of drivel ever to get written into a film.Sure, there are brief moments where you'll laugh, but not so much because the film is funny. You'll laugh out of pity. You'll laugh because you're uncomfortable and laughing's the only way to escape the mindlessness you're facing.Skip this one, just like you should skip most SNL spinoffs. You'll never get back the time you waste watching Roxbury, and you'll regret that. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time, money or energy watching this film","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Chris Kattan and Will Ferrel may be two of the most talented comedic actors, but nobody would know it by watching their performances in A Night At The Roxbury. Twenty minutes into A Night At The Roxbury, I asked myself what the point of making this was. Among the many problems with A Night At The Roxbury, include poor performances from every actor, and story lines that made no sense.It is beyond belief that Kattan and Ferrel star in a movie that contains a plot that makes no sense. I can't believe actors such as Loni Anderson, and Richard Grieco added their names to such an awful film. DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME OR MONEY on this film.  "},{"Title":"Don't waste a night watching this film","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Chris Kattan and Will Ferrel may be two of the most talented comedic actors, but nobody would know it by watching their performances in A Night At The Roxbury. Twenty minutes into A Night At The Roxbury, I asked myself what the point of making this was. Among the many problems with A Night At The Roxbury, include poor performances from every actor, and storylines that made no sense.It is beyond belief that Kattan and Ferrel star in a movie that contains a plot that makes no sense. I can't believe actors such as Loni Anderson, and Richard Grieco added their names to such an awful film. DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME OR MONEY on this film.  "},{"Title":"Plain stupid","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This film has to be one of the most stupid films I have ever seen, but somehow I liked it!It centres on the Butabi brothers, who are as thick as two short planks, whose only interest in life is to go clubbing every week. They spend week after week in dreadful low life clubs some day hoping that they will somehow be allowed in to the creme de la creme of clubs&#133;..The Roxbury, anyway a car accident with a club Regular and TV Star (21 Jumps Street's Richard Grieco) leads to entry to the club and changes their lives, but for the better? A dodgy script, foolish bumbling leads, and the constant blurting out of Haddaway's early &#145;90's dance track  `What is Love?' Could you ask for anything better?  "},{"Title":"Night at the  Suckbury","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie almost received the award for worst comedy of the millennium. But                             luckily for them, Chairman of the Board been released. Again, there wasn't a single                             funny moment in the entire picture. You can't even crack a smile, yet again there                             was some funny scenes at the beginning of the movie. But it will repeat them again                             and again later in the film which make you fall asleep so fast.                            1/2* "},{"Title":"A Night at the Roxburg didn't need to be made and has absolutely no point","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" There isn't too much to say about A Night At The Roxbury. The plot basically revolves around these two idiotic brothers, Doug and Steve, who, after visiting a popular nightclub called The Roxbury, want to set up their own disco or something.Not much of a plot is it? I certainly don't think so. Doug and Steve are a couple of wannabes who are difficult to sympathise with as they are both idiots. The dialogue is also pretty bad and the film itself has absolutely no point. It simply didn't need to be made and I had difficulty watching it in full. The acting is so-so at best, despite the variable talent of the two leads, Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan. If you want to see the best of Will Ferrell, I suggest watching Elf, not this.Admittedly this does raise a few laughs, although they are too thinly stretched throughout the movie and a lot of these laughs are directed at the movie, not with the movie. Watching these two idiots jerk their heads consistently may also raise a chuckle, because it's so stupid.Ultimately, A Night at the Roxbury didn't need to be made and has absolutely no point. I certainly don't recommend it. 1.5/5 stars "},{"Title":"What Is Love? (Reviewer Bobs Head Ceaselessly)","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan take their SNL Butabi brothers act to the big screen. It's amazing to me that I haven't seen anyone mention that they are merely an updated version of Steve Martin and Dan Aykroyd's two wild and crazy guys from the 70's. The Butabi brothers are just as clueless, crass, and narcissistic as Martin and Aykroyd were. Here the Butabi's main goal in life is to score with the hotties at the trendiest night club while living with their parents in rooms that look like they were decorated by kids. They're able to accomplish getting into a club by having an accident with Richard Grieco of all people. The brothers' ultimate goal is to own their own club, so they'll both have top dibs on all the hotties. Yesh! Would any girl really want to go out with the Butabi brothers? Would any guy want to really go out with any girl that went out with one of the Butabi brothers? I doubt it. However, there are a lot of Hollywood in-jokes in here to offset some lack of plot or lack of integrity in the characters. There are several funny gags and lines in the movie, but it all doesn't add up to much. What the movie is really successful at is demonstrating just how redundant, retarded, and superficial the dance club scene really is. Molly Shannon is the poor innocent girl pining away for one of the Butabi brothers. Dan Hedaya is good as their father. Dwayne Hickman even shows up in a small role too. The funniest thing in this movie is the head-bobbing of the Butabi brothers. A guilty pleasure to be sure for some folks. *1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Sorry. Not funny.","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  The ratings don't lie.  This movie is not funny.  4.8 is a gift; I gave it a 1. It is one of the worst I have ever seen.  Any movie where the leading characters are really, really stupid starts off with one foot in the grave. Bad gags and lousy writing will push where it belongs, 6 feet under.  The music is decent and the memories, well you are supplying them, cause this isn't evoking them.  This is the punch line here any movie with really dumb characters has to make you like them, or it has to make you bust out laughing, otherwise you will quickly despise the characters. These two brothers here are not likable, where is the sympathy in two clueless oafs? How can we play along if the jokes are bad?Dumb and Dumber I almost liked--same scenario 2 really dumb guys.  But the jokes were funny and the guys almost sympathetic. I hated Something About Mary for this same reason as this movie no one to like; many to despise. If you liked that movie (for some reason) then take that into consideration. But I recommend you keep the 99 cents in your pocket and rent Princess Bride or something. "},{"Title":"So very bad","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Any Saturday Night Live film should be able to be funny for at least four minutes, which is the average length of an SNL skit. When I found myself struggling to laugh at the 90 second mark, I knew I was doomed.Night at the Roxbury is killed by the fact that these characters are SO unlikeable. When will Lorne Michaels get it that if the characters are shallow and unrelateable to anyone you've ever met, it just won't work. I couldn't care less what these guys were doing, never mind laugh at them. There was nothing funny about this movie. I've seen better written comedy in a high school follies show. And what the hell was Chaz Palmenteri doing in this!? I hope he fired the agent who said this was going to be any good.And before anyone says I'm being too serious, spare me. I love goofy movies.......THAT ARE FUNNY! I loved There's Something About Mary, and THIS IS NO Something about Mary! It's just another SNL disaster trotted out to make a few bucks on mildly amusing skits that we see for free on Saturday nights. To call it one of the worst movies ever made would only give it more attention than it deserves.......  "},{"Title":"Cheese with a side order of cheese.","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I think Will Ferrell is one talented comic. I watch Saturday Night Live regularly and on a bad night, he's sometimes the only saving grace. Yet outside late night TV, I haven't seen him in anything worthy yet. I doubt it's a question if he's talented, I think more likely it's the material. He captured a couple of laughs from me in the Austin Powers flick, but that was a case in sound effects more than anything.So here we are with the latest skit turned feature length movie. I'm not the first and definitely not the last, but I'm gonna say it anyway. You can't take a five minute skit and turn it into a 90+ minute movie. Well in this case a 80-something minute movie. Perhaps the first sign of impending doom. Couldn't find the material for another ten minutes?If you've seen SNL lately then you know about the club hitting dudes who groove to Haddaway's What Is Love. This movie adds that they're brothers and somehow that's not the surprise it should have been. The hassle known as plot has the duo trying to get into to the high profile club, the Roxbury, owned by Chazz Palminteri in a brief, but hilarious unbilled role. What follows from there is just filler. They throw in love interest sub-plots, but it's of little importance. I can't recommend A Night at the Roxbury. I'm afraid only SNL fans or those with a extreme love for cheesy bad movies will find something to cheer for here. "}{"Title":"bad writing, bad music, unfunny crapola","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I had hoped for at least a few SNL inspired belly laughs, but no.  The main characters are unsympathetic, and the supporting cast was wasted.  Granted Colin Quinn and Loni Anderson didn't raise my hopes too high, but even on the most basic level they disappointed.  Only one high point(a few feet above sea level), a bad rendition of the theme to Cheers(with Dan Hedaya sitting in the background).  Nice shot at some sort of inside joke.  A movie is in trouble when the best performance is that 22 Jumpo street fella. Oops, forgot his name.  I'll forget the movie soon as well. "},{"Title":"Ripoff of Romy and Michele","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Most reviews pan this movie as a painfully prolonged version of the Saturday Night Live skit but actually the whole premise (right down to synchronous head-bobbing) is an uninspired rip off of the Mira Sorvino and Lisa Kudrow characters from Romy and Michele's High School Reunion.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as watching paint dry.","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  So bad that its embarrassing - even in the house on my own. Don't waste your time or money on renting this turkey! Childish acting; nonsense dialogue; cliche plot, such as it is. If you think stupid is funny this may be for you. It makes Mr Bean look an intellectual giant. Complete rubbish.  "},{"Title":"'tis a far sadder thing...","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  what a painful experience.  Perhaps some 5 minute SNL skits can be converted to the big screen (Blues Brothers, Coneheads) but this trash was pure agony.  "},{"Title":"A very bad movie; remind me next time before I waste 81 minutes of my life again.","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Yeah, next time I waste 81 minutes of my life, someone give me a warning first. This bore-fest is directed by John Fortenberry and it stars Will Farrell with a miss, and Chris Kattan who needs some better roles these days but was absolutely hilarious back in Undercover Brother. A Night at the Roxbury could have been missed and they could have gone to Mexico instead...Ferrell and Kattan play two brothers who try to get lucky in their own cool way in the coolest joints in town. We see them as they prepare for nightly goings, already failing or settling for the lowest. We see them with their terrible, unfunny antics on the beach, on the streets, or in clubs. They finally meet some ladies as we see them in a horrible dance scene. Sure some parts were funny like them nodding to rhythm at their bathroom mirror but other than that and some other parts, Night at the Roxbury is a major miss.Overall, if you want to waste some sad minutes of your life, watch this one. This so called comedy will blow you with boredom. Not even in cross-hairs range of a straight target, a big miss from 1998.My Rating 2/10Eliason A. "},{"Title":"Please","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Proof positive of why SNL has been unwatchable for the past 15 years. This skit is mildly a chuckle for about a half second. These two are NOT talented, and NOT funny. To try and stretch this patheticness into a movie is a prime example of why some movie execs should be shot on sight. Don't waste your time. In fact, I'm finding it even hard here to waste 10 lines on this drivel, but I feel compelled to warn people, lest they corrupt their minds. Why is it Hollywood feels it can take any character from SNL and just automatically make a movie out of it. Their time and money could be better spent on something worthwhile. And I would love to find the moron who told these clowns they were funny. Clue to SNL... It's called TALENT, FIND SOME!!!  "},{"Title":"What a waste of time!","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  To be honest this is probably one of the worst films I have ever seen. I saw the movie only knowing that it was a comedy, not having read or heard any critics about it. I later found out that the critics had slaughtered the film. And this time I couldn't agree more.Here's the story in this film; two morons are trying to get into a nightclub called the Roxbury to get chicks. The only achievement here is the producer being able to stretch this to a 81 min movie. By filling it with plain and dumb humour.If you are under 15 years old you might laugh one or two times watching this movie, for all others I'm sure you have thousands of better things to do than to see this film.  "},{"Title":"What a waste...","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie is clear proof that the majority of Saturday Night Live sketches, while funny each week for a few minutes, cannot hold their own on the big screen. Unfortunately the list goes on and on...Roxbury, Coneheads, Superstar, Its Pat, Stuart Saves His Family, etc. the only exceptions being Waynes World, and the Blues Brothers. How long before we get a Dominican Lou, Mr. Peepers, or Nude Male Model movies?One gets the feeling from the first 5 minutes of the movie that every second afterwards is totally unnecessary, the gimmick already having been delivered.A waste of time, talent and money. Surely Kattan and Ferrel are capable of better than this. "},{"Title":"Awful Film Based on a Popular Saturday Night Live Sketch","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  A Night at the Roxbury plays pretty well in three-minute sketches on Saturday Night Live, but is a trial when it is this long (84 minutes). The two moronic brothers want to own their own disco and will do just about anything to make their dream come true.  A pure mess that suffers from stupid characters, sorry direction, and an invisible screenplay.  2 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Don't see this movie","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  After watching this movie I realized one thing  Those were two completely wasted hours of my life that I will never be able to get back.  I kept watching, like one slows down to watch a car wreck, thinking, it has to be better than this.  But now I think this movie was sent down as a punishment for some heinous crime.  A night at the Roxbury was vapid, uninteresting, and BORING.  I love Saturday Night Live--OK, I USED to love SNL, but now I'm only tolerating it--but this movie should just go on the DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES list.  "}{"Title":"one of the stupidest and most pointless movies, ever!!!!","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  after what I said - there is not much more. it is not funny, it is not entertaining, it is.. NOTHING!!!! unfortunately, there are no 0 or negative numbers here on IMDB. maybe, dumb, dumber - DUMBEST is the best title for this one... "},{"Title":"BAD BAD BAD","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is probably one of THE worst movies I have ever seen...The only reason I made it through the whole thing was I didnt think it would be fair to vote it a 1 unless I saw the whole thing..Please..NO MORE SNL SKIT MOVIES "},{"Title":"An awful waste of time!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  One must expect that the Saturday Night Live spin-off films are going to be a bit ridiculous.  However, this one was incredibly awful with an anorexic plot, adolescent humor, and a script that makes one question whether or not improvisation would have been better.  I loved Will Ferrel and Chris Katan when they played these two loser club-hoppers on the show, so I thought the movie might be funny, too.  Not only is it humorless, it uses gratuitous, embarrassing sexual innuendo which makes one question how it got a PG-13 rating--but then again, who over the age of 13 could stand to sit through the whole thing?  The best part about this movie is that it was less than an hour-and-a-half long.  This film may just be enough to destroy any future hopes for its stars which is a real shame. "},{"Title":"blech","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I was impressed at how bad this movie was. There were a few funny bits, but think about it How can you maintain interest for ninety minutes when your main bit is two guys who move their head weird. "},{"Title":"i hope this piece of crap burns forever","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" this is a horrible movie that shouldn't be watched by anyone. Its not funny in anyway, the plot is horrible, but that's pretty much expected from a comedy with will Ferrell and chris kattan. Actually there is one funny part and its not about the movie, its funny that they made a horrible movie out of a horrible SNL skit. Thats the funniest part. I feel sorry for Michael Clarke Duncan and Chazz Palminteri, who had the brains to have his name removed from the credits. You might laugh more times if you watched Schindlers List and thats not even a comedy of course. Tell you what if you want to know what watching this movie is like, try anal surgery its just as fun. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Having just looked at the vote breakdown percentages, I was shocked and horrified to see that nearly 14% of the voters gave this film 10 out of 10. I am baffled as this has to be the worst film ever made, with no humorous moments - and seeing as it is billed as a comedy, this is surely a major flaw.  Please, if you have not seen this film, do not waste any time of your life by doing so.I am struggling to recall less funny films, and certainly cannot recall more painful films to watch...who funds rubbish like this?  People with no sense of humour is all I can imagine.  I cannot stress enough, avoid it like the plague. "},{"Title":"If you watched the entire movie....","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Then the Holy Father in Vatican City should know about you, cause you have the patience that can only be possessed by a Saint!What I saw was unbearable, unfunny and uninteresting.  I think the leads have talent, in small doses, though.  An entire movie with them?  Not in this lifetime. "},{"Title":"One of the Worst Movies Ever Made","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Movies made after shows or sketches are usually clever, witty, and full of enough original material to keep an audience entertained; even when the audience has never seen the show (ie - South Park, Family Guy, Simpsons...etc). However, SNL movies haven't been original or clever since the days of Dan Akroyd and Bill Murray. If making this movie was in the wake of SNL's hype popularity amongst the garden variety ignorant average joe, it's no surprise that the movie itself turned out to be a joke with no punchline.There isn't any new material here different from the SNL sketches, and whats even more depressing is that the jokes just aren't funny. There's nothing amusing about this movie in general, other than seeing which big-time celebrities degrade themselves by making ridiculous cameos. Overall, this movie is a mockery of the entertainment industry. Saturday Night Live just isn't funny, and is a shining example of why people who enjoy this type of mockery have no taste what-so-ever. "},{"Title":"this is the absolute worst movie that i have ever seen in my entire life","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I could not find one moment at all in this movie where something funny happened. You might as well look at my baby pictures if you want to laugh as hard. This is Will Ferrels' worst acting job that i have witnessed and that dope from SNL made it worse. Alotgether, this movie was a waste of a Monday night. Fortunately we stopped the movie half way through so we did not have to suffer any more. I do not get that big of a kick out of watching two men grinding up against each other for forty five straight minutes. I will be submitting a petition to the time gods for the minutes wasted in watching this horrible excuse for film and a sick excuse for entertainment. How can all you people find this movie anything but dumb? I know I know...I only like it because Will Ferrel is in it. His performance in this movie was as sub-par as you can get. This movie blows. "}]