[{"Title":"A Most Entertaining Movie","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie to be most entertaining, with all the cast giving excellent performances. I'm not one to criticise or analyse, but tend to view a film as a whole. The courtroom scenes were infomative(as to procedure)as well as amusing, and the romantic interest was endearing. Especially enchanting was Charlize Theron, as waitress Billie Tyler, as she was cheerful, kindly, and even brave (when she thought she had lost her boyfriend to a rival).  Yet it was she who innocently caused the whole problem - by serving her own alcoholic cocktail!I'm putting this movie among my favourites. "},{"Title":"Rietti!!!!","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Richard Rietti!!! Best character name in movie history. Worth the price of admission just to watch Rietti fall and bumble...and fall...and bumble. Let us also not forget another vintage performance by the one and only Rip Torn. I would pay money to watch a Ron Popeil Infomercial if Rip Torn was prominently involved.Jeff Daniels gets it done as the schlub lawyer who likes his chicken salad with mustard, not mayonnaise. Finally, we have Charlize Theron at her absolute apex (lookswise, not as an actress...clearly). You just knew it would lead to bigger & better things for her, and it did.Worth checking out. RIETTI!!!!! "},{"Title":"mindless humor, great afternoon film","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Lots of A-list actors, simple story to follow with light hearted humor. Another movie showing how beautiful Charlize Theron is, fans of her will appreciate that. Michael Richards is funny as always. Jeff Daniels is very good, none of that stupid humor like in Dumb and Dumber. Austin Pendleton plays his typical character, goofy yet professional. The whole movie is very predictable but the actors that are cast keep it interesting. Recommend watching it without great expectations. So for a relaxing afternoon stick a bag of popcorn in the microwave and rent this movie for an hour and a half of a good story with entertaining acting. "},{"Title":"Better than most reviews let on","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" We spend so much time as movie enthusiasts that we often only look for films people would consider revolutionary (e.g. Donnie Darko, Fight Club, etc.) but every once in awhile a noraml run of the mill comedy is nice. Trial and Error, however, had some of the most ridiculously funny scenes I have ever seen Micheal Richards in - his audtion near the beginning, his cross examination of 'Buck.' These scenes a lone are enough reason to see the movie. All said and done, Micheal Richards kills it in this movie... Some people have said that he still is trying to play off his role of Kramer but what we must understand is that regardless the role Micheal Richards constantly brings his own personality to the characters he plays and I wouldn't have it any other way. See it. Twice. "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film illustrates that appearances can be deceiving. Each of the main characters is playing a role that is somehow contrary to that person's real identity. In the case of the Rip Torn character, who is on trial for fraud, the deception is obvious, despite his ludicrous attempt to justify his fraudulent actions. And it is equally obvious in the case of the Michael Richards character, who is pretending to be a lawyer to help out his friend. But the other characters also are revealed to be different than who they appear to be.This is a wonderful movie, which raises important questions about the veneer most of us use to hide our real selves. Like most good comedians (e.g., Robin Williams, Steve Martin), Michael Richards is also a fine actor, and his closing argument in the case is an especially masterful piece of acting. "},{"Title":"charm,","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This one had all ingredients for a great comedic recipe. It surprises me that it didn't recieve more attention.A great view of how something seemingly simple can quickly become absurd. All through this movie were characters of stark contrasts. What ensues is a complete loss of control of a simple thing and the way in which the different characters handle it.The irony of the whole thing is that the harder the serious ones tried to control the situation, the more out of control the thing got.The real brilliance though, lies in Richards' character, Richard Rietti. Playing as an actor, he approaches life as one big play, and the lawyer as yet another role. All the world's a stage. I think this movie points this out for us. In the end, we can only laugh at man's attempt to establish order, whether in the courtroom, or in life, in the face of chaos. "},{"Title":"Far from spectacular, but Michael Richards and Jeff Daniels make a good comedy duo","Date":"8 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think it was about five years ago when I first discovered that this 1997 lawyer comedy existed. It took me this long to finally get around to seeing it, even though I've been familiar with the two stars for quite some time now. I've seen Jeff Daniels as Jim Carrey's co-star in Dumb & Dumber, and knew the now infamous Michael Richards obviously for his role as Kramer in the popular sitcom, Seinfeld, plus his roles in comedy films such as UHF and So I Married an Axe Murderer. Since I had seen both of these actors in funny movies/TV shows, I figured I might find Trial and Error mildly amusing, nothing more, judging by its general reception. Expecting a mixed blessing, I didn't get any big surprises, pleasant or unpleasant.Charles Tuttle (Daniels) is a lawyer who will soon be married. His best friend, and best man for the wedding, is an out-of-work actor named Richard Rietti (Richards). Tuttle has been called over to Paradise Bluff, Nevada to defend his fiancée's relative, Benny Gibbs, in a class action fraud suit. When he arrives in the town, Richard (or Ricky) is there, and is ready to throw a bachelor party for his friend. After drinking and getting attacked in the bar, Charlie is not well enough to work the next day, so Ricky decides to go to the courtroom and claim to be a lawyer named Charles Tuttle! Charlie is not happy when he hears what Ricky has done, and soon finds that he now has to pose as an actor named Richard Rietti! Since the real Rietti is not trained to be a lawyer, the real Charlie pretends to be his assistant, using cue cards to tell him what to do on the job while he defends Benny. Obviously, this leads to a horrible mess! There weren't too many times when I laughed really hard while watching this 1997 comedy, but there were many parts I found at least mildly amusing. I can't forget Ricky discovering that his sick friend in bed has emptied out his pill bottle, Ricky trying to prepare Charlie for the trial while he is ill, Charlie's reaction when he learns what Ricky has done, and many things the main characters go through while they pose as each other. Michael Richards and Jeff Daniels are a good pair in the lead roles, which might be the main reason why this film is funny. Richards, with his over-the-top antics, playing a character with good intentions who keeps lousing up, and Daniels, with some of the faces he makes and his character's reactions to Ricky's doings. Unfortunately, the plot isn't too interesting, and if the film were hilarious, that wouldn't matter, but it's not funny enough to prevent the movie from being a little dull. Also, the romance wasn't done so well, eventually getting a little sappy, and the ending leaves much to be desired.This movie came out the same year as Liar Liar, another lawyer comedy. That film is definitely the more popular of the two, but I have to be honest, I prefer this one, as crazy as many people might think I am for that. While Jim Carrey has made me laugh in other films, I found that his antics went too far in that one. Richards and Daniels, while not usually hilarious in the film, are still pretty funny. I'm sure we all know about Richards' racist tirade in November 2006, which obviously permanently damaged his reputation and started a never ending debate over whether he really meant what he said and whether his apology was honest or not. It clearly had more impact than Mel Gibson's tirade earlier that year, and the main reason for that was probably because Richards was caught on video. I remember feeling like I could never watch anything with Richards in it again after I first heard about the incident and saw the footage, but now, regardless of his reputation and what may go on in his head, I have to admit, he can still make me laugh in the comedies I see him in. If you like the two co-stars in Trial and Error as comedians, then this flick could easily make you laugh, or at least some parts could. "},{"Title":"Great Courtroom Comedy","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is an interesting and hilariously funny movie! A lawyer about to get married is incapacitated after a bachelor party just prior to a court appearance on a routine case where he represents the defendant. His buddy, an unemployed actor, takes his place at the trial for what is supposed to be a 5 minute appearance. The attractive female prosecutor wants to move on with the case, and the substitute lawyer is committed to participate in the trial. The recovering real lawyer meets a cute waitress and enjoys her company on his day off, only later to find that his friend's errors in court force a continued role as his doppelganger. The courtroom scenes are are absolutely hilarious, as are the off-courtroom romantic entanglements of both friends. Don't miss this movie! It's the kind you will enjoy seeing over and over again. "},{"Title":"familiar formula elevated by good casting and writing","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Charlie Tuttle is a workaholic lawyer who just made partner at his law firm and is also engaged to his boss's daughter; his best friend Richard Rietti is an out of work actor who throws him a wild bachelor party the night before Charlie has to defend his boss's relative. When Charlie is too incapacitated to appear in court the next morning, Richard assumes his identity but gets in over his head when the case is ordered to proceed. Director Lynn, who employed a similar formula in My Cousin Vinny, avoids turning this into a strained redo thanks to the pairing of Richards and Daniels who play exceptionally well off one another, aided by a script that offers plenty of clever and very funny moments, and a surprisingly effective romantic subplot. Good casting, writing, and laughs make this more fun than it should be. *** "},{"Title":"Not hilarious, but it was funny.","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've always been a fan of Michael Richards, Jeff Daniels and who doesn't love Charlize Theron?  I couldn't dare say this movie anywhere near the top 10 funniest movies I've ever seen, but it's got some really good stuff in it.  If you're a fan of Charlize Theron like I am, than you really don't need to know anything else other than the fact that she is in the film.The only real complaint I have about the movie is the way that Jeff Daniels gets detained from court in the first place.  I thought they could have come up with a better way of getting Michael Richards in the court room than having Jeff Daniels get in a bar fight and then taking too much medicine to go to court the next day.Anyhow, if you have the time and like the actors in the film, then go ahead and see it, but I wouldn't recommend going out of your way to see it.  Thanks for reading.-Chris "}{"Title":"A farce film beyond its comedy romance build up","Date":"18 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If Hollywood had promoted Trial and Error as more than a comedy romance, I'm sure it would have drawn a bigger audience and some discerning reviews about the breadth of the film. That's because this film is much more than a comedy romance. How can anyone miss the satire of our court system and the law profession? This film has some wonderful spoofing of attorneys, judges, juries, witnesses, and big law firms. It also has a very clear critique and commentary on social classes, the trifles of high society weddings, ambition and personal quest for power and wealth, marriages of convenience without love, and more. In an early scene, we see the two leading men in one's new law office. It's a wrap-around corner with glass windows and views over the whole city, and a huge waste of space. The ridiculousness of it is accentuated by the solitary desk and chair across a huge room with nothing else in it.The film touches on the scams and frauds being perpetrated in our country, especially against the gullible. My one complaint is that the writers might have chosen a better scam to be prosecuting &#x96; one in which older people especially get taken to the cleaners. But then, this one lends itself perfectly to spoofing and the hilarious courtroom drama. To get an engraved likeness of Abraham Lincoln for just $17.99? Who couldn't bite? Indeed, how we no longer count our pennies as a society! Trial and Error is not a movie of many funny and witty lines. Or even a great deal of romance. It doesn't have a lot of situations for out-loud laughter. That may be why many of the viewers drawn to it don't think much of the film. But, again, had the film been promoted for its satire and breadth, it likely would have drawn a wider audience and much greater appreciation. Of course, there are some very good scenes of laughter. Michael Richards plays Richard Rietti, an actor who is out of work at the time. Jeff Daniels plays his friend, Charles Tuttle, who is a lawyer. Jeff says he hopes Richard didn't do his godfather routine at his recent tryout. In a flashback, we see Richard doing just that. He's hilarious and has tremendous body machinations. He bounces from one wall to another, flies across a room, falls to the floor and twists and turns in reaction to imaginary punches, kicks and throws from imaginary mob men. The courtroom scenes are peppered with very funny antics from various people &#x96; Richard and Charles especially. But the judge too gets in the picture. Austin Pendleton plays Judge Graff. Could his name be an intentional play on words (as in graft and corruption)? And the jury members are definitely part of the fun and farce. Rip Torn, as Benny Gibbs, gives one of the best down and out pity stories on film intended to evoke laughter. And it does, with me. In another scene, Richard is in his hotel room watching a video on trial procedures. The speaker is the legendary Wyoming trial attorney Gerry Spence. He strikes a chord with Richard when he says that the courtroom is like a stage play and the trial lawyer is in charge. He's the producer, director and star of the show. The film has subtle humor throughout, as Charles tries to stick to the facts while Richard goes for the theatrics. The court system is supposed to rely on the facts, but clearly, emotions will win out most of the time. That's because of the human element. One must wonder if justice is truly served, or if it is mostly a huge stage for lawyers to get rich. This film brings all that to the fore; and it spoofs the testimony of expert witnesses as well. Charles says to Richard at one point, that money will always find people willing to testify one way or another. Lying is a part of the game. But, after a while, our heroes decide they want to change and have the system work for real justice. That's the conclusion of the film. And, oh yes, there is romance and real love for both leading men. They are helped along by good performances from Charlize Theron as Billie Tyler and Jessica Steen as Elizabeth. One last plus for the film is the setting. It's supposed to be in Lone Pine, Nevada, for which road signs were made. But it was shot in and around Lone Pine, California. So, the film has nice scenic shots of the Sierra Nevada Mountains. This is a delightful film and spoof. Those who watch it for what it is are sure to enjoy it immensely. "},{"Title":"Sweet movie...","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Funny, and committed to a fun time with actors blazing their talents without a care in the world other than entertainment for entertainments' sake. Sometimes that is all that is needed when you are down, I have been down and this has lifted me up again (& again)... this movie has been a mainstay in my collection of movies to look to for a good time and has never let me down. Good Job! Look for an early play by Charlize Theron and don't forget to look for who is now George Stephanopolous' wife as the bitter Fiancée. And Thanks for many a night of joy and happiness ( since I watch it over and over again!) So, thanks! "},{"Title":"Reason to watch","Date":"17 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If this film is inspired by my cousin Vinny they did a good job.The only reason to watch this film is if you like Jeff and Mike. They both give you the characters they have built their carers on. Mike stumbles around Jeff makes his funny faces. The plot is very simple. Lawyer caught in a lie and good girl helps him find himself. That said Charlize may be one of the most beautiful woman in the world. Oh and Jenny Coolidge is so fun. If you are reading this Jenny, you are way more than Stiffler's mom. I think you have a suspense comedy drama in you. You should talk to the Coen Bros. Especially Ethan could write you a Oscar winner. Back to Trial and error, its worth a rainy night watch. Just don't expect too much. I wouldn't watch it twice. "},{"Title":"Reviewers didn't give this a chance.....","Date":"28 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie never got the fair chance it deserved back in the day because it came out at the same time as Liar Liar, a similar vehicle with Jim Carrey at the helm. This one pairs Carrey's Dumb & Dumber buddy Jeff Daniels with Seinfeld's Michael Richards, and I must say - they are a fantastic comic duo! From beginning to end, this movie will make you laugh! And the addition of Charlize Theron doesn't hurt, either. Trial and Error earned a very low box office income, and despite this, film critics Roger Ebert and Leonard Maltin gave positive reviews to the film both rewarding it 3 stars out of a possible four. Watch this on Netflix, or rent it. If you enjoyed Liar Liar and My Cousin Vinny, you will LOVE this! It's a superb movie with so many comedic points! "},{"Title":"Care for a little Paradise with your Manhattan...?","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Jeff Daniels has made a career of playing straight laced boring dweebs who only need a tiny little push in the opposite direction to make them go wild - he does it again here nicely. Michael Richards is basically playing Kramer here but it is funny and likable. And the ever wonderful Rip Torn playing a bad guy you just gotta love. Last but not least, there is the fantastic, pre-Oscar Charlize Theron who lights up the movie with a sweet, naive, free-spirited character whose simple life is something we all wish for sometime in our lives.A great cast rounds out a lighthearted, good-natured, mellow yet cheerful little comedy. You wont be sorry to spend the time with this movie.3/5 StarsAnyone got the recipe for a Paradise Manhattan ? "},{"Title":"Surprisingly great.","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This one took me by surprise.  Being as it co-stars Michael Richards, and the tag line is  THE 2nd MOST OUTRAGEOUS TRIAL OF THE CENTURY, you naturally expect this to be one of those wacky, zany movies. It is anything but.The main focus is on Jeff Daniels' character, and the personal catharsis he goes through.  Michael Richards' performance is surprisingly toned-down and complex, and Charlize Therone adds the perfect romantic side-story.Nothing earth-shaking here, and Oscar nominations weren't in the cards, but this is a really engaging little gem.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious farce, then bittersweet romance (spoilers)","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Jeff Daniels plays a lawyer who has finally made it to partner in a big-city law firm, and he is about to marry the boss' daughter.  Michael Richards is his best man, a struggling actor.  The firm sends Daniels to a town in the middle of nowhere to defend a man accused of fraud, which means his bachelor party has to be postponed.  No, it doesn't!  Richards and the gang show up in Nowheresville and have the party anyway. Daniels gets beat up, and Richards makes a mistake with his medication, meaning Daniels is in no shape to go to court the next day.  Richards knows all Daniels plans to do is ask for a continuance, so he goes to court posing as Daniels' character.  The beautiful female prosecutor (romantic interest for Richards?) refuses, demanding that the trial start right away.  Daniels is feeling better when the trial starts but, of course, he and Richards could get in a lot of trouble, so Daniels poses as Richards' associate.  Richards stumbles through jury selection and the first part of the trial and the judge can't understand why an associate is giving him so much help.  Daniels ends up getting himself thrown out of the courtroom, and the funniest moments in the movie come from his attempts to communicate with Richards.  Later, Daniels starts a romance with a waitress he met at the bachelor party, who he later met and told he was Richards' character. The movie's tone changes about halfway through, still funny at times but no longer farcical.  Richards reminds me a lot of his Kramer character, clumsy but able to pull off a scam quite well, even if he never approaches being convincing as a real lawyer.  But the prosecutor describes his performance as Oscar-worthy, and that's not too far off. SPOILERS FOLLOW  Richards eventually gets what he wants but isn't happy about it, and Daniels realizes he wasn't happy in his old life.  There is still more to the movie, and it isn't entirely clear what will happen.  The moral dilemmas and how they were handled make the movie a little more substantial.  Still, how Daniels handled his romantic situation seemed a little too neat and tidy.  We are left to assume how it must have happened.  An enjoyable picture.  If you really want to know the funniest moments, Daniels falls through the courtroom ceiling after communicating through the heating vent, and using a walkie-talkie and a variation on Morse Code with the car horn, Daniels attempts to feed signals to Richards , but a near-accident resulting in lots of angry horn-blowing results in a frenzy of ridiculous objections from Richards.  "},{"Title":"Total Error.","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Trial and Error (1997) Dir Jonathan Lynn / Cast Michael Richards, Jeff Daniels, Charlize Theron, Rip Torn, Jessica Steen Recycled comedy about personal conviction. Michael Richards plays a struggling actor who plans a bachelor party for his brother, played by Jeff Daniels. Daniels represents a fraud case but during a fight at a bar he is clobbered and takes all of his prescription pills. As predicted Richards will take his brother's place in court. Directed by Jonathan Lynn who made Sgt. Bilko the previous year. The two leads render this formula comedy beyond what it might have been without them. Richards recites his famous role on Seinfeld where his nightclub act must double as a lawyer when he is faced with doubling as his brother. Daniels does well as the real lawyer nursing a bar fight headache. He uses cue cards in his attempt to assist his brother in doing his job. He is also being cared for by a waitress whom he obviously will take a shine to. Charlize Theron plays the waitress and the role is as deadpan as it sounds. Rip Torn steals moments as the obviously guilty man on trial whom Richards uses slick thinking to expose. Jessica Steen plays a lawyer who ends up as a predictable romantic interest. The film exists mainly as a stage for Richards for his starring debut but despite its overly sitcom delivery, it will hopefully lead to better things for the comic. Score 3 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Like My Cousin Vinny, but not as good","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Released in 1997, Trial and Error is a comedy/romance/court room movie in the manner of 1992's My Cousin Vinny, although not nearly as good, but it's not bad.Jeff Daniels plays a L.A. lawyer who's getting married to a fake city biyatch and Michael Richards plays his best man. At the last minute Daniels gets a job defending some scam-artist in Nevada (Rip Torn) where Richards is forced to take Daniel's place in a classic role-reversal. Charlize Theron, Alexandra Wentworth and Jessica Steen co-star.Daniels and Richards play well together and the scenic locations are awesome (Lone Pine & Independence, CA, about 70-minutes from the Nevada border), but this is a fairly average comedy highlighted by a great moral at the end (be real, don't be a fake) and some good-looking women. Charlize has an ultra-cute face, but her thin body never did much for me. I prefer Alexandra Wentworth, even though she plays a biyatch here; she has a great lingerie scene. Steen is pretty good too. Richards essentially plays a variation of his Kramer character.Although I like Richards and Wentworth, I'm not that big of the fan, and the rest of the cast I can take or leave. If you're more of a fan of any of them you'll probably like this movie more than I did.The film runs 98 minutes.GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"Funny, silly and enormously entertaining","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Put Jeff Daniels, Michael Richards, Rip Torn and Austin Pendleton in a courtroom together and you have a riotous comedy. I've watched this film several times (on TV--not in the theater) and it always entertains. In a backwoods Nevada town, Jeff Daniels and friend Michael Richards come to celebrate his upcoming marriage. After too much liquor, the roles are reversed as Jeff Daniels can't continue as lawyer for defendant Rip Torn, so out-of-work actor Michael Richards steps in as Torn's lawyer The repartee in the courtroom is classic, with a frustrated Austin Pendleton as judge trying to keep order in the court, and the shyster Rip Torn clueless as to what's going on, adds up to one funny film. And Charlize Theron as the love interest isn't hard to take either. This is a laugh-out-loud film with some great slapstick and wild antics. I loved it. "}{"Title":"Strictly Time-Pass!","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Jonathan Lynn's 'Trial and Error' is Strictly Time-Pass Entertainment! Its a fairly engaging comedy, that comes in-tact with earnest performances from its cast. 'Trial and Error' Synopsis An actor poses as a lawyer to help his sick friend, and problems develop.'Trial and Error' stands perfect as a lazy Sunday afternoon watch. A light entertainer, that offers some good jokes & performances. Sara Bernstein & Gregory Bernstein's Screenplay is fairly engaging. Jonathan Lynn's Direction is fine. Performance-Wise Jeff Daniels is a joy to watch, as always. The under-rated actor puts up another excellent performance. Michael Richards does very well. Charlize Theron looks stunning as ever & is perfect. Rip Torn is as usual.On the whole, 'Trial and Error' is time-pass. "},{"Title":"Good movie about lying, not that good as a comedy !","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Well, I loved it. But I felt it could have had more laughs. Take for instance the improvisations of the substitute lawyer, they were all disappointed. The matter of missing the session by mixed horns, it wasn't exploited well. Or the character of the judge; all out of use. In brief; every time this movie has the opportunity to make fun, it retracts. Is it laziness ? Average sense of comedy ? Whatever the reason is, while having the irony (Trial and Error) doesn't use it well, or doesn't use it.On the contrary, it has so wonderful meaning about stopping the lying, in a way most of the similar movies didn't have. The moment of the concluding pleading is heartwarming and overwhelming. It sums up the movie's core perfectly. Sad that with stronger comedy, this could have been evenly perfect movie itself.I loved the scene of (Jeff Daniels) talking about the early-brilliant's tragedy, the one who lives a chain reaction of being superior then less and less as time goes by. It's the scary opposite relationship between intelligence and freedom. More intelligence equals less freedom, hence less happiness. This movie shows it in impressive simplicity, running as a play on the main theme as well, whereas the character used to lie, yet on himself, as if he's happy while he isn't. Slight bugging matters  the strange biker had been pictured first as (Daniels)'s attention line and fascinating fantasy (with one important zoon-in); that was confusing a bit, especially when we discover lately that she'd be his friend's girl. Then, how come (Charlize Theron) forgave (Daniels) that simple, I still can't explain the big hug near the end knowing the hurting slap she got hours ago by his arrogant fiancée ?! And lastly, the movie leaves us, incredibly happy, while its 2 leading men could, or would, meet many years in jail for what they already have done. They both are going to be exposed easily. Not to mention what job exactly (Daniels) will have ? I mean when a movie like this doesn't answer questions like these, even by swift answers, then whether it prepares for a sequel or something was hasty about its ending.(Jeff Daniels) is a fair actor, but not a great comedian, besides he lacks the charismatic persona. (Michael Richards) is a nice talent. Look at his super slapstick comedy in his audition scene (I don't know what these examiners were uneasy about ?!). Or to the way he performed his serious scenes. Accordingly I don't know why he couldn't make a cinematic career away from his trademark Cosmo Kramer of Seinfeld ?! What I do know is that he didn't have a proper chance to blossom and flourish. (Rip Torn) and (Charlize Theron), with more capturing presence and talent, surpassed (Daniels) and (Richards). (Theron) in specific looked like fresh dream, and despite her short experience back then, she acted so naturally. It's smooth and meaningful afternoon movie. I began to feel that this term, afternoon movie, got a lot to do with the light movies. As if the more complicated or satisfied ones are more fit for the night. As a comedy it could have been better if only it wasn't full of too many anti-climaxes, where you're about to laugh, then you're not. It's where I desired a remake for the very movie I was watching ! "},{"Title":"A fun movie","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was overlooked at the box office. Don't let it pass you by in the video store. This is a comedy with a heart and Micheal Richards proves he is more than Kramer. "},{"Title":"What are friends for? Trial by error.","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a quaint little Jonathan Lynn comedy. No real belly laughs, but humorous and entertaining. An ambitious big city attorney Charles Tuttle(Jeff Daniels)is defending his future bride's(Alexandra Wenworth)relative, Benny Gibbs(Rip Torn)in a class action fraud suit. Tuttle's long time friend(Michael Richards)gets the bridegroom drunk and trying to get rid of a hangover the up and coming lawyer over-medicates himself. He is unable to conduct himself properly for court; so Richards who happens to be an actor takes over his friend's duty as defense attorney in court. While Tuttle is banned from the courtroom he falls in love with a beautiful waitress named Billy(Charlize Theron)and puts his nuptials in question. The most hilarious part of the movie is when swindler Torn takes the stand for his own defense. Austin Pendleton who plays the small town judge is also pretty darn funny. I have to admit if it wasn't for Miss Theron I probably would not have watched TRIAL and ERROR. I'm glad I did.   "},{"Title":"Odd moments","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For what was likely conceived as a PG-13 B-movie comedy, this film has some awfully strange sequences that stayed with me long after seeing it as part of a double bill. They're just out of place in a movie of this sort. Watch the scene where the main characters go to the junkyard to shoot at toilets--they *really* get into the destruction. And the camera shoots the violence as a really vivid thing. It's the sort of slick shoot-em-up filming that's par for the course for Tarantino but is just so discordant in a comedy. Also, watch the scene where one main character punches out the other--there's just *way too much blood* as a result. If you see *any* blood resulting from a PG-13 punch, it's a trickle; in this movie it's a gusher. It's just so odd! This was not a bad movie--but I'm just ooked out by these occasional flashes of uncommonality.  "},{"Title":"It's no My Cousin Vinny, but funny nonetheless","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was severely disappointed with this movie the first time it came out, mainly because at the time I was at the peak of my Seinfeld fanaticism.  I thought Michael Richards was one of the funniest actors out there, and I absolutely loved him as Kramer.  And of course, the film doesn't live up to its trailer--and that's something I still feel, even after my second viewing.  The trailers make us assume this is a raucous, fast-paced comedy with lots of physical schtick, when it's actually a lot more low-key.  It's strange because at the time I wasn't aware that Jonathan Lynn directed this film and I thought to myself, Geez, 'My Cousin Vinny' was so much funnier.  Whoever this director is should've learned from that movie.  Of course, Vinny is one of my favorite comedies of all time and it's extremely difficult to top a wonderfully original courtroom comedy of that kind. Anyway, there was a sale at my local West Coast Video, where I was able to purchase 5 videos for 19.99, so I decided to pick up Trial and Error, with a gut feeling that this time I'll probably keep a more open mind and enjoy it a lot more.  Well, I popped in the tape and I was impressed.  This is a funny film, and I got a lot more laughs than I did when sitting in the theater.  Sure, it's no My Cousin Vinny and I can't help but watch a courtroom comedy with that comparison in mind, but I was still able to enjoy it for what it is.  Michael Richards is not nearly as funny as Joe Pesci, but he was able to deliver some laughs without being over-the-top, which I found impressive.  Sure, I loved him as Kramer, but the movie's name is Trial and Error and not Seinfeld, and his job to play a CHARACTER.  And he did a fine job at playing this character, even showing in certain scenes that he has potential as a serious actor.  Richards is a good actor, and not simply a comedian who transfers his act to the big screen, like in the case of a Chris Tucker or Cedric the Entertainer.  Jeff Daniels is a very funny straight man, and some of his emotional outbursts are really enjoyable to watch.  Charlize Theron is her normal beautiful, charming self.  I just wish Alexandra Wentworth could've been given a less thankless role.  She doesn't get much chance to flaunt her talents as a comic actress.  *******SPOILERS AHEAD*********What prevents the movie from being a great, memorable comedy is its predictable, utterly formulaic plot.  Daniels is engaged to a woman, who he obviously doesn't like in the first place, and from one twist of fate he falls for another woman and decides to bump the marriage.  And of course, there's the case with Richards, where he pulls his fake lawyer act disastrously at first, improves as he goes along and finally has an attack of conscience and decides to lose the case, allowing the slimy defendant to pay his debt to society.  Didn't I see that in Liar Liar?  And other movies of this sort?  Despite its flaws, I liked the movie and was able to accept it for what it is...the second time around.  I imagine others had the same feelings as I did on the first viewing.  Trial and Error isn't a must-see, but it's worth watching.  My score  7 (out of 10)       "},{"Title":"I don't care what he is in, hes still Kramer","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was pretty much an effort to capitalize on the success of Michael Richards from Seinfeld. It failed.  Richards pretty much just does his Kramer character, and Jeff Daniels is funny from time to time, but this effort is nothing special.  If you want to laught at Richards, watch some Seinfeld. (truly one of the best TV shows ever) "},{"Title":"Funny law/disaster spiral/romance comedy","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In the great traditional of movies about city folk forced out into the wilds and finding their lives turned around by simple small-town folk, (My Cousin Vinny etc etc), this is a fun film featuring a typically straight-down-the-line performance from Jeff Daniels and an equally typical crazy loon from the hilarious Michael Richards. Daniels is the lawyer in trouble, doing a favour for his boss, defending Rip Torn's wonderfully roguish swindler the week before wedding the bosses daughter, Richards is the accident-prone actor friend along for the ride, who ends up sparking a farcical few days when he has to stand in for Daniels at the trial. The story is simple, predictable but no less fun for it, the pace is good, finding the right balance between the courtroom scenes and the shenanigans outside where Daniels is romanced away from his unappealing bride-to-be by a pretty, only slightly kooky Charlize Theron. It isn't a great film, doesn't have much by way of originality or innovation but doesn't claim to, it's just simple, undemanding entertainment, perfectly adequate for a bit of a giggle of a Sunday afternoon "},{"Title":"WHY EVEN BOTHER MAKING A MOVIE LIKE THIS??","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Why in the world was this movie even in the theatures, it was so boring and un funny.  I happen to be a huge fan of Michael Richards, and even Jeff Daniels but in this movie, it just wasn't happening.  Ok, I admit there are some funny parts, NOT MANY, but some.. The only thing is they are the ones in the previews.  The bottom line... If you love seeing comedies which are more boring than funny, and they show all the funny parts in the previews, I think you'll like this movie.. "},{"Title":"Stupid, Weird, and Hard to Understand","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not really a laugh riot. I'd say it's a mix of other courtroom movies such as Dear God, or Jury Duty, but that's not saying it all. Jeff Daniels is the perfect part for this movie, but why Michael Richards, that crazy goof from Seinfeld? If critics give this a praise, were they paying attention? On the other hand, it was difficult to understand what was going on. I couldn't understand this movie, and it was far out too cheesy to me. I wouldn't recommend this to anyone, even if they were lawyers or judges. I thought it would be a funny movie, but I was proved wrong, like I always am. I give it a 5.  "}{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not bad- not GOOD either, but not bad.  Better than I expected.  Horribly predictable and some of the jokes misfire, but the characters are likable enough.  The courtroom scene with Rip Torn on the stand should have been dispensed with, or better yet, written VERY differently.  I know it's a comedy, but a little realism would have been appreciated; even OJ didn't BS that badly (not on the stand, but in depositions etc.).  However, the jurors ultimate decision helps make up for the ridiculousness of the whole thing, even if the initial reaction was extremely dumb.  I like Jeff Daniels and think Michael Richards was the only good thing about Seinfeld, and consequently they have to fail pretty badly for me to dislike anything they do, so if you don't agree with my view of them, you might very well also not agree with my assessment of this movie.  "},{"Title":"The most awesomest movie ever!!","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I got this movie from Papa Johns Pizza and I watch it twice a week. It is awesome - for serious. I love all things Jeff Daniels and Michael Richards is wonderfully believable as a whacko party animal. The jokes come at you like a million hummingbirds and a billion bumblebees with little tiny tap shoes on. I was skeptical at first but was convinced that this movie was terrific after having watched the first five minutes of it. If I were a martian from the future and had a mission to destroy earth unless the human race presented me with their best work of art; I hope that this is what they would show me. I ate a pizza and loved every second of this film. Scorcese can take a hike for all I care. This is where it's at!! I give this film my highest award - the Bilka award for excellence in a movie starring Jeff Daniels. KIT "},{"Title":"Many Trials and Errors.","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Lawyer Jeff Daniels gets wasted at his bachelor party just as he is about to defend one of his future wife's relatives in a fraud suit. Enter best friend Michael Richards (of Seinfeld fame) who decides to pose as Daniels when he is unable to go to court the first day of trial. Richards, a ham actor in the film, naturally knows nothing about law and Daniels has to teach and instruct as the trial starts and continues. Light-weight fluff that is not bad for the genre, but really this is nothing more than a long-running gag. Richards does his usual television routine and ends up stealing the show from the usually impressive Daniels (I don't know what he is doing in this). Charlize Theron, in one of her early roles, once again illuminates an otherwise unspectacular movie with her beauty and charisma. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"funny!","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was one of the funniest I have seen in recent years, as Richards and Daniels make a great team. True, it might get predictable, formulaic, and absurd at times, but what comic movie isn't? I enjoyed watching it and guarantee  that you will too.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"The Women Actors Were Great","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Taped this film which was shown in the wee wee hours of the night and decided I had nothing to lose. The plot starts out with a guy who is a young lawyer recently out of Yale who is in the process of marrying a gal who has a dad who is very rich. This lawyer is bossed around by his intended bride and even gets a fancy corner office given by this girls father. The father sends his son-in-law to be to a remote small town in Boonville, USA and he meets up with Charlize Theron, (Billie Tyler) and plenty of things start to happen to his life. Jessica Stein,(Elizabeth Gardner) gives a great supporting role. If it were not for these two women in the picture, it would simply Stand on Its Head. "},{"Title":"Predictable Farce","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Michael Richards was always great as Kramer in Seinfeld.Here he stars in predictable but quite enjoyable farce.He doesn't always appear comfortable in a starring role but has able support here from the ever-reliable Jeff Daniels.The movie itself is rather predictable but is a capable good-natured comedy.It plays much better as a  video or a movie on TV than a film that you would pay for and wait in line to see at a cinema.  "},{"Title":"Don't Waste your time","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What happens when a lawyer gets so drunk that in the morning he cannot make his court case and his friend has to cover for him? Well this movie outlines it quite well. The plot is interesting but the movie is nothing more than pure stupidity. The judge does not seem to be at all interested in actually running the case while the lawyer, Jeff Daniels, turns out to be nothing more than a bumbling fool.His friend, the one who takes over the case for him, knows absolutely nothing about law and can do absolutely nothing with out his friend beside him (or at least in communication range). Yet the movie always takes the lawyer away to leave us laughing at the ineptitude of the friend, who happens to be an actor.This movie really has nothing that makes it stand out. The lawyer is engaged to be married to a rich girl who is the daughter of the boss of the law firm for whom he works, but he gives her up for a sweet city girl come country girl who has a humble background. The actor is chasing one particular woman all the way through the movie, that is the prosecutor, and gets away with things such as sexual harassment. In the end he lands up with her, which is very typical of Hollywood.The name of the town, Paradise Bluff, brings up some thoughts, as if it is a place that on the outside seems perfect, but deep within there is some rotting evil. In this movie though, there is no allusion, nor is there any hidden evil. Paradise Bluff is a Paradise where the heroes live happily ever after.In my opinion, Trial and Error is a very dull movie with little to no comedy in it at all. It is not worth hiring, nor is it worth wasting one's time watching it on TV. The only time one should even consider watching this movie is when you are stuck on a bus between Adelaide and Sydney, and there is no way off. "},{"Title":"Trial and Error","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Incapacitated by a hangover, a frigid attorney lets his wannabee actor friend take his place in the courtroom where all hell breaks loose. Although Richards engages in numerous sight gags, it cannot help the lack of depth in the film's poorly written script. With better material, Richards and Daniels would be fun together.   "},{"Title":"Mostly a disappointment for me.","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I got this as a free VHS rental from my local library. With a critical thumbs up rating I expected it to be better and funnier than it actually is. First off, even though Michael Richards is a fine actor, he relies too heavily on playing the same character he made famous in the Seinfeld TV series. You know, stumbling on the simplest things, almost mutilating a book while trying to nervously replace it in the bookshelf. I absolutely cannot stand those antics of his and every scene of his up to near the end was difficult for me to enjoy. Second, the premise of an actor pretending to be a lawyer, and the attendant legal issues was a bit far fetched for a movie that actually purports to be more serious in the way it ends.  Theron and Daniels are perfect in their roles, but the story and Richards' acting dragged it down for me to a 5 rating.  Absurd story but not funny enough.some SPOILERS for my recollection, please read no further.Daniels, lawyer, engaged to boss's spoiled daughter, goes to small Nevada town, continuance sought, drunk night before, actor friend goes to court, continuance denied, trouble begins, legal hot water, motorcycle-riding pretty prosecutor, absurd trial, Daniels fell through ceiling, banned from courtroom, fiancee shows up after Daniels and Theron began courting, he realizes he prefers the quiet life, breaks off wedding plans, stays with Theron, Richards and prosecutor fall in love. "},{"Title":"4 out of 10","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It could have been so much better, if this lame courtroom comedy had a decent script and at least some inspired jokes. But as it is, lawyer Jeff Daniels and actor Michael Richards accidently switch roles and have to handle a difficult case and two female interests. The latter are charmingly played by tough, but pretty Jessica Steen and gorgeous and likeable Charlize Theron. And even the judge is played by comedian Austin Pendleton. But Jonathan Lynn, who was responsible for the hilarious courtroom comedy that was MY COUSIN VINNY doesn't succeed here. Still, it's not a total BOMB, and Rip Torn is a funny bad guy. "}{"Title":"Painfully Mediocre","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Thoroughly entertaining performances from Richards, Theron, and Torn can't save this movie from its sub-par direction and formulaic predictability.  Richards delivers his lines with the same quirky mannerisms that I found hilarious in Seinfeld, but if you didn't like it there, you won't like it here.  Theron shows promise though she has to create her performance as she is given nothing by the material.  Perhaps the funniest moment in the film comes when Torn tells his sob story after he puts himself on the stand.  I got the impression Jeff Daniels wasn't trying very hard in this film, but you can't blame him given the tired storyline and studio-oriented vision.  The script was most likely written by a computer, or more likely a desperate, soulless, sellout of a hack with a talent for gag suppression.  For diehard Michael Richards fans only. "},{"Title":"It doesn't know what it wants to be","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie does not know what it wants to be, is it a slapstick or romantic comedy?Michael Richards' character can't get away from the Kramer character.  Is he this oddball or a serious actor?  He flips back and forth between the two.  And in the courtroom, one second, he is fooling everyone with his acting, then the next, he becomes a complete dimwit w/o the ability to improvise through anything.I'm not sure why the prosecutor would even phrase so many arguments so that it would be constantly objected, given that she has all the legal training. "},{"Title":"Richards flops in big movie debut","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is tailored made for the physical antics of Michael Richards, and perhaps that's where the problem lies. The first 45 minutes is a drag with the poor chemistry between Richards, who plays an actor visiting his best friend, lawyer Jeff Daniels. (We have to stomach Richards do his Kramer-like antics along the way) Daniels is a lawyer who's going places and about to marry the boss' daughter. Richards arrival wrecks his friend's life. In an unbelievable sequence of events, Richards assumes Daniels' identity and defends a con artist client. Michael Richards still suffers from the Sienfeld hangover and looked very uncomfortable in his biggest starring role to date. Daniels struggles to keep the movie going with an uninspiring performance. In the end, the genial and heartwarming story is saved by the acting of Charlize Theron, who plays an endearing hotel waitress aching to put her heart for a man that will love her. Strike out for Michael Richards and here's hoping he does better again because he has so much potential. "}]