[{"Title":"A guilty pleasure","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"103 out of 122 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie.  As a movie buff, I must admit, objectively, this is a bad movie.  The writing is ridiculous, the plot is convoluted, and Val Kilmer's accents are bizarre.  But I love this movie.  It is that wonderful combination of danger and romance that makes for great fantasy.  The chemistry between Kilmer and Shue holds this movie together.  It is a delight to watch them realize that their skin deep attraction goes much deeper.  If you can suspend your disbelief and just enjoy the ride, the Saint is a fun movie.  Despite its flaws, the Saint is a guilty pleasure to indulge in when your own life is lacking in explosions, gun fights, and sudden, passionate romances.   "},{"Title":"Am I the only one to like it?","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"75 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie. Not as The Saint but as an elaborate action movie with a twist. Val Kilmer bears nothing in him that even gets close to Roger Moore's character - but if you look away from that and try to see it as an ordinary film, it's really good.First of all, Val Kilmer performs fairly well, despite his weird accents. I really liked his artist type guy who seduces Emma Russell, he was great fun.As for the story, well...I didn't bother to check for anomalies, I knew I'd find plenty. I only have two more things to say1. Elisabeth Shue is absolutely stunningly beautiful in this film.2. The cool car that we only get to see a few seconds is a Volvo C70, a worthy replacement for the Volvo P1800 that Moore's Saint drove around in. "},{"Title":"You don't believe any of this cold fusion mumbo jumbo do you","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"80 out of 112 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The Saint starring Val Kilmer is one of my all time favourites I can watch it again and again and again!The Saint is hired by Russian gangsters to get a secret cold fusion formula from a brilliant, beautiful and young scientist played by Elisabeth Shue. Anyway he falls in love and has to outwit the dangerous gangsters.Val Kilmer plays the eccentric master thief the Saint who has a dark past and an impressive talent for disguise. All the different characters the Saint disguises himself as are memorable. I personally like heroes with a dark past who aren't perfect and have suffered to become who they are today.The chemistry on screen between Val Kilmer and Elisabeth Shue is excellent - and well Elisabeth Shue is beautiful! This is such a fun feel good film (although it does have dark elements to it) that gets better every time I watch it and personally I do find some characters touching especially the Saint himself who Val Kilmer plays perfectly.This film has a bit of everything - romance, comedy, drama, suspense and action and is definitely worth renting and is definitely in my collection! "},{"Title":"Val Kilmer's performance is incredible","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"63 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed this film and not just because of Val Kilmer's accomplishment at successfully being eye-candy, but also because of the amazing personality transformations his character goes through in front of the mirror. The story line itself is pretty impressive and I loved that although it keeps you guessing, you don't end up wondering, What the hell is going on?' The science side is played down enough for the audience to know it's there but not to get distracted by its details. I don't know if the theory actually works, but after watching the film I don't really care - that isn't the point of the movie.The thing that surprised me the most though was the leading female scientist, played by Elisabeth Shue. It's obvious from the start that she's going to be the 'love interest' but her characters personality always puts a question to the question, will they actually end up together. She's shy and nervous of people, but is incredibly open, honest and warmly lovable - an almost perfect contrast to Kilmer's über-suave, identity-confused, international thief-for-hire/spy. But that's the very thing that makes them ideal for each other, they might just be able to help each other with their character flaws and so you root for them both on a rather grand scale.I was vaguely baffled by the inclusion of random, suffering Russian civilians towards the latter half of the film, but considering that they were a film device to make the baddie look bad, the goodie look good and the 'common people trapped in the middle' look down right fantastic, they do their job rather well (apart from one woman who rats out our hero). All in all, they makes sure the audience are still caring if the common people are helped by the good guy, and hoping that the bad guy will eventually get his comeuppance. However, back to my original point. I still think that the film's main achievement is putting Val Kilmer in an interesting role that shows off just how good he can be; he's observant, yet unobservable; seductive, yet not a cad; confident but riddled with insecurities. Moreover, in the early stages of the film, British students are no longer misrepresented as drunken, whoring lay-abouts, but as attentive learners who actually show up for lectures. Impressive stuff.Yours Sincerely, A Proud British Student. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"59 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Reading the average vote for THE SAINT disappointed me. 5.8, come on! It should at least be a 7 if not an 8! Many were disappointed because it didn't live up to the TV series. I have never seen the series so I can't really compare. Val Kilmer was just perfect for Simon Templar, and um a lot of saints. Elisabeth Shue was great for Emma Russell, as was Rade Serbedzija for Tretiak. I thought the rest of the actors were good too. I loved the plot and everything about the movie. Its a great espionage type thriller. Its a combo of Bond and Mission Impossible. Bond gadgets, Mission Impossible type plot. If you like those types of movies, see THE SAINT. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"46 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Maybe my expectations were too low going in after reading a slue of terrible reviews, but I thought it was a good solid movie and very entertaining. Val Kilmer was great in his disguises and rolls. Elisabeth Shue was attractive as ever and played her part well. The movie kept on a continual pace, and kept the action and suspense throughout. There were a few things I thought were lame and it got a little unrealistic at times, but all in all it was a good solid movie. Maybe even a good action / romance date movie. If you haven't seen it (as I hadn't until today), give it a try. It has action, suspense, romance, and a little comedy thrown in for good measure. It runs in at just about 2 hours long, so long enough to get a good plot, some twists & turns and yet not bore you. There will always be people that pick plot holes in movies and just love proving that it's road kill. If you're one of those people, maybe you should stay away, but if you want a good entertaining popcorn movie it's worth a watch.  "},{"Title":"great cast, good plot highly underrated movie classic","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"51 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This film upon first viewing might not bowl you over as I thought it only o.k however after watching it many times I began to see just how good a movie it really was. Firstly you have fantastic locations which I must admit generally don't draw the out the movie going public out in huge droves but do help the movie in my eyes, then you have the cast, Val kilmer makes a fantastic Simon Templer although I was'nt the biggest fan of the tv series upon which the movie is based so have no basis for comparison, which is probably a good thing as comparing actors again'st other actors who once filled the role can make the viewers decide its going to be awful before even giving it a chance.... to cut a long story short I'll say this..... good plot, great cast especially Val Kilmer pulling off the cool, dark and secretive character he portrays and last of all excellent locations all I can say is view it as a new movie and not a modern remake and see what you think. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"54 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that is strictly for the eye. The soundtrack by Graeme Revell was brilliant, Elizabeth Shue is absolutely stunning. In the apartment scene her eyes shine in diamond hazel colors. It was just a simply movie, decent acting, but there was something about it. It captured an essence, I can't actually describe it, it was actually corny and beautiful at the same time.  "},{"Title":"The   Saint   walks  Among  Us","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"34 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Back in the sixties Roger Moore don the persona of Simon Templar, known to his fans as The Saint. From the small tube to the Silver Screen, our hero has arisen to a modern audience. With the superb talents of Val Kilmer, the saint is out to accomplish two goals. First he attempts to secure his life-long ambition of amassing $1 billion dollars, and second to perform three miracles. In the process, he encounters both friends and life threatening villains. In this episode, the Saint attempts to save the crumbling Soviet Empire' energy supply, by revamping the scientific and long sought-after formula of Cold Fusion. In this story, he helps brainy, Dr. Lev Botvin, (Henry Goodman) perfect the celebrated formula of Physist Emma Russell, (Elisabeth Shue). The re-energized formula will replenish Russia's dwindling energy and save the Premiere of Russia from the anti-government villains played adroitly by (Rade Serbedzija), Ivan Tretiak, (Valeri Nikolayev) and Vereshagin (Michael Byrne), the archenemies of Templar. Alun Armstrong is believable as Inspector Teal. The film is fast paced and action oriented with plenty of drama, guns, explosions and international intrigue. Kilmer is fantastic and I believe this will become a classic among all the great films of his career. **** "},{"Title":"SAINTLY,A CLEVER MOVIE!","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"24 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This movie is more of the modern day version of Robin Hood, only without the bow and arrows. Val Kilmer, plays the role very well. To me in my opinion is no Batman, but he does provide a lot of action in this movie. Simon Templar is more than just a saint, he's a chameleon in the process.Elisabeth Shue, is great, I remembered her from The Karate Kid and Leaving Las Vegas, did very well playing Emma, she looked great throughout the movie. I liked the part when that Russian hooker helped Simon and Emma from the Russian Mafia led by Ivan Tretiak. Once his own countrymen found out who he really was, the people turned on him big time. I think this movie was a lot of fun, and I wish Kilmer would put up such an ego. Rating 3 out of 5 stars. 8 out of 10! "}{"Title":"I never Write Comments, but this one deserves it.","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The Saint starring Val Kilmer is one of the best Movies ever, and my Favorite Val Kilmer one. Also my Favorite of all time. The Film starts off with a young boy who witnesses his love die. He runs away and becomes a Thief. On a Mission to rob a rich Man, he is found out and is hired to steal from a Woman, named Emma Russell. He has to steal notes on Cold Fusion and it turns out that he gets involved with her romantically. He is forced to steal them when her life was threatened. She later find him and that is where the real adventure begins.The Saint is a great movie, for almost the entire Family. Please, take time to enjoy this Film. It's one of the best, and especially one of Val Kilmer's best. "},{"Title":"Simon Templar against Russian mobsters in a moving  international intrigue","Date":"29 May 2010","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The movie deal with Ivan Tretiak ( Rade Serbedzja ) and his son ( Nikolayev ), Russian Mafia chiefs who want to create an oil crisis in Moscow and seize power as a result . They agree Simon Templar ( Val Kilmer ) , -master of disguises and great international criminal- , and send him to Oxford to steal a secret formula for cold fusion from U.S. scientist Emma Russell ( Elisabeth Shue ) who cooked up the recipe . That formula will give Tretiak a source of cheap energy and deal of money as result . But Templar falls in love with Emma and they attempt to outwit the two megalomaniacs and his hoodlums , hiding from them in Moscow . Meanwhile , Simon Templar is continuously changing identities and being relentlessly pursued by the police ( Alun Amstrung ). The Russian magnate with an eye on the presidency of the Russian Empire plans a coup détat. This exciting picture is packed with frantic action, thrills, suspense, tension and an enjoyable love story . However , it contains a silly and dumb final set on the square of Moscu . The story bears little resemblance to the 60s British TV series on which it is based because of the complex argument is quite different . Brief acting by Emily Mortimer and uncredited Roger Moore as voice in car radio . Splendid musical score by Graeme Revell based on the catching leitmotif of the 60s series . The motion picture is regularly directed by Phillip Noyce . Rating  Average and overlong though entertaining. This character based on Leslie Charteris' novel was formerly adapted for cinema with George Sanders and Louis Hayward and for TV in the classic series starred by Roger Moore and subsequently by Ian Ogilvy in the 70s and the 80s performed by Simon Dutton and produced by Robert S. Baker the same producer of the recent rendition. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The Saint, I know it came out in 1997, almost three years ago, but I just recently saw it. I wanted to see it in theatres, but me being the typical teenager, broke, I had to wait until it came out on video and I forgot about it. Anyway, I really enjoyed it. I love romance movies and I like action as well and I think that is what made me like it so much. I also love Elisabeth Shue, she is a very talented actress and is also very pretty, I don't think she gets the attention she should receive. The plot,I will admit, was a little difficult to follow, but I love science as well, so i was quick to catch on. The love scenes were perfect and Val Kilmer did his numerous characters very well. All in all I would say it was very good movie... I'm really glad they didn't use their alternate ending in which Elisabeth (Dr. Emma Russell) dies. I hate sad endings! I would recommend this movie to anyone who likes Elisabeth, Val, action, romance and comedy, its truly amazing.  "},{"Title":"The Saint","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This is my favorite movie of all time. Seems kinda corny, and you might think Im a complete and utter fool..but its true. Val Kilmer and Elizabeth Shue fall in love on film. Of course they're acting, but I've never actually seen that moment when two people fall in love really portrayed in any other film I've seen. Its simply great writing when he is back in her apartment and he knows and feels its happening and tries to fight it but he cant. Then the scene cuts to her in the bathroom amazed at what she's feeling and saying This can't be happening! As corny as this sounds, the writing, the acting, the scene show the true power of love.Aside from that, Valeri Nikolayev who plays Tretiaks son is spot on with his acting. He's super intelligent and vicious. The perfect villain. I love it when he walks in the hotel, and his cronies shoot the clerk and he smells the rose in the vase. Beautiful acting, flawless writing and directing.There are some beautiful shots of Russia and England in this movie as well. They picked the most gorgeous places they could find in Europe and its a backdrop for the whole movie. Who do I write to ask could they get this out in HD? Somebody help me on this one. I can go on about The Saint. The movie will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Return of an icon","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I watched this on TV out of nostalgic remembrance of the classic TV Saint series with Roger Moore which I grew up with in the 1960s. Not expecting similarity but hoping for some swashbuckling action in Simon Templar style, I was not disappointed. A thoroughly enjoyable Saturday evening viewing with a stylish Val Kilmer (an actor I'm not familiar with) who combined the Templar characteristics with James Bond finesse very well, and a cute Elizabeth Shue playing her part in the manner of the unlikely earlier Saint female leads (I've never seen a mini-skirted, sexy blonde scientific genius in all my years spent in Oxford!) but adding her own feisty zest to the proceedings.I particularly liked tongue-in-cheek references such as the repeat use of the first bars of the original Saint theme tune interrupting the background music, and the stick-pin Emma produces at the end which mimics the original Saint logo, and the voice of Roger Moore on the final voice-over car radio. I also liked the device of imagining a childhood background for Simon Templar. The original character (and I have read all the books) has a suitably hazy and enigmatic past of which his readers as well as the other characters (including his girlfriend Pat and sidekick Hoppy Uniatz) know nothing about. Adam Smith made an angelic young Simon and the orphanage setting was highly appropriate.Altogether an under-rated movie. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable stuff!","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I remember the first time I saw this was on TV, I wasn't holding out much hope for it but then after watching it I was impressed. I've just watched it again after getting it on DVD and it's still a really fun film. I think that as a one off movie spin off from the original series it does brilliantly.The array of disguises that Val Kilmer goes through is the face enjoyment but past that I found that most of my enjoyment came from not so much a relation to Val Kilmer's character but just strangely wanting him to succeed. Along the same lines as when I watch a Bond movie, for all the same reasons due to many similarities between the two.Although some parts of the film (the intro and ending) are maybe brief I think they do well to set up what we want to know and see and leave the main focus of the movie on the central plot.Overall a good fun movie and a happy DVD purchase ) "},{"Title":"A great film. As simple as that...","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Let's face it. 'The Saint' is a film without a complicated story, without (over)elaborated special FX, without super-special costumes or immense stages. Yet,  the result is very professional, and very positive. And 'The Saint' is one of those films that make you feel glad for the existence of Cinema. Val Kilmer, as Simon, and Elisabeth Shue, as Emma, give to their characters their very own souls. Despite the fact that 'The Saint' is basically an action film, the characters do not lack emotions, and do not appear lifeless. On the contrary, they're very human and realistic. And this is what makes the film so simple, yet so great. Feelings of happiness and sorrow, joy and depression, fear and courage, are mixed up-as in real life-in a story of adventure and romance, (with a lot of funny moments too) which captivates our total interest. As previously mentioned, special Fx or costumes, photography or art designing, are not an extraordinary aspect of the film. But that doesn't mean in any way, that a good job hasn't been done in these areas. What is a little more special and should be mentioned, is the very emotional music score, a perfect match for the film. In conclusion, it is safe to say that 'The Saint' is a film that very few won't enjoy. The Saint is a great film for those we seek two hours of action, feelings and joyful smiles. As simple as that... "},{"Title":"VERY underrated. Great movie.","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I was about 10, maybe 11, when I've seen it first time. And you know what, I loved it sooo much, it became on of my all-time favourite movies. I just love Kilmer and I don't get why he gets trashed so often, Shue is beautiful... and Russia looks pretty real, though there are still some cliches left (like year-round frost, earlaps' caps and Vodka), but thankfully no dancing bears on the streets and all that stuff; and not to forget Valeriy Nikolaev as one of the main characters, who also does well in representing our (Russian) nova days reality. There were also some decent sense of humour, some pretty cool effects and good intensity throughout the movie, but the main thing is that it was very, I don't know, very human. Very sensible. Yup, that's it. Must see. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Action, Adventure and Romance all very well done","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The Saint is a very well executed story of a world class international thief whose career has amassed him millions for his services. He is a master of disguise and this ability prevents even those who will hire him from knowing his true identity. In fact he is only reachable through a veil of phone and internet contacts. He has one last job that will get him to his retirement goal. Of course, this last job will be a doozie and have him choosing between his professionalism to complete the job or to side with his newfound love interest and follow his heart to what could be his true soulmate for his life to come.Val Kilmer is The Saint, the thief, and at his best in a character you can't help but love. All the disguises are brilliant and you truly get inside this character as the story evolves. Elizabeth Shue is the scientist, the love interest here and does a wonderful job as well, while Kilmer works his magic upon her to steal the scientific secret that only she knows. Their personalities and souls gel as The Saint's mission goes on and they get trapped within a Russian mafia plan that would have them both killed. Kilmer's pursuit of Shue's secret, their mutual escape attempts and the bond they make for a possible future bring the audience into a wonderful and exciting story of a lonely man's discovery of love lost many years ago.This movie has fabulous writing, plot line, acting, scenery, technology, action, camera-work, etc. You name it, it was done well. A 10 rating in all areas, it draws you into the action and characters and you live this movie with them. One of the best all around movies ever, I have never met anyone who did not enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"A thrilling joyride..!!","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I've seen this film several times. Its a nice film. Kilmer n Shue did a gr8 job and the on screen chemistry is awesome. The film really keeps us going. To some critics this film may lack logic n whatever they look for in a movie. But the normal people can just sit back n enjoy this one. The scene where the artist seduces the doctor is one of my favorites in the movie. And i must say, all the disguises that Val Kilmer uses in the film are simply great. People who look for serious reasoning and logic doesn't need to watch this film. Because they obviously won't like it. People who enjoy thrills, go for this. Its a kick ass movie. "}{"Title":"Keeps you on edge","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" An excellent action-romance movie with good cast chemistry. The stakes are high and Simon Templar is the spy with the abilities to avert his enemies with his ever changing persona. Its ironic title is fitting for a spy who fights, drinks, and has liaisons with multiple women all while under the guise of a saint's name and an identity he associates with it. I particularly like his nonchalant Bruno Hautenfaust who yawns at the prospect of being killed. Val Kilmer does a superb job of portraying more than a dozen characters. I like this movie a lot and watch it several times a year. It's highly entertaining and won't disappoint action moviegoers. "},{"Title":"More than serviceable action film","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The Saint is a better than average action film. I say this despite the less than than impressive action scenes, the dearth of any original villains, and the cliched plot. What saves this film is the chemistry in the interaction between its stars Val Kilmer and Elisabeth Shue. Unlike in James Bond or Batman films, Kilmer plays the hero realistically and Shue is more than a damsel in distress. Its too bad that in recent years Kilmer hasn't been getting the plum roles in Hollywood and roles that might've gone to Shue are going to Nicole Kidman and Gwenyth Paltrow. Thank goodness for Kilmer he decided to make this film instead of continuing as Batman in the horrible Batman & Robin which came out the same year as The Saint. Just imagine how low his career would've sunk then? The Saint will keep you entertained for an hour and a half, 7/10. "},{"Title":"Romance? A Spy Thriller? Both? Wow.....Yes!","Date":"5 October 2007","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I love this movie. I saw the last half on Cable recently and felt I should rent it in order to see the whole story.I was blown away - the relationship between Thomas More (Moore?) and Emma was heartfelt and radiant. I cannot remember a movie that was as captivating and sweet as this was in showing the dynamics of individuals falling in love.Beyond this, Val Kilmer is so entertaining in his many disguises; it makes for many funny elements.Although there are some flaws with execution and details, for those of us who want movies that reveal the depth of characters and story lines beyond the action (although this movie does bring that element in), this is immensely satisfying. "},{"Title":"Why this excellent movie is not famous???","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I have got great enlightenment within the movie while in a English class.The actor is handsome and the girl is very smart and also beautiful. I can't forget the 3 words the evil said, Friends, countrymen, Russians -- very COOL! I remember when I was at that moment, I felt my heart shivering...(I guess whether someone else will experience so) Tscences in the movie mixed of some violence, some action and some love-things is continuous -- I mean, you could not move your eyes away once getting the first stare in it. Some fault is the title of this movie is easy to miss,and I use Russians movie to search in Google and take a long time to catch it. Oh o .. too far away, BUT IT'S REALLY A WONDERFUL movie! "},{"Title":"What can I say......","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" It's not often that a film comes along where it has a start, a middle and most importantly, a sensible, well thought out and intelligent ending. For this type of film you usually have big explosions and people getting shot in the head etc, but here, you have intelligence.A heck of a lot of people did not like this film back in the day but I simply loved it to bits. The main stars, as usual, have a relationship of sorts and that's what made the film for me! I'm giving away no details but again, a lot of people will not relate to the characters being played out in this film.Get yourself some popcorn or whatever, sit down with your mind open and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Perfect act by Val Kilmer.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Great action film and the best acting Val Kilmer ever formed. Val Kilmer gets into the skin of every character he performed and i don't think anyone else could play the part better. Also a magnificent Elizabeth Sue that anyone can tell her acting is more mature. Great film and gives you all the answers you may have. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie was one of the first to make it into my DVD library when I started putting one together. My wife and I get alot of laughs watching this every now and then. I don't understand why it's rated so low or why it wasn't more popular than it was. I can respect fans of the original series speaking from a certain bias against it, that I can understand. But for others that bash this movie I can only presume they just don't 'get it'. Heck, Maybe I'm just not sophisticated enough. I think if one watches movies and can appreciate smart sarcasm and off beat humor like I tend to do they'll be a fan of this movie. Val Kilmer I'll go so far as to say is a comical genius in this movie (as he is in Tombstone as well). He's probably the most underrated actor out there. How can the scene where he offers the Russian mob boy a go of his lipstick not be funny? Then again, maybe I'm just a warped human being )  "},{"Title":"entertaining movie","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I don't like to read long comments so I will write a short one. I think this movie is great. First of all it has a great story , which is totally entertaining and beautiful musics and  views of great places in Moscow. The only bad part of the movie is Val Kilmer's performance. But at last I can totally suggest you to watch this movie.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was great..Elizabeth Shue is a babe, and Val Kilmer rocked in it. The soundtrack was awesome in it as well. I liked how those bad guys kept getting tricked over and over again by the Saint aka Simon Templar aka Thomas More. The disguises that he used through out this movie, rocked as well. "},{"Title":"Good Action-Adventure Film","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. Many will criticize it's plot or concepts, but as an adventure following a slick international thief, it's a lot of fun (after all, everyone loves hi-tech gadgets); far fewer people lament the overly sensational aspects of Indiana Jones or James Bond pictures. Admittedly it isn't the most intellectually grounded of cinema, but if you're stuck home on a rainy day, grab a bowl of popcorn, turn on The Saint, and go along for the ride! "}{"Title":"I'm Sorry, I liked it","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Well I've read some comments here and I have to say I loved the film, but if asked what I thought of it I normally just say I quite liked it when really I've seen it an unhealthy number of times. I really liked it, and I'm not really sorry.  "},{"Title":"Hidden gems. Ironically, hidden in eccentricities","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This movie haunts me for reasons i cannot fully understand because i don't usually think twice about many movies. For some reason, this film holds tight and is still very entertaining 10 years later. This is all you could ever hope for in a movie and much more. For that, it is perfect and timeless.The movie seems to be shot in a personal way. That is to say, the faces of the various actors were very important to the style of this movie. The depth of both Simon and Emma seem to hinge on us being able to see their eyes sparkle as we see ripples of imagery run through their minds. The cunning rogue and the eccentric beauty are very, very, very well done here.Val Kilmer gives a very convincing performance and succeeds in playing a very deep yet very playful and adventurous loner. He has more than the usual machismo a leading rogue requires. He has flair and the sense of passion that a true appreciator of people might have. After all, he enjoys certain freedoms from what most people would consider normal, average life and this gives him the edge of the outsider looking in. An observer, if you will. He is able to play Emma (and us, the audience)because he is both a damn fine professional and loves his line of work all at the same time. That is power (and the gadgets don't' hurt either)Elizabeth Shue captures the eccentric, innocent yet unmistakably keen and observant scientist. She feels and displays passion at levels we would love to feel. She let's us see her feelings so we know she's in love. Her expressions give authenticity to the attraction between her and Simon and this makes the movie more than just a caper flick.As a whole, the movie is well-paced, well shot and well acted. The plot weaves into itself with the right thread of natural feelings of cleverness and connection. The ending is perfect and the ride is memorable.~Jared "},{"Title":"Very Good! Unfair to compare to original version.","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed watching this movie from beginning to end. Val Kilmer portrayed his role very well. Elisabeth Shue is very beautiful. She also played her character very well. The acting is superb and the scenes are top notch.Most negative comments are from people who compared this movie to the original one. I haven't seen the original, but, If I did, I will not make comparisons.The chemistry between Kilmer and Shue is real and natural. The flow keeps me glued to the screen till the end.The background music is a good choice and comes in at the right moment. I would definitely recommend this movie to friends and relatives. "},{"Title":"Accomplished espionage thriller.","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The Saint has been criticised vociferously since its release in 1997. In some reviews, it has even been likened to The Avengers as one of the most misguided movies of all-time. However, I genuinely cannot see why this film has aroused so much dismay among the cinema going public. As far as I'm concerned, this is an accomplished, rousing and satisfyingly complex espionage thriller.The plot finds a master of disguise/super-thief, Simon Templar (Kilmer), being hired to track down and steal a brilliant energy-saving formula. The formula was invented by a female science student at Oxford University (Shue), and when Templar eventually closes in on her, he finds himself falling in love with her. Oh yes, then there's the small problem of the swarm of Russian agents who also want the formula....Kilmer is OK as Templar, but the character was better portrayed in previous incarnations by Ian Ogilvy and Roger Moore. Shue, as the science whiz, is stunningly attractive and actually manages to just about get away with the fact that she is essentially miscast. The action scenes in the film are well done, but this is no surprise since the director Phillip Noyce is a dab hand at this kind of thing thanks to his work on a couple of the Jack Ryan movies, not to mention the unbearably taut Dead Calm.If you've never seen The Saint, I would encourage you to do so. If you've intentionally avoided the film because of the negative reviews you may have read, ignore them! This is huge fun! "},{"Title":"So what's so bad about The Saint?","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie expecting a remake turkey of Avengeresque proportions, yet what I found was an adequately enjoyable action-espionage romp that held my attention for the whole of its duration.To be honest, I know nothing about The Saint. All I know is that it starred Roger Moore (an actor who, like Kilmer, is unlikely to be troubled by the Academy) and had a vaguely-memorable theme tune. Then it came back with Ian Ogilvy, who was less popular, but had a cracking theme under the name of Return of the Saint. Oh, and he wears a little stick-figure Saint icon, which is oddly effeminate with it's one hand on hip, the other tilted. A bit of a fey emblem for one so suave.Other than that, I came to this film afresh. I'm not normally Val's biggest fan (feeling he virtually slid off the screen in apathy during Batman Forever) and only tuned in to see a real lousy movie, an enjoyable pastime on occasion. However, while Val may be a charisma-free zone on a par with Keanu, I think in The Saint he does seem to be enjoying himself a lot more. In fact, in a more personable actor, this film could have easily become a one-liner spouting, smug action film. With the more... er... dormant, shall we say?... performance of Kilmer, it has a less abrasive edge.The plot, acting and dialogue probably won't stand up to close inspection, but then this isn't the sort of film you're going to watch more than once. It's passable entertainment, where Kilmer adopts a variety of ludicrous disguises and even more ludicrous accents to foil some Russians in a cold fusion war.Val's characterisation is interesting, as is the role itself. I mean, what is The Saint, other than a glorified thief? Only British tv could come up with such an anti-hero; a leading man who basically... nicks things. Even towards the end, when a more philanthropic nature is revealed, this is still a man with $50 million in the bank, and yet no-one yells you dirty crook and all the women want to bed him. I liked the fact that a lot of it was set in England, something you don't often get in Hollywood films. Best bit in this country had to be the English police tackling an armed man. Stop, sir, hold it right there says the unarmed policewoman. A nice culture clash.I'm not trying to justify this as a classic, and neither is it rocket science. (Well, actually, having said that, rocket science IS one of its plot elements...) All I'm saying is that this picture was an enjoyable, passable way to spend an hour and fifty minutes, a nice piece of escapist fluff that harms no one.  "},{"Title":"Everything you ever wanted in a date movie.","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  When this movie first came out I saw it 4 times! I really loved it. Then I started reading the reviews. I couldn't believe that the critics hated it! One thing I've learned, never listen to the critics! Anyway, this movie was really great. It's not terribly deep, but it's fun. I enjoyed the story line, the effects and even (dare I say it?) the actors. I think Val Kilmer did a fine job. What do those dunder-heads Siskel and Ebert know? Let's see them try to do an accent. I laugh in their faces (not that I'm bitter or anything)! So, if you're looking for a funny, romantic, exciting, spy genre movie, try The Saint. "},{"Title":"A Well-Developed Version of The Saint","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This film presents a well developed story showing how Simon Templar became The Saint. Kilmer is the perfect choice to play Simon Templar, master thief who is also a master of disguise and charmer of women. The different characters Kilmer creates while in disguise are interesting, believable and amusing.Templar is a modern day Robin Hood. He uses his charm, technological skills, and cunning to steal from evil entities. He then gives some of his loot to charitable organizations, but keeps a significant amount for himself. He prefers not to use guns and violence, but trickery to elude his foes. He also is just as adept at James Bond in seducing women to help achieve his goals.Fans of The Saint TV show who prefer Templar as an independently wealthy detective may not like this adaptation. I personally enjoy the TV series, but I believe that this Saint more closely resembles the character Leslie Charteris had in mind when he wrote his novels and stories. There is more dimension to Kilmer's Simon Templar than we have ever seen.The movie nicely shows the versatility of Kilmer's acting ability. I would love to see a sequel at some point, but Kilmer is getting old for the part. If you like the espionage genre, this film is worth a look. The IMDb raters have been rather harsh; I give this 8 of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"why idiotic Titanic makes it big and a awesome little flick like this does not","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  why idiotic Titanic makes it big and a awesome little flick like this does not is way beyond me! I was looking at America's top 50 of all time and I am seeing Titanic, Forest Gump, Lion King, Jurassic Park- and it totally blows my mind that these turkeys are up there. Can anyone even watch these nowadays? Or My Big Fat Greek Wedding? s****y movies all around....and then there are a bunch that are nicely done, nicely acted- like Kalifornia, Dark City, The Saint, 13th Floor, A.Ferrara's The Funeral, etc- that somehow fall by the sidelinesgo figure  "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Highly enjoyable","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I truely love this movie. Prior to seeing this movie, i had never actually seen the saint television series, but i did have a general idea of the plot. The movie is great, and the soundtrack is even better. The whole concept of the plot is wonderful, especially considering the current state of the US economy, even though this movie was made it 1997. Val Kilmer does justice to the character of simon templar. I'm dying for a sequel and even have had many ideas about possible plots! If you love any james bond movie or love action movies please go rent/buy it. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED! "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best movies i have ever seen...i don't know why but i love it...i think i watch it 15 times a year...characters are great,scenario is great,film is GREAT!i don't think there's something missing in the film,humor,romance,action it has everything in it "}{"Title":"Simply...","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I think this movie has a great story! really! it's simply the best movie I've ever seen. the cold fusion «thing» in the movie it's like sugar in coffee it sweets it even more. I advice every one to see this film it's simply... fabulous!  "},{"Title":"gr8 movie","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" After watching this movie it is in my all time favourite movie list. It is indeed an Excellent movie. All involved in the movie has done gr8 job. ElisabethShue is absolutely stunningly beautiful in this film. The chemistry on screen between Val Kilmer and Elisabeth Shue is excellent. Val Kilmer was a great choice for the role that he played. The film has good plot, great cast. It has action, suspense, romance, and a little bit of comedy. All in all a gr8 movie to watch. I give it 10 out of 10.The Saint will keep you entertained for an hour and a half.This movie has fabulous writing, plot line, acting, scenery, technology, action, camera-work, etc. thanks "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Honest to god, this movie was probably the worst I've ever seen.  One ridiculous scene after another.  An incredible disappointment.  Not only does Elizabeth Shue figure out cold fusion in like twenty minutes (something that has puzzled scientists for the better half of a century), but that's the basis for the movie.  Right away it has no chance.  And then the scene where Kilmer jumps in the freezing river, and the ensuing warming-up by Shue, is so ludicrous its comical.  My favorite is the end though.  When she's running to the embassy, and yells Open up, I'm an American! and they happily obey.  Mind numbing stupidity. "},{"Title":"Good!!!","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The Saint is a good movie. It's Mission Impossible meets James Bond. The  disguises are very hot and Val Kilmer give an excellent performance. This  is not a great suspense but it's interesting the way the action goes. I  know the movie is not like the TV Series with Roger Moore but it's a 1990s  Saint and not a 1950-60s Saint. See this movie and enjoy it.8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Low rating not justifying this under-rated gem!","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I liked this movie a lot because its pacey and racy from the very start to the finish. I liked the character of almost everyone in this movie from Simon Templar to his foes. I liked the get-ups of Simon Templar too. A good attempt i'll say. Hats off to director Philip Noyce for this. I cannot understand why people rate this so low. Its an Under-rated gem! It deserves some credit whatsoever. The Action sequences and good story make this movie a must-watch! Also Elizabeth Shue is absolutely stunning in this movie and i really loved watching her in this one. Watch this movie with a pop-corn in hand on a cool Sunday afternoon without much expectation of logic,you'll not be bored. "},{"Title":"Sentimental favourite","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I just finished watching the Saint again, it's the sort of movie you remember seeing a few years back and when you get home after a long day at work your glad it's being re-run on TV. The plot is nothing stunning but neither is it entirely unbelievable. Simon Templar (Val Kilmer) is a big time con-artist/thief who operates to further his own financial position, charm some very attractive ladies and buy himself a Volvo that actually looks good. An ambitious Russian oil magnate hires him to steal a formula off a gorgeous nuclear physicist. They fall in love and Templar turns from thief into hero. I don't think this movie claims to be anything life-changing but it's good fun if taken lightly. Kilmer has a good turn as Templar and his various disguises and pranks along with some bungling by a few hapless Scotland Yard detectives provide a few laughs. The action is great fun and backed by the Chemical Brothers and Underworld. The romance between Elisabeth Shue's character and Kilmer's isn't bad either, they're both convincing in their own way and there are some nice moments for sentimental folk like me. The Saint is perfect for a quiet night with the boys, beers and some gawking at Elisabeth Shue, it's bad not to watch with that someone special either.CheersTim  "},{"Title":"Cloak-and-Dagger espionage gets lift from Val Kilmer's clever performance...","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  If you expect 'The Saint' to resemble the TV series with Roger Moore, or going further back, the films with George Sanders or Tom Conway, you're in for a disappointment. Like 'Mission Impossible' (the movie), it bears no such resemblance to previous 'Saint' films.On the other hand, it's an interesting espionage tale with the usual heroics and mixes of suspense and humor when Kilmer changes his identity to suit his purpose. Plenty of action thrills along the way as The Saint manages to outwit and outsmart the villains at every turn. Seems he's needed to infiltrate a top-secret organization bent on stealing a scientific formula that could change the world. Val Kilmer makes the perfect action hero in this surprisingly entertaining movie that was not given as much hype as it deserved upon release. His performance alone is reason enough to watch this clever spy film that mixes thrills with a dash of humor. "},{"Title":"A Belter of a film.","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The Saint was the first release that I had seen in years which had everything going for it. It is excellent and I don't care what anyone says. Val Kilmer and Elisabeth Shue are really good together. Elisabeth Shue is the most gorgeous women on Earth. No-one can describe her looks. Erm, anyway, The Saint is a great adventure, if you like, and thoroughly enjoyable. One of the best disguises that Simon Templar adopts is the German homosexual disguise. All of his disguises are funny and well acted. Ms. Shue is brilliant as Dr. Russell who gets caught up in the Web of move and counter-move but who rolls along with it and emerges unscathed. The Russians are also brilliant as criminals becoming desperate near the end after they have been so ruthless and powerful all of the way through. Also the fact that it is filmed in England and Russia and not in the US, is prehaps a positive factor, I reckon. The soundtrack (which I bought as well as the video) is absolutely fantastic. A perfect round off to the film. "},{"Title":"A great film created from the series!","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie really got my attention.  The acting was great.  The plot was great.  We really got to see inside the life of Simon Templar.  Each character was developed nicely.  Elisabeth Shue was, as always, a wonderful casting for the part.  You could easily fall into their characters and be right there with them.  Many overlook this but I thought that the Musical Score was an absolutely amazing work of art!  It fit perfectly and wasn't overbearing at all!  This movie is worth every bit of your time! You are able to watch it over and over again!  They even got Roger Moore into the movie at the end.  (an extra bonus!) "},{"Title":"An intelligent thief falls in love and dances around many obstacles.","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Basically this movie is entertaining and interesting.  Val Kilmer and Elizabeth Shue show some really good acting and portray strong characters. If you like action with some emotion mixed in the middle this is for you. It tells the story of an intelligent thief out to steal the formula for cold fusion, and in the process falls in love with the scientist he must retrieve it from.  Kilmer takes on various personalities through the various disguises he uses, and provides a few laughs.  The various tight situations they get into build up suspense and made me almost bite my lip.  Overall you should be very satisfied with The Saint .  I saw it with my mom, sister, and dad and they all loved it.   "}{"Title":"A great action film delivered by a great filmmaker!","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Quality Rating *** out of ***** (three stars out of five) The Saint is a good, above the average action movie. Val Kilmer is great and interesting as the hero, Elizabeth Shue is sweet and vulnerable, it's nice to see that her career is now flying high, and her next film, Hollow Man, has a great potential to become a major success. Her character is so tender that we understand why The Saint, a highly cold and professional spy, falls in love with her. I always admired the films of Phillip Noyce, and although The Saint is an example of his capacity to deliver a good motion picture, his best work is Dead Calm, the 1989 thriller starred by Billy Zane, Nicole Kidman and Sam Neill. It's obvious that, after Dead Calm gained terrific reviews, Hollywood discovered this talented Australian filmmaker. The Saint has all the elements that sustain the entertainment - action,romance and suspense. The guy who plays the villain (Rade something, I don't remember his last name) is also great, and when he is on the screen, he steals the scene from the protagonist. Kilmer does a good job as an action hero, he plays the saint with humor and creates a likeable character, it's impossible to stop cheering for him.I recommend this great movie! "},{"Title":"A good time pass","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" It is good flick... a racy one too. For people who like action movies too much, it might be a disappointment. But it is worth watching if you like movies that depict face-changing heroes and Val Kilmer. I liked the parts where Simon puts on the funniest faces...they are quite great. Kilmer and Shue put on a great show on screen, the plot is quite nice but the direction seemed a bit weak. i guess the end of the movie where Dr.Russel's cold fusion model works could have been more imaginative, and the Moscow river scene was slightly long. A little editing could have worked wonders with this film but what the hell, it was worth watching. "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs.","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This movie was an unbelievable mess. It made little sense until the end and by then I didn't care. I like Val Kilmer but in this movie it seemed he was definitely just picking up a check. Elisabeth Shue was equally bad. The plot was ridiculous and the characters were very flat. And the police? They hadn't figured out the guy they are chasing always uses saints' names? Worst of all I did not like the way the Saint was portrayed - he is supposed to be a problem solver, a sort of Robin Hood looking for people to help. In this movie he was a thief who did the right thing only after he fell in love with the girl. And what was the nonsense at the beginning? Was this supposed to help us understand his character? It didn't. Avoid at all costs, especially if you like the Roger Moore series. "},{"Title":"So Bad Its Worth Watching","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" There are poor movies and bad movies. The bad movies are usually so unbelievably awful that they are worth watching. The Saint is technically a well made film. However, the wooden acting and stupid plot place it on a par with some of Steven Segal's films such as On Deadly Ground and The Glimmer Man in that they are so unbelievable they need to be seen to be believed. Throw in a troupe of British character actors for the minor roles and what we have is an adventure film with a flimsy plot in which Val Kilmer displays all the personality of a plank of word whilst donning a range of silly disguises which do not work. Even the presence of Elizabeth Shue does not redeem this film. If you're suffering from depression watch this and it will make you laugh. "},{"Title":"Go Val!","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Val as usual turned in a great performance for this movie! His ability to do accents is unsurpassed. The Russian mobsters were incredibly realistic. Coming from this kind of nationality I know how accurate this all really was! Elizibeth Shue was great too!  "},{"Title":"A Hole a Minute","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" It was painful to watch. I could list all the holes, but it would waste yet more of my time than the film did and you might not read this warning if I had to tick the 'Contains Spoiler' box.It is like watching a Bond movie directed by a first time director. Someone should tell the writer a bit more about Simon Templar. Aside from the small factor of being a poor actor, Val Kilmer is the antithesis of suave. I mention Bond because there is too much Bond-styled action in this. You get the feeling that the people making the film wish they'd got a Bond movie to direct, so they tried to emulate one. The end result meaning that they slaughtered the memory of The Saint in the process. They are very different characters.It gets one point for Elisabeth Shue looking as lovely as ever. It doesn't get more than that because it falls down through its near infinite number of holes too much to drag itself up to two points. "},{"Title":"Cliché upon cliché","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I think that if there was a hitparade of clichés this movie would hit most of them.Story of tragic children love, which leads to the main character being a human chameleon, who picks his names after Catholic saints until he's tasked with stealing formulas from lonely romantic scientists, only to fall in love with her and risking everything just to save her from the terrible villains (who, according to number of other clichés, are Russian). Of course, she searches for him, and once again, the star-crossed lovers are running for their lives. Of course the whole movie ends well - the thief escapes the clutches of Justice, and poof, happy ending.Giving the rating I did mostly because I like clichés and because I liked how villainy the villains were. Oh, and for Frankie. I really liked her character. "},{"Title":"Leslie Charteris Would Probably Like This Movie","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Yes, Leslie Charteris would probably like this movie -- but not me. The way I see The Saint is much the way George Sanders and Louis Hayward interpreted him. A debonair scourge of spies and criminals, The Saint steps in where the official police are afraid to tread or unable to investigate. Now there is nothing debonair about Val Kilmer. Nothing particularly likable either -- except for the fact that he bests the villains and can run fast. I don't blame the heroine for being confused, for The Saint himself -- as presented here -- is a confusing character. The script even takes time out to let us know WHY he is confused. It all happened in his childhood, see, when he was a victimized Oliver Twist in an orphanage -- but not just an ordinary orphanage. As I pointed out in other reviews, many modern movies are determined to throw off the shackles of the past and come out fighting mad. In this case, it's the Catholic Church that gets a firm drubbing with a sadistic priest presented as a fiend from hell. These childhood episodes really have little to do with the main action but are presented mainly for their shock value. The film, which is a mite too long at 112 minutes away, would be better off without them. Introduce Kilmer right from the start and you would have a more compact, less talkative and far more suspenseful movie. "},{"Title":"Why did they make this a Saint movie?","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I'm a massive fan of all things Saintly. I have read all the Saint books, I own and have seen all the old RKO Saint movies from the 30's, 40's and 50's with Louis Hayward, George Sanders and Hugh Sinclair and own all the TV episodes from the 60's & 70's with Roger Moore & Ian Ogilvy. Only a few Saint items elude me. The very hard to find Simon Dutton Saint adventures from the late 80's, the Andrew Clarke one off TV Movie from 1987, the old radio shows from he 40's and 50's and the forgettable French movies of the 60's.Because of this, I was very wary about the Val Kilmer movie featuring the halo'd character of Simon Templar despite having Saint legend Robert S. Baker as executive producer. My fears were not without foundation.The character of Simon Templar as originally written by creator Leslie Charteris is an English Gentleman adventurer thief, he is known by reputation as a criminal with morals. He despises injustice, never preys on the innocent and only steals from people he refers to as the ungodly who have made their ill gotten gains by riding rough shod over anyone and everything. In this movie we have an American Templar (1st mistake), who commits high tech robberies for extremely large sums on behalf of people who are morally bankrupt (2nd mistake). In fact Kilmer's portrayal of Simon Templar is as far removed from Charteris's creation and the character portrayed so well by Moore, Ogilvy and Sanders you cannot even recognise him as being the same person.Having said that it was SO easy to forget that this was even a Saint movie. As far as I'm concerned it was just a wonderful exciting movie about an American cyber criminal on the run from the Russian Mafia who falls in love with an American physicist. The action is gripping the plot engaging and the acting superb, apart from a few VERY sickly scenes between Kilmer and Shue. I'm all for romance between characters but......I did enjoy it but apart from the title it is in no way, shape or form, a Saint Movie. That was the producers 3rd and biggest mistake. By calling it a Saint movie, they were already on the back foot as expectations were no doubt going to be high especially from die hard Saint fans like myself. Making the Saint an American is a BIG no no. having the Saint happily work for criminals is another.If they had removed all reference to The Saint character from the story, I could be easily reviewing one of the best movies of the '90's. Kilmer's Character was more akin to Ethan Hunt than anything you would ever find in a Charteris book. However, Elizabeth Shue is GORGEOUS and I really did enjoy this movie very much for what it was. If you can forget it's a supposed to be a Saint movie then I'm sure you will too.Enjoy!!! "},{"Title":"Predictable thriller uses post-glasnost Russian setting well.","Date":"1 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This movie might actually be more interesting viewed now as a 90s period piece than when it first came out in the real 90s. Since most of the movie takes place in post-glasnost Moscow, albeit with icy Canada often standing in for wintry Mother Russia, the viewer gets a nice sketch of the effects of the end of the cold war on the people and economy of the former Soviet Union. As an industrial espionage thriller, The Saint is fairly predictable, but Val Kilmer has fun with his character's master-of-disguise shtick playing several neat cameos within the film that re-defined gentleman adventurer Simon Templar for the 90s. Shue makes a credible appearance as a sheltered academic everywoman dragged into intrigue beyond her previous experience. As an added treat, this movie also features the 90s-topical idea of cold fusion, now long since de-bunked. "}{"Title":"Hitchcockian running man movie","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Phillip Noyce excels at directing spy thrillers (Patriot Games, Clear and Present Danger, The Quiet American, Salt). With The Saint he tells the tale of Simon Templar (Val Kilmer), a master of disguise and professional thief who finds himself dodging the police, Scotland Yard and Russian bad-guys. At his side is a sexy but fragile electro-chemist played by Elizabeth Shue, who hopes to keep the secrets of cold fusion out of the hands evil oil baron, Ivan Treitiak.Yeah, it's silly, but Noyce elevates the material, keeps the pace up, serves up some nice location photography and seems to have learnt well from Alfred Hitchcock, who practically invented such running man movies, in which the film's entire plot is an excuse for thrills, pretty scenery and the promise of a kiss.As the spy genre (popularised on screen in the 30s by guys like Hitch, Michael Curtiz and Carol Reed, but started by Fritz Lang in 1928 with Spies) was virtually birthed from the clashes between the British Secret Service and German Intelligence, The Saint, like most spy movies, has fun playing with European landscapes and old school spy trinkets/conventions. 7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Terrific political thriller","Date":"22 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The saint starring Val Kilmer is a terrific political thriller based on the Russian government.A man who takes the name of Saints is about to unravel a conspiracy being developed to overthrow the Russian Government.The movie revolves on a scientific experiment called Cold Fusion.The saint portrayed by Van Kilmer has given a good performance.His acting is very good.Elisabeth Shue(Dr.Emma) has also given a decent enough performance.This is a decent enough political thriller.You would love to watch it again after you have seen this.Good direction with a thrilling plot & good enough performances will keep you on your toes.Not the perfect but still very good.I give it 7/10.Must watch for all those,who believe in the cold fusion mambo-jumbo. "},{"Title":"Takes me back to the 90s","Date":"9 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" A lot of great action films came out in the 90s, this being one of them. The Saint is film about a master thief who disguises everything about his appearance, thus always staying one step ahead of the police. But when he is asked to steal scientific secrets from a beautiful researcher, he falls in love and for the first time becomes vulnerable. Val Kilmer does an amazing job with the part, with his many accents, Elizabeth Shue is absolutely beautiful, and Rade Serbedzija is fantastic as the villain. All of this plus a great soundtrack that could only come out of the 90s(especially the song 6 underground by Sneaker Pimps) make this a fun movie. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Dumbed Down, Romanced Up Saint.","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" International super thief for hire Simon Templar (Val Kilmer) is in for a challenge of conscience when he's hired by leading Russian business mafia figurehead/oil magnate Ivan Tretiak (Rade Serbedzija), who has designs on becoming the Russian president, to steal the secrets of cold fusion from a brilliant young scientist named Dr. Emma Russell (Elisabeth Shue), something which will ensure Tretiak his reign of power in Russia. Even more indomitable for Simon, he finds himself falling for the woman he's been hired to hoodwink.What this is, in essence, is a dumbed down, romanced-up prequel to the Saint in that it features Simon Templar before he became an heroic character. That said, this character as portrayed by Kilmer bears very little resemblance to Leslie Charteris's Saint. And if you're expecting similarity to the Roger Moore version of the Saint, you'll be even more disappointed. Kilmer was miscast here no doubt about it. The Saint is supposed to be a charming rogue whereas Kilmer's version is basically a romantic master of disguise who's running from himself. The charm sadly is missing. Kilmer is completely unconvincing as a womanizer and not once did I believe he ever really had the upper hand in his relationship with Dr. Emma Russell which certainly doesn't fit the classic character. Still in terms of romance, this delivers the goods and then some. Only problem is The Saint isn't supposed to be a romance movie. Still anyone who likes watching attractive people, certainly hard to beat the leads here, fall in love may very well find plenty to enjoy here. "},{"Title":"Cool Movie","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Why is it that a lot of people look for deep meaning in every single movie they see? It is not as if they are being paid to analyze the acting, plot, and director of every single movie (save it for columnists and Roger Ebert). The Saint is a cool movie. It's not a film. Personally, I liked it but not because of the actors, the script, or any separate element of the film. I liked it as a whole. It's fun to watch. So if all you care about is spending two hours watching a movie that is entertaining and not about enlightenment from a mainstream movie, then watch The Saint. For anybody else, your opinions are valuable but this movie had to have meant something to you for you to write about it. "},{"Title":"VAL KILMER AT HIS BEST","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  As I'm not someone who is very familiar with the television show I'm guessing that it was a plus. The film was a complete entity without having to rely on the show of the same name.The film itself was brilliant, granted as a Val Kilmer fan you could say that I might have been biased but not very often.  There are a lot of his films I don't like.  Anyway, it had a nice story with plenty of twists and turns.  It was obvious from the moment he met Dr Russell that he would fall in love with her, although there was a bit too much kissing and sloppy stuff.The best thing about the film I think was the many characters Val managed to do.  He seems to be able to do so many, and not just in The Saint.. another one would be Tombstone. The man is a genius, in a league of his own.Just a word of advice to anyone who's going to see it, don't go in there expecting it to be like the television show because you'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Misjudged from start to finish","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  TV series' have always provided a tempting subject matter for Hollywood, yet only a handful of film spin-offs, such as The Fugitive are any good.  The rest often turn out to be unqualified disasters. The Avengers or Wild Wild West anyone? Philip `Dead Calm' Noyce helmed this effort starring Val Kilmer as the man with the halo and while its not quite the travesty that many critics claimed, it's still a poor adaptation of the &#145;60s TV series based on the books by Leslie Charteris.  Kilmer's Simon Templar bears little resemblance to either. The scriptwriters have attempted to re-invent him as a Bond type hero with a troubled past and have injected the concept of him being a master of disguise. Sadly this doesn't work at all. Kilmer's stints under various makeup jobs are at first amusing in a pantomime way, but soon become tiresome, mainly because he is really a ham actor impersonating racial and social stereotypes rather than a master of disguise. The plot has our hero goes globe trotting in his attempts to steal a formula to create free energy for an evil Russian megalomaniac, from unworldly researcher Elizabeth Shue. All of this is featherweight in the extreme and doesn't make much sense anyway. To make matters worse, all Noyce seems to be doing is pointing the camera at the actors with minimal interest or conviction and for an action flick this is surprisingly dull. A few more action set pieces would have been welcome. Shue as the innocent scientist with a heart condition is easily the film's best asset. Looking perfectly lovely, she gives a performance of naïve charm, without ever turning into a run-of-mill annoying love interest, however unlikely a cold fusion expert she may be. Nevertheless there's nothing here that saves the film and any episode of the Roger Moore TV series is far more more entertaining that this mess. "},{"Title":"What movie was I watching?","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  It doesn't matter how well-filmed it was, how nice a butt the lead has, how good the Russian speaking was, or anything else. When a movie tips to the ludicrous side of my suspension of disbelief scale, it's time to flush it. The scriptwriters of this piece of trash believed that the audience would eat any illogical, brain-numbing plot devices they could conjure up.Movies often turn to the illogical plot device to help get the story somewhere more interesting. I don't fault them for that. A small plot hole in exchange for transporting us somewhere interesting is a small price to pay. For instance, it's difficult but I'm willing to believe that a moody, 30 year old blonde is an accomplished physicist. Shue's bio says that she did go to Harvard, though she sure didn't win any award for oratory. Anyway, moving on, I'll even believe that Val Kilmer is able to change his elaborate disguises in seconds, unassisted. My stomach is growling, but I'm ready to watch the film. Then, they throw in cold fusion. Fine. Cold fusion is a valid plot device these days. My stomach is ready to hurl, but if the story is good, I'll survive.But no, the scriptwriter dwells on the illogical and makes it the centerpiece of the movie. Cold Fusion this, cold fusion that. Yada yada yada. At one point, we're somehow expected to believe that an angry mob of 100,000 freezing Muscovites interpret (let alone see) a fusion-powered lightbulb to mean that, although they will still be cold and hungry for the foreseeable future, the Russian government deserves their support.Most of the other comments on this film are positive. Did they see a different version than I did? I think I'm an ordinary movie-going guy, but I can't figure out what there was to like about this one.  "},{"Title":"If you like action this is a movie for you","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie having never watched any series from which this was created...its funny,romantic,and action packed. A all around good movie Val Kilmer was the best candidate i feel for this movie with witty lines and romantic exchanges when he can he tries to save the world and get the girl all in one. It's perfect for anyone who just wants to be entertained with a good movie a novel idea that has lost its edge in the world of movie criticism "},{"Title":"enjoyable","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  not bond but it was a good movie enjoyed it but not somthing i will watch 100 times val was as good as he could be with the script given shue looked great on the screen some of the humur wasnt there and some of what got lost by not being filmed right 6 out of 10 "}{"Title":"As Far As I Know, Val Kilmer's Best Role Ever","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I've always thought of Val Kilmer as a secondary actor. Iceman in Top Gun and playing a second-rate Batman compared to Michael Keaton. But I was proved wrong in The Saint, which pushes acting to the limit with Kilmer playing a variety of characters very well, and also having romantic and action scenes.The Saint features Simon Templar, aka The Human Fly (Kilmer), who travels the world in disguise to steal and sell whatever he can for the highest price. Things become more complicated when he must steal from a beautiful physicist (Elisabeth Shue).I thought Shue was especially flaky, as was her character. How a beautiful woman who knows cold fusion does not get a date is beyond me. Also, how a world-famous physicist can dress and act like a high school cheerleader is also a bit odd. But I guess it's possible. On a related note, this is Shue's most beautiful appearance. I cannot even recognize her as the girl next door of Adventures in Babysitting or The Karate Kid.I'm also not sure if the best way to cure hypothermia is to take off all your clothes, because that is not what I learned in Boy Scouts. But I'm not a physicist.Otherwise, great film. The costume and makeup department deserved an Oscar. If they didn't get one, I scream foul because I have never seen more convincing makeup and hair extensions in a film before. Kilmer was able to play roughly six characters that were all lifelike and quite distinguishable.The fights were great, especially when Kilmer donned his ninja gear and fought the Russian mafia. Breathtaking. And what a great choice to play the Russian villain. Charismatic, strong actor and powerfully menacing.This almost makes me want to see the original TV series, though I think I'd be disappointed. This film is a must-see for all people, action fans or not. The romance and comedy easily rival the action. "},{"Title":"Rather Messy","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I have vague memories of THE SAINT TV series starring Roger Moore and THE RETURN OF THE SAINT starring Ian Ogilvy and my memories fail to connect to this big budget screen version . The Simon Templar as portrayed by Val Kilmar is entirely different from the gentleman thief I recall , he now seems like a master of disgiuse except for the rather important detail that no matter who Simon Templar is impersonating he always looks like Val Kilmar in a bad disguise . The make up might fool the baddies but it didn't fool this audience member As for the bad guys ( In this case the Russian mafia ) what's their plan ? Some vague shenanigans involving an oil crisis so they can they can steal the theoritical fuel source of  cold fusion  thereby leading another revolution in Russia . Hmmm . Is Russia's economy more dependant on oil than say The United States Or Saudi Arabia ? Seems a bit illogical in making the villains power crazed Russian gangsters in that case ? But perhaps the worst thing about watching this version of THE SAINT is that it's like watching a sub standard Bond movie , director Phillip Noyce and the screenwriters don't really have a standard bearing as to where the movie is going so keep switching locations with little rhyme and reason , one minute we're having a talky scene in Moscow then there's a fast paced shoot out in London then we're back in Russia with Val Kilmer in yet another goofy disguise with Dr Emma Russell there as an unconvincing plot device/love interest . All this makes THE SAINT an unmemorable movie experience for those of us with little knowledge of the literary character while those who have read the books will almost certainly hate this big screen version "},{"Title":"Great acting by Val Kilmer","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I saw this film 4-5 times since it came out in the theaters. I think it has an interesting aspect of how The Saint (Simon Templar) accuired that name since its childhood. May i say that Val Kilmer, in my opinion, made the best acting of his life. Check out the way of his body language during the different characters he plays and also the various accents. He made a big effort and spend a lot of time preparing for his role. The storyline is fast, hard to predict. The action sequence is great and the rate of change remarkable as well. The music is also great. What can i say, Its a great film. I will certenly showing it to my children one day. All and all i think is a great movie worth having in my collection.I was wondering if they were ever thinking of making a sequel. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of ALL time","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I could watch Simon & Emma's romance over and over and over again. This movie made me become a huge Val Kilmer fan. I have it on tape and I still watch every time that it's on HBO. The first thing that attracted me to The Saint was all of his funny disguises. When he played the old man and we saw him start to fall of Emma, I was a fan for life. I've memorized every word and ever facial expression that Simon and Emma do in this movie. The way that they met and then the first time that they made love was so perfect. I swoon every time that they say how will you find me I found you. The Saint has all of the ingredients for a true love story. Elizabeth Shue and Val Kilmer had such amazing chemistry in this movie and I hope that some day they make a sequel.  "},{"Title":"Bad, empty experience!","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Having seen only a couple of episodes of the old series, I did not have much expectations from this modernized movie version. Unfortunately, I was still disappointed. The script writers had clearly no idea how small children behave, not did they have any inclination of how adults behave. As I watched the movie, I began to suspect that it had not been written at all; the production team seemed to make everything us as they went. (Extremely minor spoiler ahead!) Especially the evil young russian who seemed to know only one suspicious and all-knowing expression and somehow miraculously knew exactly where to look for our 'saint' and his friend. After all, there are only so many buildings in Moscow to choose from! I gave it a 3/10. And that's mostly for my nationalistic feelings for seeing the Nokia Communicator... "},{"Title":"A Saintly world of Intrigue and Danger","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The one thing I liked about the Saint when I saw it in theaters back in 1997, was that it was not as much about the gadgets, action or stunts, but it took those elements and worked a feesable story behind it. Val Kilmer, who I think has probably the best head of hair in Hollywood, puts out a good performance as Simon Templar and enthrals the audience with his characters, and use of disguises... The movie itself was trounced on by critics, but it did fairly well when I was working at the theaters during its run... There could have easily been a sequel made, but I doubt that it will happen. Elisabeth Shue is just stunning as well, one woman I wish I could see more of in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Decent film","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  A decent film.   It was well paced and entertaining.  Val Kilmer does a wonderful job in the leading role.   By far his best performance that I have seen.  One way that I judge a movie is how many times do I check the clock. Only once on this film.    "},{"Title":"A chump at Oxford...............................................","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Apparently a victim of post - production studio tinkering,I had to watch The Saint four times before I could actually finish it. So if you want an adulatory review go somewhere else.Set mainly in Oxford and Russia,it presents Leslie Charteris's hero as a cold - blooded,mercenary satyr.He is played by Mr Val Kilmer in a distressingly smug fashion.His attempts at various Foreign accents are embarrassing.He dons various wigs and moustaches throughout the movie to absolutely no avail.His turn as a South African artist/poet is absolutely toe - curling.How Miss Shue didn't split her sides I'll never know. And what is she doing in this?Obviously inspired by her co - star she gives a desperately bad performance as a scientist with a Secret Formula that the Baddies want to get hold of.Well,there you go. She is more like a nervous second year undergrad giving a viva than a world - renowned scientist reading an eagerly - awaited paper. In the audience is the bloke who played that nice Dr McArtney in Green Wing. He only has one line so don't get too excited. Lots of Russians shoot each other,one spits at an African - American G.I.,thus ensuring he never gets a part in a Spike Lee movie. Roger Moore reads a news bulletin over the end titles.With a bit of luck some people might not recognise him. Mr Alun Armstrong as Inspector Teale is the best actor in the movie by a country mile.How he never managed to catch The Saint is a complete mystery to me. "},{"Title":"THE SAINT (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Well, if you wanna give me some bad time then let me watch a movie with Val Kilmer as this good-looking dude must be the dullest actor I have ever seen and that's the biggest problem I have with this movie... First of all the story sucks... It's dead complicated but in essence it's just The Saint (Val Kilmer) who has to get back a stolen formula from some student (Elisabeth Shue, beautiful babe who can't act). Not that I ever watched the TVseries but at least Roger Moore has that typical British touch where as Kilmer is just a failed actor who seems to be bored by everything he does...even if he is making love with Shue. The sole good thing about this movie are the footages from Moscow but you can see the same if you watch some documentary on the National Geographic Channel. And of course the music was good...but better to hear the cd without seeing the images.  Quite strange to notice that this is directed by Noyce who recently made movies like The quiet American or Rabbit Proof Fence.... "},{"Title":"The Saint, a second time...","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" From the director Phillip Noyce, The Bone Collector (1999) Patriot Games (1992) Clear and Present Danger (1994) and Blind Fury (1989) comes what I feel is another best performance from Val Kilmer. Simon Templar, 'The Saint', only this time it's take two, the first being Roger Moore, that was a well made series for television in the sixties. Val comes to update the times, in this epic movie. Cloak and Dagger, espionage thriller is what this story is, with Elisabeth Shue as an essential love-interest character for Kilmer's Templar. They look good together, but Simon can't really afford to surrender his heart. Or can he?I have respect for an actor that can play one role well, but then when it comes to multiple roles, Val takes on six various characters, all in disguise of course, but put together with style wit and wisdom from his training. Afterall, this is his business. This is a fun and enthusiastic spy story, with some tight situations, and some close-scrapes, it is a two hour action/love story that is a real pleaser for those who like action, adventure and or love stories.I recommend this heart-felt top-notch spy story for any and all that love a great adventure. (****) "}{"Title":"Fun Movie but Kilmer is No Saint","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed this movie when I first saw it 10 years ago, however since then I have listened to many episodes of The Saint (Old Time Radio Show, starring Vincent Price) and scene several episodes of the BBC The Saint with Roger Moore. Both of those versions had much better versions of The Saint character. The Saint is a Bon Vivant character, he likes blondes and adventure. In both the radio programs and the TV series he was an amateur detective, that for reasons that were never explained he did not need to hold a real job. Some of his cases paid him very well, but many held nothing for him but adventure. There is also something a little dangerous about The Saint, he hovers just above the criminal underworld. But in this movie he is none of these things. He is just a completely different character. Fun, and good looking (as only Val Kilmer can be), but he's not the same character. There is no other way to explain it without giving parts of the movie away. So let's just some up by saying that it's a fun adventure film but Val Kilmer is no Saint. "},{"Title":"This movie has nothing to do with the real Saint although quite watchable, if confused, if you forget about the Saint.","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This movie is a mess. The original Simon Templar was far too self-assured to have had the miserable childhood depicted. He may have become an orphan and he may have gone to a school in the Far East, but he clearly had a decent, not unhappy education. It wasn't until I watched the commentary by the Director that I discovered this movie was meant to be a prequel to the Saint stories of Leslie Charteris. So it must take place before Meet the Tiger in which The Saint is 26 in England in about 1928. However, the plot relates to 1997 period and cold fusion!!! (There was a fuss about cold fusion not so long before when some scientist(s) said had discovered how to do it but this couldn't be replicated. Choosing cold fusion for a topic was painfully dated in hindsight and extremely dodgy.) This timeline confusion has been done again recently with the Bond movie Casino Royale, also a messy and badly scripted plot with an actor who doesn't look, act or convince as Bond. Templar was handsome, dashing, and charismatic. Kilmer's looks just aren't right. Forget he's the Saint and he improves immediately - interesting personality of his own and works well with the attractive heroine. The plot of The Saint is daft because it just isn't the kind of things Templar would ever do. It's a movie that's difficult to watch because of the contrast between Roger Moore and the seriously miscast Kilmer who even has an American bowery-type accent when being himself yet the Saint is English. It would have been better if the director hadn't had some obsession with putting over his own pet idea of the Saint's early life, but instead considered what would fit in with the Charteris stories. It was amazing to discover from his commentary that he was a fan of the Saint books and knew them well. You would never know it from the movie. You'd think he'd never read a Saint book nor seen a Roger Moore Saint episode. But better still if the story had been based on the early books which form something of a serial - The Last Hero, The Avenging Saint and Getaway, my three favourites of all the books and I think by far the best - nothing Charteris wrote later for me ever lived up to these early stories. They had all the 30's charm and the movie could have been fashionably period, there was the tragedy of Norman Kent to pull at the heart strings (just compare it with the tedious romance in Kilmer's film tho' the actors did their best admittedly), and the entertaining story that starts in Germany - Getaway - to give a European setting. This would have been a splendid Meet the Saint. The romance should have been as that in the books - Patricia Holm, to please her many fans. The best part of the movie is the ending - Roger Moore's voice is a delight. There's the Saint logo. There are hints of the music from the TV series. But how this story might have worked would have been to make it a Bond movie. With a better scriptwriter to sort out the anomalies and a suitable actor for Bond. Cold fusion is fantastic enough to suit Bond. The Saint isn't into fantastical. "},{"Title":"An unpardonable sin - 34%","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Here's a question. Why does Hollywood insist on disrespecting us Brits when it comes to movies? Everybody knows (or at least, they should) that it was the Brits who recovered the German Enigma code-deciphering machine during the Second World War. Not that viewers of U-571 would know, of course, where the Enigma machine is found by Jon Bon Jovi and Harvey Keitel. The less said about the U.S. remakes of The Italian Job and The Avengers, the better and sadly, the trend continues with The Saint where a half-forgotten TV character from the Sixties is brought back to life and promptly crapped on.Val Kilmer takes the unlikely role of Simon Templar, an English public-schoolboy who grows up to be an international thief and mercenary for hire. He needs to take on one last job before he can retire and thus, he finds himself working for Russian politician Ivan Tretiak (Rade Serbedzija) and must recover a scientific formula for some energy thing called Cold Fusion. Leaping into action, Simon traces the theory back to beautiful Dr. Emma Russell (Elizabeth Shue) and before you can say conflict of interest, Simon falls for her and begins to protect her from the Russians who will stop at nothing to steal the formula for themselves.Before I start on the movie itself, allow me to revisit the point I made at the beginning. In the TV show, Templar is a gentleman thief and helps people with their problems for the Hell of it. He is not a gun-for-hire mercenary as he is here, obsessed with his bank balance instead of righting wrongs and making the world a better place out of the goodness of his heart. In short, this is The Saint in name only - it bears as much relation to the original show as I do to Brad Pitt (i.e. none). Kilmer is just dreadful, displaying all the grace and charm of a worm on a fish-hook. Disguises merely consist of differing amounts of fake facial hair and appalling accents and if spying is that easy then sign me up! There is little chemistry between Kilmer and Shue and neither are helped by the convoluted plot which seems determined to lose and confuse you at every opportunity. When you're not laughing at Kilmer, the action sequences are not too bad but again, this goes against the whole principal of the character. This could have been any film, with any character but instead of being an alright spy thriller, they attach the story to a character that simply doesn't belong there. It's a bit like making a romantic comedy with Hannibal Lecter as the principal lead.So where does this leave The Saint? It certainly belongs in the increasingly large pile of second-rate remakes along with Italian Job, Avengers, Dukes Of Hazzard and others. It's not even a good example of a spy film - stick with something like The Bourne Identity which does deviate from the source material but not in such a way as to disrupt the plausibility of the lead character or your enjoyment of the movie as a whole. I'm sorry but this film appears to have been massively over-rated on this website. Kilmer deserved his Razzie nomination - I felt like I was watching a feature-length episode of Allo, Allo but with more money spent on pyrotechnics. In all honesty, I cannot recommend this film to anybody. Perhaps those with no knowledge of the original might get something out of watching this but I mean no knowledge at all, whatsoever, not even the theme music! Sorry, folks but this Saint really is unforgivable. "},{"Title":"It grows on you...","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The casting, I thought initially, was off, but now, not.  The chick-flick-type  magic intrinsic in falling in love is the overriding theme.  The acting convinced me to let it take me along, wanting to be a participant.  The critics missed the type of movie that it is, being out of love themselves, most of the time, not being able to be bothered by what you and I like about this very type of story, which is the finding of, the working through the troubles of, and the suspense engendered by whether all the ofs will succeed or not, that is, unless you don't like that theme, then you do agree with the critics, right?  I find I like the same movie, seen later, very differently, and to a surprisingly different degree, at different stages in my life. This is an old fashioned love story where men are masculine and women are feminine.  There is none of the common modern way seen on TV where men are only decent and good to the degree they act like women.  None of the underlying hatred for men is imparted by payback domination characterization by women to/of men. Refreshing. The movie is about looking for the love he lost, not the surrounding story of how that came to be but, just that it did. He didn't know who he was until she found him. "},{"Title":"What a load of rubbish !","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  There's a popular football (soccer) chant that applies very well to this film. What a load of rubbish!Bad script. Bad acting. Bad plot. Bad direction. Add them up and you get ... well rubbish.Why does Elisabeth Shue's character sound permanently out of breath? And why is she so wooden? An actress of her talent has put in an amazingly amateurism performance.Val Kilmer as the Saint? Nope, just can't see it. The Saint was supposed to be a snappily dressed, slightly roguish character. Val is none of this. Possibly not entirely his fault.Oh, and there is far far too much explanation of the background of The Saint. This is intolerable, and ruins what made the TV series so good. Roger Moore's method of acting may be just to raise and lower his eyebrows but he did a better job than anyone in this film.Two and a half hours out of my life. Wasted. "},{"Title":"Unintentionally hilarious","Date":"24 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This was an ambitious attempt to bring The Saint to the big screen and was probably not a bad idea but the casting of Val Kilmer in the title role and a tepid script give this a distinct B-movie feel. It might even be a cult classic by now.Val Kilmer is a 'gentleman thief' known internationally as The Saint but going by the name Simon Templar. Simon uses the names of Catholic Saints for aliases in his varied disguises. He grew up in an abusive Catholic orphanage and took the alias Simon Templar while there. After a childhood crush's accidental death he fled the orphanage and became a thief specializing in industrial espionage.He's become wealthy this way and is hired by a ruthless Russian industrialist called Ivan Tretiak (Rade Serbedzija) to steal a cold fusion formula from Dr. Emma Russell (Elisabeth Shue) in order to help the Russian gain a monopoly on the energy market and assist his plot to overthrow the Russian government in the wake of an oil shortage. Simon steals the formula from Emma but it's incomplete and therefore useless to Tretiak so he tries to have Simon assassinated and Emma kidnapped.Simon must help Emma complete her formula and protects both their lives in various stupid disguises and accents which are howlingly bad on Kilmer's part since the best guise he can affect is an effeminate seeming soft-spoken white South African artist that gets him into Emma's bed. The stock villain Tretiak and his junkie son are your typical out to rule the world at any cost bad guys.The funniest scene in the movie occurs when Val Kilmer's Saint invades Tretiak's nightclub office dressed as the villain and forces him at knife point to transfer The Saint's payment into a bank account. He leaves the office and tells Tretiak's bodyguards there's an impostor behind him managing to get away in the confusion that follows. Watching this in a theater when I was 15 was a chore and one of two times I fell asleep watching a movie I paid to see. "},{"Title":"Kilmer Takes One to play One?","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This is an under-rated film, chock full of clever portrayals, nifty electronic gadgets, flashy camera work and dynamic sets.Val Kilmer is the 'Russell Crowe' kind of talented actor not someone you want to mess with, touchy, egocentric, enigmatic.... Not your first choice as a neighbor, but great fun to watch on the big screen! He demonstrates his fine range in 'The Saint', an able impersonator of several characters, a pre-cursor to the 'Jason Bourne' sort of super-hero who is resourceful, but also somewhat damaged. (Kilmer also shone in The Ghost and the Darkness as an engineer in Kenya, and, yes, I'm the only on the planet who liked his work in 'Batman 3' -- you see as a person, he's as dark as the character he plays, so, it works for me!)I'm old enough to remember the TV series -- the stories were a bit far-fetched, good entertainment, but not to be taken too seriously. Roger Moore could do no wrong -- every plot he hatched to outwit the bad guys worked to perfection. The breaks the Saint gets in this movie are also fortuitous, to be sure, but I view that as a sort of tribute to the original show - don't start picking the 'realism' apart, for goodness sakes! Nor are comparisons to the original Leslie Charteris' character particularly helpful - several actors gave us that, thanks -- let's move on.For that matter, consider the setting Russia in the midst of an energy crisis with a rich, power-hungry oligarch named 'Tretiak' (ably played by Rade Serbedzija) plotting to initialize a coup to grab political control -- in fact, the screenplay was somewhat visionary seeing that the flick was made in 1997 and Putin has reportedly just 'taken down' the Oligarchs who were bankrupting the new Russia. Tretiak also uses the Russian mob and compromised paramilitary police forces to do his bidding. Life imitates art. (suggested read 'Icon' by Frederick Forsyth).Elisabeth Shue shines as the naive researcher who gets entangled with Kilmer. Supporting roles were also terrific, especially by Valery Nikolaev as Tretiak's cold-as-ice son, a worthy adversary for our Saint, and Alun Armstrong as a cop haplessly on the trail of our hero (Armstrong has been around forever and has always looked the same age -- you will catch him as an army leader 'Mornay' in 'Braveheart', and more recently as a lovable but fragile, eccentric detective in the British series 'New Tricks').Music and camera-work are also impressive. Personally, I love the Russian settings - it's a culture exotic and mysterious, but damaged, and -- not unlike the Protagonist of our story -- rooted in ancient traditions.Finally, Amazon has the DVD for sale at a great price, but if you're really hankering for the original 'Roger Moore' series (or curious), there is box set of those available also.8 out of ten "},{"Title":"if the backgroud is a tail fairy tale story, i believe it. but","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  if the backgroud is a tail fairy tale story, i believe it. but it's real world, this guy can't do the things by himself. Hero has strong abiblity, but it should looks reasonable. Logically it's not a good film.  "},{"Title":"Nice movie, I don't know the series","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I have never seen the series, and if I look at some of the comments here, I guess that's a good thing. I liked the movie for what it is to me an action film about a thief, who has to steal the formula for cold fusion. A nice script is built around this concept, with some jokes, some love and some action. Add some good acting and there you have a nice way to spend your evening.The movie reminded me of The Jackal with Bruce Willis, probably because of the disguises, and a little bit of The Thomas Crown Affair with Pierce Brosnan, probably because of the being a thief. If you like those movies, you'll probably also like this one.  "},{"Title":"Kick back, relax, and enjoy","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie has lots of flaws, it also has some redeeming qualities to it.  Besides having a wonderful soundtrack rarely seasoned with music from the TV series (just enough to make it familiar), it has plenty of action, an easy to follow story line, and plenty of action.  This is not a movie that is going to leave you deep in thought, it is a movie that is going to entertain you for a couple of hours.  Don't expect great things, just kick back, relax, and enjoy it.  It's fun. "}{"Title":"Has Its Moments, Poor Performance By Shue.","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The Saint was a film i saw a few times and enjoyed,but as i looked more into it,i saw it wasnt much after all. The plot itself was actually pretty good and new,though the acting by Elisabeth Shue was very static,Val Kimer did a better performance.Sometimes it would be annoying to hear Shue repeat every 5 minutes SO WHO ARE YOU?.Some scenes in the movie just didnt seem right,the plot though was easy to get along with.The script was OK,it could have been improved in many aways,especially with that of Elisabeth Shues character,and Val Kimers impersinations were not too highly acclaimed.The characters in this movie were too fictional,i did like though the way Kilmer and Shue combined in this movie they looked great together.The more you watch this movie you notice just how average it is,there are many spy kinda movies out there thats alot better than this fair movie. Overall i think you should check it out,its an acceptable movie, but many peaces of the puzzle is missing,you might not get it,but otherwise it can be enjoyed if not taken too seriously.NotE Elisabeth Shues Acting -)Out of 5 stars (*****)(*)= Half a star.Acting **Actors ***Action **(*)Script **(*)Cinema **Overall **(*)2 and a half stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"To The Point","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  First of all I have read several reviews of this movie and I can't quite figure out what most critics are looking for in a movie like this.  Most of them are bashing it as not being as good as the old series.  First of all this is a movie, not aseries.  Second of all it was a terrific movie that takes you on a fantastic trip through the underground world of todays Russia. Since there is no COLD WAR left to play on this shows you a story of an international thief who gets away with everything he sets out to.  Val Kilmer is the perfect choice for this role since Tom Cruise is now Ethan Hunt from Mission Impossible. As Simon Templar (Kilmer) gets the money, the girl, and he gets away.  The soundtrack to this film is extraordinary!  It's better than a Bond film!  If you like spy movies this is a must see! I own the movie and the soundtrack.  So to wrap things up,I hope you critics out there who don't like the movie read this. You have no imagination, and no business reviewing a movie at all. I've talked to a lot of people through the years and NO ONEever agreed with Siskel and Ebert.  I can only hope that they make a sequel to the Saint with all cast members returning.Yours Truly,Saint-88  "},{"Title":"Everything you ever wanted in a date movie.","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  > > > When this movie first came out I saw it 4 times! I really > > > loved > > > it. Then I started reading the reviews. I couldn't believe > > > that > > > the critics hated it! One thing I've learned, never listen to the critics! > > > Anyway, this movie was really great. It's not terribly deep, but it's fun. I > > > enjoyed the story line, the effects and even (dare I say it?) the actors. I > > > think Val Kilmer did a fine job. What do those dunder-heads Siskel and Ebert > > > know? Let's see them try to do an accent. I laugh in their faces (not that > > > I'm bitter or anything)! So, if you're looking for a funny, romantic, > > > exciting, spy genre movie, try The Saint. "},{"Title":"Good, but bad...","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Okay, so you know those movies where you can tell someone worked really hard on perfecting the entire thing, and then they go and screw it up, with either sound or music or titles? This is one of those movies. Someone did a lot of research on the whole script, writing it I mean. But, then what do the director and editing assistants do? They muck the whole thing up by putting cheesy titles, and information on the screen that no one wants to see. Extra information, but more than that just cheesy stuff that you would see in a bad 'B' movie.Val Kilmer was a great choice for the role that he played. It just shows how good a character actor he can actually be and still play the handsome love-interest.But, I was most impressed with Elisabeth Shue's performance. She really holds her own in this piece. Granted, I am a big Shue fan, but I would have to say that this is one of her better roles. I think even better than 'Leaving Las Vegas' which is a much different film, I know, but still, she has a very powerful way in this film of delivering her character's nervousness, and naivitivity.The directing was minimal at best and I frankly didn't think that the bad guys were all that bad. I think even as a lighter drama, this could have been such a better movie than it turned out.However, it is quite entertaining and one of the only films I actually like Val Kilmer in. And if you are into the more light dramas...this is just intense enough for a thirteen year old. "},{"Title":"If nothing else, a display of Kilmer's talent","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Despite the negative attitude that most seem to have towards this movie, I liked it! It never really tries to be anything it's not. It's a spy movie with more heart and less action than the rather predictable Mission Impossible movies. I suppose the premise is a bit far-fetched, but I found that the story-telling was so enthralling that I never really gave it a second thought. At the very least, this movie is a show case for Val Kilmer, who is one of the best actors in his generation, and probably one of the most under appreciated. If you're a fan of Kilmer, you have to see this movie. "},{"Title":"Adequately entertaining romantic action movie, Val Kilmer and Elisabeth Shue, 7 of 10.","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Some spoilers. I saw The saint on network TV, so it may have had a bit edited out. The beginning didn't totally make sense to me, however Simon (Val Kilmer) had a bad experience in a Catholic orphanage, escaped with his clever use of his bag of tricks, and as an adult became a thief using a number of different saint names, thus the title of the film. His love interest is Emma (Elisabeth Shue), a PhD with the correct formula for cold fusion, but also with a heart condition requiring medication.The evil Tretiak (Rade Serbedzija) plots to depose the Russian president by creating an artificial heating oil crisis, and having him spend lots of money on a cold fusion formula, stolen by Simon, that doesn't work. Simon turns the tables on him, with Emma's scientific help, and the cold fusion does work, and Tretiak is exposed for the criminal he is, Simon and Emma end up together.There is a modest amount of good action, and in a real 'cool' scene, after Simon hides under freezing water, Emma has to strip off his clothes, and hers, and gets on top of him to warm him up! Kilmer and Shue are easy to look at, and act well.  As good as most 'fluff' movies, but nothing memorable.  Except -- cold fusion DOESN'T WORK, in case anyone is still unsure.  It is only a plot device for this film.  "},{"Title":"What a great couple!!!","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie very much!!!Of course, this isn't the perfect movie...But, there isn't one!!The movie is a great enterteiment!!!I watched lots of time!!! Val kilmer is great, and Elisabeth Shue is simply stunning!!!! They have the best relantionship...it's almost real!!!! Dra. Emma was so great...charming but innocent... And Val Kilmer, jut one of the most beautiful actors!!! I loved it!!! "},{"Title":"A big, expensive mess","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I was too young to watch the TV series of the same name that featured Roger Moore, but it had to be better that this.  The Saint is nothing less than a big, expensive mess.  Val Kilmer plays the title character, a spy whose ridiculous disguises and accents (Russian, German, gay, Southern U.S.) wouldn't fool anyone.  The silly plot centers around the theft of cold fusion technology, political coups in Russia, and the Saint's attempt to win the broken heart (literally) of the babe-scientist who holds this incredibly important data. Although the location work is great and both Val Kilmer and Elisabeth Shue are actors who do very well with the right material, they don't do well here.  The plot is ludicrous and full of holes, and it results in one silly storyline.  A waste of time - I was only glad that I didn't rent this - it was on network TV. "},{"Title":"Refreshing","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The Saint is a refreshing film watch due to its unique story. It has this spy influence but what really makes the difference for this film are its characters, setting, and story telling. Val Kilmer makes a good thief who would go from several disguises (he even played a gay), to using names of saints, to helping Elizabeth Shue reach the embassy, telling a professor to make a certain formula work, and the list goes on! Elizabeth Shue makes a good lead lady as well and she really got me surprised.After watching many kinds of spy or action or adventure films, The Saint is a refreshing experience. Go watch this one! "},{"Title":"A beautiful blend of plot and action.","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The Saint is a feast for everyone's palate. There's action,romance,gadgets. The acting is excellent, and is topped by the story.  The James Bond/Mission Impossible theme of the movie, makes it a ride that doesn't stop till the credits start rolling.   "}{"Title":"Excellent action/adventure. 9/10.","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I'm just old enough to remember Roger Moore as The Saint on BBC TV. It was compulsive viewing.The film brings the character up to date while keeping the style right. I particularly liked the fact that he still doesn't want to kill anybody, unlike James Bond who is constantly blowing the baddies away. The script is (reasonably) believable and topical though will probably show its age in a few years.I hopeThat there is a sequel, they certainly left room for one.We see more of Elizabeth Shue.  "},{"Title":"a very sexy movie","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie I could watch any time. This is because Val Kilmer is in it and he is very Sexy and because of the good plot. And because Rade Serbedjija a Yugoslavian actor is in it. The movie is very fast and there is a lot of action. Elisabeth and Val have something between them that makes this movie believable. "},{"Title":"The best movie I've every seen!","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  AT first I've seen the film in Switzerland in 1997 in English and one Year later in German on a video tape. I know it's action and a little bit too unrealistic and it could be better at all, BUT I am sure that everyone can find a little bit his own dreams in the movie. It's an action-, spy-, science-fiction-, politic-, romantic film. And I love this film and the music of it. Buy it and you'll be happy! Also because of the great actors! "},{"Title":"A Very Good Rendition, as it were.","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  True, this film is not the authentic Saint (As Leslie Charteris developed him), but a good, modern version.  The use of the disguises helps to add to the saint personna.  More of the original humour could have been added, though.  Overall, an enjoyable movie.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I found The Saint to be a very enjoyable film with plenty of action. I very much enjoyed Val Kilmer`s depiction of Simon Templar. I actually enjoyed it much more than the series. His approach was fresh and I loved the way he could change the character of the person he was at the moment. Very challenging for any actor to play more than one person in one film. I also enjoyed Valeri Nickolayev as Ilya. Must have been hard playing a one minded, dope snorting, degenerate like Ilya. I hope to see more of Valeri soon. I would give this one a 4 1/2 out of 5!! "},{"Title":"unbeatable high priced thief","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Very good program starring one of my fave actors, Val Kilmer. In this one he played Simon Templer, super thief, master of the mask, and, of course, lady killer. He took a gang of Russian thugs who were bound to take over their country. They wanted to do this by gaining control of a device capable of powering the world at almost no cost. Simon gave them hell from the word go; each time they got their hands on him he would slither from between their fingers. A totally cool guy, calm, fearless. A cross between James Bond and the MissionImpossible team. It was ridiculous, of course, but a good time with lots of action and intrigue. Good acting by all, especially the nasty bad guys.   "},{"Title":"An Excellent Movie","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  After seeing The Saint in theaters I loved it.  It instantly became one of my favorite movies.  I still have no idea why, maybe its the whole plot idea, or the way it was all put together.  Theres not a lot to say about The Saint except it is a really great movie.  It seemed to have a real story to it, not some of Hollywood's movie grabbing ideas that usually bomb or strangely make big cash.  It had great acting and it was a overall good performance. I give it a 10/10. "},{"Title":"From Russia with love","Date":"14 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This awful picture illustrates us how American people erroneously see our country. First of all, i'd like to dissuade them. It's a bull s.h.e.e.t. ) Don't trust Phillip Noyce, Leslie Charteris & Jonathan Hensleigh. Either their are liars, or do not know anything about the idea. 1. I enjoyed seeing sexy chick as a great professor, who could write non-existent formula on her knee (but the same enjoyment I get watching almost every American film). For those, who still in tank Sexy chick chooses other professions. Cold thermonuclear does not exist. Even if it could be existed, it's formula could not be written during half an hour on a knee. 2. I enjoyed seeing Russia, suffering of deficiency in fuel. Or rather I enjoyed indeed. Loool!!! For those, who still in tank Russia - is one of the largest suppliers of fuel in the world. More probably, that USA would suffer from shortage of fuel. Especially when Arabian countries with American oil under it will dry up. 3. I enjoyed seeing Russian people speaking English fluently. For those, who still in tank ordinary Russian citizen does NOT speak English. They speak Russian!!! 4. I enjoyed seeing trite Russian mafia. Lol! 5. I misunderstood why Russian people chanted Yankee, go home! For those, who still in tank Yankee are at home - in USA. In our country there is only an embassy. 6. My special thanks to Russian actors who played in this second-rate picture. They are a shame of their country. I'd like them to know. "},{"Title":"that movie is the bomb","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  i never saw a movie with so much characters acted by one person. the concept of the movie is great and the tension is always there. it has humor, action and even a love story. what can i say, val kilmer rocks.  "},{"Title":"Graeme Revell's Saint Score","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" For all you film score geeks out there I thought I should point out that the saint score is extremely good. It's Modern with electronic percussion yet classical with an obvious influence from classic bond scores. (The Love theme is purposely similar to one of John Barry's themes, I think it was the Dr. No or You only live twice love theme).My favourite themes would be the apartment snooping scene before Templar becomes Thomas more and the scene where Elizabeth Shue explains the statue to Kilmer in that art museum. On another note Electronic duo Orbital who recently retired as a group produced the Saint theme remix but as much as I love there music it really sucked ass! Well that's my opinion. Hope you find that interesting. "}{"Title":"An 'MI' Type Story & Pretty Good, Too","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This reminded me a lot of Mission Impossible, which had been a hit movie the year before this film was released. It, too, had a complex plot and a lot of foreign intrigue and accents. I don't think it's as good as MI, but it's not bad and definitely deserves a look, or two or three!I can tell you one thing it's not as bad as you might have read from national critics. It has some good suspense and action scenes and there is nothing wrong with Val Kilmer and Elisabeth Shue as the leading actors.True, it wasn't as smooth or even believable as MI but it's still entertaining and worthwhile watching strictly for the adventure. The Russian villains are fascinating to watch. The story is the typical democracy-threatened-by-an evil- politician except this time with a Russian scenario. "},{"Title":"Master of Disguise - I think not","Date":"17 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Suspension of disbelief took a beating in the first action set- piece. Val Kilmer, in a bad wig and mustache and sporting a cringe- worthy accent, is confronted by the Bad Guys on top of a building. He steps off the building and falls on the airbag conveniently put in just the right place. As he's falling, he rips off his mustache. In what feels like slow motion. Really.Apparently this is supposed to tell us that this guy is a Master of Disguise. Of the glasses are so mind-blowingly effective that nobody would ever think Clark Kent and Superman are the same person school of disguise. More bad wigs, bad facial hair, and cringe- worthy accents follow. Unfortunately for Val and even more unfortunately for us, he isn't believable in any of those disguises. In fact, Dana Carvey was more believable in the movie titled Master of Disguise - and he wore a giant turtle shell while actually saying Turtle, Turtle!The Cold Fusion plot line is as laughable as other reviews have indicated.Elisabeth Shue is cute (as usual), Rade Serbedzija has nice hair (as always), and the Moscow locations are recognizable from any of a dozen other movies you've seen. Which sums up this movie - it feels cobbled together from parts of a dozen other movies, without a cohesive narrative of its own. "},{"Title":"Nice, atmospheric bit of espionage intrigue","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The Saint captures the moody, adventurous, achingly romantic aura of the great espionage tale better than some of the Bond films even do. It's not a perfect film, but it's a great time at the movies, pure spy escapism and cinematic pleasure. Val Kilmer plays Simon Templar, a mysterious, slippery international thief who takes dangerous employ from anyone willing to pay a night, discreet price for his unique talents. He also uses an elaborate range of disguises, with alias names coined by the Catholic saints. He is hired by a shadowy Russian billionaire (Rade Serbedzija) to steal the formula for a cold fusion device from a beautiful scientist (Elizabeth Shue). Naturally he falls in love with her and they end up on the run from the billionaire, his forces, MI6 and everyone in between. It's not a heavy hitting action romp like it sounds, but more of an atmospheric, romantic, theatrically inclined bit of intrigue, and a whole lot of slow burning fun. Much of the action takes place in gorgeous, picturesque Moscow, giving it a lovely, old world, almost John Le Carre esque feel. Kilmer is awesome, underplaying every disguise and clearly having a lot of fun, his own Templar identity a moody mix of guilt and passion. Shue takes the gorgeous scientist cliché and spins it for a believable, humbled character which works excellently. There's cool work from Alun Armstrong, Valery Nikolaev, and a cameo from Emily Mortimer as well. For fans of spy adventure flicks with a globetrotting, master of disguise sense of adventure, this one spins a tale worth tuning into. "},{"Title":"No Saint Here.","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The Saint (1997) Dir Phillip Noyce / Cast Val Kilmer, Elisabeth Shue, Rade Serbedzija, Henry Goodman What kind of saint is this? Val Kilmer plays a disguise expert in a heating oil shortage in Russia where he is hired to steal Elisabeth Shue's work formula. They fall in love, which contract problems when he cannot steal from her. Kilmer does what he can with a role of virtually no feeling or emotion. Basically he is as concealed as his character is when donning a mask. The romance between Kilmer and Shue is an unnecessary distraction. Shue is basically there for a scene where she heats him up when he is freezing cold. Then they are off and running in subsequent chase scenes. Director Phillip Noyce is backed by fine production but no story. He previously directed Dead Calm, and had to be after directing this high budget geek show. Rade Serbedzija plays a typical villain with nothing to do other than to cause plot contrivances. There are too many endings and not one none of them good except perhaps the closing credits. Rather than be about identity, it is hyped up with special effects and a lot of mayhem and loud noise. Hopefully some of that noise will be the garbage truck should be the final resting place for this foolishness. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Good and bad. Popcorn worthy, but don't think too hard.","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favourite movies, yet, it's not very good. Val Kilmer's various accents grate and some of his character's personas you just want to punch, but Elizabeth Shue is fun and Alun Armstrong and Henry Goodman are great. The shooting locations are beautiful and nowadays seeing the top-of-the-line technology is a moment of great nostalgia (oh I always wanted that Nokia Communicator 9000). The cars are a highlight; well funded dodgy Russians are always going to have good quality cars, and of course Phillip Noyce blows a few up. You will learn something; yes, that's a legitimate treatment for hypothermia. Hospitalisation would be a better bet, however.It's harmless entertainment and you'll enjoy yourself if you can suspend belief for a while. Particularly over the speed of some of Simon Templar's costume changes. "},{"Title":"Underrated James Bond style flick","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The Saint did not take off as a franchise - but the film is a bit better than its rating might suggest.Part of the problem is that it has predecessors adventure books from the 20s through 80s, a 60s TV series with Roger Moore that many people liked, and so forth. This film does not live up to the style of the books or the TV incarnation, and that may be part of the reason for its low rating. As a stand-alone action spy thriller, it's quite entertaining, with the obligatory plot holes pulling it down from a really high score, but fun to watch nonetheless.Val Kilmer plays The Saint, who witnessed the death of another youngster at a cruel religious orphanage when he escaped. Two decades later, The Saint is an internationally active go-to man for difficult jobs, like stealing a microchip from a Russian industrial magnate. That he does, and soon the plot evolves into a chase for a cold fusion formula. The formula was only half worked out by smart and beautiful physicist Emma (Elizabeth Shue) when Kilmer steals it. The film then takes some improbable turns to get the main characters near the clutches of the evil industrial magnate, who wants to use the non-functional formula to discredit Russia's elected president during an energy crisis. At the last minute, with the aid of a Russian scientist, the good guys get the formula to work, and in the epilogue The Saint manages yet again to evade British police.The Saint evades everyone with elaborate disguises, which make the movie fun to watch. Kilmer demonstrated that he can really act, although he's not quite a Peter Sellers when it comes to playing a bundle of different characters. The chemistry (or should I say, physics) between Shue and Kilmer is great, so the romantic entanglements in this action thriller also hold up.The movie well reflects the hopes for détente and democratization in Russia held in the West in the 90s, and now soundly dashed by the interminable Putkin regime. The energy crisis theme rings truer and truer with passing years.Occasionally the film moves slowly, and there are unnecessary plot holes that could have been fixed quite easily with better scripting, but none of these minor problems detract from the jolly good 100 minutes of fun that The Saint brings to the screen. I've seen it a couple of times, and like good James Bond flicks (Thunderball et al.), it can be enjoyed more than once. "},{"Title":"Not really The Saint as far as I am concerned but a decent movie nonetheless","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This is not really a The Saint movie as far as I am concerned. It has very little resemblance to the Simon Templar that we got to know in the TV-series starring Roger Moore in the lead role. I have not read the books so I do not know how well the movie actually relates to the books but I have to say that I was a little disappointed to see a Simon Templar that was not really&#x85;him.I have never really been a huge fan of Val Kilmer and I do not really think he is the best match for the role. But then, as I wrote, I really do not see this as a Simon Templar movie anyway so. Elisabeth Shue is totally unbelievable as a scientist. I know they had to pick someone reasonably good-looking to satisfy the script but still, she just doesn't cut it as a scientist. The Russians are giving a much better performance. I quite liked both the Tretiak characters.That is not to say that this is a bad movie though. You just have to forget about the references to The Saint and Simon Templar. The latter is not very difficult since he really do not call himself Simon Templar in most of the movie anyway. What this movie is though is a fairly decent light entertainment about a skilled high stakes thief with a troubled childhood. I say light entertainment because the plot is really not much more than you would expect from a TV-series pilot. There are some fun action, some fun infiltration, disguises, a bit of high-tech etc. Just a mixture of some fun stuff making you go okay that was not too bad at the end of the movie.Oh, one more thing, I know that Simon Templar used to drive a Volvo P1800 but quite frankly, that was the only cool car that Volvo have ever made. Since the movie was so far from what I consider to be Simon Templar it is a real bummer that they had to choose that modern Volvo crap for him to drive. "},{"Title":"A halo-less hero","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The Saint is a Robin Hood type criminal character devised by Leslie Charteris a Chinese Singaporean. The Saint had a series of short films in the 1940s however made it big when Roger Moore portrayed him for a television series in the 1960s that became an international hit.In this big budget film starring Val Kilmer we have an attempt to re- invent the character. As a homage to Charteris we have scenes of him as a boy in a Catholic boarding school in the Far East. In the present day he is a criminal for hire who steals secrets and formulas and uses aliases that are Catholic Saints and is a master of disguise.The Saint is hired by a Russian businessman and aspiring politician to get a secret cold fusion formula from a young scientist played by Elisabeth Shue. You never for a moment buy Shue as a brilliant scientist and Kilmer falls for her and finds out that he needs to outwit the Russians and save the Russian Premiere as well as saving Shue. The story is all over the place and Shue's gut feeling that her formula is right without any scientific basis is laughable. There is good chemistry between Kilmer and Shue but the film itself is up and down in tempo and Kilmer never behaves like The Saint we know from the TV series.Ultimately Kilmer seems to be enjoying himself trying different accents but he never comes across The Saint which is the film's biggest failing. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Always been a big Val Kilmer fan,, and he did not disappoint in this one,, along with Elisabeth Shue as his love interest overall I thought that the movie was pretty darn good,, An international thief Simon Templar,, although not his real name,, he takes names from patron Saint's from the Catholic Church. His goal is to reach 50 million,, then he will retire ,, one more job to get there, simple just steal the formula for Cold Fusion from the Russian's and help them get back to Communism, and bring about the downfall of the United States.. simple right,, except for the fact there is one thing that he didn't count on and that is falling in love with the person whom he stole the formula from,, now the 2 of them have to escape the Russian Mafia, as they travel the globe trying to escape the evil clutches.. very well made film,, I enjoyed very much, and will have to watch again very soon. "},{"Title":"Really silly","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This dopey international muddle bears little resemblance to the previous screen incarnations of the character, and it's not helped along by mono-expression plank Val Kilmer and his laughable range of accents and disguises (the cleaning lady is hilarious). The apparent attempts to ride the coattails of 'Mission Impossible' really don't gel with a plot that relies on dunderheaded coincidence there's one scene where Kilmer and sparkly boffin Elisabeth Shue stumble across an apartment which just happens to have a secret passageway, which luckily leads to a bunch of art dealers operating in the sewer, who handily have maps of the tunnels so our heroes can get where they want to go; but when they attempt to surface, the villain parks his car right over the manhole! There's a certain amount of style, I suppose, and it's all kind of goofily enjoyable, but what George Sanders would say about all this I don't know. "}{"Title":"James Bond with ugly disguises","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Val Kilmer plays a mysterious thief who has great skills including as a master of disguise. Ivan Tretiak hires him to steal the formula for cold fusion from American scientist Emma Russel (Elisabeth Shue).This is sort of like a Bond movie if James Bond put on ugly disguises in silly voices and steals for himself. The disguises look too silly. It diminishes the attempt to be cool and relevant. Instead of silly disguises, it should really concentrate on the spy tradecrafts. Val Kilmer does an internal dialog which could be better used to highlight his skills. The other problem is that there are too much Russian in this. I don't understand why Russia would have a heating oil crisis. It tries to be exotic, but ends up as unsatisfying.There is also the minor problem of Elisabeth Shue. She's supposed to be this weird loner scientist, and she doesn't have that persona. And she plays it as a love sick puppy to one of Val Kilmer's fake character. She is the all American girl next door, and they need a quirky scientist type. And the point is to get somebody else to replicate her results which means she's supposed to write out the experiment for them to try. It's a stupid idea that she would write out the formula and stuff it in her bra. I want to like this for Elisabeth Shue, but this is too silly. "},{"Title":"A fun film but don't take it too seriously","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The plot of this movie is quite similar to Chain Reaction, but the way it comes about is quite different. Both are movies about the discovery of free energy and powerful people trying to get their hands upon it. The difference with the Saint is that the Saint, or Simon Templar (Val Kilmer) is a thief. He angers a very powerful Russian after stealing a microchip and is then set up by him to steal the plans for a cold fusion reactor.There are numerous intricacies in this plot, namely the motivations behind the Russian Millionaire. There is a shortage of oil in Russia which means it is very cold in Moscow and their is now heating. The millionaire is attempting to gain control of Russia and is stirring the people up against the current government.This is an interesting turn of events in the plot lines. Previously it was the evil Russians communists whose plans to take over the world had to be foiled by the good guy. Now that communism has collapsed, there is no longer any powerful bad guy to send the good guys up against. Now it has to be the evil corporations and the evil Russians who are trying to restore communist rule to Russia. Where as before one could not destroy communism and Russia, now it is possible to bring a conclusive ending to the movie.The beginning of the Saint is set in an orphanage in the Far East. It is hard to tell if there is any relevance in this beginning. Its shows us that the Saint was an orphan and that he doesn't have a really name. In fact he shuns the name given to him by the priest. He then watches his girl friend plunge to her death after she is attacked by the dog. What it does not show is if he is blamed for the death or not. What this beginning does not is really make one hate the Catholic orphanage system with the way they abuse the children.The Saint is okay as an action movie. The good guy wins and gets the girl in the end. The girl is no ordinary woman though. She is a scientist but when she first meets the Saint she sees right through his disguise and into his heart. This is what captivates him. He doesn't even want to steal the plans from her, but later his greed overwhelms him and he takes the money. It is fun to watch but that is all. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but very entertaining and solid action adventure","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The Saint is a pleasantly surprising film. A lot different from the Roger Moore TV series, it sort of follows the Brosnan Bonds in being a stylish actioner with a slightly absurd plot. Yet it's a very entertaining film with many great things about it. The plot involves Simon Templar who is a master a thief, being able to outsmart the law with unique disguises and accents. He is hired by the Russian Mafia to steal a formula for cold fusion energy from scientist Emma Russell. But Russell intelligence and beauty makes Templar begin to develop feelings for her that he can't walk away from. He decides to help her and must work out the formula before the Russians do. Though the plot is a bit silly, it is actually pretty smart in many places and it never becomes boring. As said it works like one of the more far-fetched Bond films in that it is rather suspect but it doesn't really matter because it is so entertaining, whilst the romantic side keeps things nicely grounded.The cast is impressive. Val Kilmer is terrific as Templar managing to play the smart spy who finds his softer side and he has the charisma to carry it off. Kilmer does a brilliant job at doing different accents and changing appearance too. Elisabeth Shue is excellent as Emma Russell, making her likable and tough but with complexity and issues. Rade Serbedzija makes an effect villain as the slimy and power hungry Tretiak. Valeriy Nikolaev was a little dull as his son, but still believable and did well in the action set pieces. The British veteran Michael Byrne was fantastic as always as Tretiak's adviser. Both Alun Armstrong and Charlotte Cornwell did solid jobs as inspectors on Templar's trail. Though the plot is iffy, nearly everything else is done quite competently. The visual tone that the film goes for is very stylish, the scenes of Russia and Britain look fantastic. The action scenes are also done in a great way, though it doesn't happen too often when it does it is nicely effective. The music is simply superb, the score by Graeme Revell has a cool action tone to it but is also very beautiful, the main theme and 'Love Theme' are both superb. The use of more contemporary music at times was also a smart decision. The most effective thing about the film is the relationship between Templar and Russell. Val Kilmer and Elisabeth Shue have amazing chemistry as a lot of the time you can easily forget they are acting it's so natural. This side of the story helps make it far more interesting that your average action film because you actually care about what these people go through. It's also nice that there's not an overload of action, as the film does a good job of letting the drama tell the story. Overall The Saint offers a refreshing balance of drama, action and character development. "},{"Title":"This movie is worth watching","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The Saint is a fun, well paced jaunt into the world of Simon Templar. Simon Templar can be looked at as a rogue mercenary who does dangerous and technically advanced jobs that only a handful of people in the world can pull off. It features solid acting from its three main characters (Val Kilmer in the title role, with Elisabeth Shue and Rade &#x8A;erbed&#x9E;ija) and is never boring to watch. You can almost look at it as a precursor to the Jason Bourne style movies. While you cannot directly compare the plots of the two movies, after watching both you can see how the Bourne series adopts some of the action, intensity and overall feel of a movie like The Saint. I won't give away any more details, but it is worth watching and easily rates above its average score of 6 as seen on this website. It is a solid 7.5. "},{"Title":"One Crooked Halo Doesn't Make A Good Thriller","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The cliffhanger escapes, the dastardly villains, and the superbly staged action scenes in The Saint are good enough to compensate for the poor casting, slipshod writing, and last-minute script alterations that plague this hagiography. Val Kilmer, fresh from the respectable Ghost and the Darkness and the lukewarm Island of Dr. Moreau, steps into the role of the suave, debonair gentleman adventurer. Kilmer makes the most of the multi-dimensional role. The Leslie Charteris literary hero is a cat burglar, escape artist, gigolo, electronics wizard, man of a thousand faces, and confidence man who survives by the skin of his wits. Although this glossy, $70-million-plus epic is a dazzling looking romantic thriller, The Saint sinks if you think too much about its hi-jinks.The Saint is a kind of freelance 007. Since he escaped from an abusive Catholic school in the Far East at age five, Simon Templar has been amassing a fortune. Templar refuses to retired until his bank account tops $50-million. Lately, the Saint has been sparring with Ivan Tretiak (Rade Serberdzija of Manifesto), a long-haired Russian tycoon who runs the mafia in Moscow. A shortage of heating fuel has crippled Mother Russia in the dead of winter. Hundreds are freezing. Ivan wants to parlay the heating crisis into a way to topple Russian president Karpov (Eugeny Lazarev of The Ice Runner). As it turns out, an astute American scientist, Dr. Emma Russell (Elizabeth Shue of Adventures in Babysitting) has devised a formula for something called cold fusion that can save Russians and help Tretiak make more marks in Russians eyes than Lenin. Tretiak turns to the Saint to steal the secret formula from Emma.Australian director Philip Noyce spent his last two assignments putting Harrison Ford through the paces of Patriot Games and A Clear and Present Danger. Die Hard with a Vengeance scribe Jonathan Hensleigh co-scripted The Saint with Cape Fear writer Wesley Strick. Despite their considerable talent and imagination, they faltered in their efforts to fit the character into the 1990s. For the record, Charteris wrote 90 original Saint Novels beginning with Meet the Tiger (1928) and ending with Salvage for the Saint (1983).When we first spot him, the Saint is getting flogged by a priest because he won't conform. The child rebels and escapes from the school, but not before he causes the death of his childhood sweetheart. Kilmer's Simon Templar has a politically correct dark side because he feels guilty about the girl's accidental death. Incidentally, The Saint is a chick flick. Val bares his chest, but Elizabeth Shue doesn't. While The Saint contains Indiana Jones-style derring-do, the film never drenches itself in blood, gore, nudity, or profanity. You don't have to shield your eyes from anything offensive. The Saint amounts to a one-man Mission Impossible with the emphasis on serio-comic romance and danger. Eventually, the Saint and the scientist team up to take on the bad guys. The Russian winters appear picture postcard perfect as captured by lenser Phil Meheux, and The Saint makes splendid use of Red Square and other notable sights. And it's not Kilmer's Saint who gives the Russians the formula for fire, but Shue's soft-hearted scientist.The problem here is that Shue is woefully miscast as a nerdy she-scientist. She is a great actress, but she just doesn't fit the role. The Saint asks us to believe that a babe like Shue could be a brilliant scientist. Actually, she would have been more credibly cast as the babe daughter of a brilliant scientist. More than likely Hensleigh and Strick have compressed two characters into one character. They then ask us to believe that a scientist as brilliant as she is would abandon her principles for Kilmer's pectorals. She confides in Simon that he never had to steal what she was willing to give away. This almost makes it all too easy for Simon. Oh, yes, how many brilliant scientists store their secret formulas on scrap pieces of paper in their brassiere? Finally, Hensleigh and Strick dream up a flaw for Shue's scientist; she suffers from heart disease. There is nothing wrong with a character who has flaws. They even feature a scene where the Saint nearly freezes to save her heart pills from floating down river. There is nothing wrong with that either. Except by the end of the movie, however, Shue's brilliant scientist no longer requires her heart medication. So why did they make such a big fuss about them in the first place? This is another sign that the writers have their halos on crooked.As heroes go, The Saint isn't so much a saint to cheer as a sultan to envy. Indeed, Kilmer's Cupid good-looks will seduce the ladies, but the guys will lust after his new candy-apple red Volvo C-70 coupe, his playboy lifestyle, padded bank account, and eternal ability to outsmart his foe. If there were ever a movie that sold itself on the charisma of its protagonist, The Saint does, with a pasha's price tag. Sadly, in terminating one Saint for a more venerable Saint, the filmmakers have sold out not only a sound plot line but the character's literary heritage. If you looking for fast, breezy nonsense that look fantastic, The Saint is worth a peek. "},{"Title":"Henry and Kristl marveled at The Saint(1997)","Date":"8 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" You know, wearing that black suit and waving a big Japanese sword around does not make you the Saint.Just play your part. Henry mumbled through the face cover waving his Katana around. He knew it was a Katana because he knew that kind of thing from the comics. Unlike Kristl who was illiterate because she had never read comics as far as he knew.And what part was that again?You are the Russian lesbian who just caught me red handed while stealing a formula from your masters safe. It is the one that changes water into vodka. Just say something with that foreign accent of yours.I don't play Russians very well. I am Austrian, that makes it a German accent, not a Russian one. And what is with the lesbian stuff all the time? Kristl remarked.Well, your hair practically shouts lesbian. Henry said.What is with the hair? Why does it make me look lesbian?It is shaved but for long hair on top and you painted it black and white, that hairstyle went out of fashion two decades ago. Only women pretending to be men would want to look like that. Henry said.I hate you! Krisl fumed.Good, you can play the bad ass Russian better. Henry smiled and crouched in a fighting stance.Kristl face palmed and then said,You are Simon Templar. An English gentleman thief. He never uses swords like that! Perhaps a saber or a cane, but not a weapon like that. Something stylish and English. You know Roger Moore? Gentleman, under cooled humor, stiff upper lip, Rolls Royce.?Yeah, yeah. Get on with it.Oh god, you just don't look at all like him, nor speak like him, nor have the same humor, nor have the style. You are so not Simon Templar. Kristl groaned, Just like Val Kilmer? Henry said.Yeah, just like him. Kristl.Well, it would have not mattered to me, but it's not even an exciting movie. Henry put down the sword and removed his mask to reveal a grin.The action sequences are plain boring. People shooting at him seem to miss even at point blank.It's pretty bad on any level. Kristl,The whole romantic bit is so cringe worthy. And how the Russians are portrayed like a bunch of money grabbers. It was probably meant to be funny.You know that they considered having Kurt Russell play James Bond at the time?Oh? You mean Kurt -Snake Plissken- Russell?  Said Kristl.The grumpy anti hero from Escape From New York? Kristl considered that for a minute.It is a joke. Henry laughed.He would have made a better Bond that Kilmer makes a Saint Kristl said.It wasn't Kurt Russell they considered, it was Mel Gibson. "},{"Title":"He's such a nice guy. It's just too bad we have to kill him.","Date":"25 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** James Bond like action adventure with the Saint Simon Templar, Val Kilmer, taking on the entire Russian Mafia together with the police departments of some half dozen European country's. That's into order to bring a ray light and warmth into the world at general and the new Russian Republic in particular.It's not really Simon who came up with this ,no pun intended, bight idea but his love interest in the film world renowned physicists and expert in cold fusion Dr.Emma Russell, Elisabeth Shue. Dr Russell has been working on perfecting cold fusion for years and now she finally got a handle on it. Still Dr.Russell needs just a little more time to put it all together that would bring it on the world market as a cheap source of energy. It's the evil Russian oil baron and Mafia crime boss Ivan Tretiak, Rade Serbedzija, and his Son Ilya, Valeri Nikolayev, who cornered the Russian oil market who are against Dr. Russells earth shaking invention. The Tretiak's are holding the Russian people hostage,in the dead of the brutal Russian winter, by having tens of billions of gallons of precious heating oil hidden under the Krimlin itself until they get the right price for it.In knowing that his massive oil reserves would be worthless if Dr. Russell's cold fusion invention becomes public Tretiak and his Russian Mafia goons do everything possible to get the secret formula off Dr. Russell and destroy it before it's put into operation. Simon who's only into this oil business for the money, he wan't to amass 50 million and then retire, falls in love with Emma and soon realizes that providing love and warmth to the world is far more important then the size of his bank account.Val Kilmar as the famous Saint Simon Templar, or his interpretation of him, comes across not like you would have expecting him to. Not as a save and debonair crook and con artist but as a homeless looking hippie like beatnik who panhandles for money and eats out of garbage cans. It took a lot for me to imagine that the very intelligent and scientifically minded Dr.Emma Russell would as much as look at this sniveling lunatic, in one of the many disguises Simon uses in the movie, much less fall madly in love and risk her life for him. As for Simon's disguises, he's supposed to be a master in them, their so obvious and ridicules that you, as well as Emma, can spot them as soon as Simon appears on the screen in one of them. Were also told that Dr.Emma Russell has a serious heart condition and needs almost hourly medicating to keep it from conking out on her. Yet we see Emma in a number of action scenes in the movie where she could have well outrun Jesse Owens in the 100 200 and even 400 yard dashes! That without even working up a sweat much less suffering a fatal heart attack in running them!***SPOILERS*** The films slick surprise ending has Simon trick the Treiak's-father & Son-into showing the Russian people assembled in Red Square that Dr.Emma Russell's cold fusion method doesn't work! And in proving that discredit both Dr.Russell and Russian President Kapov, Yevgeni Lazarev, who fully supports it. Feeling certain that the cold fusion method is a dud in it not working before it in fact lights up the dark Russian night! Exposed for what and who they are-crooks & shysters-an outraged Russian population grabs Ivan & Ilya Tretiak and their Mafia goons and sends them straight to the nearest Russian or former Soviet Gulag in Siberia some 1,500 miles away! As for Simon,the big hero in the film, he's still on the run from the police, for what?, and loving it. With the lovely Emma at his side who besides now, due to her cold fusion invention, being one of the richest people in the world also had her heart condition cured by getting involved with him. "},{"Title":"Miracle Three......","Date":"12 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" As a young orphan, a boy refuses to accept the name given him by priests and instead chooses to take on the name of Simon Templar after the Saint of magic.Speed ahead and the young boy is now a master thief in bidding wars with countries for his services. Using his skills of master disguise, he eludes all pursuers as he assumes names associated with the various Saints.In this role after stealing from a Russian industrialist, the industrialist hires The Saint to steal a formula for cold fusion being developed by a young female scientist.Cold fusion is said to permit a nation to heat its citizens with only a few gallons of water. However, on this case The Saint falls in love with the scientist placing him in a quandary of fulfilling his professional obligations or staying with the innocent young scientist.When she becomes threatened by the Russian Mafia, he has no choice but to go ahead with his job.However, she follows him to Moscow, setting off a chase......Could have been the beginning of a new franchise, but Noyce has made one lethargic adventure film that wants to be Bond but ends up more like Teen Agent.Kilmer though, is hilarious as the titular hero, seemingly enjoying every scene he's in, and all the disguises that he wears, although in every one he looks like Val Kilmer (though the best disguise is the one in the airport where he sounds like Borat).Shue on the other hand looks bemused to be in this, and just doesn't gel with Kilmer. It seems in some scenes she wants to laugh, and doesn't convince as a scientist.The rest of the cast are throw away bad guys and police chasing Templar and do nothing to add to the mix.But there is an endearing quality to this disaster. Whether is the very impressive soundtrack, or the fact that Kilmer probably was never offered something this big after the movie.It's a bomb, but something of an alluring bomb. "},{"Title":"Fairly good spy thriller (but with a few adjustments needed)","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Anyone looking into the Saint, along with anyone who has seen it will undoubtedly make a connection to 007. While this film by Phillip Noyce may seem like a rip off, it is based on source material that predates Bond by several decades. Unfortunately that doesn't quite make it's chances in competition with rival thrillers any easier. As a spy thriller, the Saint is certainly watchable, even enjoyable, but it feels stiff and not terribly clever, and a central part of the plot is oriented on a wooden romance.It's hard to say whether the Saint is good or almost good. At least it is always moving, so I wouldn't call the film dull. Nevertheless, there are a few sequences that feel uncomfortable. The bits are mostly in regards to a clumsily written, and poorly acted chemistry between Val Kilmer and Elizabeth Shue as his 'bond girl'. She asks him who he is, and he tells he that no body knows , least of all him. Actually we the audience don't get to know much either. The Saint as a character, when you rethink the movie, feels largely under defined. His abilities, motifs, are explained in questionable fashion, the closest, that the movie gets is an opening scene depicting his childhood in a seminary school, where he can pick locks, and wins girls hearts behind the priests back. The introduction feels a bit off, but things get going fast enough to keep you in your seat. Kilmer and Shue get chased numerous times through Moscow by corrupt leaders, and Kilmer has to switch identities/nationalities/accents numerous times so he can bring them down. The film's ending feels over stretched, leaving The Saint about five or six minutes longer than necessary. In aiming for something slick or quirky, The Saint overshoots by a bit. All in all, the movie could use a little work. It is enjoyable without being unique or special. What it's needs is to be a bit looser. It's a stiff thriller, but at least it's not a dull one. "},{"Title":"The one thing I got from watching this movie is...","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  That Elisabeth Shue is a hell of an actress! How can anyonepretend to fall in love with Val Kilmer while he's wearing sucha hideous wig and speaking in that ridiculous voice. Well, shedid (and managed to keep a straight face while doing it) Andthat's who is supposed to be the master of disguise? As forthe script, it wasn't that terrible, but it wasn't any goodeither. "}{"Title":"An impressive action-adventure film!","Date":"14 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" A movie based on the British TV-series, The Saint, Val Kilmer plays Simon Templar, known as the Saint for his use of Catholic saints pseudonyms, and is a masterful thieve. Simon is hired by the Russian Mafia to steal a cold fusion energy formula from Dr. Emma Russell (Elizabeth Shue), but Simon falls for her during the process. As a result, Simon and Dr. Russell must escape the Russian Mafia and work out the energy formula before total chaos happen.This film is filled with good old fashion thrills and mystery, keeping the film suspenseful. The acting was particular good and I enjoyed watching the touching chemistry between Simon and Dr. Russell. Simon's multiple personality transformations are interesting to watch, and him alluding the dangers in his mission is intriguing.The film's entertainment relies on the mystery and suspense rather than the over-the-top non-stop gun violence and excessive knuckle-crunching brawls, which makes this an unique action-adventure.Grade B "},{"Title":"mess","Date":"13 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" After more than ten years threatening to become one of Hollywoods greatest actors, in difficult but memorable roles, Val Kilmer's star went into eclipse, and this film, terrifically over-hyped on initial release, is the primary reason for it.The decision to take the character of The Sant and build a James Bond movie around him was predictable; but the film makers clearly do not understand the Saint as Leslie Charteris wrote him or as he was portrayed previously on film and television. Worse yet, they don't understand the James Bond gestalt either. So what we end up with is a mishmash of spy movie and heist movie clichés buried under glossy photography, stuntwork and FX. Mixed into this is one of the most confusing romances I've been asked to witness, and a stew of pretentious mutterings about personal identity.Besides being very confusing, it is also terribly dull. I think the actors are trying to do their bes, but there's no direction for them in the script, and probably wasn't much on the set either.I really wanted to like this film. But there was no wit, no charm, little excitement. It was not the Saint, not James Bond, not anything I could find interesting. "},{"Title":"A very uninteresting and forgettable movie,","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The Saint is a movie that can be described as; Nothing special.Who's to blame? The director Phillip Noyce. In my opinion he is a very boring director without any style of his own. Everything about his movies is always very standard and never interesting or special. The only really good Noyce movie I have seen is Dead Calm which had a good script.The Saint is also a standard Noyce movie. It has the usual standard stereotype Russian villains and also the story is very standard with all the usual ingredients you could expect.Val Kilmer is a good casting choice and so is Elizabeth Shue. I must say that the love story worked for me and it didn't distract from the story. There was also a real spark between the two.The movie could have used some more action and perhaps also some more humor would have been good for the movie.A very forgettable movie.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Someone want to explain to me exactly what this film was about?","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This is what I got Val Kilmer plays Simon Templar, a man who as a boy went to catholic school, and didn't have a real name, so the priests gave him the name of a saint. He watches this girl he really likes die, and now he's some sort of agent-for-hire who steals things for the highest bidder. So far, not too bad. But then the movie really starts. Simon steals a microchip from the leader of the Russian Mafia, played by Rade Serbedzija, then he is hired by the same guy to steal the formula for cold fusion. Of course, the person who has the formula for cold fusion just happens to be a beautiful young scientist, played by Elisabeth Shue. Well, one thing leads to another, Simon uses a bunch of disguises, the good guys win, and the bad guys lose.What was Elisabeth Shue doing in this movie? She gave one of the finest performances I have ever seen in Leaving Las Vegas, and one of her follow-ups is this? I could have played her part. Just dress me up and put a little lipstick on me, and I could run around with Val Kilmer for a couple of hours. The Saint could have been a good, Mission Impossible type of thriller, but instead it turns out not to be. If you're a fan of Val Kilmer, it's not a bad movie, he gets to dress up a lot and use a lot of accents. If you're a fan of Elisabeth Shue, she smiles a lot and looks as beautiful as she usually does. If you're a fan of really good movies, go rent something else.  "},{"Title":"Could be better, but not too bad.","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The Saint was okay, not exactly the best of the best, but still worth mentioning. Some of the acting is stale, and the writing as well. But one the other hand, you have Val Kilmer who slips into a variety of different character in one film. Each one of his unique characters is unique in their own way. I'm not quite sure... but I do not believe that Thomas More was a saint. "},{"Title":"Fun movie, but not as good as it could have been.","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  While this was an entertaining movie, I felt that Val Kilmer's talent was wasted on this project.  He was allowed to show some of his talent as a great character actor in this project as he switched from persona to persona, but his character was not as fleshed out as I would have liked to see.  The other character's were mostly very one dimensional and transparent in their actions. "},{"Title":"An odd choice of concept..","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  While many people have bashed The Saint ridiculously (I'm tired of hearing the worst movie epithet applied to anything someone happens to not like), once one actually understands it's origins it's not too bad.  Philip Noyce basically wanted to make a prequel to the Saint books since the the original novels never gave Simon Templar an origin.  So, it was concieved that he'd be a sort of flawed hero who would be encouraged into being more like the Saint we know by his encounter with his romantic interest.  Making Val Kilmer don weird disguises was an unusal way of abusing the Saint name, though.  Nothing in the film really feels much like it belongs as part of the myth of the Saint.  It's not abad film, it's actually a very well crafted thriller with some style.  it just doesn't have a whole lot to do with the Saint books or TV show since they were trying to create an origin story.  I admire the effort, but overall it doesn't fit with the tone of what The Saint is all about.  Ignore the naysayers, however, who can't seem to distinguish personal rants from properly balanced criticism.  See it for yourself and see if it's to your taste. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and fun but by no means a masterpiece...A good bit of escapism.","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Val Kilmer, Elizabeth Shue and Rade Serbedzija. Well known cast list, with Serbedzija being the traditional Russian familiar face you may recognise from MI2, Snatch and 24. Although the plot is quite far fetched and the acting is questionable, there is a very enjoyable element to this film. Similar to titles like The Recruit and Entrapment, there are several very enjoyable parts to this film. The soundtrack is a well selected mix of fast paced techno and eloquent ambient sounds, without forgetting the iconic Saint theme tune, well worth watching just for this. The gadgets included in the film are elegantly selected and well used, adding comfort and interest to the story line. And the make up and disguises used by the main character are brilliantly done, Kilmer supplies a handsome but moulded face to the title, able to fit in without looking too obvious, this adding a vital part to the film. Kilmer pulls off the suave but vulnerable thief well, with Shue playing the part of the eccentric love interest. This is neither's strongest role, but Rade Serbedzija is on top form as expected, playing the part of the evil Russian billionaire. Don't expect great things from this title, but the soundtrack, the gadgets and The Saint's suave and stealthy moves make it very watchable. "},{"Title":"the saint is an unintended comedy","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Val Kilmers performance in this movie is lackluster, but rather than detracting from the film it really conveys a comical aspect to his many disguises. It was very funny. The scene that really represents this film best, is when the saint waits in ambush for his love interest to come around the corner in order to provoke her pity on him from a contrived fight scene - Kilmer smashes a bottle over his own head to injure himself, and says in a concussed soliloquy with the blood dribbling down his face -what am i doing. Kilmer's disguises all look like a bad distorted/misshapen versions of himself, it really affects the credibility of the film because anyone would notice how weird he looks. "},{"Title":"not a bad flick, but missed the essence of the character","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  caught this flick on showtime the other night. not bad, certainly entertaining, but it was off the mark.the saint is a character of the 20s. he's a wry and sarcastic wit, suave and sophisticated, has elegant appetites and oozes charm, none of this was apparent in val kilmer's interpretation. i don't think kilmer is a bad actor by any means, his performance as doc holiday is the highlight of 'tombstone.' but i imagine a type like clive owen would better fit the character.in the books, the saint is known for carrying throwing knives and being particularly adept with them. this would be a great device for any screen adaptation, and certainly different from anything else out there in the genre.sadly, it seems this, like the recent bond films, have gotten so far afield of the original characters by updating them that they have lost their originality. bond's edge is gone, and the franchise is now lost in formulaic gadgetry. better to rely on the character's own devices rather than technological ones. simon templar, a cunning thief conflicted between amoral and moral actions, has plenty of tension to stand as is without updating to modern technological gimmics that become dated as soon as the film is released. "}{"Title":"Quite limp","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The guy with the long hair has a distinctive cane and big black boots to let the audience, who don't understand the plot, to know something bad will happen soon. The story reminds me of Mission Impossible - ie quite confusing.  But this time around - there weren't any great set pieces to keep the audience entertained.  The makeup/disguises are laughable and Val's acting is a bit shonky. The love interest subplot was also lacking in spark.  And the villain was lacking in menacing ability. The only redeeming feature I thought was the sound - which we used the DVD to test out our surround sound hi-fi....even though I thought the actual soundtrack (lots of techno) was a little distracting at times. Also the love interest Quite a limp movie overall.3 stars (out of 10)  ( "},{"Title":"Fast Paced Jolly Japes - with the odd bit of trueism.","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Taken lightly, this is a fast-paced well-acted fun action film. Rent it out, and if you're even slighty techie - then you`ll most probably enjoy it!It`s more like a little modern James Bond, than the `forties based genre. Nice action sequences, good Cold War feel to it, and boy`s toys! "},{"Title":"Intriguing flick; though I am partial to Elisabeth Shue.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This film is more than worth renting or even buying!  It is well constructed with no technical defects, though the abrupt ending makes one slightly uneasy, as though expecting a little bit more.  However, overall the movie is wonderful.  Simon Templar (Kilmer), international thief, steals from potential Russian leader Ivan Tretiak and is later hired by the same man to steal the formula for cold fusion from Dr. Emma Russell (Shue).  However, he unexpectedly develops a strong attraction to her, and is faced with the dilemma of completing the job or being loyal to Russell.  In the end, he, in effect, accomplishes both, all while eluding international governments by means of deception consisting of disguises and names stemming from Catholic saints. "},{"Title":"A good action movie, but some viewers may be disappointed","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Well, what do you expect from a mainstream action movie? A good plot, nice looking actors, plenty of suspense... well, suspense you get, and nice looking actors as well, but the plot is somewhat weak. So don't expect too much.From my personal view point this is a movie, contrary to its weak plot, that I did like a lot. The movie got me really hooked on Elisabeth Shue, and I really liked the love story that develops between her and the character that Mr. Kilmer portrays. I like the scene where she looks into the mirror and is completely overwhelmed by her impression that the character that the Saint portrays seems to have fallen in love with her. So somehow I was hoping for the two of them to finally get each other, and it's only very rarely that I do identify with the characters in a love story movie that much. Mild spoiler, I did like the ending as it wasn't an overly happy one but not a sad one either... but rather one that allows for the character to continue.Bottom line, there are a *lot* much more awful movie to waste a nice weekend afternoon or night with ;-)  "},{"Title":"Not the best movie but I love it!","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time four years ago and have seen it three more times since then. In reading the negative comments from other viewers, I agree with some of them but still love this movie. I cannot understand the low rating received by The Saint. This is one of the best action films. Ignore the negative reviews and see it. Judge by yourself. "},{"Title":"New Age Saints?","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Ever since the saints took precedence on this world, there was always a danger that one day a 'new age' saint would visit this world. This saint would come in a unknownest form. This film 'way before its time'- conceptulise the meaning, values, spiritual and politcal sense of this world. In keeping with the catholic church's sainthood, there was three miracles depicted in the film. It seems that the orthodoxy requires a little more to convince the people of the worth of their elected leader.  "},{"Title":"A contrary opinion...","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  When I saw the movie for the first time, I found what ended up as one of my favorite characters of all time. And it disappoints me when critics compare and contrast the 1997 movie to the earlier series or movies. What most people do not realize is that this one is a prequel, not a continuation. This movie shows how a cold thief becomes an adventurous hero. That is why at the end of the movie he becomes more fun and more like the character from the previous works. True the quality of the movie, the script, the plot are not the best, but that is not what I am defending. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I thought 'The saint' was a highly entertaining movie. No real intellectual value. No brilliant screenplay. No breathtaking script. Just a light, enjoyable movie. All in all I would recommend this movie for an evening when you have nothing to do and want to watch a movie that you'll definitely enjoy, as long as you're no critic. "},{"Title":"Is this Leslie Charteris's Saint, or a missed opportunity?","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" English fans of the Saint&#151;whether of the books, films or TV series&#151;will probably never forgive me for saying it, but the Americanized movie version comes close, in my view, to interpreting Charteris's character, and some say, his alter ego.We see Simon Templar (Val Kilmer) grow up in an orphanage in the far east, with a grudge against the Establishment. As a result, he steals from them, making use of disguises&#151;partly to compensate for his own lack of identity.People forget that the Saint's creator, Leslie Charteris, was half-Singaporean Chinese, teased at school in England for his appearance. It is not surprising to expect that Charteris himself felt bitter about racism and how English society looked down on any non-whites; thus, the Saint books have a strong antiestablishment sense about them. Read from the perspective of a minority in a foreign country, they offer an added dimension which others, lacking this experience, might miss.Given Charteris's own history, it is reasonable to expect from him a character who tries to conceal his identity, who steals from those in position, who attempts to be a chameleon this is the fantasy of his alter ego. The movie delivers here.It is less reasonable to think, however, that Simon Templar would steal a formula from Dr Emma Russell (Elisabeth Shue), who has humanitarian aims in mind, to help Ivan Tretiak (Rade Serbedzija), a Russian energy billionaire and politician. It is difficult to contemplate Templar being a thief without conscience as the scriptwriters have done.One explanation is that director Noyce positioned this movie as a prequel to the books. One can assume that the real Simon Templar whom we all know surfaces when he decides to turn against Tretiak and his mob. But this is not enough of an explanation Templar may want to forget his past, but he has not sold his soul.It is an entertaining update, provided Saint fans approach the movie with an open mind. It will seriously disappoint those who expect continuity in style and spirit with the TV series, and had Charteris been alive, I believe he would have disapproved, because of his aristocratic lineage, of Kilmer's ungentlemanly portrayal. My regret is that the Saint character has never been played by a half-Chinese, which will give the Charteris books the edge they deserve, and also allow audiences to understand his antiestablishment nature. But I, too, understand an establishment that of Hollywood. For it, a Chinese Saint would simply be too far-fetched to be accepted. Another opportunity missed. "},{"Title":"Great disguises, horrible movie","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Val Kilmer's acting and disguises were perfect. Shue was cast as a bimbo. I find it hard to believe that the director or writer had any respect for women. He (or she) portrayed Shue as an idiot nuclear physicist?? Help needed on this one. Plot was idiotic.  "}{"Title":"A travesty of a classic character","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I accept that I am long in the tooth, but in my youth I read most of the books by Leslie Charteris and in those days Simon templar was a pretty ruthless character with his own rules of justice, which were never necessarily within the laws of the land. I have never seen George Sanders in the role, but Louis Hayward had a fair crack at it! On TV in the 60's Roger Moore looked the part but the story lines were too weak - not his fault. Later efforts with Ian Ogilvey were pretty lack lustre.The pathetic 1997 version with Val Kilmer is not worth a mention. There is no comparison with the original character and the film is a total misnomer.No disrespect to the Americans who produce some cracking stuff when they get it right but when they attempt to interpret an English character as their own they get it wrong. Just look at Sylvester Stallone's pathetic interpretation of Get Carter! I accept he was great in Rocky!I know it will never happen, but I would love to see a Saint film made reflecting the period and style in which it was written. "},{"Title":"cold confusion","Date":"6 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I had never heard of the Saint franchise until Philip Noyce's movie came out. I did see The Saint in the theater, but it had a really confusing plot. It was interesting to hear all the stuff about cold fusion, but let's face it, this guy is no James Bond. In all fairness to the movie, Val Kilmer and Elisabeth Shue do pretty well in their roles. Also, looking back on all the stuff about an oil shortage -- and the prominence of petroleum in Russia's economy -- it seemed pretty relevant considering Russia's default in 1998.But overall, this isn't one that I recommend. Both Kilmer and Shue, as well as Rade &#x8A;erbed&#x9E;ija, have done better than this. "},{"Title":"Alright, i suppose...","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I had seen half an hour of this film at my mates house and thought That looks pretty good! but it turns out it was probably the best half an hour in the film.I think Val Kilmer's a great actor, you only have to watch The Doors to see that, but i thought this was a wee bit bland in places. I really liked the disguise aspect of the film with Kilmer changing persona all the time. The bit in the airport where he plays a dutch guys is class. But overall i couldn't help thinking it was a bit of a romantic gone wrong.Was a bit disappointed as the plot took pretty unrealistic twists... but i won't hold it against him! - hahaha.6/10, but only cause Kilmer was in it!  "},{"Title":"Val Kilmer is a BOOOORING actor but this movie is good","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Val does his 'I am a Keanu Reeves serious statue movie star' thing with his requisite bleached hair and mexican mongrel thing but it comes off flat and weak.  There is no heart to anything he does or says - very paper thin, whereas Keanu has at least a bit of 'brooding confusion' that is somewhat interesting.  Keanu is like an anime character - his face doesn't move, never smiles, just yaps and fights - fitting for the movies he does.Val on the other hand does not look 'spy' or 'bad boy'.  He looks more like a salesman than a militant - but anyway, neither does Tom Cruise!  Back to the point.  This is a great movie for the RUSSIANS in it - they really have a wild vibe about them - these Russian gangster characters and actors, and the rest - it is like wallpaper.  This movie has a good story and good action and form, with nice shots of foreign places (mostly Moscow in the winter) to keep a 'Euro adventure' feel going throughout the piece.  The angle of conspiracy surrounding 'free energy' is also a hoot - and yes maybe there is such a thing.  You can be darn sure if it does exist the oil and other companies would NOT want it public.Did you know you can grow any size, type, and color of diamond you want - indistinguishable from natural ones?  That is only ONE example of real technology that is here today, kept under wraps by big $$$ interests. DeBeers bought the GE process.  Russia has another process - don't know if they've sold it to DeBeers or somebody yet - who knows.  If you had something like cold fusion, probably some company or government is saving it and controlling access to it, as is the premise for this movie - so it is a cool movie for it's 'update real world' relevance - very interesting )  "},{"Title":"god i love rade serbedzija","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  rade serbedzija is gorgeous .. as the russian baddie ivan tretiak he is a gorgeous handsome fox...  val kilmer does great but i love rade. im not a big elizabeth shue fan ,, all i know is she did a silly movie called adventures in babysitting back when ,,,  good movie and some good plot twists ,,, but i love rade ...  "},{"Title":"A tarnished halo","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  An uneven vanity project from Val Kilmer.  The various characters and impressions he does in this movie are sometimes amusing but overall distracting.  The plot is sketchy and gives the impression that scenes were probably cut that would (hopefully) explain things more clearly, otherwise certain plot elements seem nonsensical and contrived, even after multiple viewings.  There's very little tension as Kilmer frequently mugs for the camera while eluding Russian mobsters, although he does have some good moments with Elisabeth Shue.  Fans of The Saint novels or TV show will probably be disappointed; instead of playing a Saint, Kilmer plays a Knight--as in Christopher Knight, his goofball character from Real Genius, a much better movie than this one. "},{"Title":"Absolute worst movie ever...Why????","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This movie was horrendous. The plot was pathetic and non-original and the acting was painful to watch. As a matter of fact, I did not realize this was even Val Kilmer, that is how horrible it was.After we finished watching this atrocity, I looked it up on IMDb because I wanted to know who the actress was; she was just so unbearable and unable to perform her lines in a believable manner, I was convinced she was some 'unknown' that they got for cheap to go along with this low budget, below B movie. I was shocked to find out it was Elizabeth Shue...who, in my opinion, still cannot act her way out of a cracker jack box This movie was horrible. Painfully, banefully horrible! It should be burned from all archives and never spoken of again.I'd have given it a -10 (negative) if it would have been allowable...wouldn't even let me rate it a 0. It doesn't even deserve a 1. It was just that pathetic. If you value your eyes, ears and stomach...don't watch this thing "},{"Title":"pretty decent... but somethings missing","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" 5 word summary Chameleon thief falls for target The story of a clever man with many names. Simon Templar changes his identity to help him become an extremely successful thief. He gets hired by Russians to steal a formula for cold fusion energy from scientist Emma Russell, however while trying to retrieve it he falls in love with her. Simon is caught between doing his job and staying with the woman he loves, and a chase through Moskow soon takes place.As with most chase thrillers there are many parts of this film that are unrealistic but if the movie is well made you can look past those parts, and I think that is true about this film.the film stays tense throughout most of the film, with only a few scenes that slow down the pace, but only temporarily. Directing was decent, as is the acting, music, and writing. The story is pretty strong and characters are easy to connect with, and once again the suspense/ action is pretty good.So what's missing? I'm not positive honestly. I guess there's just not enough in it. Not saying it need to be longer I just think there could have been more to the plot or maybe just to the end to knock it up to a higher rating. The end wasn't bad but also wasn't as smart or original as the rest of the film. the end is kind of clichéd, i wasn't expecting what happened toward the end but it didn't surprise me at all, and as for the actual ending that was where it was very predictable Without a doubt it was an entertaining movie that really kept me interested, it just didn't have enough power to make a long lasting impression. "},{"Title":"Da do di da doo doo doooooooo....","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Da do di da doo doo doooooooo.... See Val Kilmer wear wigs! See Van Kilmer wear false moustaches! See Van Kilmer do funny foreigner accents! See Val Kilmer bore the pants off the audience! What a plod of a movie. What should have been a jolly James Bond meets Diabolik piece of fun turned into a long trudge of 116 minutes worth of bilge-ocks* as, on behalf of the Russian Mafia, superthief Val Kilmer steals the 'formula' for cold fusion from a beautiful lady scientist (who keeps it tucked into her bra) and then changes his mind (when he discovers he quite likes what else she keeps in there as well). When was the last time anyone seriously built a movie around the only copy of a professor's secret formula written on a piece of paper? This is 1940's serial plotting - not in itself a bad thing, many an enjoyable movie has been built around recycling paper-thin ideas from paper-thin movies but few have taken themselves so deadly, ponderously, bum-numbingly seriously as this one does. Anyway. Not many complication ensue. Good triumphs over evil. The denouement seems to take half the length of the movie again but I will remember it slightly fondly for one brief moment of classic bad movie acting. The Saint includes the most incredibly crap 'baddies telling each other the details of how clever they have been in their evil scheming just so the audience can hear' scene outside of a Hanna-Barbera cartoon, He! He! He! type evil laughing and all. Who would have guessed all the heating oil for all of Russia had been syphoned off into a tank under the baddies' palatial hideout? Who indeed? And who but the Russian Mafia would happily discuss such things as Val Kilmer, disguised as a cleaning lady, plants a bug in their evil headquarters? Elisabeth Shue was pretty.*A word I just invented to get past the IMDb's not letting me use the word I really wanted to use, a word which pertains to gentlemens' external reproductive organs. "},{"Title":"Not The Saint","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" If this had been called anything else, it would have been damned as a poor MissionImpossible rip-off. As it is, apart from the main characters name, it had nothing to do with The Saint. I've enjoyed most versions of The Saint over the years (except the poor Simon Dutton version of the late 80's) but this stank. I'm not saying that they should have produced a carbon copy of what had gone before, but there's enough of the old material around (books, films, TV, radio) to have at least given the creators a feel for the character. Val Kilmer proved, with his portrayal of Bruce Wayne (though not Bat Man), that he can portray the playboy-adventurer but he never got the chance with this script. I hope that when someone has another go, they ignore this when looking for reference material. In an era when audiences like franchises, and studios like safe options, this was a big opportunity missed. I still believe there is a place for Simon Templar, unfortunately this wasn't it. "}{"Title":"Decent For A Rainy Day Or Lazy Saturday","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The Saint was a decent flick, but jumping scenery as well as lack of plot development kept it from being really good. Val Kilmer is good in his role with all the different costumes and accents he had to do. My favorite one was the old,balding journalist guy. Elisabeth Shue,while always a pleasure to watch, didn't really offer a whole lot to the movie. The whole thing dealing with cold fusion and the Russians attempting to steal the formula was sketchy at best. The Saint has many cool moments, but overall it was choppy and far from being what it could have been. Worth seeing once, twice if you REALLY like seeing a lot of Val Kilmer. "},{"Title":"disappointment","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Val Kilmer is one of my favorite actors, and I've adored Ms. Shue since The Karate Kid, so I had great hope for this film. My perception is that the only thing worth watching about it is the makeup, the artistry of which is unquestionable. If you want to see V.K. in a variety of well-executed disguises, then see this film. If you'd like a plot or character development to go with it, see something else. I'm editing my review,and the system won't let me send it in its original form, so I guess I must pad until it says OK, which it has yet to do. Apparently the criteria have changed since I created the original review. "},{"Title":"it just isn't very good","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Extraordinarily stupid film about a master thief who is hired to retrieve a cold fusion formula from a renowned doctor, but suddenly gains a conscience, falls in love with her, and must protect her as he is pursued by the spies/mobsters who hired him....or something. Tries to be an action-packed spy game, scientific thriller, and romantic drama all in one but just ends up being frustrating, confusing, and illogical. Good actors do their best, but are completely helpless against a script this dumb. A bust. 1/4  "},{"Title":"Viewable with Fast Forward","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I have always thought Val Kilmer was a good actor and someone who I could see in pretty much anything.  This wasn't a bad flick but it wasn't exactly good either.  If you have the option of fast forwarding through the bad science about cold fusion and you don't mind massive amounts of smarmy romantic scenes, then you'll enjoy it.  I fast forwarded through a lot but what I did watch was enjoyable.  I liked the disguises and the pyrotechnics.  View at your own discretion. "},{"Title":"Entertainment with no frills, or characters","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This was pretty much slated upon release, whether it really deserved it is up to you to decide. Although the film lacked any real depth and failed to get into any of it's characters, it won on the simplest of levels, entertainment. Suspense and action cover the lack of character depth. It was good to see Police who weren't portrayed as idiots, well, for the most part anyway. Shue is good, and steals the show, purely because Kilmer is so limited in this role. Listen for the cameo radio voice of Roger Moore. "},{"Title":"UGH!!!!!","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I can't stand Val Kilmer's voice in this movie; it's so stupid and I laugh at every scene in this stupid movie. I can't believe he cut himself in the head which doesn't make no sense what-so-ever. The bad guys are boring too. Why can't they be enemies like Dr. Evil and Mini Me? But no, they are boring. The same with the good guys. Every body's role suck in this movie. There wasn't no great acting at all. I've seen much better acting in Godzilla. Don't bother watching this one, It's bad.No Stars "},{"Title":"A movie we can all be ambivalent about","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  My husband and I saw this on cable, so some of the impressiveness of the big screen was lost.  This definitely wasn't The Saint of Leslie Charteris, and it wasn't even Simon Templar as Roger Moore played him.  The bits and pieces of scenes describing Simon's background seemed the only reason to make this a remake, otherwise, the producers could have used a different title and made Val a different character.Considering how witty Moore's Templar was, it made Val seem grim in comparison, and Charteris never intended Simon to be grim.  But the story that was told was okay, Val and Liz did as well as they could with the script they were given, and the stuntmen had their work cut out for them. The producers made a decision to design and film the movie in a particular way, and comments here and elsewhere show that those decisions didn't meet the audience's complete acceptance.Perhaps the only aw! moment in the movie was at the end, as Simon speeds away from the police and turns on the radio to hear the newsreader announcing multi-million dollar mystery donations to global charities--that comforting and silky voice is Roger Moore's.  It would have been nice if there had been a touch more saintliness about Val throughout the movie (and it would have been nice if the producers had done some research). "},{"Title":"he stole money, he stole technology, but most of all - HE STOLE HER HEART!","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" i just watched this movie again for the first time in five years. fortunately, i was in a mood to revisit it. i remember from watching it the first time a vague annoyance with elisabeth shue's character, her relationship with with simon and a kind of letdown by the ultimate result of things. watching it again, i couldn't believe just how laughable the love affair was. actually it was kind of beyond laughable. as a human being, i found it outright offensive that elisabeth shue actually fell for simon's ridiculous sleazy lines. the girl makes a ridiculous scientist. her scientific speeches about cold fusion are like a little girl's. even denise richards was more convincing as a famed science phd. the movie should have been made with less of an aim toward val kilmer's vanity. less scenes of him talking to himself would have been really really nice, especially since he's much duller than shue and the Russian mafia.anyway, there were good things. i love seeing movies in Russia for some reason. nice change of scenery. also, nobody hates chase sequences. hearing some mid/late nineties music by underworld is always a plus.the flick needed less romance and more chases. well, maybe more romance if it was the good kind of convincing romance and not the blatant drivel sent to us.5/10 "},{"Title":"Sweet dreams","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" What a waste.Val Kilmer on snooze control, a bunch of really bad accents.Elisabeth Shue in an unpromising follow-up to her acclaimed performance in Mike Figgis' Leaving Las Vegas.A bunch of really tired and boring clichés borrowed from a million other sources, awful direction, weak scriptwriting; one predictable turn after another with some truly mediocre content.Overall, just plain mediocre and that's all I can think of to describe it. Another pointless and unnecessary TV-show-adaptation - let me ask, how many of these do we really NEED or even WANT?Certainly not any more like this.2/5 "},{"Title":"This Sure Ain't 'The Saint'!","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" 'The Saint' came out a year before the 'Avengers' movie, and likewise also proved a critical and commercial disaster. Of the two movies, I prefer 'The Avengers' because, whether you like it or not, it at least resembles the television series on which it is based. 'The Saint' tries to be 'Mission Impossible' meets 'Goldeneye', and fails dismally. As soon as Kilmer's casting was announced, I knew it was doomed. Simon Templar should never be played by an American. Kilmer was fine as 'Batman', but all wrong for 'The Saint'. I wasn't convinced by the romance with the Elisabeth Shue character. Templar's disguises are so patently unconvincing you wonder why no-one sees through them. Jonathan Hensleigh's script is mediocre compared to the John Kruse T.V. episodes 'The Fiction Makers' and 'The Death Game'. It didn't help that the original ending was deleted, and a lame new one substituted. Best thing about the movie was Orbital's pulse-pounding arrangement of Edwin Astley's theme. "}{"Title":"Adequate, but Disappointing","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The Saint is an adequate action thriller, but like Mission Impossible, it bears very little resemblance to the TV series that spawned it  so much so that in both cases one wonders why they even bothered with adapting an existing series.  Well, name value and selling it to fans of the series, probably.  But those are exactly the folks that will be most disappointed with the movie.  Val Kilmer does the best he can, saddled with goofy disguises and accents.  The plot tends to drag in the middle, the metaphors are obvious (Templar had his heart broken, Russell has a literal broken heart), and it's not until the end that the producers seem to remember that the Saint was a _fun_ character. "},{"Title":"Uh uh","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" My dad recently gave me this movie because he said he and my step mom didn't really enjoy it, but I might get a kick out of it. I usually like the spy type of movies, they're interesting to watch and are usually exciting. But I actually really didn't enjoy this movie, it wasn't just the story, because over all it didn't seem like a bad idea. I think it was the cast, Val has a pretty crappy Russian accent, you gotta admit.But this movie is about a guy named Simon named after the saint of magic, he becomes a spy of some sort and is spying on the Russian Mafia. He ends up getting deeper and deeper when he steals a girl's plans about how she could save the world of pollution that the Mafia also wishes to get their hands on. He ends up of course falling for the girl and she goes on the adventure with him.Over all, I'd say this wasn't a terrible movie, but it wasn't my cup of tea, but I couldn't see why someone else might enjoy it. I think it's something you have to judge for yourself. So, either you can take my advice or just try it out, I guess we owe it to Val... somewhat.4/10 "},{"Title":"A lost opportunity","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Val Kilmer takes over the Simon Templar role in this big screen adaptation of the old series that starred former 007 Roger Moore. Val is quite good and very much in his element as he slips in and out of various disguises and personas, but the film goes on too long and doesn't always make a whole lot of sense.The plot has Templar getting involved with the adorable Elisabeth Shue, a shy, lonely scientist with a slight medical problem who's working on one of those experimental formulas that could possibly change the world in a positive way. When the Russians come after them, things only get worse.Film never seems to go anywhere and has too many endings, but Val is fun to watch and Elisabeth is hard not to like as the lover.One of the thugs chasing Val and Liz appeared as Russell Crowe's sidekick of sorts in Gladiator and he had a role in Braveheart somewhere. This actor can be identified by his unique facial cheek scars.  "},{"Title":"Whatever happened to Leslie Charteris?","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Val Kilmer is simply not the Saint and never will be. My advice to any movie producers out there is to start again with an English actor and just forget the Kilmer film was ever made. The beginning episodes of this film, giving the Saint a past and a reason for being, were ridiculous, overlong and unnecessary. The Saint doesn't need a reason to exist other than the fact he enjoys the mayhem he brings into the lives of criminals. Also ridiculous was making Templar a master of disguise. The whole point about the Saint was that everybody knew who he was, letting him attract business, women, thrills and lots of money. If the Saint was such a master of disguise, how the hell would anyone be able to find him, let alone get him into so much trouble? Sorry, Paramount, nil points, start again! "},{"Title":"Cold have been a lot better","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The Saint stars Val Kilmer. You would be forgiven for forgetting this fact, however, as Kilmer spends most of the movie going crazy in the costume department, thus rendering him unrecognisable for the majority of the film. The plot follows the story of a young boy in a boarding home that grows up to become the enigmatic 'saint', who is the title character of this film. The Saint then goes on to become a spy and thief, and one that bows to the highest bidder. The film really gets going when The Saint gets hired for a job, one that will put him up to the $50 million mark (his goal for retirement). This job requires him to steal the formula for cold fusion from a young lady...but after he falls in love with her, will he be able to do it?As mentioned earlier, Val Kilmer takes the title role. Val Kilmer proved his acting ability with his complete embodiment of Jim Morrison in The Doors. This movie doesn't require any acting ability of that calibre, but it still allows Val to show his ability. At several points in the movie, he is required to pretend to be a different character, and that requires him to put on a different accent. This requires talent, not everyone can do that. I'm not saying that Kilmer deserves an Oscar, but he has an obvious talent for acting. Also featuring in this cast is Elizabeth Shue, a lady whom movie fans might remember from the latter two parts of the Back to the Future trilogy. She doesn't really impress in this movie; she does her job, but her role doesn't really leave an opening for to impress with. Aside from these two, the cast of The Saint is more or less totally made up of lesser-known actors.For a film like this, you would expect basic popcorn entertainment, and that's how it should have been. Although the movie never really requires you to flex your brain muscles, it does have a rather complicated plot. I have no problem with complicated plots, but they are out of place in a movie of this ilk. It should be fun, and therefore complex plots have no place. The movie also doesn't have much of a sense of humour about itself, and it is directed almost humourlessly. This comes off rather badly as a lot of Val Kilmer's characters are people that you could laugh at, and the movie should have capitalised on this fact more, as it would have made it a more enjoyable ride. The movie does feature some exciting sequences, in fact it never really gets boring; but had it have been better directed, and had Val Kilmer's character have been capitalised on more, it could have become the entertaining blockbuster that it obviously wants to be.Although the movie is somewhat fun to watch, it could have been a lot better. It's joylessly directed and despite the talent of it's lead, it never really impresses. It's a shame as this could have been a hit, but due to it's flaws; I'm afraid that it gets an overall thumbs down. "},{"Title":"An Empty, two and a half hour Musak video...","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  There are only two films that have become so unbearable I could not bear to watch them any longer all the way through. Prizzi's Honor was one. This is the other. I read the novelization of this work first (collecting movie books is a hobby of mine). I loved it. It was great. So what happens when I watch the real thing? Everything I loved about the novel is left on someone's cutting board. The picture doesn't seem to be so much created as thrown together like a tossed salad of nonsense with one scene suddenly happening right after another. It looks more like a film school student's first production as opposed to an actual, honest-to-God movie. I have better ways of wasting my time. "},{"Title":"Life's too short....","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe there are so many comments praising this film! What were you watching?I don't really care that it's nothing like the series, although I'm old enough to remember it well (but why bother calling it The Saint at all?). I do care that it's one of the most sloppily written, acted and directed films ever made. Phillip Noyce's real interests lie in serious films like Rabbit-Proof Fence and I'm sure he knocked this one out in his sleep for the money.Val Kilmer delivers the same narcissistic, hollow performance he always does - but this time he gets to do it in lots of different disguises. The scene where he acts as some kind of poetry-spouting bohemian (think of Barry Gibb with a French(?) accent) in order to seduce scientist Elisabeth Shue is - and I really, really mean this - the most embarrassingly awful 10 minutes I have seen in any film, ever.Life really is too short to waste 2 hours of it watching this film. "},{"Title":"The WORST screenplay EVER","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I knew that the director was going to ignore the books and earlier films concerning Simon Templar, but I had no idea just how inept this new version would be.  The entire film is a setup for a sequel, but they didn't even do that well. An antagonistic relationship between Scotland Yard and the Saint was established.  Then, although the yard KNEW that Shue's character was in love with him, they didn't tail her car when she went to see him.  They wasted an opportunity for a sensitive conversation between Shue and Kilmer during which they could have had her implant the value of philanthropic work (perhaps waxing sentimental about her father's work, and her desire to do as much good as he did) and, instead, had him pace the room saying She's too nice; I can't do this.  It was embarrassing.  The only reason implied for his sudden philanthropy at the end of the flick is the barbie-and-ken relationship they established between Shue and Kilmer. Miracle 1, miracle 2, miracle 3...that plot device makes lethal injection too good a reward for the writer.  If they were really serious about a sequel, they should have made the first movie worth watching.  There are so many plot choices that were mistakes, I won't go into them all.  I'm a real Kilmer fan (after Tombstone) but was disgusted with the script for this film.  Let's hope At First Sight turns out to be a better vehicle for him... "},{"Title":"Careless in every way.","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  When we have films like the Matrix and such, there is really no excuse for a film like this.  The story is lacking in every way, feels cobbled together, and it seems as though no thought has gone into it at all.  The legacy of the original books is destroyed here.  I would recommend this only to my worst enemy; go and rent Bond instead.   "},{"Title":"Boring.","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Not a very good movie.  Boring and predictable.  The bad guys are silly caricatures.  The movie also has too many absurdities.  For example - Elizabeth Shue's character had discoverd how to make energy from water - but somehow, she's lost it!  Now she carries the formula on little pieces of paper in her bra.  She's been working for months, but can't figure it out - then when left alone in a room for one hour, she miraculously solves the problem.  Probably the first movie I ever wanted to walk out on, but I was with a group, so I was stuck. "}{"Title":"Maybe The Shortest Review Ever !","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" So, what we have here to be loved ? _(Elisabeth Shue) gets ready to make love with (Val Kilmer)._(Elisabeth Shue) gives (Val Kilmer) a big kiss near the end._A line by (Elisabeth Shue) says The difficult childhood makes interesting adults._The great theme music by (Edwin Astley) with great arrangement by (Graeme Revell)._The direction of the last minute of the movie.And I hated what exactly ? It's simple  EVERYTHING ELSE ! P.S  if you have anything but the Bond formula (and looks better in anyway) then do it; Just a telegram to Hollywood producers. "},{"Title":"already been done","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Convoluted story about a suave, elusive international thief and master of disguises (Kilmer) recruited by a wealthy and venal Russian tycoon to steal a revolutionary formula from a brilliant American scientist. What begins as a routine assignment quickly goes awry when the thief falls in love with her and endangers both their lives, resulting in conventional chase scenes, fatal escapes, and gimmicky action sequences. With the exception of some terrific scenery and a good cast there isn't much to really hold your interest; complicated, far-fetched, and all-too-familiar, the script throws out one needless plot twist after another that weigh down the film's already tiresome concept. Fans of the actors may not mind. ** "},{"Title":"Worse than your average film","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  'The Saint' starring Val Kilmer, wasn't a great film.  His disguises were easy to see through, as are Bruce Willis' in 'The Jackal'.  By the end, I didn't really envision his character as a saint, and I found the plot bad. The film is not all bad, occasionally it has some good moments.  But not many, so steer clear of this film, as well as Bruce Willis' 'The Jackal'. "},{"Title":"At least it's better than LOTR...","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Of course, just about anything is better than LOTR.  This was better than all of them combined.  But this still sucks.Val Kilmer does a good job as Simon Templar, but did the producers completely ignore the television show?  Templar, when played by Roger Moore, was suave, cool and always collected.  Val Kilmer was just hypothermic throughout the whole movie.  That crap would never fly in a Roger Moore episode!  You might as well have killed the guy off in the first three minutes, and just had Elisabeth Shue take care of everything for him like she does anyways. "}]