[{"Title":"Inappropriate for everybody","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  Unlike the TV show, which is quite good for kids 2-4, this film is inappropriate for just about anybody. Very young children will be lost in the plot. And I don't really want to subject my child to slapstick humor (e.g. the sullen boy accidentally stepping on a cow pie).  "},{"Title":"Movie or slow-motion projectile vomiting captured on film?","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Barney the Dinosaur on television is tolerable. At least it has some educational value. This film, however, smokes the proverbial pole like few other children's films ever have. It is almost as if the producers wanted to see what an entire movie made of first takes would look like. The children are insipid, the adult actors were probably hired from casting calls at community theaters or special needs living facilities and the Dino-characters are more annoying than the squeakiest Pokemon you could imagine. This is a perfect example of an opportunity to make a good film out of an already successful television character squandered by lazy production and lack of funding. You would likely get more use from 5 dollars by eating it than spending it on this DVD. "},{"Title":"Insipid and made my daughter cry","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I know it's cool to hate Barney, but this really is a bad movie. The TV show, as dumb as it is, at least entertains kids. This movie actually frightened my four year old daughter. She didn't enjoy the movie and only watched it to make sure everything was okay by the end. She was sad and anxious most of the movie.The plot is nothing but a serious of perilous events, one after another, with the occasional (and out of place) Barney song interlude.Adults will hate everything about this movie. The movie is also very dark and hard to see much of the time.I would not recommend this movie to anyone, even Barney fans. "},{"Title":"Adventure ? What Adventure ?","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"23 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" What can I say about Barney the purple dinosaur ? Lots of things and none of them good . Apparently Barney is a role model for young children and shows them how live , should behave and how to do the right thing . According to Barney creator Kathy Parker a young child woke her family after a fire broke out since an episode of BARNEY AND FRIENDS warned children about the danger of fire . I'm just sort of guessing that human beings have an instinctive fear of fire so the credit of a child waking her family should be down to her basic instinct - Not something she saw on a television show As you imagine this feature length film starts with a sugary sweet sequence of young children and a baby being driven to their grandparents house and the story continues in the same vein .  Oh little children . Aren't they sweet . Isn't life wonderful etc  is the expected response from the parents watching this but any person child or adult with critical faculties will be telling asking themselves  Are we being manipulated here ? Are we supposed to enjoy it because it's so innocent ?  to which the answer is a resounding YES . We're being emotionally blackmailed and if you don't like this patronising crap then you must be an evil person , you're not allowed to criticise the pathetic and badly choreographed song and dance numbers or the fact that that for a film with the word adventure in the title there's nothing resembling adventure I have to be honest and say that I feel very , very sorry for children whose parents make them watch this . My own childhood adventure revolved around Saturday nights when I watched DOCTOR WHO and I think I can speak for everyone in the western world when I say sadistic monsters made out of condoms by the BBC are far more interesting than a man dressed up as a purple dinosaur "},{"Title":"Horrible show made into movie","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" This is probably one of the worst so-called movie ever! It barely has a plot. It isn't funny or humorous, or barely educational.Barney is very active in this film like he was having some serious coffee, high in caffiene. Actullay, none of the characters were lethargic. Cody is a butthole, Barney is doltish, B.J. is frightening and the rest are stupid eggheads. There was only a few good parts, and they were mediocre.My Film Rating 1.5/10My MPAA Rating PG for some mild thematic elements involving an annoying dinosaur and brief violent images.MPAA Rating G "},{"Title":"As Ebenezer Blackadder from Blackadder's Christmas Carol would say...","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Utter Crap. First of all, when I was a kid, I used to enjoy Barney when it aired on PBS. Nowadays, I can't believe how moronic this movie is. The plot is nothing more than a lot of bore. The characters are all babyish. Cody is the least favorite 'cause I think he's a jerk. In the beginning, his sister and her best friend act like a couple of mini-teenagers. And Barney, YES Barney, is, pardon my language, the crappiest crap in the history of crap if it were dumped on by a pile of horse crap, the crap will be too heavy if you try to pick up the crap with a crap scooper. If you want something that defines the meaning of the word adventure, Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom would be an excellent choice. I'm sure it's got more action(and I mean it!) than Barney's Greatest Adventure. -100 stars out of 100. "},{"Title":"If you are expecting for more than an extended episode of the TV show, you may find yourself disappointed","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" At 18 I cannot stand the show, I mean I loved it as a kid, but now re-visiting like I like to do with some of my childhood favourites, I was surprised at how childish, simplistic and annoying it was. I was told that the movie Barney's Great Adventure was worse, so I gave it the benefit of the doubt and went ahead and watched it. After watching it, it is marginally better than the show, but that isn't saying much. As I have said, if you are expecting for more than just an extended episode of the TV show, you may find yourself disappointed. This leads to my first criticism, and it is that the story structure is very simplistic and episodic, it really did feel that it was an extended episode of the TV show.The script is awful, made up of truly banal and childish writing, no improvement whatsoever on the show's writing, and the multicoloured sets look flat and dull. To make things worse the choreography in the song and dance routines is very basic, and the songs themselves are forgettable at best, complete with cringe worthy lyrics and out of tune singing. The characters I couldn't relate to at all and as the film progressed I cared about them less and less, Barney is even more annoying than he is in the show, which is a hard feat considering how he is one of the most annoying characters ever. The children have dull-as-dishwater personalities, the grandparents are underused and BJ is just as annoying as Barney. It is pretty much the same with Baby Bop, who I admittedly found cute once upon a time, but other than one or two cute parts where she is trying to find her yellow blankee she is annoying and she is sickly sweet in alternative to naturally sweet.The acting is really not great, and the voice acting of Barney and BJ especially is really uninspired. The child actors are dull, like their characters and can't do anything with the script. Not even the underrated George Hearn, who was so brilliant in Sweeney Todd The Demon Barber of Fleet Street, can save this film, with his character being so underused it is not hard to see why. In fact, for me the only redeeming quality is the magical scene in the hot-air balloons. Overall, a bad movie, it isn't the worst movie I have ever seen, and while kids will love it, adults won't most likely. It doesn't help that the show isn't the best inspiration to work from and that is an understatement in itself. 2/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Oh goodness","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I can consider the fact that children are children and they will love what they love because it entertains them. I know this is a kid's film and all, based on a somewhat treasured children's show and I am actually cutting it slack by rating it a 2, honestly, because once you have seen the film, you will understand why so many realize how terrible it really is and why they feel the need to criticize it so hardly.First of all, I wasn't expecting it to be anywhere near good anyway, but I wasn't thinking this would be the worst movie ever either, and it wasn't, because surprisingly I have seen worse, but it is pretty freaking bad. I found myself laughing at it's utter stupidity, and that's really not the good kind of enjoyment when it boils down to the main point, and I was criticizing all the characters just for the heck of it; they were so bland and annoying that I balled my hands into fists at times. The story plot is stupid, characters are stupid, entertainment level is anything but low, just because you're so interested in how horrible it is, but bad, crappy, terrible, horrible and horrendous still all perfectly describe this movie. Stick to the Walt Disney's for your sake, because children are bound to enjoy one of them at least a little, and it will relieve you of the horror that is Barney, because I feel so sorry for you if your kid asks you to watch this with them. "},{"Title":"Barney's Great Adventure","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I had previously seen clips and a Christmas episode of the TV show starring the prehistoric pre-school character, then when I was about ten years old I asked for the VHS of this movie, as a joke (I'd seen the trailer), I didn't expect I would actually get it, but I sat down and watched it all the way through (I'm ashamed to see a few times). Basically Cody (Jurassic Park III's Trevor Morgan), his sister Abigail Abby (Diana Rice), their best friend Marcella (Kyla Pratt), and their baby brother Fig (twins David and Edouard Larouche) are dropped off by their parents to spend the summer with their Grandma (Shirley Douglas) and Grandpa (George Hearn) on their farm. Abby has brought along her stuffed purple and green Tyrannosaurus Rex doll Barney the dinosaur, Cody does not believe in magic, but with their imagination Abby and Marcella bring Barney (voiced by Bob West, performed by David Joyner) to life, and he is keen to entertain and join the children having fun, playing games and singing songs. At night Cody makes a wish on a shooting star to have a real adventure, and after walking away this star crashes to Earth into the barn, the next morning Barney and the kids discover a large colourful egg. With the suggestion of the grandparents, who think the kids are just playing, they go to visit Mildred Goldfinch, the bird lady (Renée Madeleine Le Guerrier), she tells them the egg contains a dream maker, an alien creature that will show the dreams of children, the egg shell has five coloured rings that will light up one by one, when all rings light up it will be ready to hatch, but only in the spot where the egg was found, in the barn. Before they can return to the egg to the barn Cody knocks it out of Mrs. Goldfinch's house, and so an adventure begins for Barney, Cody, Abby and Marcella to recover it, as it is rolled and dropped from place to place, including in a parade, a French restaurant, the circus and a hot air balloon. Along the way Cody becomes much more open to fun and imagination, including convincing Abby and Marcella to join him and Barney into turning a log into an aeroplane, also green Triceratops Baby Bop (voiced by Julie Johnson, performed by Jeff Ayers) is looking for her yellow blankie, and yellow Protoceratops BJ (voiced by Patty Wirtz, performed by Jeff Brooks) pop up now and then. Barney and the children do finally get the egg back, Grandma and Grandpa join them, seeing that the living dinosaur is real after all, they are joined by Baby Bop and BJ as the egg hatches, inside is a koala-like being named Twinken. The dream maker shows everyone Abby's dream, to be a jockey, this is the dream maker's gift, to show dreams more clearly, these dreams may come true, and Cody admits to Barney being mean before and that he thinks he's cool, Barney accepts his apology and they hug. Everyone is keen to see Barney's dream, Twinken shows a magical fireworks display covering the house, Barney explains that his dream is to have a special time and a special place and sharing it with everyone he loves. Twinken lands back in Barney's arms, and he starts to sing I Love You, with everyone joining in, Baby Bop and BJ leave to go home, and the film ends with Barney turning back into a doll with Twinken sitting next to him. Also starring Alan Fawcett as Dad, Jane Wheeler as Mom, Alain Gendreau as Maitre D', Michael Davis as The Juggler, Steffen Foster as The Collector and James Lebrecht as the voice of Twinken. The episode I saw of Barney & Friends was frustrating, as the children had almost forced smiles while performing with him, I would not expose my child to this entertainment, in the TV show and in this film Barney the purple dinosaur may be popular with the children, but having grown up I find him rather annoying and overly childish, it is very likely he is gay as well, the children performers are okay. This film doesn't have massive special effects, and it is full of easy to singalong nursery rhymes and new songs for the younger audience, but there's not much the adults watching will get out of it, the younger audience members watching will be happy to go along with it, but overall it is a rather dreadful, overly sugary and predictable fantasy adventure. It was nominated the Razzies for Worst Original Song for Barney, The Song and Worst New Star for Barney. Pretty poor! "},{"Title":"Michael Jackson's dream come true.","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" The entire concept of a huge fat talking dinosaur visiting children during schooltime hours to give them a way to pass the time is the typical American response to short attention spans. Apparently recess isn't good enough for kids from the States so they have to be entertained by a purple rubber suit.Nevertheless it spawned hundreds of millions in revenue and for a few years (mainly the early-to- mid-nineties) Barney the Dinosaur (TM) (C) (R) was THE children's representative. The show was a runaway success and the merchandise sold stupendously well.Unfortunately (or rather fortunately) by the time this film rolled around in 1998 Barney had already hit the slippery slide downwards and the movie generally flopped in theaters. The hype was low and the response was decent, if that.I remember reading some OK reviews of the film back in '98 but I rest assured that those critics were merely smoking crack. This is one of the most terrible films ever made and even as kids' entertainment it is intellectually insulting.The acting is atrocious (it's got the kid from Jurassic Park 3 in it when he had even less acting skills) and the whole idea of some big, fat, annoying guy in a dinosaur costume playing with kids for two hours strikes me as a bit Michael Jackson-ish. Victor Salva probably went to see this a few times when it came out, too. "}{"Title":"Mediocre... but still better than I expected it to be","Date":"24 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Well... I have not watched Barney in years, because I am now 16 and I have grown out of it. But even at my age, I feel that every once in a while I need to relive the cutest and most charming moments of my life.To clarify, I never saw Barney's Great Adventure as a kid, but I only saw it just today on YouTube. I was checking it out to see if it was as bad as most people claim it to be and expected it to be a big waste of my time and really annoying, though admittedly I skipped an irrelevant musical number, but it turned out to be a movie that was, in my opinion, fine for little children.On the other hand, the real negative points are... the story is somewhat clichéd (i.e. disgruntled kid on their grandparent's farm during the summer and wanting fun, the race against time plot etc.), the film's message, at times, is often skewed. For example, just imagining something becomes something else does not happen instantly... for example, a fallen tree does not become a wooden airplane in 30 seconds just by imagining.On the plus side, the children could act OK, the visual effects, though sub-par, do look convincing to a toddler, and the ending with the little creature from the egg was admittedly kinda cute. And I'll give the movie credit for attempting to provide a good first time outing at the theatres for kids, as well as encouraging kids to imagine, but if you're a parent, grandparent, babysitter, teacher, caretaker etc., then you'll want to explain the real meaning of the message to kids.... All in all, I realized how pessimistic I was at first and that I shouldn't always expect the worse to happen. "},{"Title":"Kids, should not see this film, it will make them dumber.","Date":"17 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I know this is a kids film but I have to judge it from my own perspectiveOh, the horror, the horror. I will be dreaming nightmares about this big purple #&@$%½£ (the kind of strong language that this deserves is forbidden on IMDb). I never saw Barney the *beep* *beep* dinosaur before but good God is he annoying. His squeaky voice, the stupid look on his face and the conceited morals about dreams and whatnot that he keeps shoving in your face all come together to form an incredibly obnoxious whole. Added to this is the fact that the gigantic stuffed animal has an ability to disappear like he's a *beep beep* ninja. It's like no reasonable grown up (crazy circus people don't count) never see him until the end of the film and tat really pisses me off. One of the kids even says that he wouldn't just disappear but, guess what kid, he just goes away when you need him the most. The contrived plot, poor visual effects and so on are nothing compared to Barney himself. After seeing this I have come to fear for our future, I believe kids to be smarter than this, seeing Barney the dinosaur at an early age will probably dumb the kids down until the only possible future is that of Idiocracy (http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0387808/).The film ends with Barney singing I love you, you love me, we're a happy family. With a great big hug and a kiss from me to you, won't you say you love me to?My reply NO! "},{"Title":"Worst piece of garbage ever made!","Date":"2 April 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I have seen lots of bad movies, but this is one of the WORST things to ever exist! I've only seen a clip from the film, and that was enough to make my eyes bleed! Why anyone direct, write, produce, or even be involved in such torture like this? I don't know what I hate more about this movie, whether its barney's ear torturing voice, the hideous costume designs, the story, the acting, or the soundtrack, because everything, and I seriously mean EVERYTHING about this movie is just shockingly painful to watch! the TV series is just as god-awful, and this takes the cake. This movie is an insult to every child's intelligence! if you are a parent, do NOT let your kids watch this! this film is the reason why so many people have mental problems and eye cancer, that's how unbearable this disaster of a film is, save your money, and use it for something better! overall, if you hate awful films, then this movie is a serious form of torture. DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE! unless you are really that much of a masochist or a barney fan-boy. I am not even going to give this a 1 out of 10, because it deserves a much lower rating than a zero.below 0 out of 10! worst film ever made, DO NOT WATCH! "},{"Title":"Barney's Great adventure or is it actually called, Barney's crappiest adventure?","Date":"8 December 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" How I see the film, Barney's Great Adventure, it was DOWNRIGHT horse**** (sorry about the profanity). The Songs where like listing to Justin Bieber's song Baby (the fact that I can't stand the song), the film barely has any adventure, it just has nothing but chasing a rainbow egg and also having a fallen tree suddenly turn into a wooden airplane, by imagination and Barney, is just annoying and gay, if your some who enjoys this (no offense) you've hit the jackpot. Also this kid named Cody in the film said about Barney that, real dinosaurs don't talk and real dinosaurs don't laugh he's right, in fact he's a good example of maturity, (despite the fact that he's a total jerk in the film) well until Barney changes him. To me how I can see the reality of dinosaurs, if you've scene the film Jurassic Park, they'll show you what dinosaurs do, they kill people and were awesome and real and were computer-generated, and don't have some guy inside a frigging dinosaur costume and have it sing annoying songs. I've heard that it got a poor rating on Rotten Tomatoes along with some other negative reviews, as well as, being nominated two golden Razzies, for Worst New Star to Barney (who is not real) and Worst Original Song for the opening song, Barney (Hooray, it's a dream come true!). Also, if you've read the trivia on this website, what It mention was, South Park co-creator, Trey Parker volunteered to direct this film but was declined, which is a good thing that he'd directed something better than this. Also the funny thing about this is that if he'd directed this then he would have Cartman to use as Cody, that would be funny. If your a parent who hates this film and thinks this film looks really awful, throw it in the trash and show your child a real G-rated musical, with better songs than the ones from Barney's Great Adventure, like for instance, The Lion King or The Hunchback of Notre Dame. "},{"Title":"Barney's Dumb Adventure- There's nothing great about it.","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Like the majority of you, I hate Barney and do you know what I hate more than Barney? Barney's great adventure, it's like stepping in dog turd- disgusting and horrifying. I saw this movie when I was younger and liked the purple menace. I loved it, now that I look back to that. I realized something, I hated every moment of it. So here is my review of the dumb dinosaur's great adventure Plot The plot is simple- Barney comes to life, He and some kids find an egg, They go all around the world using their Imaginations and unfortunately. They brought along Barney's friends- BJ and his little sister, Baby Bop. The plot is (other than that) Non existent and has over 70 minutes of general stupidity. My score-1.5/10.Cast The cast does earn some respect, some being well known while others are new. They do an average job but in the end, they fail big time. My score-4/10 SFX It has come to this, the saving grace of the movie- the effects. Which are surprisingly, the same as the show itself. I mean come on man! They had $15,000,000 and they still had to resort to the show's SFX for Barney. That my friends is lame. My score- 0.5/10 Overall, the Plot sucks and the FX suck worse. The cast is good but even they couldn't save this Bombshell of a bomb. And whoever rates this movie a ten must be either out of their mind or high on drugs. My overall score for this piece of crap movie-1/10 Another review from Phil MacRae- Kicking Barney's butt up and down the street since I was five. "},{"Title":"why PBS why !","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" OK i know barney is crappy but this just plan out sucks,i mean PBS show our never meant to be made into movies especially barney,i mean isn't it enough that we have to watch him on TV.but PBS chouldnt give a crap what as teens,kids and adults think, they just appeal to 2 year olds or 3.and you think the movies would be safe from movies like this.but i guess i was proved wrong,don't you just hate it when you get some hard earned cash and then spend it on a movie like this.you see PBS just wants your money and they'll go high and low to get it.nobody wants to see this movie, heck the only reason you'll go is because of the preschoolers.what makes this movie so annoying is its plot.barney and friends find some magic egg on a farm and rolls away and they have to find it.not only that but they also have to put those crappy crappy songs in there.and remember you paid 10 bucks to see this.my advise to you is if you have a kid at home who wants to see this deny it as long as you freaking can it will pay off in the long run "},{"Title":"Horrible show made into movie","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" This is probably one of the worst so-called movie ever! It barely has a plot. It isn't funny or humorous, or barely educational.Barney is very active in this film like he was having some serious coffee, high in caffiene. Actullay, none of the characters were lethargic. Cody is a butthole, Barney is doltish, B.J. is frightening and the rest are stupid eggheads. There was only a few good parts, and they were mediocre.My Film Rating 1.5/10My MPAA Rating PG for some mild thematic elements involving an annoying dinosaur and brief violent images.MPAA Rating G "},{"Title":"Stay away","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Seeing how I can't receive the Barney show here, thus only knowing it's reputation trough the various spoofs (Simpsons, etc.), I guess it wouldn't hurt to watch along as my 8 year old sister was looking at it when it aired on TV. I was wrong. I'm a Jurassic Park enthusiast, and even though I dislike JP///, this piece of crap was even worse! (And trust me, I've seen various bad movies, including the dreaded Raptor, so I know a bad dinosaur flick when I see it). What made this movie worse (despite the appearance of the big purple thing itself) are the songs, the plot holes and Trevor Morgan. Seeing him explained a lot of things. He was in JP/// and so was Barney... Overall, if my comments made sense, you should stay away from this piece of crap, unless your life depended on it. "},{"Title":"A Not So Great Adventure.","Date":"29 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Barney's Great Adventure (1998) Dir Steve Gomer / Cast George Hearn, Shirley Douglas, Trevor Morgan, Kyla Pratt, Diana Rice Unbearable family film about adventure and imagination that is best viewed under the influence of alcohol. The story is a series of adventures to obtain a colourful egg. It is always a headache listening to moralists complain about R rated films. Do they honestly believe that society should indulge in this crap? George Hearn and Shirley Douglas are reduced as grandparents of Barney's owner. The fact that they were talked into this is a sad state in one's career. Trevor Morgan owns Barney while Kyla Pratt plays a friend and they obviously lack basic social skills to resort to this sort of mind warp. Hopefully these kids were paid well for what amounts to a total childhood embarrassment. It capitalizes upon the success of the TV show with idiocy such as children riding a log into the sky. Barney is nothing more than a costume, which is not exactly high production. We aren't exactly talking Jurassic Park here. Bring a camcorder to a bar at two in the morning and witness behaviour that equals the idiocy demonstrated here. This is the kind of film that adults need to string up and take crack shots at with a baseball bat while blindfolded. When the lights came on I did not join children in inquiring the whereabouts of Barney. I was just glad he was gone. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"The film and I share a similar disconnect","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Reviewing a film like Barney's Great Adventure is especially difficult because while you're trying to consider the target audience, you don't want to undermine your own opinions as well. I'm firmly aware I'm outside of this particular film's target demographic by about fifteen years, but that doesn't mean I don't see some nostalgic merit in Barney's first, and thus far only, theatrical feature. However, nostalgia doesn't always equate to on-screen success, and Barney's Great Adventure struggles with some tonal problems that are apparent from the very beginning, along with a general frugality to the production despite a medium-sized budget for this kind of project.More on that later. The film concerns three young kids, the stubborn Cody (Trevor Morgan), his instigating sister Abby (Diana Rice), and their friend Marcella (Kyla Pratt), all of whom are headed to Cody and Abby's grandparents' farm. Abby and Marcella are playing with a stuffed Barney doll, who they believe will come to life if they use their imagination and believe hard enough. Cody, on the other hand, is cynical to this idea, even after Barney does indeed come to life, bring his cheeriness and infectious personality to the natural world.Frustrated and bored out of his mind, Cody wishes for a spectacular summer adventure one night, and the next morning, he's greeted with a large colorful egg. The egg turns out to be a dream maker, but finds itself in harms way when it's dropped on a truck. Now, it's up to Barney and the three youngsters to obtain the egg, occasionally seeking the help of their friends B.J. and Baby Bop in their adventure.To begin with, Barney's Great Adventure is captured in a relatively ugly way in terms of its photography. It's a film that bears a look to it that would more fall in line with a horror film or an incredibly micro-budget TV movie; not a film about a lively, cuddly Television character meant for ages five and younger. The entire look to the picture feels off; the color palette is so unmoving in its drab, grayness that it seemingly does everything in its power not to immerse you in the environment. Furthermore, the film is never as adventurous as it could be, especially given the title. Most of the time, we get petty moralizing amongst the characters, which is fine if that wants to be the climax or the concluding scene, but Barney's constant interference that involves some kind of wraparound, larger-than-life idea wears on the audience to the point where one feels they're being sermonized to and not entertained.Barney's Great Adventure has a chance to amuse the young, but not as much as your average episode of Barney & Friends, in my opinion. The scenery is too drab, the action too routine, and the kind of situational humor in the film alludes the kind in the show, as it's much milder and less engaging. There is a disconnect evident here, as if those who worked on the show weren't committed or allowed to be involved with the film adaptation, and thus, executives took over with the notion that they thought they knew what kids wanted rather than actually knowing. It's disconnects like these that make me sad, especially when a product with a great deal of potential was sacrificed.Starring Trevor Morgan, Diana Rice, Kyla Pratt, George Hearn, and Shirley Douglas. Directed by Steve Gomer. "}{"Title":"At first I enjoyed it, but now I don't","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" At one time in my life, I enjoyed watching Barney on TV when I was a lot younger. But, as I grew older, I began to dislike Barney for a number of reasons Barney's irritatingly cheerful, overly optimistic, games of pretend, songs (especially the I Love You song, which is even used in this film) and just Barney himself. I do not like him AT ALL! This great adventure just focuses on Barney and three kids chasing after a magic egg that holds a creature that shows dreams. The creature turns out to be a koala bear. What? A koala bear that can show dreams? You have got to be kidding me! Koala bears don't show dreams, they're just animals that sit around. I wish I could give this adventure a 0 out of 10! Whatever! I'm out! Bye! "},{"Title":"... What did you expect?","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" A Barney's Great Adventure in 5 Seconds YouTube video of a kid stepping on pig feces is all you need to see to sum up this dumb film.IMDb; Your review does not contain enough lines - the minimum length for reviews is 10 lines of text.No? That's not enough for you, OK, Barney is real in the film, throwing the imagination bit out the window. There, that should be enough for you.IMDb; Etc.Still not enough? OK, the story is about rescuing a rainbow Koala egg. See, I told you there is nothing to see here.IMDb; Etc............ Really? You want to know more? Well there isn't any more! Don't see it! "},{"Title":"Barney is awfully creepy than the Show","Date":"11 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I seen this show but it gave a highly negative reviews that it was become as one of the worst TV Show than Dora the Explorer. But when the movie is been released it make more worse just listen to me this Movie is an psychopathic torture room that become of that the Barney the Dinosaur is the Devil and make it more creepy but this Movie have every single songs that is never shut the heck up that you want to Mute it and go to the Toilet for 15 Min's, the acting is bad than Plan 9 from Outer Space.This movie is one of the Worst Kids Movie ever made.Rate 1.5 out of 10 Dolls "},{"Title":"My 2 year old granddaughter loves it!","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" There are some slow parts but just FFW through them - other parts are like magic for a 2 year old. The parts at the circus and restaurant are exciting. I also love the change in Cody from the beginning of the movie to the end. Using your imagination and having dreams are two themes that are emphasized throughout the movie. I have a new respect for Barney and his messages after watching this film. I wish they had mode more Barney Adventure films. We (grandkids & I) loved it! "},{"Title":"It's really not fair to list this among the Bottom 100--after all, it's not meant to be seen by sane adults!","Date":"16 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Currently, Barney's Great Adventure is #87 on IMDb's Bottom 100 List. Now this is a bit deceptive, as very few kids in Barney's demographics vote on films on IMDb or review them, and the show and movie were never meant to appeal to anyone older than 7 (at the most). And, like some kids' shows, it's like a trip to Hell for parents who are roped into taking the kids to see it. It sure would be nice if this film were scored on what kids think of it as well. Would they like the film? Well, it's hard to say, as my kids are all grown and haven't liked Barney in over a decade. So, take this review from a middle-aged man with a grain of salt. Your kids might like it.So why, then, did I watch this film? Well, I am a bit crazy, but try to see as many of IMDb's Bottom 100 as I can. Aside from some that are just not available in the States (such as a notoriously bad German film and several Turkish films), I've done a good job of keeping up with this infamous list. Crazy hobby, huh?! The film begins with three kids and an obligatory ethnic friend (this is required for Barney episodes) going to stay with the grandparents. The baby and little girl are pretty nice, but the boy (who appears about 9 or 10) is surly and hates everything. So, when his little sister and her friend are playing with Barney, he is miserable and hates this kid's stuff. However, when Barney comes to life for real, he's instantly smitten by Barney's wonderfulness, right? No. The boy is still a blasé jerk. Can Barney's incurable optimism and sweetness eventually win him over or will he have to bring out the big guns--BJ and Baby Bop (god, no,...EVERYONE hates Baby Bop)?! I actually didn't think the movie was that bad, for what it was. The grouchy boy (Cody) was actually like having an adult follow along during much of the movie so he could comment about how stupid the whole thing was. Too bad Cody's cold, cold heart was captured by Barney, as when he became enamored with Barney and his god-awful friends as well, any sort of edge was removed from the movie. But who expects an edgy Barney movie?! And, who expects much more than the film is?! It's got the obligatory singing and kid's stuff--what more could it be? Frankly, I didn't think the film was that terrible until Baby Bop showed up--then it got so sickly sweet that adults in the theater must have begun contemplating suicide...or homicide! The timing of this film was, apparently, pretty poor when it debuted. The Barney craze of the early 90s had passed and so the film did not sell all that well in theaters (it lost money in the US according to IMDb). As most adults hate Barney and his friends, getting one to sit through the film in the theater with their kids is problematic. And, many of the really young kids just couldn't sit still for the film's running time--whereas the TV show is shorter and the kids didn't have to sit still in a seat during the show. I think all this really limited the film, but might have made DVD sales less of a problem. My bet is DVD sales weren't bad at all. "},{"Title":"Totally Enjoyable.","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" This is a totally enjoyable adventure for kids and adults alike.There are exciting parts like trying to find the egg at the town carnival.There are funny parts like the interactions of the boy, Cody, and his sister and her friend.Users who panned this movie are trying to Roger Ebert reviewing a regular release movie. This is Barney and a movie about kids' imagination and dreams.Just sit back and enjoy with your kids or grand-kids.Good Job whoever is responsible for this fun film.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not that bad.","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Though its budget and production values are a tad too low, the production team should be congratulated for what they've achieved here. It isn't a bad children's musical, and has our toddlerette captivated. The simplicity of the story is a good thing for her, as are all the colours - it's a very colourful film. And there some nice little touches, like the guy cooking in his truck, the Chez Snobbe restaurant, the juggler, and the library scene, where the set design is excellent. The child actors do a good job, too.So, not really good enough for anyone over five, but great fun for the little ones. "},{"Title":"Adds Something to the Barney Genre","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  One of the beautiful things about childhood is that cynicism has not yet crept into our view of the world. Children have no frame of reference for new experiences, and so they appreciate those experiences as wonderful and react to them with delight.The preceding paragraph explains why your children love Barney, and why you hate it. There is no need to belabor the point. The important question is, what makes this Barney movie different from a typical Barney television episode?Difference number one The replacement of children who can't act with children who can. Granted, they don't have much of a script to work with, but work with it they do, giving a modicum of life to characters that are essentially, like all characters in Barney stories, cardboard.Difference number two An injection of...get ready...production values! Have you watched Barney on television lately? Or ever? Did you notice the missed cues, poor timing, blown lines, and incessant hamming? Did you ever wonder if the director was familiar with the term retake? Fear not, because Barney's Great Adventure gives you an edited script, rudimentary choreography, and even one or two in-jokes for the benefit of Mom and Dad (something Sesame Street and Bear in the Big Blue House always seem to get right instinctively).But the important question is, does it matter? And the answer is a resounding no. My three-year-old sat enraptured throughout the movie, as your three-year-old will, hardly taking time to breathe or blink. When it was over, she wanted to watch it again. She cried when I said three times in two days was enough. Just like she has done with every other Barney video we have ever rented or owned.Is Barney's Great Adventure a good movie? No. Is it passable? I guess so. Should you rent it for your child? Of course. Just pop it in the VCR and go cook a nice dinner for your family. I guarantee you won't be interrupted.  "},{"Title":"I loved it when I was little","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I will remember this movie as the first I ever saw in theaters. I don't remember how old I was, but I was enraptured by the plot, kids, and, of course, Barney. Now that I'm older, I'm sure I wouldn't enjoy the movie as much as I did at 5 years old, but back then it was heaven on earth to watch Barney and his friends race against time. The songs were cute and I loved singing along. It's not a spectacular piece of cinema, but then again, it's Barney. What do you expect, Oscars? I would rent this for children and I know they would enjoy it. For those of you who worry about the quality of the actors, I don't think any small children will care how talented they are. I sure didn't and I actually remember the actors as being decent. Final verdict Great for kids from ages 4-6 or 7, depending on which shows they watch. "},{"Title":"A great movie for small children","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" This is a good and easy movie for small children. Enough variety and excitement to keep them interested. The story is about 3 kids on holiday at their grandparents farm in the country. The story is also about how one sceptical kid with a bit of an attitude gradually comes good. The story line involves their adventures while trying to find out all about a large and mysterious coloured egg. The characters the kids meet are all generally supportive role models (good typical Barney stuff). Barney himself doesn't disappoint in his usual friendly and supportive role. My own daughter first watched this movie when she was about 3 yrs old and has watched it numerous times - with friends (and parents on occasion). It's a feel good movie that kids find interesting and comforting. It's strange seeing the other reviews criticising things like continuity - get real ! this is about an imaginary dinosaur, not star wars. "}{"Title":"It's just a fun film for Kids.","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is great for Kids who like Barney, I watched it with my young cousins ( and the rest of the family!), we all enjoyed the sing along parts!It's got alot of cheese, but that just makes it more funny!You have to enter into the fun, and NOT be cynical!Some of the ideas in it are great, like the milkshake maker in the truck!And the whole of the 'Bird' Lady's house is good to look at. I found Barney a little annoying, but Twiken is very cute- we all went ' aahhhh' !And we liked the dancing too!It's just a great fun film for kids.And it's good to see some rain in a movie!  "},{"Title":"Not bad, for a Barney-hater","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  I found it to be much more watchable than Thomas and the Magic Railroad. One of my main reasons for disliking Barney so much is that I watched an episode where they sang I'm bringing home my baby bumblebee -- and the bumblebee won. There was nothing that I found as annoying as that in this movie.I want the truck with the built-in deep fryer! "},{"Title":"Masterpiece Of Crap","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" The terrible plot! The horrible acting! The gay dinosaur! These are the three things that this movie has. If you like terrible plots, horrible acting, and gay purple dinosaurs that hang out with CHILDREN, then this movie is for you! But the people who hate terrible plots, horrible acting, and gay purple dinosaurs that hang out with CHILDREN, should skip this steaming pile of trash and go watch a good movie like Back to the Future, Star Wars, or Scarface. Heck, even Friday the 13th Part 8 Jason Takes Manhattan is better than this.If you're looking for a movie that's not supposed to be a comedy, but it's so stupid you just have to laugh, then you should consider watching this. But beware, some may not survive this movie. It's just plain BAD. You might end up hanging yourself or shoot yourself in the forehead with a .44 magnum.I think you all get what I'm trying to tell ya. This movie sucks. It shouldn't even be called a movie. It should be called bullcrap.If you're a parent who has a baby that likes Barney, you should let them watch it. Kids between the ages 2-5 will probably love this movie.If you're over the age of 5, don't watch this crap. This movie gets a 1 out of 10. I wish I could give this a 0 out of 10, but unfortunately, I can't. This steaming pile of bullcrap gets a 1/10. It's only recommended to kids who are 2-5.BARNEY'S GREAT ADVENTURE 1/10 "},{"Title":"Should be #1... On the 1000 bottom movies","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie was a total torture for me, it has a horrible story, pathetic characters. To be honest, I had never liked Barney, I remember that when I was 5 years old I told to my friends that if I had a bazooka on my hands that dinosaur was in front of me, he would be history. I didn't wanted to see that movie, it's just that my sister was just a small girl who loved Barney, so my mom told me to go with my sister to see the movie. I almost cried when I knew that I had to see it. First than all, do you think a kid can believe all those lies? What kind of idiot could believe that using the imagination can build small airplanes. Then, why to save an egg that only shows dreams? After all the problems those kids passed just to see at the end a girl riding a horse, please. Honestly, this movie is awful, I could do a better movie with a hand camera and a monkey. Awful movie, complete torture, please make me a favor and don't make the great mistake I did. "},{"Title":"Chilling realisation of a philisophical vision","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  This masterpiece is possibly the most most misunderstood and underated film of all time. While many people see it as a chance to cash in on the purple dinosaur personality who instructs children through television, it is in fact a harrowing dissection of the human subconscius.The recurring image of the energy contained within the barn is representative of the violent, perhaps deviant tendencies repressed (not so deeply?) within the young human characters in the film.The film then continues to raise questions about why the children struggle to release this energy. The image of the circus later in the oeuvre is especially indicative of the playful nature with which the children play with serious philisophical danger, if you will. This is a work that will haunt the more perceptive viewer for weeks, maybe months after seeing it.  "},{"Title":"Best film in eternity","Date":"26 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie helped the world process. this movie just touched my heart so much i need to tell the world.This beautiful dinosaur has shown kids around the world how to live and act anyone who acts the in a way this dinosaur doesn't like i will hunt them down and murder their families.The plot is amazing and innovative.Oh the songs OOOHHH THE SONNGS.they are the greatest piece of art to exist ever. this movie should be the bible.anyone who has not seen this movie is missing out on living a meaningful life. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" As a father, I must say, I enjoyed this movie with our little daughter back in 2000! And my Wife and I still love it! There's just something about Mom & Dad sitting down to enjoy a good, morally-clean, fun family movie with kids! Barney beats most of the sub-culture trash movies out there that our little ones are forced to watch.Research has shown that movies and cartoons have a great impact on little minds. Indiscriminate TV watching has resulted in kids throwing tantrums, being disrespectful to authority, and lazy lay-a bouts that couldn't care less about helping around in the home. It all comes back to parenting! The kids become what the parents are. So if parents watch trash...the kids will think that's good for them too. Monkey see, monkey do. Barney helps keep trash out of the living room!If children see parents spending a few moments to pray together each day...their peace and contentment in life will be great. The film industry leaves much to be desired when looked at from this angle.-Lance Marchetti-South Africa "},{"Title":"Barney got swagger.","Date":"2 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I was watching this earlier and what an adventure indeed. Barney saves the kids from boredom and leads them into a trance in the world of barney. His purple hips would sway eagerly from side to side to the music, his voice chimed through my mind, he was marvelous. His skin reminds me of fresh, purple grapes, juicy on the inside and smooth on the outside. His smile is like lotus flower, opening up in early spring. I can't get barney out my mind, he is like the dinosaur version of Robert Downey jr. Barney, I know you are the answer to Jesus for children, but...when you find yourself at a cross-ends, tired of partying every night alongside Lindsay lohan. Please. Ill save you. My big purple dino bubz. "},{"Title":"Great for 6 and under","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I have to admit that I am not a Barney fan. But my two sons ages 4 and 6 love this movie. They never seem to get tired of it. And honestly, it really is pretty cute. The songs are very enjoyable (if you can get past Barney's annoying voice) The acting is good - both by the children and the adults. The story is cute - it involves children visiting their grandparents' farm with lovable Barney. When the children find a mysterious egg they go on an adventure to find out what kind of creature it contains. Even the cynical older brother ends up liking Barney. I would definitely recommend, but for the preschool/Kindergarten set only. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone is saying!!","Date":"21 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is getting such terrible reviews, and I don't understand why! Is it cheesy? YES. Does it make complete and logical sense? OF COURSE NOT. Why? BECAUSE IT IS A BARNEY MOVIE. Like all episodes of Barney, they are extremely cheesy and predictable. This movie is like a really long episode of barney. What I liked most about it compared to regular barney shows, was that there was much less loud and kid-sung songs. My son is 2 1/2 years old and absolutely loves this movie. I would chose this movie any day over a regular episode of Barney. He follows the simple story-line very easily and finds it highly entertaining.All of these reviews are adults complaining that this movie is annoying and cheesy. But to a child, it's silly and joyful. This movie was not meant to capture an adult's sense of humor or attention. It's for kids! Kids enjoy this movie, and that's all that matters. Why is everyone so upset that THEY didn't like it? It's Barney, for pete's sake!! "}{"Title":"What is wrong with you people?","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Seeing 'Barney's Great Adventure' on the Bottom 100 is simply ridiculous. The majority of people who have rated this movie so low are people over 18. This movie is not intended for adults. I saw this movie when I was 6 years old, along with my 3 year old sister, and we were simply enchanted by it. The majority of other reviews here have been from people who did not see this movie as a kid, and can therefore not make any objective comments, due to not being a member of the target audience.The bottom line is if you are looking for an entertaining movie for a CHILD (that is, someone below the age of say, eight) then this is for you. If you are above that age, just don't be surprised that a movie aimed at very young children can be so 'terrible'. "},{"Title":"________ or ________","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  When my sister ordered Barney's great adventure, I thought it would be the stupidest movie ever made. But it turned out it was ok after all. It is a very creative movie. Very interesting indeed. Barney acts kind of stupid, but the kids actions and feelings are cool! I like the part when Chip opens the shower and there is the annoying Barney doll the girls love so much. My 5 year old sister used to watch it constantly. It's a very good movie. But too stupid. You know what i mean? JUST ______ OR ________!!!!!!!! get it? "},{"Title":"i give it 0.0/10!","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  Barneys Great Adventure stinks like steaming cow dung. Not once in the movie did I not wish for it to end. It reeks!!!!!!! Even barney fans will hate this movie. It is also innapropriate for eveyone. ( a child steps in a cow pie!) How terrible!Should be Rated R for strong sexuality, violence, and explict drug references! Hahahahahaha! Oh, and a strong scene of nudity. JKMy rating 0(out of 5) "},{"Title":"If you can't say something nice...","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" So, we are having some warm weather here for Winter. I am originally from up north, and miss the snow and the cold.My sister never like Mr. Rogers, but I met him and he's no put on... that's the way he is in real life. Did you know he is an Episcipal minister in Pittsburgh? I think I got the denomination right. He is one of the kindest men you will ever meet.Oh. OK. The movie didn't have Barney in every scene, and clocked in at under 80 minutes.Barney is EEEEVIL I tell you... EEEEEEVIL! "},{"Title":"Pleasant enough for children.....Barney haters AVOID!!","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  This was an entertaining flick, that if you think Barney is good for kids, then you'll like it. RatingsKids who love Barney to death 10Parents who think Barney is the best 7Adults/Young Adults who don't love Barney, but can stand him 6Barney Haters 0My Rating 6, it was ok, but not great. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as all that","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie was actually pretty good as far as little kid movies go. It's tongue in cheek approach to enmeshing barney in the real world is pretty funny for parents of kids who have been forced to watch the TV show. Production is high compared to most kid's videos out there. The kids are not as insipid as child stars in most movies, and the face on Grandpa when he finally meets Barney is worth watching. The boy and the black girl have done a lot of movies and their talent comes through.While I do not recommend this movie to non-fans, fans of the show will not be disappointed and parents of fans will appreciate it as well. Sure beats the teletubbies! "},{"Title":"Garbage!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  We rented it on pay-perview about a year ago in a hotel.It made me sick.The only good thing about it was the puppets.If I had to go through all that trouble over one egg.I`d eat it for breakfast.The part were Barney said lets use our imagination to turn this pile of wood to a plane.I`m like sure.It`s too silly.Barney is the worst show on tv.And probably the one that gets most made fun of.  "},{"Title":"Fun Movie - Jazzy version of All the Raindrops is worth watching","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" The reviews for this film are horrible here on IMDb, but not many are from parents or Barney fans. For people who enjoy the Barney show on TV, this movie is a fun change of pace.In the movie, we see different children than those on the TV show using their imagination to interact with Barney. The adventures the kids have are much more exciting, involving chariot and balloon rides. My personal favorite part is where Barney does a jazzy version of All the Raindrops in a fancy restaurant.The story is well thought out and scripted, the acting and editing is far better than that seen on the show, and the whole movie has a more relaxed and professional feel to it.If your child is ready for longer stories and is starting to get bored with the small vignettes about manners and colors presented on the Barney television show, this movie is perfect. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Film ever made","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Barney's Great Adventure has got to be one of the best films I've ever had the pleasure of seeing. It had an All-Star cast consisting of David Joyner, Trevor Morgan, Diana Rice, and many more. The plot was amazingly wonderful, and very easy to follow all throughout the film. The Special Effects were marvelous, and all through the film, it looked like real dinosaurs were actually there on the set with the children. In fact they looked so real, I had to check with my parents to see if I could let my younger siblings watch it. All in all, this is a great film that everyone should see, for it deserves to be in everyones film collection.Okay guys, I'm done. This sucks. "},{"Title":"Best movie i've ever seen in my life!","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" THIS MOVIE IS THE BEST MOVIE EVER! I enjoyed every single part of it especially twinken I have a Major crush on him and his sexy hair. I think he should be on Britain's and Ireland's next top model. Barney is such a sexy hunk, I blush every time he does his laugh. All through this movie I was laughing about his creative and imaginative jokes. I learned how to count to 10 during this movie, which proves this movie is educational. My bum tingles every time I watch it. I watch this movie every morning and every time I go to bed, I never get bored of it. Barney is such a talented singer, He should get a record contract. Barney, all of my friends say you don't exist and you are just a man in costume, I think there wrong. You are most obviously a real purple and green dinosaur who can sing. PS- I love you twinken. "}{"Title":"Barney rocks funny funny funny funny cool cool cool amazing","Date":"1 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Barney rocks it is funny if you like barney you will like this movie it is a movie that is out of this world if you like barney you will like this movie it is one funny movie it was one good movie go see it today it is amazing it is funny it is incredible it is just a really good movie go buy or rent it today it is one good movie if i liked it you will like it too this movie is a musical for sure it is a blast too watch it is one cool movie that you can not miss it is a hoot it is the bomb it is one barney is one this movie is a movie you can not miss it it is a blast forget those bad barney things because this is a movie you don't want to miss you will die because it is out of site it is a really cool it is cool a sour pickle face a sour pickle face do you remember that song this movie is cool i love it a lot and so will you now go pop some popcorn and enjoy the movie that is magical enjoy "},{"Title":"A fun film for the little ones","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a fun film for the little ones.  It was my girl's first time at a movie theater (or the Big TV as she called it then) when she saw it at age 2.  She loved it then and still does.  Thank you Barney. For those who find him too sweet, here is the secret- Do not watch him.  "},{"Title":"cute movie for children even the music","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I saw that movie. it was a great movie and music. The colorful egg was very interesting. Barney is very cute so does B.J. and Baby Bop. Bob West did a great voice of Barney and the other series of Barney and Friends. This story is when this night a egg was in grandma and grandpa barn then it turn into one color but when five rings light up a kind of creature came out Baby Bop called that creature Twinken. Baby Bop did a great name for that little creatures name. What did great in a Barney costume is David Joyner. George Hearn as Grandpa Greenfield and Shirley Douglas as Grandma Greenfield where excellent. Great movie and excellent music do not hate this movie the children will love it see it on DVD anytime. "}]