[{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's quite nice to see how good this film is when you think about it.  A lot of people don't really know much about Welsh films and to be honest it's because there isn't that many unless there are in welsh language.  Before Dougrary Scott starred in Mission Impossible 2 and Ripley's game there was Twin Town and the same goes for Rhys Ifans who stole most of the limelight on Notting Hill as the mad masturbating Welshman Spike but it all started here with Kevin Allen's Twin Town.  A hard look at Swansea life through so many different characters  who you forget who is who after the first half hour but what a bunch of characters they are.  Most of them actually put Wales to shame but with a funny twist of humour and violence.   This came hot on the heels of Trainspotting and had a lot to look up to but I think this just as good as Trainspotting.   It starts off well enough and keeps going throughout without it letting up for a second till the end credits.   Even though there are some ruthless people in this you can't help but fall in love with them especially Terry played by Dougrary Scoot who is just so comic as a hard cop bully who thinks he is the man but is actually very accident prone at most times and that's what makes him great amongst other roles.This is a so much happening here and we should look at this for what it is which is a feel good film that starts you off straight away and doesn't let you stop till the end credits.   "},{"Title":"this is a good film, and welsh to boot!","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Twin Town cannot be mentioned in the same breath as Trainspotting, simply because it is a completely different film, the fact that they are both set in squalid urban surroundings and involve drugs is incidental. Twin Town is basically a sequence of revenge acts between two groups of people linked in all sorts of ways. The Twins to whom the title refers might as well be cardboard cutouts, for the lack of personalities, but you find yourself sympathetic with them despite their debauchery. Likewise the death of the Lewis family (minus the sons) is a very sad moment, despite the fact that they have been portrayed so shallowly. This is the success of the film, the way it manipulates your emotions to leave you genuinely shaken by the violence in the events leading up to the climax, whereas the opening of the film leads you to expect a light-hearted farce. Watching it again it is easy to divide the film into two sections, but very difficult to pin down where the change of pace and mood begins. The humour and irony is superb, particularly the razor sharp sarcasm of Adie. Although a very seedy picture of Wales is presented, this presents a very positive view of the people of Swansea and manages not to be anti-English in the slightest despite the obvious nationalistic feel. The acting is great, and as long as you aren`t expecting anything like Trainspotting and you let the humour wash over you you`ll enjoy this.   "},{"Title":"Pure Genius","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Being a Swansea girl originally, I had no trouble in deciphering the accents...Swansea is indeed an Ugly, Lovely City, and the stark and honest portrayal of life in the dull valleys of south Wales, where unemployment is high, was a piece of script writing and directing genius. The Lewis twins were played brilliantly by the Evans brothers, and their honest and forthright portrayal of two youngsters bored with the humdrum life was refreshing and gritty. The human touch in this film was evident from the start, and in many areas it seemed to have an almost Docu Drama type genre, which added to the realism. It is unfair to compare Twin town to Trainspotting, as there are no comparisons to be made, both should be viewed as independant films, and to link them together does the would be viewer no justice. Twin Town has all the elements of a great movie, Comedy, Drama, and in combining these,the viewer cannot help but become attached to the characters. This film made me laugh, gasp and cry.A stroke of Pure Genius. "},{"Title":"A GEM - the unpolished Black Opal of the film industry...","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Very very funny.A sleeper hiding in the dusty back shelves of the video store, that I took out one night with curiosity and no expectations. I'm three-quarters English, a quarter Welsh and have spent a long time in Australia, but I don't think it was just the Welsh part of me that enjoyed this movie.I loved its roughness, its quirkiness, its lack of perfection and its reality and sure! some of the characters were grubby, superficial and less than enervating.This is a loosely woven picture of reality in an under-privileged urban environment with all the mundanity, idiocy, drama, violence, beauty and humour of everyday life that eddies around us, and in this instance, the Lewis twins. There are a couple of truly hilarious scenes that very few actors could emulate, but the twins in the movie are twins in real life and it flows naturally.Revenge escalates inevitably beyond the frivolous into the 'deadly' serious with a speed and abandonment that has you gasping. But unlike some movies that lose it at the end, this one magically gathers in all the loose threads and delivers a finale of epic proportions that elegantly spans the coldly ruthless and the vauntingly sublime and leaves you with a sense of deep justice.GREAT.  This is the sort of stuff the Americans don't do very often or very well, and mostly misunderstand when someone else does it properly. This was done properly.Reviewers disappointed by an inevitable comparison with Trainspotting obviously missed a lot of the subtle stuff in both movies that is exclusive to the towns, times and cultures they portray. They got sidetracked by the 'big' issues ....Shelve your preconceptions, grab the remote and replay all those bits that are hard to catch if your ear isn't tuned to the accent. Sure it helps if bad language doesn't get in the way of enjoyment, but let's face it, you should be used to those Anglo-Saxon and Gaelic words by now - so if you can handle it, this one's a delight - but it'll never be mainstream. "},{"Title":"THE Welsh Film of the 90's!!","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a film! It was hyped up during it's release, so when I saw it, I understood why! It's set in Swansea, (Only 8 miles from where I live!), so I could really connect with the surroundings and the larger than life characters. Mind you, the storyline was something I wouldn't have associated with the city...yeah right!Rhys Ifans' and Dougray Scott's break out roles, this one oozes great performance's. Some people knock the acting 'cos it seems 'hammed up', but the Welsh are like that. We do tend to go OTT sometimes, we are larger than life people! And as the script shows, we are very nationalistic.Great direction, and with nearly every recognisable Welsh actor in it, this is a dark, funny, and entertaining film. The script is fresh, and the plot is good. And as the caption on the sleeve states, the film DOES raise an index finger to Hollywood.Rating? nothing short of perfect 10! Go and see it NOW! I promise you, you will not be dissapointed!  "},{"Title":"Wildly original! Loved it!!!","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Twin Town has to be seen to be believed! It can make you laugh harder than you could ever imagine, mainly because the characters are likepeople that you know and love. It is a story of life in Swansea, South Wales... a new and different culture for some of us. The scenery is gorgeous, the accents are char- ming, and the script is clever and incredibly funny!!! Rhys Ifans and Llyr Evans (brothers in reality) are Jeremy and Julian Lewis, two boys who are out for revenge after their dad is injured at work and his boss refuses to compensate him. What follows is some of the crudest, most off-the-wall humor in the history of film. (Look for Fergie the poodle and the wiener-wagon scene --- I laughed out loud!) Suprisingly, there are some serious moments as well, and you may find yourself wiping away a tear. This is when you find your identification with the Boys, and the movie becomes yet even more wonderful. All in all, this is my favorite movie because of the wonderfully warm and funny cast and the never-say-die attitude of the Lewis brothers. Don't miss it!  "},{"Title":"Not bad, but could have been a lot better","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Danny Boyle is in many ways the British answer to Quentin Tarantino. Despite Boyle not having complete authority over TWIN TOWN, his trademarks are definitely present, and many parts of this film are truly excellent. However, the film as a whole seems to lack true continuity, as it seems to be a loose, simple plot formed by sporadic situations that the writers feel are funny (in many ways they are). Which brings me on to the Tarantino connection - one has to only watch 20 minutes of his films to realise the man is in love with situations - whether they be from circumstance or dialogue. However Quentin is the true master of this kind of film-making. A lesser creator will provide interesting and funny scenes, but with a taste of incompletion left in the mouth.That said, TWIN TOWN is acted wonderfully, and the Swansea setting makes for some interesting and novel humour. Whereas some of the violence seems a little contrived, it is refreshing to see new kinds of film-making, and moreso to see it grow from the mind of Brits! "},{"Title":"Edie, driving cars that don't belong to them at 90 miles an hour on the wrong side of the road is just starting to take the f****** p***","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It suddenly occurred to me while watching this film that, whether by accident or design, I've seen a whole lot of films that star Rhys Ifans. His brother Llyr appears with him here, the lesser-experienced brother that had previously only appeared in Ymadawiad Arthur and has made no further films to date. He does adequately, yet watching this - Rhys' second cinema film - it becomes clear he's the star.Off-puttingly touted as the Welsh Trainspotting - because who wants imitations? - this is really nothing of the sort, and is far more impressive than you would expect. Already three years old, it has yet to be shown on British terrestrial television and nor do I expect it ever will be. It's content is morally vacuous, including police corruption, joyriding, drug taking, animal killings and murder. Peppering the script are a man who breaks his wife's nose, massage parlour brothels, female masturbation and almost continuous usage of the f-word.If that hasn't already put you off, this is a tale that features two bath-sharing brothers, who, after being refused compensation for their father's broken leg, take revenge by urinating on their enemy's daughter. However, Twin Town, bizarrely, never really offends, as it is done in, despite the subject matter, a good-natured tone. And I did have to smile at the real-life names of the dogs that feature in this tale of cocaine dealers - Charlie and Snowy. I wonder if that was intentional?What really grips about Twin Town is that, in the age of the depleted UK film industry, it lacks the desperate mugging and dead laugh areas that characterise the 1990s British comedy. A desperate, please love us America, please give us your box office, we're begging, which is normally prevalent in the genre, is almost wholly absent here. (For further information on such a desperate breed, see Rhys' first major film Notting Hill) Okay, there is the overstatement that sees a male voice choir singing Mungo Jerry's In The Summertime, or the twins joyriding their own father's hearse, but generally this film, despite the extremities of it's plot, does keep an eye towards realism and naturalistic dialogue. And the overlong, feeble comic pauses that normally kill off the rotting carcasses of British Film are nowhere to be found, due to a constantly moving, frenetic pace.The only down side to all this is that, apart from Rhys who has appeared in, to date, ten movies after this, the rest of the crew involved haven't achieved success. In fact, this was the first feature of the two writers involved and they haven't written another film since, presumably due to its lacklustre showing at the box office. A great shame, as Twin Town is well worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The film has everything you'd want it to have. Especially if you're British. Probably more of a bloke's film, but still fun for everyone.The story is brilliant, and so accurately welsh. Every minor detail adds to the whole experience. The film progresses like a serious drama and seems to come out with brilliant comedy without even trying. As well as the actual storyline being funny, little quirks about each character and even the attention to welsh detail makes you laugh.Not only is it well written, it's also beautifully filmed, and makes great use of the camera. The film encompasses a huge range of interesting shots.Enhancing the film further was it's great choice of cast. All the characters were perfectly conveyed, and film avoided any bad performances.The music is also something to listen out for, as it stands out as a good piece of work on it's own.I highly recommend Twin Town (especially if you're British), as it's an exciting film experience with a great story, interesting shots, decent actors, and appropriate use of excessive swearing and violence. "},{"Title":"a pretty funny and interesting film","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed the film, but can easily see how others might not feel as I did. When I saw the preview, I was immediately interested in the movie -- despite the fact that the preview I saw revealed nothing about the film itself. The most I ever get to learn or hear about Wales is through reading Hollinshed's histories of the middle ages.  It was interesting to see a film actually set in a modern Welsh town.Besides, it was f'ing hilarious. "}{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant, unique and under rated movie","Date":"29 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of my favourite all time films, it is funny, irreverent, unexpected, gritty, real in a surreal way and very very funny. Maybe not everyone got it.. maybe not everyone has been to Wales.. but it captures it so accurately, in a comic book yet real way. It is full of tender moments as well as being brutal and immoral. So many jokes, so many visual gags, and so many really warm and well imagined characters. It is two fingers up to Hollywood, to formulaic movies.. it is in a whole new genre of it own.From the very first scene to its finale it is rich in entertainment, shock, surprise, humour and emotion. This is such a good film... I love it! "},{"Title":"Often in poor taste but still pretty funny","Date":"19 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I recall this being referred to as the Welsh attempt at 'Trainspotting' when it first came out; presumably because it came out soon after, took place in a Celtic country and featured drugs... this is an unfair comparison as they are very different films. Set in Swansea it follows two pairs of men; the Lewis Brothers, a couple of layabout car thieves with a taste for class B drugs; and Terry and Greyo, a couple of bent coppers getting involved in the cocaine trade with local Nouveau riche business man Bryn Cartwright. After the Lewis boys hit Terry's car he is determined to get his revenge. The boys meanwhile have got it in for Bryn after he refuses to pay any compensation when their father is hurt on one of his business sites. They start off their cycle of revenge by urinating on Bryn's daughter as she sings at the local karaoke night... things quickly escalate to killing pets and ultimately the boys' parents and sister are killed when Terry is trying to set fire to their dog... from then on things get darker as the boys set about getting their revenge and Terry tries to find somebody else to blame.As stated before this is not 'Trainspotting' so if you expect something like that you will be disappointed, it is however very funny for the most part although you are likely to suffer mood whiplash half way through when people start dying. Real life brothers Llyr and Rhys Ifans do well as the Lewis brothers, bringing a real sense of anarchy to the roles, Dougray Scott is the other most notable actor; bringing a sense of menace to the part of Terry while still being funny. While it is for the most part fairly funny there are few genuinely likable characters; even the ones we are meant to like are criminals! If you are easily offended this probably isn't the film for you but if you aren't put off by a lot of swearing and some fairly offensive behaviour you should have a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, yet there could be more","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Twin Town has a couple very good characters, being the Lewis Twins.  Unfortunatly the film does not focus on them that much. Most of the movie is spent around a boring plot dealing with corrupt cops and such.  It overall is a good movie, but we should have seen more of the Lewis Twins.  "},{"Title":"wonderful movie","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wonderful movie. Just brilliant.Fantastic script, odd , quirky , original and hilarious.Great to see some movies in Wales for a change.I am not Welsh but always find them hilarious weird and very unique.Best Welsh film Zulu great acting too from Rhys Ifans, his brother and Keith Allen. Enjoye the Phil Bennett scenes, the bath scenes, the poodle scenes, the caravan scenes, the nightclub scenes, the coffin sea burial scenes, the singing scenes, the quiz questions, the car chases, the old lady buying drugs scenes, was she talking welsh or what?Bryn Cartwright was great too.Steaky steak line was great Great singing great lines great script great characters Great ending "},{"Title":"Fanaticalaboutfilms Review Twin Town","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Twin Town follows the Lewis brothers also known as the the twins (Jeremy and Julian) played by Rhys Ifans and Llyr Ifans- also brothers in real life although only the former has gone on to forge a successful career in the movies (Notting Hill, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 1, The Amazing Spider-Man 2012). Put simply they are delinquent layabouts who are renowned locally for their compulsion to steal cars, get into mischief and take as many tokes as they can from all manner of homemade bongs- utilising everything from shower heads to golf clubs. They live on a caravan site overshadowed by the Swansea industrial works with their parents, sister and dog Cantona (named so after a Welsh football player).The plot revolves around a series of confrontations that start as frivolous but soon escalate to serious between the twins and the local big crook as the twins feel their father, Fatty, has been wronged. Throw in bent copper Terry with delusions of grandeur played well by Dougray Scott, a karaoke king, some cocaine and a poodle and you've got yourselves the making of an intriguing movie.The movie unsurprisingly is riddled with Welsh references that some people may be unfamiliar with and understanding the lingo might take a couple of minutes if you have never heard a Welshman before but hang in there as your patience will be rewarded. What I particularly like about this movie is that its rough around the edges and very realistic as you can imagine these types of people existing in the real world.It's also well known for containing its high usage of the word f'k summed up brilliantly with the first line of the movie- F'ing dead, f'ing dead as f'k. It is to Twin Town what alcohol is to Withnail And I. As you can therefore imagine the script is not elegant and may not be to everyone's liking but there is some good dialogue thrown in to get you laughing and the development of the plot is well thought out occasionally throwing you in the wrong direction and leading to a well concluded climax.Twin Town is a unique dark comedy that's passed too many people by and this needs to be rectified as it's a very good movie that has just the right amount of comedy, violence and in the Lewis brothers a couple of cracking, if not slightly disturbing, characters that you end up getting behind and really connecting with.For further reviews feel free to check out http//www.fanaticalaboutfilms.com "},{"Title":"Health spa!  Aaaah!","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Twin Town is hilarious.  The mischief the Lewis Twins get themselves into and how they get out of it... like Trainspotting, Twin Town has no particular plot until half way, the laughs calm as it reaches depth and intensity.  I was surprised at how this movie turned out.  In the beginning, when it is all theft and grass, it takes a whole new direction into revenge (key word being revenge).  Chances are, if you like Trainspotting, you'll love this movie.  I know I did. "},{"Title":"Its a bit of a dud","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Whereas the two cities in the Central Lowlands of Scotland had Trainspotting, then Wales's second city of Swansea had Twin Town. Despite looking quite promising with the locals, this film in fact fails to achieve all expectations of Trainspotting and reviews were patchy that in some cases, the local cinema goers around area where it was filmed claim it wasn't good mainly because it contained too much bad language. I was expecting them to be wrong at first but then I admit that they were right. If Trainspotting has considerable use of strong language with a cert 18, then Twin Town is in fact far more excessive in swearing and in one occasion the language is sometimes poorly overused together with a rather poor plot and therefore making it a bit of a dud film. Much of the younger local viewers love Twin Town and pompously claim it to be a classic and as it is known that in the 1990s, any particular area where the film was made had a high rate of car crime. "},{"Title":"Good film, but bad ending","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is a good film, worth seeing I guess, but it was let down by the poor ending. It has the feel of an ending that was cut down to fit a set length to the film. Also, the ending was a bit immature - gratuitous violence was introduced which compares very badly with the humorous violence shown earlier.Such a shame, could have been a brilliant film otherwise. "},{"Title":"Essential Viewing!","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Right...first of all, and this is CRUCIAL, hmmmm?! Bin any bullshit you've heard about Twin Town being the Welsh Trainspotting as it is a thousand, zillion times a better film. It bothers with such niceties as a storyline and plot twists, for a start!!! Trainspotting was a good film - in it's day - but unlike Twin Town it's aged really badly.From the start of the credits, which shows Swansea bay and then pans up the hill to uplands, showing all manner of local characters, I was howling with laughter...I used to live in Swansea and I think the whole thing depicts The Pretty Shitty City in a fairly accurate manner. In fact, I used to live round the corner from the opening scene was shot...'Fatty's Boys' practically bouncing down a hill in a stolen car...a regular sight off screen too! The boys' antics shows that the Chav was alive and well long before the GLC reared their sun-visored heads...from a sister who works at the local massage parlour (as a receptionist, mind!) and bath-time bongs to a pet dog called Cantona...all the signs are there! The film also boasts a crazily eclectic soundtrack - I defy any fellow Welshie to now set foot on the Kingsway without Downtown resounding in their head! Ending with SFA's Bad Behaviour was a stroke of genius - did you know, fact fans, Rhys Ifans (a man who could snap my knicker elastic at 40 paces!) was once a member of the 'Furries?? He was kicked out else they'd all be dead! Anyway...I digress...if wittering was an Olympic sport I would win gold for my country every time! WATCH THE DAMN FILM YOU WON'T REGRET IT! "},{"Title":"Not only Rhys that did well after Twin Town","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Dougray Scott has appeared in over a dozen movies since Twin Town, including Deep Impact, Enigma and of course MI2.It is often said that you have to be from Swansea to truly enjoy this film, and while this is probably the case, friends of mine from all parts of the UK seem to enjoy it for the fun film that it is.The most memorable quote from the film for meHere's twenty quid, now go and buy yourselves a nice big pot of sticky sticky and f*** off back to noddyland "}{"Title":"The worst thing about Twin Town was that it was marketed as the 'Welsh Trainspotting'","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not because the film's crap, because it isn't; but because audiences expected a Welsh Trainspotting, and Twin Town isn't that. I am currently writing an AS Film Studies essay on whether or not marketing the film in such a manner is a fair way to approach the film critically or is 'Twin Town' different from it's Scottish comparison?' An the answer is, no it isn't a fair way to approach the film. 'Twin Town' is about revenge, not heroin addicts. Although the twins use cannabis as a betting device, and Cantona finds Terry and Bryn's coke stash in a lifejacket in the Cartwright's boat, the film isn't about drugs. It is a BLACK comedy about two supposedly good-for-nowt brothers getting their own back on those who wrong them. They go about it an a VERY dark way, and because there is no real justification for what Fatty's boys do, other than payback, the film was panned. 'Trainspotting' offers a glimmer of hope at the end, 'Twin Town' does not. The only scene I consider reminiscent of 'Trainspotting' is the scene where the twins p*** all over Bonnie and a ruck ensues. It reminds me of the bit in 'Trainspotting' where Begbie drops the glass in the bar whatever and it all kicks off. If 'Twin Town' had been released first, would 'Trainspotting' be the Scottish 'Twin Town'?  This film is ace, brilliant cast, and Kevin Allen's documentary style of filming is brilliant. He truly achieves what he wanted in that the film lays to rest Welsh stereotypes which are 'a puke-inducing disgrace - an insult to youth culture' Go and watch it  "},{"Title":"Gets better every time I watch it!","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first watched this film when I arrived at university in Swansea nearly two years ago.  Having now watched it close to 30 times it has to go down as my favorite film of all time.  Perhaps having lived in the area, I can appreciate the films qualities more than most, but whether you have been to Swansea or not, I can promise you that Twin Town is in a different league to any British film of the last ten years.The plot is a simple one, two brothers out for revenge on a local bigwig who refuses to pay compensation for their fathers accident at work.  Hardly oscar winning stuff I know, but the black humour employed to pull it off is the work of genious.  Personally I loved it simply for the historical dialogue used by all the central characters, having lived here for some time now, I can assure you people like this do exist!I would recommend this film to anyone, you will struggle to find a better 2 hours entertainment.  I hope Kevin Allen and Paul Durden get more opportunities to work because their picture of my ugly, lovely town is just perfect!  "},{"Title":"Welsh Pulp Fiction","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Drug dealers, corrupt police, car theft, deadly revenge, an attempt at breaking the world record for the number of times f**k and its derivatives are used in a movie and bizarre conversations about non-story related issues and items. No, it's not Tarantino's L.A. but Keith Allen's Swansea (Wales, boyo). Features some interesting characters with unintelligible accents and some wicked close order harmony from a traditional Welsh male choir. Funny in places but mean in spirit.  "},{"Title":"Ace","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Absolutely amasing, as I'm from Wales myself I could appreciate the humour, others outside outside of Wales may not.  If you're up for a good laugh and have an open mind this film is there.  This is the Welsh version of other classics such as Trainspotting and Lock Stock "},{"Title":"Bendegedig (fantastic in Welsh)","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Some like to call Twin Town the Welsh Trainspotting. I would disagree - while it has some similarities such as prolific drug use and a bleak portrayal of a city in the United Kingdom (in this case Swansea, with bits of Port Talbot), the two films are quite different.Twin Town takes place in 90s Swansea, where brothers Julian (Llyr Ifans) and Jeremy Lewis (Rhys Ifans) live a carefree existence smoking weed and driving stolen cars at high speed through the residential areas of Swansea. Their father, Fatty (Huw Ceredig) does work for local businessman and small-time gangster Bryn Cartwright (William Thomas), and falls from a ladder and breaks his leg while working on a roof. Bryn refuses to give the family compensation for Fatty's injury, and the brothers take revenge by urinating on his daughter, Bonny (Jenny Evans) during a singing competition at the local (sadly, now-defunct) nightclub, Barons.This starts off an escalating feud which involves the decapitation of a poodle, and the surprisingly massive explosion of a caravan, culminating in some rather brutal justice inflicted on Bryn and his partner in crime, corrupt cop Terry Walsh (Dougray Scott). I'm not going to go and spoil the entire thing, but what I will say is that things take a rather dark turn, with Julian and Jeremy showing a rather unexpected creative mind for murder, especially given that they appear to be just permanently wasted.As a Swansea resident, I have to say that while the drug use in the film is exaggerated, it does capture the seedier side of Swansea quite well. The scenes of Swansea's nightlife are perhaps too accurate (anyone who has been to Wind Street at its worst will know what I mean), and the accent and rather, erm, colourful way that the characters speak is spot on. It also, however, captures some of the more beautiful aspects of the city, namely its heart (although the Lewis family are dysfunctional, they have a very warm family dynamic), and also the beautiful scenery in the area (visible in the panoramic shots of the city), and I think that any Welshman couldn't watch the funeral scene at the end as the choir sings Myfanwy without wiping away a tear.I saw that the film got quite a few bad reviews on the net (and indeed on here). I think possibly some might not get the accents, or indeed the feel of the film - ultimately, to really enjoy the film, you have to have lived in Swansea to get the most out of it, as if you have, a particular location or character will tie in with certain memories you have of the place, whereas otherwise, it might not.It's most definitely worth checking out, and add another star if you're from Swansea! "},{"Title":"Standing ovation","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" During my tenure as chief projectionist of the Commodore Cinema, Aberystwyth, the only film to have received a standing ovation on more than one night for a week's screening. It's a university town so we have a good mix of local punters, students and holiday people. I rest my case.The nineties was, on the whole, a good decade for cinema I think. All we seem to have had since then is a load of cgi filled soulless film equivalent of a fast food outlet (Hancock?). Maybe it's just me getting older.I checked out the hated it rating for Twin Town tonight, and was pleasantly surprised to see only two negative reviews receiving two stars or less. Bloody hell. Some bugger's just nicked my car.............. "},{"Title":"Total Pisser!","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I didn't know where this film was going until I saw the Godfather-esquire poodle's head scene!Then, I knew this was going to be good!The director had a flawless visual sense and the dialogue was equally good- maybe because it was so hard for a Yank to understand.That idiot's attempt to kill the dog by setting it's house on fire, but not before putting on the dead dog's collar because it was classy and Italian had me LMHO. The combination of hundreds of old guys singing that nostalgic song by the sea and the burial by sea scene was one of the weirdest, funniest things I've ever seen in my life!!! The tacky Petulia Clark songs were perfect, also. "},{"Title":"Pretty S****y City","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Darkly amusing (dark comedy if you're English) about a dodgy cop using   spoof scenes from great and famous movies. Such scenes with the poodle   reflects the horse in the godfather and the another scene is the   Karaoke Bar and the movie Carrie. This is all set in Swansea about   twins and dealing with the death of a family member. Much Love, madness   and set in Wales. Wonderful, I watched about 5 times in 7 days. Got   funnier and funnier, the script (See Summary) is outstanding. John   Noakes and the scene with the Ice Cream van is most amusing and again   if you are English the scene in bath where the twins are quizzing each   other about football is also exceptional.WATCH WATCH AND WATCH AGAIN. "},{"Title":"Cool and different- good pacing to the film","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was a great script in the way that it all fell together, it was very natural and generally unpredictable. There were lots of great characters and plenty of strange scenes. You HAVE to understand the lazy welsh accent in order to get a lot of the jokes. If you don't know nee 14 means nearly 14 then you might be confused in some parts. The more you understand of this movie's dialogue the more you will appreciate what a cool movie this is. It starts off one way and then becomes a completely different experience, and it's a fun ride the whole way through. I recommend it fully, this movie is unpredictable and weird, a real charmer if you kick back and let it unfold. "},{"Title":"Pretty S***ty","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Obviously a lot of effort and money went into this movie, the acting, the visuals;  unfortunately the director thought that he could do without a plot or dialogue, apparently on account of that it is Welsh and riding on the wake of Trainspotting.  The result is the cinematic equivalent to a Ferrari Testarossa without wheels, nice to look at yet bitterly disappointing. "}{"Title":"Typically Welsh","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The first time i saw this i couldnt believe what i missed out on after two years of its release. The Lewis Twins taking drugs constantly is a typical welsh activity. Making bongs out of anything that has a hollow interior makes me laugh and tell myself how true. The welsh humour is superb and the acting is among the best, british screens have seen. Everytime i go to swansea i am reminded of this great film by three simple words. pretty Sh*tty City. And its true. Rhys Ifans is one of the leading role's and compared to Notting Hill this film beats the hell out of it, heres to more great welsh films about drugs "},{"Title":"Not for the sensitive","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I guess this is quite a good film which will attract a certain 'cult' following. It is well worked and quite funny in places, but overall I have to say I didn't like it.I found the excessive depiction of drugs,poverty, senseless crime, corruption, moronic behaviour, prostitution and violence quite depressing. And I am no prude believe me. Some people will be quite horrified I'm sure.Maybe it upset my 'middle class' values, but it scared me. If Swansea is remotely like this, then the Welsh Tourist Board will not be very happy with this film. I certainly wouldn't go anywhere near the place after watching it.Looking back on the film at the end, I have to ask what the point of it is. Is it shocking for the sake of being shocking? Is it supposed to show some of us more innocent folk the darker side of life? Or does it depict a fantasy world and take every excuse to make sick jokes?You have to say the film is different. "},{"Title":"Probably the most dark-humoured film I've ever seen....I love it!!!","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Its a masterpiece... It's sooo mean!! Definitely a movie I will watch again. I was laughing my butt off during the whole movie.Looking forward to Kevin Allen's new film with great anticipation. "},{"Title":"You don't have to be Welsh to enjoy it... ...but it helps.","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Contrary to some of the reviews on this page, Twin Town is a very good film. It is no Welsh Trainspotting, only marketing people will say that and consequently only the foolish will believe that. It is not even from the makers of Trainspotting as the US marketeers are currently trying to claim. It is a film that is to Wales what Trainspotting is to Scotland but that is really where the similarities end. Twin Town is much more of a comedy, and is much more difficult to understand, particularly if you're not familiar with welsh accents. The plot is nothing new, an ever escalating battle of revenge but it is the location and script which set it apart. Port Talbot is far more depressing a place to live than Glasgow could ever be. The chances of Port Talbot (or even Swansea for that matter) being called a European City of Culture are more remote than the Pope turning out to be Elvis. The Lewis Twins are synonymous with Wales in the 90s, poverty stricken, joyriding drug addicts. And yet there is something lovable about them, something heroic.You can sit back and laugh at this film if you're not welsh, or you could be utterly confused for two hours because unlike Trainspotting, the accents are not toned down for American audiences. However, if you are Welsh, Twin Town will speak to you like no other film you can remember. The ending is a thing of beauty, I only wish Terry the bent copper could have been English..... "},{"Title":"A nasty little film that has moments but is mainly pointless.  Cashing in on the Trainspotting audience.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Port Talbot, Wales.  Dropout brothers Julian and Jeremy spend all their time bickering and joy riding.  Meanwhile bent coppers Terry and Greyo are involved with local contractor Cartwright in a drugs deal.  When the boy's father is injured doing a job for Cartwright he refuses them any compensation, leading to a series of cruel pranks by the boys that escalates into arson and murder.This film is clearly meant to cash in on the youf market that Trainspotting uncovered.  However this is miles away from that &#150; instead it plays like a caper film with the moral compass removed.  The story doesn't have any `heroes' to speak off &#150; instead we have two yobs who we are supposed to support.  In Trainspotting the characters are unpleasant, but that's the point &#150; we're not supposed to admire them.  Here we're supposed to like the twins despite the fact that they are as nasty and as unpleasant as the `bad guys'.  The story is poor &#150; it has funny dialogue but with no likeable characters it's really hard to care about who dies &#150; in fact the film never looks at the damage the death of innocents causes and it obviously doesn't care about the deaths.Despite the poor story and construction the actors are OK.  Both Evans and Ifans have a good energy that gives some funny moments despite have characters you wouldn't help if you saw them lying in the street.  Of the rest Dougray Scott has the best character &#150; he's funny and cruel and a good comedy baddie &#150; certainly better than in MI2.Overall it's a cruel little film.  The yob energy and humour adds some appeal but the film lacks morals and just tries to get by by being loud and abusive. "},{"Title":"From the creators of Trainspotting... yeah... right!","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The biggest gripe I had about this movie... besides that it really kind of sucked... was that it claimed (on the poster, in the ads, etc.) to be from the creators of Trainspotting. Now, forgive me if I nit-pick, but Irvine Welsh 'created' Trainspotting, and he had NOTHING to do with this picture; neither, really did Danny Boyle or Andrew Macdonald. Which means I went to this flick expecting some sort of spin off of Trainspotting (not a re-make or a sequel or anything, but a movie with the flavor of Trainspotting)... which it wasn't. This isn't false advertising I'm claiming... but stupid advertising! The by-line puts you into a specific mind-set (call me brainwashed, if you must) and then the movie delivers something totally different, unexpected, and stupid. What gives!? Why do that!?The movie is far too shallow. It isn't even deep enough to provide plot holes... it's just there, like a puddle; sure, maybe you want to jump around in it for a second, but I don't want to spend two hours standing in a puddle... at least not this one. There are moments of mild entertainment, but without anything cohesive, they're just not worth it. I didn't care at all about anyone anywhere remotely near this thing, and left just wondering who in the hell these little smart-asses thought they were. "},{"Title":"Welsh rares**t","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm nothing if not open-minded and so when I saw that Twin Town was scheduled to be broadcast on British Channel 4 television and having read the many favourable comments of IMDB reviewers I decided to give it a chance despite my reluctance to devote time to view which had been prompted by the unanimous thumbs-down given it by local critics.I mean bent coppers; wild and wacky joy-riding twins; revenge plot; karaoke acts; world record for use of word f**k in a movie.How can it fail?I'm still asking myself that question.Much as I regret to say it and, while I won't go so far as to say that it was a waste of two hours, (actually it's not that long), I have to say that this film is a total mess. Almost uniformly lousy acting, witless dialogue, erratic pacing, more boringly inappropriate use of the word f**k than I've heard in any movie. And an ending which was signposted about 5 minutes into the film.Even the much lauded twins rather than being wild and wacky, in their limited time on-screen more often than not they came across as being about as charismatic and threatening as wet blankets. And the sex bits reminded me of those awful Confessions movies starring Robin Askwith (maybe that's coloured my judgment of the movie)Despite my fingers being ready and willing to type a longer review my brain just refuses to send any further list of defects to them.Best bit and maybe only redeeming feature When the bent copper beat up a boy's band member because they wouldn't get out of the road.(I laughed out loud!!) Or maybe that was because of the idea that scene gave me what about enlisting the entire crew to give the same treatment to Boyzone, WestLife and the rest of the collective monstrosity known as Boy Bands. Because they'll hardly be snowed under with job offers after this.I won't be giving it another chance which saddens me to say, speaking as a fellow Celt.Sorry, boyos its V for Vile! "},{"Title":"Learn Welsh!","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the few films where my years learning Welsh gives me the advantage over the majority of viewers. F****** Excellent! If you don't understand the dialogue just go with the flow it will all become clear in time. "},{"Title":"A comic gem","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Quite simply, this is the funniest and most quoted movie we've ever seen, and remains an absolute must see. Cup of tea boys... While on the first run through, it might seem like a swear-fest, this is a movie which deserves to be watched time and time again. For one reason or another , Twin Town avoided mainstream success, and yet at the same time developed a cult following, which, to this day remains underground. Understandably, this would have never been a film to make big box office bucks, but I assume that was never the intention. Written as sharply as todays modern sit-coms, and far sharper than most recent films, it remains understated and extremely dark at times, while still managing to make you laugh out loud repeatably and rewind to watch again. The last few scenes, a testament to the confidence of the writers, are some of the best. My only hope is that we get to see more of the not-so-famous actors that appear throughout, those that play Greyo, Adie and Dai etc, because without their contribution, the movie wouldn't have been so complete. Keith Allen should be placed high upon a pedestal, and pestered continually until he agrees to write again, be it Welsh or not. You reckon this boat'll get us to Morocco.... "},{"Title":"Makes  Me  Proud  To  Be  Welsh","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What can i say. This was a Great film that i really enjoyed. Very funny.When i first watched this film they said its a WELSH TRAINSPOTTING A Welsh Trainspotting - No. Its completely different from Trainspotting and in my opinion, better and funnier. Don't get me wrong though, Trainspotting is still a great film but i prefer this. I don't know why really, i guess its because i'm Welsh (and proud of it). And i'm happy to see they made a decent WELSH film. Trust me, if your into foreign films that speak English or if you like British comedy films, then watch this. 10/10. Best line ever was'And this glue is for my submarines and not for sticking up your f****** noses. And don't think i don't notice because i do. Buy your own f****** glue!' "}{"Title":"An ugly, lovely town","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's unfortunate that the Twin Town got stuck with the tag &#145;the Welsh Trainspotting' as it's so much better then that rural moniker suggests. Kevin Allen's debut is assured piece of filmmaking, delivering a view of Swansea and Wales that the tourist board can't have been to pleased about. But this is where Allen and co-writer Paul Durden grew up and they know this world intimately. The film skewers a great many stereotypes of welsh culture and beats them into the ground.For anyone who's ever watched S4C, the film is filled with familiar faces from 'Pobl y Cwn' and the 'Pam fi Duw?'. This is probably the only time you're ever likely to see actors from &#145;Pobl y Cwm' mixing it with Hollywood as Twin Town was to provide the breakout roles for both Ifans and Scott, who have gone on to bigger but not exactly better things. It is also filled  with most of director's Kevin Allen's immediate family (including brother Keith, yes that one).   Now if only Ifans would make a movie starring the two Franks and I'd be very happy indeed. "},{"Title":"Great Flick!!!","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have loved this flick ever since I first saw it and it is not a clone of Trainspotting because it stands in a league of its own. If you are British it is impossible not to like this flick but some Americans might not be able to understand the accents. Everyone should watch this and it features Rhys Ifans and Dougary Scott's in their best roles yet. The violence and language (there is alot) may offend some people but to me it just makes the film even funnier and more entertaining. Buy this flick, see this flick. Make it your goal in life to see this flick.    5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Terrorizing Twins seek revenge...","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought Twin Town was Brilliant! The actors chosen to play the Lewis boys were absolutely Fantastic Funny as Hell! It came on cable one night,and since I love other movies Rhys Ifans has been in I decided to watch.And It was great,not like these American teeny-bopper films they're trying to stuff down teenagers(me)throats!It was awesome.I think everyone should at least see it once,go rent it!  "},{"Title":"Whelsh tourists board's whoe.","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a rare film indeed. Not only is it set in Wales but it's also a film born of a passion for the art of film making rather than profit making. The acting was excellent and the black comedy story line was gripping. The dialogue was littered with expletives  but I guess that's how they talk out in the Welsh backwaters. The characterisation was inventive, I especially liked the coke dealing  bent coppers and the compulsory inclusion of a Welsh quire. I don't remember seeing any sheep though.   However it was a big mistake to try  and market this film on the back of 'Train spotting'  as it could have been marketed more successfully on it's own merits. As a result , most people have  had to wait for it's terrestrial UK broadcast to discover  this film gem. I'm sure a great deal of interest and debate will now resurrect this film in the rentals and  shops. It's also important to note that this is precisely the kind of radical, raw, original, thought provoking material that the American masses are restricted from viewing as they are fed the constant diet of bland, formulated, self-censored, over-glossed, garbage Hollywood usually churns out. I feel their loss.  "},{"Title":"Welsh masterpiece","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Kevin Allen with help from brother Keith as the stoned shepherd, has produced the finest movie to capture the spirit of small town Wales in the 90's.  From the opening credits, we are taken on a rollercoaster through the lives of the Lewis family, from joyriding, prostitution, karaoke, pet murder and theft to the greatest ending any Welshman may see in the cinema.No where else in modern British cinema, have I seen a story to identify the decay and depression evident in Wales in the 90s. "},{"Title":"To the good film bad ending guy","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just wanted to say to the guy who thought this film had a bad ending, you clearly don't understand the essence of escalation. Revenge is a dish best served cold you will note is the opening lines of the Kill Bill Series, not a black comedy granted but a similar themed film. The whole point of revenge is to go one better than what was done to you, when someone blows up your entire family, albeit unintentionally then what better way to dish out the moment when said opponent in the battle of revenge meets his maker, than by carrying out your dead fathers wish. In my mind this is the ultimate black comedy, a biased decision I'm sure growing up on the welsh border and getting an extra tickle from the welsh eccentricities, but from a writing point of view, perfectly executed! "},{"Title":"This film is poor.","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film, as a whole, is poor.  Things begin well enough, though, with two brothers meandering through life.  They like to steal cars, get high, and ask each other pointless questions, some of which are actually funny.  Their world is in shambles.  They have no friends, their hometown is a dump, and their family is a rather pathetic lot, even if they're presented in a positive light.  All of this makes the brothers' oblivion to the world somehow attractive.  The other characters in the film are equally ridiculous - corrupt cops, karaoke nuts, and vulgar nouveau riche types. It's fun to laugh when the brothers' pranks catch these folks off guard.However, the film takes an ugly, brutal, and somewhat sadistic turn.  Jokes develop into murder, and comedic situations into depictions of suffering. In principle, I don't have anything against murder or violence in films, but these elements spoiled this particular film.  In addition, only a small percentage of the jokes are funny to begin with, and you must have a very discerning ear to sift through the strong Welsh accent.  The box cover bragged of a tie to Trainspotting (I can't remember how). The film is nothing like Trainspotting.    "},{"Title":"Positively the worst film I've ever seen.","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Incoherent, stupid and derivative, this was positively the worst film I've ever seen. Badly acted, horribly pretentious and narratively inept, it felt like it ran for hours. Don't waste your time or money on this clueless, charmless and pointless waste of celluloid.  No redeeming value whatsoever.  "},{"Title":"Welsh trainspotting","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A cynical attempt by a studio to create a welsh 'trainspotting'. The two main characters are unlikable, the plot is awful and it isn't even funny. "}]