[{"Title":"Well, I'll be dipped in s*** and rolled in breadcrumbs","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Steel is one of those films where you constantly have to keep telling yourself this is NOT a TV movie. A cheap, outrageously bad superhero vehicle for the acting... er... talents?... of 7'1 basketball player Shaquille O'Neal.Commendably, the film does actually have three clear acts, and Steel's emergence, though underplayed, doesn't happen for over forty minutes. In-jokes are a-plenty, as it mentions Batman, Superman, Jerry Maguire (show me the money!) and three instances of John Irons (O'Neal) having to net basketballs. The final time sees a life-threatening toss of a grenade. A lousy basketball player throughout, Shaq gets to quip I never make these. Or would you prefer Richard Roundtree as Uncle Joe, who designs Steel's hammer for him? I did the metalwork, he explains, I especially like the shaft. Cue lots of double-takes and knowing glances, with Roundtree looking round, hands in the air, proclaiming what?The special effects are reasonable for tv movie land, but, as this is (pinch me, I must be imagining it) a real cinema movie, they're quite cheap. Steel is badly written, contains atrocious dialogue, is poorly acted, shabbily directed and with an overbearing, repetitive musical score. It is, of course, tremendously entertaining. "},{"Title":"I don't know whether to laugh or cry","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh man, I don't believe this. Perhaps with the exception of Barb Wire, I don't think I have watched anything that comes anywhere near this. When I come to think of it, Barb Wire is actually better than this, because I could laugh while watching it. This film is so bad it reaches a certain quality of lousiness only reserved for the very worst of bad ideas. I mean - Shaquille O'Niell in a steel suit with a super weapon made from the contents of a lost-and-found at the scrap yard? Please! "},{"Title":"so bad it's good","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a B-movie classic. The special effects are awful and the acting is worse, but at least it's not boring. As a cinematic experience, it's below par, but as entertainment it's top notch. It's basically like a B-movie, unintentionally hysterical version of Superman (which makes sense, since apparently Steel is based on a DC comic series which was an offshoot of the Superman Funeral for a friend storyline) , except Steel's only discernible superpowers are being tall, having a metal suit that makes him walk slowly, and uttering unfunny catch phrases that are so bad you have to bust out laughing. This movie is probably the funniest thing I've seen all year. Of course, it's not intended to be funny most of the time when it is.Watching Shaq act is the highlight of the film. I fell out of my chair laughing every time he said something. Shaq's still a better actor than Hulk Hogan though, not that that's saying much. They should give Shaq more movies. Hulk Hogan made a dozen or more, and they were all awful, why not Shaq?The special effects look like they were made in the 1980s. Bad miniatures and Superman-esque laser effects look pretty silly in this day and age. This adds to the fun factor of the movie though since you'll probably scream Dear Lord that laser is the same miniature they used in Godzilla in the 60s!.The plot to the movie isn't horrible, even though it's pretty thin. Basically Steel is a superhero with a secret identity out to save the world from an evil supervillain. Pretty standard superhero fare.This movie has earned its place in my heart alongside other bad movie classics like cool as ice starring vanilla ice. A must-see for bad movie buffs. Some folks who like superhero films might like it too since it's mildly diverting and quick-paced. Those who relish quality cinematic experiences should avoid. "},{"Title":" I've seen Steel and I'll never recover.","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've never seen a movie as bad as this one.  A few come close, but none have the power to topple Steel.  First off, when are people going to realize most athletes can't act, ESPECIALLY Shaq??  The effects are not-so-special, and are in fact quite terrible, which is ironic because so is the plot, the acting, and generally everything else in this so-called movie (read  vehicle to make some money off Shaq's name).  I think the director and producer deliberately wanted to insult the audience with this tremendous piece of crap.   "},{"Title":"Sure, the acting is bad","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure, the acting is bad, the special effects are amaturish, the direction incompetent, the story sadly changed from the comic book, and the screenwriting lame, lame, lame, but the casting is interesting in a drug induced sort of way.  I was hoping that this would be one of those it's so bad, it's funny movies, but it was just bad.  Please don't watch this fiasco, it will just steal precious moments from your life you can never get back.  I beg of you, your brain cells beg of you, just say no.  Shaquille O'Neil should be legally barred from acting.  Annabeth  Gish should be ashamed,  Judd Nelson couldn't possibly sink any lower, and poor Richard Roundtree, how the mighty have fallen.  I hope the next time I see Shaft, I don't remember seeing this waste of time.  "},{"Title":"Superman *still* didn't return.","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steel was a character created for DC Comics during the Death of Superman storyline. So naturally, based on the lack of movie since Superman IV, the makers of this movie could spin that as Superman as being dead or missing, therefore Steel was created, right? Wrong. It's has no reference to Christopher Reeve's Man of Steel stories, so it sucks.This comic book movie stars the Miami Heat's Shaq as John Henry Irons, a technical/scientific genius (*snicker*) who creates the super armor just to beat lame bad guy Judd Nelson! In doing this, Steel becomes one big joke. It's 100% obvious how Shaq was miscast, and once he dons the armor, looks like he poured glue all over his body and fell into Fred Sanford's junkyard. Peppered with unnecessary inside jokes about Shaq's crappy free throwing, this movie has no value to comic readers or movie lovers. Action scenes had potential, but fell flat with neither creativity or fun. Bad bad bad. Better casting, better written story, better special FX and a tie to Superman would have ensured a blockbuster, but now it's just cannon fodder for comic book fans.To see the true Steel in motion, look to the 90s Superman cartoon, he looks like the character and is voiced by Michael Dorn( ST TNG). You'll be happier watching that than this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen, and I've seen quite a few.","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Berardinelli gave this 2/4 stars - more than he gave Trees Lounge. I find that hard to believe. This is one of the worst films I have ever seen in my entire lifetime, and I've seen quite a few.It's yet another comic-book-adaptation based on a series that was unpopular to begin with. Shaq does his Attack as Steel, a superhero who runs around very slow in a heavy metal suit.Whereas Spidey and Batman, et al, all have their special powers, Steel really just has a bulletproof metal suit - the wire shooter is a rip-off of the device used by Michael Keaton in Batman. It attaches itself to a building and up, up and away he goes! However, the device moves at an astonishingly slow pace. Why didn't the cops just shoot him instead of standing there for over thirty seconds (yes, I counted) watching him pulled up into the air by a thin thread?No matter. This movie is awful. Not even Richard Roundtree can save it.And what's with the wheelchair lady?Why, Bender, why? "},{"Title":"after Oscar winning KAZAAM, yet another masterpiece","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Shaq is an actor in movie with no plot - nothing more to addOMG, this is so sad, its not even funny; that is why there is a saying that to each is own I guess he know joins the list of other talented actor-athletes like Dennis Rodman, Hulk Hogan and Randy Savage - man, I am not even going to attack the movie, because its unfair to tackle crippled opponentsworst waste of time and space in universe since Poly Shore0/10  "},{"Title":"ShaqFu In an iron suit","Date":"11 November 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" You ever wonder what it would feel like to be raped by 7 football tall black man and then him steal 10 bucks from you? Well watch this movie and you will find out.What makes shaq think he can act? He cant make video games, music , and can barely play basketball. So why did he think he could do this? He might as well called this Shaqfu the live action movie, because that is exactly what this movie is, its a big Fu from shaq. That is right folks shaq is screwing you hard and there is nothing you can do about it.So if you watch this grit your teeth bare the load and get ready for a full on anal invasion from the master him self in this torture porn of a movie. "},{"Title":"Complete waste of a decent premise and a potentially strong character","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I finally forced myself to watch as much of this as I could stand when the movie appeared on cable. I tried to find something, anything, to like about this film, but it's simply dreadful.Why do they insist on putting Shaqille O'Neale in movies? However imposing and charismatic he may be in person, and no matter how entertaining he can be in various short TV commercials, he's a dullard and a lug on film. He's got no range, no gravitas, and he's so odd looking in the context of a 'normal' film world that he is actually rather repellent.I know, I know - Shaq is a celebrity, and celebrity sells.Some of the problem is that the director and screenwriter paid millions of dollars to cast a 7 foot 2 inch man in the role of an armored, high tech superhero, and then they threw the premise away on story elements and fight scenes that utterly waste the idea's potential.The DC superhero Steel was incredibly powerful, and resourceful he could fly via boot jets, he fired big steel spikes from wrist launchers, he could pick up and throw railroad box cars, his armor could withstand mortar bursts and artillery fire, and his 'homing' hammer was the neatest visual gimmick since Captain America's shield.And he had a deeply resonant spiritual side as well - he was a man who was brought back from death itself by Superman and destiny, who took up his armor to fight the good fight in a world that needed heroes more than ever.Instead of all this great potential appearing on the screen, we get a big doofus with a bulletproof suit who runs around on foot and uses his hammer like a gun.If I wanted to really frustrate myself, I would imagine the black actor who played the Commander of Deep Space Nine (Avery Brooks) being cast in the role of Steel, and the millions of dollars that went into Shaq's salary being spend on cool SFX and CGI, so that Steel could fight sprawling high tech battles with the bad guys from under the sea to the edge of space, with building, bridges and tanks being flattened like tin foil and and attack helicopters getting knocked out of the sky by the hammer. And I would give Avery Brooks, who can ACT with a dignity and potential worthy of James Earl Jones, room to do well all the things that Shag does so badly act, emote, express rage and anger and indignation at the perfidy of the bad guys, and make you feel too his strife and extremity and pride.Well, Steel killed the franchise, and so we will never know what could have been.Shaq, go back to playing basketball (and making amusing commercials); you do that supremely well. Please stop inflicting movies on us.1 star added because the idea of a high tech, armored black superhero who came back from the dead to be a hero was such a great idea. Too bad they dropped the ball so badly. "}{"Title":"Stinks","Date":"18 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Garbage superhero movie based on the Superman spin-off character, Steel. One of the all-time bad comic book movies. Shaquille O'Neal is terrible, delivering lines like he's reading a menu. The armor his character wears is ludicrous and cheap. His sidekick is a woman in a wheelchair named Sparky, played by Annabeth Gish. Poor Annabeth tries but the material she's given is dreadful. Judd Nelson gives a self-consciously bad performance as the villain Burke. He knows he's in trash and doesn't even try to make the material work. In many scenes he's clearly suppressing laughter at the terrible lines he's given. It may not be professional behavior but I can hardly blame the guy. Collect that paycheck, Bender. Despite taking place in 1997, the police are driving cars that look like they're from the early '80s. Just another sign of the shoddy production, I guess. The whole thing looks cheap like it was produced by the dollar store. I suppose there is some unintended comic value of the so bad it's good variety. But mostly it just stinks. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" SteelWearing a suit made out of steel sounds amazing. Moving around in a suit made of steel sounds impossible.Fortunately, the 7-foot tall vigilante in this action movie has the strength to manipulate his metal pants.When a weapon he designed for the army causes an accident that cripples his friend, Sparky (Annabeth Gish), John Henry Irons (Shaquille O'Neal) retires.With Irons gone, a duplicitous army officer, Nathaniel Burke (Judd Nelson), begins selling Irons' lethal inventions to the criminal underworld.When Irons' gets wind of this, he recruits a now wheelchair bound Sparky and Uncle Joe (Richard Roundtree), to help him wage war against Burke and his cronies in an impenetrable armoured suit.Based on the DC Comics character inspired by Superman, Steel's armour has many chinks namely Shaq's acting abilities and its insufferable script. Sadly, when this African American hero arrives, old white women still think he's the villain.Red Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"When good ideas go bad","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you're like me, you're frustrated at how few comic book characters translate well to the big screen.  The Punisher.  Captain America.  Now, we have Steel.  And it's a shame.  Steel is one of those characters that had enough depth and nobility as a character that it could have been pulled off without a huge budget.  And that seemed to be the idea of this movie.  So why is it so bad?  Well, for starters, Steel looks ridiculous.  Why does the suit have to be made from junk-yard leftovers?  He was in the military, so why couldn't he have swiped a cool-looking prototype?  And where's the cape? Call me corny, but what gives the suit its majesty is that big, flowing red cape.  No references to Superman, or the sense of awe and gratitude that inspired John Irons into becoming Steel.  And the hammer as a gun? Puh-leeze.  Still, this could have been a decent movie if the guy who wrote the plots had hired someone else to do the dialogue.  Judd Nelson is a good villain, and Shaq might have been able to pull off a true hero had he not been reduced to one-liners and jive talk.  Also, why is it that no one in Shaq's hood can figure out that the 7 foot tall Shaq is the 7 foot tall Steel?  This movie is so self-conscious that the obvious noble aspirations just seem pitiful.  Like most comic characters, Steel deserved much better writing (like that found in his comic). "},{"Title":"DC Comics worst nightmare. This definitely isn't your father's Superman!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Several years ago, DC Comics killed Superman. Four characters leapt to the forefront and claimed to be the fallen Superman. Steel was one of these characters and he showed great potential.Then a movie was made bearing the same name.  The movie sounded good in theory and it showed much potential.  Then someone casted Shaq and the rest was history.  Other bad choices were made like casting Judd Nelson. On top of all that a director was chosen.... not Oliver Stone, not even Tim Burton, but Kenneth Johnson. Kenneth who?  The same Kenneth Johnson who did V, Alien Nation and The Incredible Hulk.  It is no wonder the Hiroshima of cinema was created. This movie is the exact opposite of what a good movie should be. Bad acting, bad script, bad directing. This movie became something that would have made Ed Wood proud. The rest of us on the other hand should forget this movie was ever made.  I know it is hard, but try...... please try to forget.     "},{"Title":"missed opportunity","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" O'Neal is John Henry Irons, a military weapons specialist who's just been discharged and returns home to enjoy civilian life with his family until one of his corrupt ex-compatriots (Nelson) uses his military training to deal high-tech weaponry on the streets. In order to thwart him and stop the criminal underworld from acquiring a sophisticated arsenal, Irons becomes an unlikely hero. Believe it or not, this actually had the potential to be successful, but it's done in by dumb dialogue, unconvincing special effects, and an abundance of silly Shaq in-jokes. Might have been a better idea to actually develop the story, rather than spotlighting stupid basketball references. *½ "},{"Title":"Jumbo-Sized Hero","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's get the worst facets of STEEL out of the way first. Yes, Shaquille O'Neal is a dreadful actor. Yes, he looks like the world's biggest sardine can in his Steel armor. Yes, the dialog is bargain basement. Yes, Judd Nelson makes for the worst comic book villain this side of Mark Hamill as The Trickster in THE FLASH television series. And yes, the film embarrasses itself even further by clumsily trying to deliver a we-must-stop-using-weapons-to-settle-our-differences message. Happy?STEEL is not a masterpiece in any sense of the word, but that doesn't mean it should be completely written off. It's one of those pictures that requires you to set aside your pre-conceived notions about good film-making and just enjoy the ride. Do that, and STEEL is a surprisingly amusing little adventure. O'Neal is fun, if not unspectacular, as our jumbo-sized hero, a do-gooder vigilante cleanin' up the streets with a big ol' hammer and souped-up motorbike. He's aided by wheelchair-bound hottie Annabeth Gish and an aged Richard Roundtree as his off-the-wall Uncle Joe.Our hero's climactic showdown with the one-dimensionally evil Nelson is incredibly cheesy, as are many scenes, but the film has its heart so firmly in the right place you'll be more than a little lenient. As usual, what Shaq lacks in talent he makes up for in charm and a deep likability that seeps right through the screen.STEEL is an uncomplicated film that seems custom-made for little boys, who will absolutely adore it. If you're in the right mood, you'll like it, too. "},{"Title":"A lesson in swallowing reality","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" As an enormous Superman fan I picked this video up (for less than 5 dollars) just to add to my collection. I know it had nothing to do with the actual origins of the DC Comics Steel which came from the Death of Superman story but still has some similarities. The story revolves around John Henry Irons, played of course by Shaq, an army Lieutenant who worked on the creation of high tech sonic weapons along with Susan Sparks, played by Annabeth Gish, and Nathaniel Burk played by Judd Nelson. After a miscalculation leaves Susan paralyzed Irons leaves the army into civilian life. Nathaniel becomes the evil nemesis building the weapons and preparing to sell them to world arms dealers but first testing them on bank robberies with street gangs. Irons with the help of Susan referred to as Sparky and Iron's Uncle Joe played by Richard Roundtree build their own crime fighting weapons as well as a head to toe...well except for his face...outfit of steel. The acting does get rather bad, it feels like a grade school play, and the jokes get far too reality based as so many people have pointed out. The Shaft joke just isn't funny, and the basketball references are unnecessary but that's not what wrecks the movie. What wrecks the movie is the storyline. They could so easily have based this character after the Superman origin. They made reference to the man of steel so many times that it would not have taken much to create Iron's character following the death of Superman. Shaq is not a terrible actor, there are far worse, but his physical stature makes his regular joe schmoe character almost unbelievable.He towers above everyone and just looks silly. They never establish any sort of romance between Susan and John Irons although they hint to it, it never turns into anything. The story moves along at a good pace, and I thought Judd Nelson played a kick butt bad guy...although he played it almost sarcastically, it fit the movie really. The special effects were cheesy and obviously cheap but I can look past that. The part that bothers me the most is that his steel suit being bullet proof is fine but the good 5 or 6 inches on his face that was uncovered miraculously never got touched by bullets or anything else. Plot holes are almost expected in a film like this so you have to swallow your reality to enjoy it. But sometimes if the movie isn't good enough, it's not worth swallowing anything. I don't regret watching it, it's not the worst movie I've ever seen that's for sure. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Worst. Comic. Book. Movie. Ever.","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Batman and Robin, Catwoman, their awfulness pales in comparison to this turkey. Shaquille O'Neil wanted to be an actor and Hollywood was happy to enable his fantasy. Much like the terminally ill cancer child wanting to go to Disneyland, the gave Shaq a free ride through the studio. It's bad nobody told him to not to touch the equipment.With TV movie production values (Kenneth Johnson just is not meant to work on the big screen), a ridiculous premise (yeah sure, Shaq designed these highly advanced weapon systems), and a cast that found themselves literally overshadowed by the star of the film (you have to feel sorry for Richard Shaft Roundtree) it's amazing the movie ever saw the light of day. I notice that even today the movie has not made it's way onto DVD, and maybe that is for the best. "},{"Title":"Shaq is a terrible actor, the reason why the movie sucks.","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yeah the reason why the movie sucks is because Shaq is in it. All his movies are poorly done especially Kazaam. All his movies are based on the sport he plays, basketball. In blue chips it's all about basketball, actually blue chips was okay, his best movie. Then came horrible kazaam, he is ripping off Robin Williams by being a blue genie that plays basketball. No one of coarse enjoyed it. This movie, I don't believe would have been successful if it weren't for Shaq's jokes. Even if he didn't make those idiotic jokes, it still would have been bad. After this, Shaq gave up his acting cause everyone hated him and he started singing. Then, of coarse he had the worst song in history so he retired. Now he wants to be a cop? No seriously, with all that money he has, he doesn't need to become one. I wish I could talk to Shaq about his stupidity, but it will never happen. "},{"Title":"what is 7'2 high and walks around in plain steal ?","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this must be one of the worst movies i have ever seen and i have no idea why shaq took this part. there's nothing good to say about the film, its a lousy script, it has bad actors, the action scenes sucks big time and there's no more to say about this film, just that everything sucks. "}{"Title":"This Steel is quite porous...","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow, I feel dumber for even having seen a portion of this movie. Its been on HBO a lot lately, and unfortunately, I had the misfortune of glimpsing it. Shaq should be banned from the planet Earth for being in such a bad movie. Who was the genius who okayed this movie?? This is right up there in one of the worst films ever. A 2.8 user rating is WAY too high for a movie of this low calibur... "},{"Title":"In my top 10 worst films list","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's astounding that this was made for theatrical release. There are very few movies out there which are worse than this one. It was too violent to really be a small childrens movie, but it had drama and dialog that couldn't interest anybody over five years of age. I couldn't give this movie a 1 because a few of the props were not made of cardboard. If you liked this movie, I recommend you also watch R.O.T.O.R. and seek professional help. Action terrible, Script horrible, Acting pathetic, Effects amazingly lame, Unintended Comedy Value medium-highThis movie will be with me in my misery for a long time to come. "},{"Title":"this movie is absolutely hilarious","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Eat the hot dog, don't be the hot dog, best line Judd Nelson's ever delivered. Every superhero cliché known is thrown in and hammed up to the extreme. The father figure killed by the bad guys, the tech whiz buddy that makes all of Steel's gear, the big bad evil high tech corporation, the sidekick in the wheelchair with the touching scene in which Shaq denies help her back up after she falls out onto the floor, and enough horribly brain dead one liners to choke several giraffes. "},{"Title":"The Movie That Killed Comic Book Movies for Nearly a Decade","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the most horrifyingly awful films of all time. It would an embarrassment to your local dump to find this movie wallowing in there. It's not even worthy of that! Shaquille O'Neal delivers a performance that (gasp!) is worse than his awful performance in Kazaam! Apparently, after the mild success and small critical praise of Shaq's performance in Blue Chips, he thought he had a chance at a real acting career. I would like to know who it was that encouraged him to go forth with two more lead roles in his career?! The only reason he did so well in Blue Chips was because he was basically playing himself! Casting Shaq in this big, lumbering idiot of a role is so bad, it actually makes us laugh...hard. The costuming is a joke. It's all too obvious that Shaq is wearing a rubber helmet when its supposed to be made of steel! He also looks just plain ridiculous in that suit. He looks like an over-sized kid ready for Halloween, as he has to strain to peer through the eye holes. He just looks like a metallic turd. The special effects are mediocre at best, and the rest of the cast is bland. Judd Nelson, who's career said bye-bye back in the '80s, is among the worst villains in movie history, and certainly didn't help his career any. The story is ludicrous and often makes no sense...that is, when there is an actual story to follow, and the dialogue is so bad, that they have to resort to stealing lines from other, far better, action movies!! After this, its plain to see why you didn't see another comic-book based movie for a while (excluding Batman & Robin, which was a joke in itself). This movie literally killed the comic book movie for almost a decade. "},{"Title":"Um, this was based on the comic book character, right?","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That's what I kept thinking all through this movie.  I've been following John Henry Irons from the start in the comics.  Here's the deal; Remember when Superman died? In the wake of that battle, four people arose wearing the S and resuming the neverending battle.  There was The Last Son of Krypton (actually a computer program who believed he was Superman and took an extreme approach to fighting evil), the Cyborg Superman (actually a villian who took advantage of the opportunity), the Young or Teen Superman (a clone given a semblance of Superman's powers, now known as Superboy in the coming soon TEEN TITANS comic), and an armored man called The Man of Steel.The Man of Steel was John Henry Irons, an inventor who was recruited by a weapons manufacturer to design for him.  As in the movie, these designs are stolen from him and planned to be used as weapons of mass destruction.  He destroyed his work and went underground, ending up in Metropolis.  While saving a falling worker, John himself is saved by Superman.  John tells him, I owe you my life, to which Superman replies, Then make it count for something.  Shortly after, Superman died in battle.  John soon learned that his weapons were being used by Metropolis' gangs, sold on the black market.  Inspired by Superman's example, John Henry creates a suit complete with cape and S, armed with rivet shooters, super-strength, flight, and a mean sledgehammer.  He was the only one who never claimed to be Superman back from the dead.  After Superman's return, John modifies his armor and shortens his code-name to Steel.Now, I can understand why the legal matters won't let them use Superman in this movie, but what is this with a motorcycle, no cape, no flight.  This was just a terrible rendition.  It needed better writing, better budget to at least get him flying, and they need a much better actor than Shaq.  Where was Michael Clarke Duncan when we really needed him?Among the comic-book movies of 1997, the winner goes to Spawn, IMHO. "},{"Title":"good movies have good dialogue","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie could have been lifted out of the doldrums with decent dialogue. Shaq was much better this time around (as opposed to Kazaam, although that's not saying much).  Burke's wisdom to his gang member is absolutely laughable, and especially don't miss Shaq's awful cool, just like you at the beginning.Steel did some things right; some parts they tried to make funny were genuinely funny, and the plot was pretty interesting.  However, the parts where you laugh with the scriptwriter are pale in comparision to those where you laugh at the scriptwriter.In summation...you need to see this movie. "},{"Title":"I found Superman's kryptonite.","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steel is one of those movies that you hear how bad it is, but, in your mind, believe that it can't be that bad. This time, it is that bad. Steel is the equivalent of going to a PETA meeting wearing a fur coat with snakeskin boots, with deer blood dried onto your pants, while holding a platter of ham, chicken, turkey, and other animal cruelty foods in one hand, and a deer head in the other. To make it easier to understand, it feels out of place and doomed to fail (and possibly pelted with tomatoes). Shaq, as the movie poster refers to him as, plays John Henry Irons, a weapons designer for the military. After a tragic accident occurs (not the board meeting to green-light this movie), Irons retires his position and returns to the safety of his home. Within a few days back, he takes notice that his dangerous guns are running amok in the streets, thanks to Nathaniel Burke, a former sergeant (I'm probably wrong about his position, but who cares) relieved from his position for attempted destruction (and no, he wasn't the man who green-lit this movie. Okay, I'll stop). I want to stop right there and delve into the stupidity that this situation is. I'm still laughing at the fact that, instead of criminal punishment via jail time, a man bent on human destruction is just released from his military duties. What the hell?!? Did they honestly think he wasn't going to cause destruction once he got home? What if they did this in real life. For instance, when they found Saddam Huessin, instead of hanging him, they just spanked him on the ass! I'm sure that would've worked. Anyway, back to the plot (or as much of a plot there is). Once ahold of these guns, Nathaniel uses them to destroy Irons' hometown, and Irons himself. Of course, this doesn't keep Irons down, as he gets back up, renames himself Shaquille O'Neal, joins the NBA, and becomes a huge star. Okay, so this didn't happen in the movie. But I'm pretty positive this is how Shaq's career came about. My ramblings aside, Irons picks himself back up, grabs an old army buddy and Shaft (not kidding), makes himself the absolute worst looking superhero attire ever (it makes the Bat Nipples look like the Mona Lisa), dons himself Steel, and comes back to save the day, equipped with a huge sledgehammer (Triple H's inspiration), magnetic shield, and advice (once again, not kidding). The sheer stupidity that is Steel is unprecedented. Yes, I've seen worse COUGH*Batman & Robin*COUGH. But, that doesn't do justice for the man of Steel (and insults the true man of Steel, Superman, which this story is based off of a side character after the death of Superman). Steel is so bad, that I was actually yearning for Kazaam shortly into the movie. Do yourself a favor, and shoot yourself in the foot. It's a lot less painful. "},{"Title":"Quite Possibly the Worst Movie Ever Made","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Uncle Joe Well dip me in sh__t and roll me in breadcrumbs.Without question, 'Steel' is in the running for worst film ever made. However, it is a fun movie to watch to make fun of. You'll be laughing hysterically, but not as the filmmakers intended. Shaquille O'Neal's acting skills are kind of like Adolf Hitler's morals. They're seriously lacking. This movie does have some classic one liners like Y'all stay cool now. a line Shaq delivers to a couple of old people he returns a stolen purse to, and my personal favorite, Well, dip me in sh__t and roll me in breadcrumbs!. I highly recommend 'Steel' if you need a good laugh. I think I laughed harder during this than I did during 'Borat'. Grade F "},{"Title":"Just Another Cinematic Air Ball.","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" A former military weapons specialist (basketball superstar Shaquille O'Neal) has to battle an arms dealer (Judd Nelson) and his associates as they create chaos in a bleak gang-infested Los Angeles landscape. Also helping O'Neal are uncle Richard Roundtree (of Shaft glory) and parapalegic Annabeth Gish. Superhero-style junk that is unintentionally hilarious as Shaq hams it up with the ridiculous material. The rest of the cast follows that lead as well as the whole group of players seem to realize just how horrid the production is. More proof that professional athletes have no business starring in motion pictures. O'Neal's time would have been better spent working on his free throws. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"Another promising story ruined...","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First, let me say, I am a huge fan of the original Steel comic book series, and was really looking forward to this movie coming out.  Boy, was I in for a shock!Writer and director Kenneth Johnson has some experience in this genre, having created the Alien Nation series and directed episodes of the 70's Incredible Hulk show, as well as dozen of movies for television.  However, Kenneth is definitely out of his element here, and out of his league.  In his first (and last) feature film, Johnson loses his mind and makes changes to the characters that seem frivolous and unflattering.Mainly, he takes away the red cape and the 'S' shield.  This was done to distance this character from the Superman universe, which was asinine, since Warner Bros. owns the rights to all of DC Comics' characters.  I didn't understand this thinking at all.  The origin of Steel centers around on Superman saving his life, and John Henry Irons' whole existence is based on paying tribute to his hero.  Hence, the 'S' on the chest and the flowing red cape!  To take those (and other) characteristics away make this just another generic superhero.Shaq's wooden acting aside, Steel failed to capture even a hint of the brilliance and nobility of the Superman spin-off comic.  This, coupled with a ridiculous funk score, lead to something that looks and feels like a cheap TV movie.  (Go figure...) "}{"Title":"the very idea of this movie is a sin","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  first of all I would like to say that Im a huge fan of the comic book.John henry irons is the man of steel. This movie is terrible and the filmmakers screwed up everything in making this movie. all of a sudden the hammer is a gun. what the hell were they thinking.and the guy who acted, what Shark-face or what? the costume was rancid, without the S-shield, and looked more like something queer from the powerrangers universe. Avoid this movie at all costs if you can, cuz what they did with it, gives the slightest memory of the comic book a bloody bad name. "},{"Title":"Romantic Comedy of the year!","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Steel is an awesome movie, a cinematic masterpiece.  I have not had as good a time in the theater since I saw Steel. Steel's action is big, but the laughs are even bigger. It is one of the funnier movies I can think of. Shaquille is perfect as the super hero Steel. Every time he is in that ridiculous suit, with his goofy smile, I just have to burst out laughing. The plot is good too, and the action sequences are well choreographed. But the most important part of this movie is the many, many laughs. Richard Roundtree has some great jokes (I especially like the shaft). Annabeth Gish is hilarious as Sparky, especially at the end with her wheelchair that rises so she can stand (You havent seen the best part). Some guy gets killed because of a discrepency over the meat type in his hot dog. A pin is pulled from a grenade and 27 seconds later it blows up, after Shaq jokes about not being able to make free throws. Why the bad rap on Steel? I have no idea, maybe the angry comic book fans have no sense of humor. This film deserves a lot more credit, and Shaquille O'Neal needs to be back for a Steel 2.  "},{"Title":"Steel","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Downright asinine attempt at making Shaq a bankable movie actor with this awful film about a former Army scientist who battles evil in a steel suit. Are you kidding me? "},{"Title":"Pretty damn bad, but enjoyable 4 MSTies like me","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was fortunate to view this on the terrestrial station Grit & have viewed this crappy Shaquille O'Neal film a few times to actually listen to the atrocious dialogue & learn the cookie-cutter plot, such as Steel's crusade to keep kids away from gangs, which looks similar to that from The Meteor Man. I had to check the spoiler because those who did see the end oughta remember the oh brother moment when Annabeth Gish's wheelchair becoming a deus ex machine-a. Regarding the cast, O'Neal did better in Blue Chips even though he was naturally cast as a basketball player. Gish, I think at the time, was better well-known in her recurring role in The X-Files but she was also in the good but underrated film Shag. Richard Roundtree, a.k.a. the baddest mother Shaft, I think is the gadgeteer or Q or something. & Judd Nelson, who was on Suddenly Susan that decade, plays the villain. Some factors that's worth recognizing & maybe even admiring are the fact that the Steel costume had to be custom-made for the 7'1 O'Neal & only he had to do his own stunts as there weren't any stunt-men around who were that tall. & I did like the train-yard scene; I admit that of the run-of-the-mill action scenes I see on many movies on TV (Why would I waste much money & time in a noisy cineplex to see these films?), moving those train cars around does take dedication & cooperation from the railroads pre-production. Now since I typed I'm a Mystery Science Theater 3000 fan in the summary, know that I rank films that were on the show 1 (that damn bad & deserving to be in IMDb's Bottom Rated list) or 2 (merely boring, e.g. the Oscar- winning Marooned (or Space Travelers on the show)). & regarding all those films I see on TV I rank 'em 3 (bad) or 4 (boring). Steel gets 3 stars, but for B-movie fans like me, this is worth watching while doing other activities such as having your phone or electronic device on in your own home unlike a theater. In conclusion, Steel is as deplorable as a rusty vehicle (assuming some steel rusts or oxidizes; I never aced high school chemistry), but it's worth viewing a view times for a good MST3K riffs. Here's to RiffTrax or the returning Mystery Science Theater 3000 getting permission from Steel to lampoon Shaquille's film. "},{"Title":"I especially like the shaft........","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Henry Irons designs weapons for the military. When his project to create weapons that harmlessly neutralise soldiers is sabotaged, he leaves in disgust. When he sees gangs are using his weapons on the street, he uses his brains and his Uncle Joe's junkyard know-how to fight back, becoming a real man of steel........Just to think, in some, weird, alternate universe, Steel would have been a smash hit and incorporated into the Nicolas Cage movie Superman Reborn.......Now doesn't that make you want to revisit one of the most underrated Shaq movies ever made?I'm being a little sarcastic about revisiting it, he is truly awful in his role, he looks uncomfortable, lethargic when running, and he has all the grace of a constipated buffalo.But it's the rest of the film that needs to be seen to beggar it's belief......Nelson is wonderfully over the top as the villain spouting lines like 'Eat the hot-dog, don't be the hot-dog' and genuinely giving it his all around all the absurdity.Annabeth Gish spends the majority of the film in a wheelchair, until she modifies it at the end, to the musical lyrics of 'you gotta stand up'Roundtree may as well have been called uncle Shaft, and Irma P. Hall has so ewe it'd obsession about whispering and soufflé.Add a rubber costume, almost real time slow foot chases, and henchmen straight from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, and you have this oddity.It's not terrible by any means, it's just too stupidly bonkers to be rubbish, but Shaq was a bad choice to play the titular character, but then again, he's not the greatest hero there was.1997, the year of DC...... "},{"Title":"Another failure from Shaq","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steel is a superhero movie starring Shaq as the hero. Shaq plays a weapons expert who quits and becomes a construction worker after his friend is hurt in an accident caused by the main bad guy. After seeing another friend hurt by one of his weapons which were used in a robbery, he becomes a superhero. Intentional or not, Steel is actually very similar to a DC Comics character who was a black construction worker who fights crime after being saved by Superman. He also fights in a suit of armor similar to Shaq's. Even so, the movie never pays tribute.As a superhero movie, there isn't much going for it. The movie is cheesy and stupid. It feels like a kids movie that doesn't want to be one. The action isn't good enough to be enjoyable. The only redeeming quality is seeing Shaq make fun of his own shooting ability. The best part is when he tries to shoot something into a trash can and misses. Then he turns to the camera and says Never could make the free throws. I recommend this movie to no one, even if you want to see Shaq make fun of himself. If you want to see him make fun of himself, then see Scary Movie 4 which is a whole lot better. "},{"Title":"Good as a comic, bad as a film","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Where do I begin? I mean I enjoy the character of Steel myself, but this rendition of him is just plain bad. I mean Shaq is a good as a basketballer but needs more practice as an actor. The supporting cast did nothing more than smirk and make wisecracks now and then. What happened to the supporting cast Steel had in his comic book? I mean they were interesting enough, at least more interesting than the characters in this farce.What about John Henry himself? What happened to the dark background he had in the comic? I mean there was enough plot for a movie there. John Henry's motivation for putting on the armor is almost none exsistent, execpt for the fact that the armor is there only to stop his weapons from being used wrongly. What??? John Henry is supposed to also have a mad on against gangs. What about that? All we see of John henry's character in this movie is a wisecracking smirking mettalurgist(he's even missing his background in engineering, judging from the fact he needs help to design the armor) What about the armor?. I personally was looking forward to seeing Steel's armour in action on the big screen, but then they replaced it with this more realistic armor. What??? I mean, Steel's armour was unrealistic. So? That's what made the character so interesting. With the exception of Blade and the Punisher,this movie is added to the list of bad movies about good comic book characters. When will it end? I give this movie a 2/10(2 being for the music and F/X)  "},{"Title":"Somewhat Ingenuous, but Ultimately Ruined By its Script","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The usage of gadgets and things of that nature can be found throughout in Steel.  But this in the process is really a case of making either a hit or miss on a frequent basis.  The usage of gadgets can either show that movie can be inventive along with being downright silly.  While Steel scores to a certain extent with its ingenuity and 1970s sounding score which is somewhat catchy, the movie is really hampered for the most part by its script.  The enemies that can be found throughout somehow play off as some type of parody of I suppose you can say gang members or people who live in urban neighborhoods.  The best example of this is the fact that they usually speak in typical street slang (i.e. a scene that involves a bank robbery).  And if isn't that, the script resorts to cheesy one-liners and puns that can usually be found in action movies.  Not to mention several lame situations which was put in place to create a humorous effect like for example, several scenes in which the characters are forced to whisper and some predictable storytelling in certain areas. "},{"Title":"It's good for a rainy day, I'd say...","Date":"4 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" With all this madness about superheroes going on right now (The Avengers just opened today), I decided to go back in time to 1997, to the poorly received box office flop Steel. I was 12 back in 1997, but I have to admit that I liked Steel then (I also liked the big-budget adaptation of another favorite superhero of mine, Spawn).15 years later, a lot has changed. For one, I've grown up. I now realize that Steel is not a very good movie. I remember around that time, my cousin saw Steel in the theaters and told us that it was not a very good movie. The critics and most sensible audience members seemed to agree.But I digress; Steel is good for one thing and one thing only a rainy day, like today. Since I'm not daring brave the over-crowded theaters for fear of being over-run by Avengers fan-boys (and fan-girls), I decided to pop in my 14-year-old VHS copy of Steel and relive 1997 like it was just 15 years ago (which, in fact, it was).Steel is the live-action adaptation of the second-tier DC Comics character co-created by Louise Simonson and Jon Bogdanove, with NBA star Shaquille O'Neal playing the titular steel-armored, non-super-powered superhero whose real name is John Henry Irons in his civilian identity.I'm not really a fan of the movie anymore (most readers will remember that I'm largely a Marvel Comics reader), but I find the history of the original comic book character to be quite fascinating as yet another proud, positive black-American superhero in comics, John Henry Irons is a brilliant former weapons designer for a private arms-manufacturing company whose life is saved, both literally and metaphorically, by the mighty Man of Steel himself, Superman. Ironically, a later incident with the powerful super-villain Doomsday costs Superman his life, and Irons's life is changed forever when he decides to don a powered suit of armor of his own making - much like Marvel Comics' Tony Stark/Iron Man - and fight crime himself as Steel (with Superman's logo blazoned mightily on his chest as a reminder of his inspiration) and wielding a powerful sledgehammer, too.The 1997 live-action adaptation removes any mention of Superman (or his apparent death), except for a tattoo O'Neal has on his arm, and goes forward with its own origin story. Certain aspects of the movie are faithful to the comics, but the rest of it is pretty campy and just bloody awful. This time out, Irons is a weapons designer for the U.S. Army and when an ambitious rival, Nathaniel Burke (Judd Nelson), is involved in an accident that kills a U.S. senator and leaves his best friend Susan Sparky Sparks (Annabeth Gish) a paraplegic, Irons resigns from the military in disgust.Irons (whose name is reportedly inspired by the legendary black-American folk hero John Henry) returns to his home in Los Angeles, only to discover that street gangs are out committing brazen bank robberies using the exact same, albeit heavily modified, weapons he designed. With Sparky and Uncle Joe (Richard Roundtree) by his side, Irons dons a custom-made suit of armor as the armored superhero Steel. As he dives deeper into his investigation, he discovers that his old rival Nathaniel Burke (who has since recruited young neighborhood street kids to do his bidding) is behind the robberies and the deadly new weapons out on the street.Steel is pretty cheesy and campy, and I don't mean that in a good way.Unlike most people, I don't think Shaquille O'Neal is that lousy an actor. I think that if he were given the right material, he would manage out OK. At least here, I think he seems perfect for the part of John Henry Irons/Steel; it's just a shame that the rest of the movie, as written and directed by Kenneth Johnson (V), is just not very good. In other words, Shaq just needed a better movie. The special effects, the hokey street dialogue, and the performances don't help matters much either. Richard Roundtree and Irma P. Hall do what they can, but aren't given a whole lot to do beyond offering elder-generation advice to the younger folks. Judd Nelson relishes his role as a stereotypical villain, but it's really Annabeth Gish as the physically handicapped yet resilient gadgeteer Susan Sparks who really seems to shine the most in what could have been a very limiting part.I sense that a remake/reboot is, or soon probably will be, in the works sometime in the near future, and that is one Steel I just may (italicized) fork over $7.50 at my local movie theater to see. Until then, Steel will continue to mightily serve its purpose for rainy days (and some late-'90s nostalgia)...4/10 "},{"Title":"Poor action stuff that will only appeal to children and undemanding adults","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Henry Irons is a weapons designer for the military who has been key in the development of a range of experimental weapons that immobilise enemy troops without any fatalities. However when Nat Burke tries to increase the power of the weapon during the test, the result sees a Senator dead and one of his colleagues disabled. The court martial sees Burke kicked out of the military and John decides his days of weapon design are over &#150; returning to LA to work in a small steel mill. However when his weapons somehow make it into the hands of LA's criminal underworld, John decides that it is on and takes steps to counter the threat.Universally derided ever since it was even green lit for production, this film does have little to recommend it but still produces very basic distraction if that is what you want. The plot is obvious and goes just where you expect it to and it offers little for the discerning adult viewer (or to be honest the undemanding ones too). The action will please children but it is the wider delivery where it all falls down and, contrary to opinion, it is not all Shaq's fault. The script is clunky for the most part and has lots of injokes, most of which are embarrassing basketball references although, that said, the Shaft joke drew a laugh from me simply because it was so unexpected and so disrespectful to the film! This is very basic stuff though and nobody seems that interested in trying to make it more than that.Johnson is happy to deliver a kiddie-friendly superhero movie for the most part and this is all it seems to be. The cast have potential but too few of them have any decent material to work with. O'Neal can't act and that's the truth. He can play basketball and, given the riches this has given him we should not feel too sorry for him here. He says his lines and he stands where they tell him to stand but that is not the same as producing a character and being engaging &#150; neither of which applies in this situation. Gish has little to do and Roundtree seems happy just to be a walking reference. Nelson hams it up in an obvious baddie while Harper, Hall and Ray J (!) are not the ones to address the lack of quality. The only person that I actually noted with interest was Kevin Grevioux, not because of his performance here but more because he is an interesting man who has built a small but varied career.Overall then this is a poor superhero movie but one that has had just about enough money spent on it to make it distract children and undemanding adults. The backlash against has been a bit overly cruel but it is still not any good with basic acting, basic script, basic plotting and action that only aspires to be colourful and noisy. "}{"Title":"Oh it's not that bad.","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, it is. But it isn't worth a 2.7/10!I shall get to the point. Steel is abominably written, poorly acted (with the exception of Richard Roundtree, who for some reason actually tries) and shabbily directed. Surely then, it is a bad film?WELL.I have just finished watching Now You See Me, and it really helped me to understand that a film being objectively good or otherwise is not the same as it being an enjoyable experience. I can still watch Steel and even while laughing at it, can really get into it. Say what you will about its writing, the writer at least didn't get ahead of himself - didn't go writing some deep, intricate epic without any skill to back it up. Say what you will also (and please, I encourage this one) about Shaq's acting which, especially in the army scenes at the start of the film, is unstoppably dire. But he's never required to do something which puts the weight of the film on the subtleties in his performance (Shaquille O'Neal as Oskar Schindler?).I probably don't make myself very clear here but, simply put, if you take the film for what it is it's still possible to enjoy it. It's functional, if nothing more, which is not something I would say happily about Now You See Me. I also love the theme tune that's pretty much just the latter half of the 20th century mashed into one big brassfest. At the end of the cliché, I had fun watching it and you can't tell me I didn't.Eat the hot-dog. Don't be one. "},{"Title":"aighhhhhh!!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For this movie....I don't know! maybe for younger kids it would be okay. This movie was a little too..how should I put it....CHEESY! it was the typical good guy, bad guy movie.For teens like myself it's bad, for adults it's worse and for little kids it could be entertaining though.The only thing I liked about this movie was Judd Nelson! he was good! he plays a great bad boy! and the scene at the start after they go to court cracks me up! it's the funniest thing! Judd Nelson and Shaq talking getting in each others face, soooooo funny! only because Shaq is like huge!! and Judd Nelson is way shorter and WAY HOT by the way! so I give this movie a six out of ten.  "},{"Title":"For 97 it's pretty good, unless you have anything else to watch.","Date":"29 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have no interest in basketball, I stink at it, and the only big names I know are Michael Jordan, Shaquille O'Neal and the Harlem Globetrotters. I have no idea why everyone likes to criticize Shaq, nor do I really care - he had to be good at something in order to be ridiculed so much.Quoting others, for 1997 it's pretty good, unless you have anything else to watch. It's not a masterpiece, but rather one of those pictures that requires you to set aside your pre-conceived notions about good film-making and just enjoy the ride. Do that, and Steel is a surprisingly amusing little adventure comedy. On top of all that, it has a memorable theme and subtle special effects.John Henry Irons was a harmless weapons designer until his project crippled his partner Sparks. After quitting his job, his weapons are mass-produced for criminals, and in order to stop it Irons and Sparks create a suit of armor that leads Irons to become the superhero vigilante Steel. He is the blue collar Iron Man of the DC universe. Overall, it's an average superhero film plot.The original story of Steel was based on the comic book Death of Superman. Irons wanted to go after Doomsday, the killer of Superman, himself, thus creating a mechanical super suit. But the film was in development for so long, that it lost all meaning. Instead, we got a cheesier independent film without the long drama. Given the way others cashed on the Death of Superman, the film could have been far worse.The reason why its one of my favorite movies is Steels realistic, cheap and simple armor. The hand-forged work-in-progress suit with chain mail and occasional glitches was made in a junkyard out of regular iron and steel. That's as good as any of us can get without using advanced industrial facilities. Some may argue it looks like someone decided to pour glue all over their body and go rolling around in a junkyard, but it's well thought through, even though parts sometimes just fall off in action.The 34kg armored suit is not only bulletproof, but also well padded, able to absorb most kinetic energy. Steel takes on a clip of ammo, some stun impulses, and a sonic blast that throws him back about 6m. He even falls of a building about 24m into a dumpster. It's virtually impregnable to known weaponry. I really like how they made the waist area. It's simultaneously flexible and incredibly strong. There is no such tech on the market even a decade later. The chain mail is almost indistinguishable from plate armor creating an impression that he is almost completely covered in steel plates.The electric support is a basic video/audio 31km earpiece transceiver, with an extra camera for rear view, an inbuilt GPS for fast navigation around the city, and a basic body monitoring system with body ventilation. The left arm houses a nail gun and a grappling hook (slow, but supports about 181kg for a short time).The shoulders are nice, but don't protect from above dangers, exposing the chain mail, and gloves are just regular surface chain mail, with no palm protection.The weakest part of the suit is the helmet. Not only does look like it's made of rubber, but it also leaves the face exposed. Steel was shot in the head several times throughout the film, but the biggest injury he sustained was a scratched chin from falling on pavement. Well, it is a superhero movie and emotionless faces with chin guards are for villains.The main weapon of Steel is his sledgehammer, pimped with a sonic gun, stun gun, short focus laser, a grenade launcher and high-powered magnet. The long-range capabilities come equipped with a sniper scope. Since the suit is mostly iron, it amplifies the magnetic field of the hammer, enabling to attract anything iron around him, like enemy weapons and trashcan lids.Sadly, jet boots and super strength, along with other over the top features, were left out from the 97-minute film about a guy building power armor in a 97s junkyard. However, there were also improvements. There is no red cape, or a gigantic S on his chest. Later DC versions of Steel retained this, setting him apart from Superman.The resulting armor satisfied both the look of the character and the filming physical requirements. After completion, with all its pieces and layering, it took 3 costumers an hour to transform John Henry into Steel.Shaq had to do all of his own stunts because the producers were unable to find a 2.16m stunt double for him.Other movie features include a customized humvee, van, motorbike and wheelchair. As far as superhero movies go, this one didn't fall as flat as more popular hero films that altered the original story. Steel costume may look like a cheap Robocop mockup, but at least you can RUN in it without CGI. Let's see you make a better suit without CGI! I dare you! I double dare you! "},{"Title":"Yeah, It is a load of crap, but the bottom 100?","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (Please note that this review may contain spoilers)I am the first to admit, that this movie could have been a lot better, but the bottom 100? Come on, It wasn't that bad! This movie had its good points, like his massive hammer and being able to turn it into a gun, and yeah, I agree, they should have stuck to the original storyline, (although it may not have worked) but they did show some reference to Superman (the tattoo)Verdict A crappy movie, that has its moments, but certainly not so bad that it should be in the bottom 100.5/10  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people say!!!","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rented this film at Hollywood Video. I expected humongo crap. I was wrong.While Shaq isn't the greatest actor (or basketball player- go spurs go!) the rest of the cast us pretty good. I enjoyed the antagonistic Nathaniel and the impress Henry family.Yes, the music is not the best, but it's not awful.The Bottom Line An enjoyable action movie experience! 6/10 Chili Peppers!!! "},{"Title":"Shaq Can't Act","Date":"9 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Shaquille O'Neal was a better basketball star than he was an actor. Cast as the eponymous hero in scif-fi writer & director Kenneth Johnson's costumed crime fighter saga, he looks absurd with his sappy expressions. Nevertheless, Steel isn't a bad movie. Despite Shaq's lackluster performance, this 97-minute adaptation of a DC Comics character features some fine performances from Judd Nelson, Annabeth Gish, and Richard Roundtree. Johnson makes several references to the superheroes in the DC Comics Universe, but Superman never makes a cameo. In the comics, Superman saved John Henry Steel's life and advised him to make something of himself.As far as this movie goes, Superman doesn't exist and John Henry Steel Shaquille O'Neal) has never made contact with him. Shaq is in the military when the action unfolds and he is testing experimental weapons. Nathaniel Burke (Judd Nelson) is a fellow officer. Unscrupulous to the core, he is always willing to push the envelope on any project. When Senator Nolan hints that he can expect a promotion to captain if he pushes things along on a weapons testing program, Burke resets the mechanism on one of John Henry's laser weapons. John Henry builds weapons that don't kill so much as neutralize enemy troops. The blast misfires and knocks on a concrete wall. Susan Sparky Sparks (Annabeth Gish of Mystic Pizza) is pinned under a giant fragment. Our seven foot one hero frees her, but she spends the rest of her life in a wheelchair. Incredibly, a military tribunal is held, and Burke run out of the service. Despondent over the condition of Sparky, John Henry resigns from the Army. What he doesn't know is that Burke has taken the gun designs and plans to produce versions of it to sell. He captures attention not long afterward when he arms a gang of hoodlums and they rob a bank. John Henry sets up a secret factory in his Uncle's junkyard. He pulls Sparky out of a depressing V.A. Hospital and makes him the brain of his operation. He creates a steel suit and is given a special sledgehammer. Meanwhile, Burke lets every scumbag in the world know that he can provide them with the ultimate weapon.Steel is formulaic but entertaining. The hand grenade scene is unforgivable. "},{"Title":"This movie is bad, but bad becomes good if Shaq is in it!!","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie is pretty bad if we go by film standards and conventions but you can enjoy it as a light, not-to-be-taken-too-seriously kinda movie.Steel doesn't have any relation to Superman in this movie, except for the S-sign tattoo that Shaq has on his arm (which leads me to believe it was one of the reasons for him to be cast as Steel)Steel is your typical run-of-the-mill superhero movie. John Henry Irons is a pretty clever man who creates harmless armament that just disable instead of killing or harming. His creations are used for other purposes . He fights back while teaching his little brother a moral lesson and getting the girl in the end.By the way, don't pay attention to the previous comment because the author doesn'tknow what he's talking about.He says Steel, unlike Batman, has no powers but use gadgetry when it's a VERY WELL KNOWN FACT that Batman doesn't have powers neither and he relies on gadgetry too... "},{"Title":"I've seen worse","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not a good film, but not the worst film ever made either. The premise is pretty good, and Shaq actually does some decent acting, but Judd Nelson's villain isn't very intimidating and the whole thing is brought down by a senseless script. The dialogue (especially Shaq) is too often terrible, and the special effects/action sequences are pretty lame. 1/4 "},{"Title":"Easy on the eyes","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I do get angry when a movie is unjustly slated and I am angry now. What some people should appreciate is that some movies are not made in order to give us an insight into the meaning of life. They are just there to be enjoyed. I enjoyed Steel. It is a good movie about making a difference, a moral movie without any pretensions of grandeur. If someone said to me that the makers of this movie had the same kind of budget as those who made X-men for instance, then I would certainly of expected more. But I am sure they did not and made the best of what they had. Okay Shaq is no Olivier but so what!! At least he was prepared to give it a go and I think he did okay. All the actors did. To conclude I liked the movie Steel and if it was available to purchase in the UK and would buy it. Please do not watch a movie having prejudged it, be practical and know that there are limitations and not all film producers have big budgets. This movie was well told, and the actors did the job. "},{"Title":"Not that bad!","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Despite a horrible preview, I felt the movie was not as bad as I expected it to be (and certainly not as bad as many other IMDB users have voted!)Bottom line, nothing new here but a nice story about not giving up on yourself. Shaq is fine as the hero, and Annabeth Gish stands out as his crippled friend.I hope Kenneth Johnson gets more chances to direct, as I like his style. (look for cameos by Gary Graham and Eric Pierpoint, his two stars from the Alien Nation TV shown!)  "}{"Title":"A movie that's as tough as the title says...","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steel! Oh, yes! This movie is so tough, any movie like The Godfather and Casablanca will shatter into irreversible broken pieces if dropped on there! Shaq from Kazaam takes center stage in this exciting yet funky action film, and he is here to put the bad guys where they belong - in the trash! Seeing this movie makes my heart pump, my veins pop, my head explode (no, not really, but believe me, it is that exciting)! Don't believe me? Go watch Steel and see for yourself! Tell me if you think this movie deserves a 1 or a 10! I give this movie a 10 all the way! Shaq is the man of the court and the screen! "},{"Title":"I was 7, I loved it then for even less reasons than I do now","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recommend the film Steel. Let me explain I'm in my mid 20s. Back in the day, back in 1997 we didn't have your high falutin Dark Knights, hell, our Batman was 1997s blockbuster success but lame even for a first grader Batman and Robin (which actually should have been titled Batman and Robin and Batgirl). Steel was, to a seven 7 year old, better, yes BETTER than BATMAN. WHY? Because Batman had Robin. Steel had a hammer that shot a lasergun. Batman had that old fuddy duddy Alfred. Steel had SHAFT. Batman had glow in the dark gangstas of uncertain ethnicity. Steel had, according to Warner Brothers and auteur writer director Kenneth Johnson himself To aid with the urban aspects of the dialog Johnson took a copy of the script to South Central Los Angeles and spent a day with a group of kids to ensure that the language of some of the characters was more believable. Batman had respectable actor George Clooney and his awesome chin. Steel had athelete, health-advocate, successful gangsta rapper (and minor comedic actor) Shaquille O'Neal, known to the world as SHAQ! By the way, Shaq is a NYPD POLICE DETECTIVE IN REAL LIFE, which probably added to his nuances in his performance as the modern day knight in shining armor John Henry Irons, (THE FIRST IRON MAN?) STEEL! (steel) STEEL! YOURSELF. (yourself)Peace out. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"31 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many people hate Steel and to honest I can understand why but I saw it when I was a kid and I liked it. Even today I still like it. Sure Shaq is a bad actor but this movie he was actually trying, unlike Kazaam!. In that movie he wasn't even trying because the script was so bad for Kazaam! it wasn't even worth trying. While Steel he actually tried his best, even if you hate this movie you have to admit the music is really good. While the movie was so bad it killed superhero movies for the 90's it's worth it just to here that theme song in the movie. While I like this movie I still wouldn't recommend you watch it. If you wanna check it out feel free to do so but you'll probably have the same reaction as everyone else. They all say it's awful. In my opinion I like Steel don't judge me it's my opinion, you don't have to like it but everyone else hates it. Thanks for reading. "},{"Title":"Warner messed up again","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Much like Batman & Robin, Warner Bros. screwed up another great comic book character. Steel, who was introduced shortly after the death of Superman, is a great character who had potential to do well in outside projects. I can deal with the hammer is a gun thing and no cape, but no reference to Superman? It's not like they couldn't do it. Warner owns both characters, among so many others. For what it's worth, this was a decent movie with a decent premise and an okay star. Sadly, the idiots at Warner Bros. felt they should just cram in special effects to awe the audience rather than actually work on a movie. "},{"Title":"fun movie","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok terrible acting, dumb story, but good action. I thought it was a pretty good movie I was pleased with it. I like Judd Nelson a lot and thought he did a good job, I can't stand Shaq but he had a loveable character in this movie and there was a lot of action, I'd give it a 7.  "},{"Title":"A young brilliant weapons designer  a suit of armor and designs new weaponry to clean up his stolen technology.","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I liked the movie. I like superhero movies, and this was one of the first to introduce a little known character. It was ambitious. I liked certain sentimental moments in the film. I also like Shaq. I think he has made another positive icon for the youth to inspire to be like and emulate. Black kids are in need of heroes they can relate to, and this movie tried to provide characters which are familiar to the youth. Not perfect characters but characters with flaws. Shaq portrays a young, brilliant weapons designer who's weapons are designed not to kill. I think the movie and all those involved made a noble effort to teach kids not to kill, and that they, too can build and create new technology. Moreover, the kids see that they,too, can be heroes. If it's true Shaq did his own stunts, I'm even more impressed with his performance. I'm a layman and I don't know good acting from bad acting. All I know is I was throughly entertained by this movie. And I recommend it as a family movie. Something kids and adults will enjoy, especially kids. "},{"Title":"Best movie back in the late 90's","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Shaq does it again and again, hes a real champ for sure. I really liked the movie I watched it with some kids and as soon the movie was over the kids started to walk and do the thing like Shaq did. The kid was wearing a pan and stuff like that. LOL. I think that Shaq been doing some big and good progress when its comes to acting. He did a good job on Grown Ups 2 as Officer Fluzoo, funny name by the way. After all this is back in the late 90's and I most say that Kenneth Johnson had some good fantasy for sure. Annabeth Gish was hot in this movie and did a hell of a job too. Her latest acting been really horrible like her roll in Texas Killing Fields, terrible. Her roll in SoA was kind of (is that really her) I had to look it up just to be sure. "},{"Title":"This is a wonderful Movie","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. I know that it didn't follow the story of steel from the comic books, but I didn't care. This movie had a very good message. As big and bad as steel was his friends and the community supported him and this is really what made him a hero. I enjoy watching Shaq. He is a good human being on and off the basketball court, and I enjoy this movie every time I see it. When I first saw the advertisements I thought it wouldn't be very good because it didn't following the the story from the comic books, but I realized there's nothing that says they should. The tools that Steel uses are inventive and clever. I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys action movies not just fans of Steel from the comic books. ). "},{"Title":"I actually was just doing a search for this film..not knowing...","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was actually doing a search for this film.  I loved this movie when it came out and was trying to find it on other sites.  The name did not come up on other sites, but it did here. Whoa, I did not realize that this was Shaq in the film.   So I know that my influence for this film had nothing to do with Shaq fame. I really did like this and wish they would do a sequel. For now, it should be on DVD...I know it would sell.  "},{"Title":"****.5,4.5 out of 5 stars,heroes don't get any bigger & films almost don't get anymore underrated than this incredibly underrated flick.","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I dunno why do so many people knock this one down immensely it's no where as bad as so many people have said(& no I'm not a fan of b-movies or shaq.) This film has plenty of good humor & amazing design. Well-made storyline & all that. OK so Judd nelson(jack of suddenly susan & hot rod(believe or not) of transformers the movie) did play his part well but he's not exactly the idea of an terrorist villian (so many people expected the villian to be a supervillian but the film ended up as having a terrorist as the villian) & sure the story had a major difference to the comic, but just because movies place in more than just a li'l bit of artistic license doesn't always make a movie bad (which I can say for the movies of SMB & street fighter) so there my 2 cents for right now. "}{"Title":"A different, and fun, man of Steel!","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I found this a fun romp through the super hero world. Yes, it does not always conform to what you would expect from a 'normal' world, but you don't watch these sort of films to be 'normal'!! You might as well say that RoboCop was a failure because it was unlikely! Of course, I am a comic book crossover fan, so this is just down my alley. Shaq performs nicely as the over-sized hero, who realises that he is the only person who can make a difference, ably supported by Uncle Joe, and Susan Sparks, who together pull an A-Team type stunt, creating his arsenal, and gadgets. The villains are suitably greedy, doing everything they can to force Steel out of business. As to how it ends? Get it yourself and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Its NOT the comic book.","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How could it be the comic when much of Steel's early  comic life was tied to Superman. Steel was one of the four possible Supermen who appeared right after Superman was killed by Doomsday in the comic book. There is no Superman, no Doomsday, almost nothing from the DC universe in the film, except the character itself.This is not a bad thing especially since the Steel comic could have been created with out having come from Superman. The plot line of where and how Steel comes to be is a close approximation of what a Superman-less origin might have been.I don't think its a movie that wants to be any more than it is which is a fun little romp in a super hero sort of way. Shaq is fine as Steel which he plays to the best of his ability. Allowing that the character never had much depth the central performance is everything it should be. The rest of the cast is a great deal of fun as they chew scenery and try not to take anything too seriously.So sue me I like this movie. Its a fun rainy day popcorn movie of the highest order. It had no calories and nothing in it will stick anywhere in your head.Try it. Its mindless fun. "}]