[{"Title":"Whoever said this was the worst Star Trek film is so wrong!","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"67 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In my personal opinion, and as an avid Next Generation fan, without a doubt Insurrection is one of the best Star Trek films, and the third outing for Picard, Riker, Deanna and the rest of the Next Generation crew stays most true to their esteemed television series. This time round, the crew are faced with a violation of the Prime Directive and whether or not the 600 people who live on a literal planet-of-youth are more important than the millions of other people that could benefit from the planet's regenerative powers. Action, drama, comedy and romance follow in true Star Trek spectacular.As always Patrick Stewart is in top form as Captain Picard who leads the Star Trek resistance to save the innocents from one of his own corrupt superiors Vice Admiral Dougherty (played terrifically by Anthony Zerbe) who are involved with some aliens (including F. Murray Abraham's Ad'har). Along the way Picard finds a new friend in Anij (played by the lovely Donna Murphy), one of the Ba'ku, and a little romance follows.Jonathan Frakes once again directs and does an outstanding job, though it does mean his character Commander Riker gets a bit less screen time, though he is always a pleasure to watch. Riker's relationship with Commander / Counsellor Deanna Troi heats up in this film (and it's about time too!) Marina Sirtis of course returns as the lovely Troi and gets a fairly good amount of screen time this time round, and certainly most of the comical moments. Frakes and Sirtis have great chemistry together.Brent Spinter's Data gets (as usual) too much screen time, again his story consists of his quest to become more human and the like, though he does befriend a Ba'ku child which was done quite well. As usual Gates McFadden (Dr. Beverly Crusher), Michael Dorn (Lt. Commander Worf) and LeVar Burton (Lt. Commander LaForge) are given very little to do in the Star Trek films, and this one is no exception, though at least Worf and LaForge got their own small story lines - Worf had to go through puberty again and LaForge found himself with the ability to see. Beverly however only gets a storyline involving her boobs firming up. Terrific. Poor Gates must be the most under-appreciated actress in all of Star Trek, but also the most gracious for returning each time.The special effects of Star Trek Insurrection are above average, and the music score is really well done. Often its the small moments in the Next Generation films that are the best, and this one is no different, but at least the big moments are good too. I think the Star Trek the Next Generation films are probably the only action-type films in which the heroes are all (with the exception of Marina Sirtis) in their 50's and people still want to watch them. Quite interesting too that a main theme of the movie was the eternal youth. At least when the sad time comes that the Next Generation cast are no longer alive, they will be immortalised in history by their much loved characters and beautiful stories, just like Insurrection. "},{"Title":"Take An Ethics Class; Please!!!!","Date":"26 May 2015","Score":"34 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadRemember all the people who laugh at philosophers? How useless we are; we contribute nothing to our society. Here is my contribution; the film bombed for one reason. Even non philosophers have a God given sense of right and wrong that tells them whether something is intrinsically wrong. No, Anij if you possess something that would help billions of people who are suffering you are not entitled to your own little narcissistic paradise, sorry. The total moral revulsion at self love, this deep, with Picard babbling about how, because these reasonings can be difficult, it somehow follows that we are not entitled to make them. NON SEQUITUR Sorry, chrome dome, doctors, nurses, firemen and policemen make these decisions every day. We know you are too cowardly to allow reality within your little, narcissistic dreamland, where you hide, like the cowards you are, from the harsh truths of life. They were not even indigenous to that planet, not that it would have made any difference.Frakes had hit a home run with First Contact, why I never know, this took care of his career as a director. The thing about psychotic narcissism it really does not notice that any other living beings or their boundless suffering exists. No, just so Anij can live within the beats of her heart; she simply never hears the screams of the suffering around her. What little children they are happy in their safe little playhouse. Pity the two great actors working in this pile of crap Zerbe and Abraham. Poor F. Murray, it is a long way from Salieri!!The film features cringe worthy moments even for Star Trek and that is saying something. The Gilbert and Sullivan sing a long made me see if there were any sharp edges on the seat I could slash my wrists with. TNG crew here is a news flash for you; you cannot act and your movies suck as bad as your overrated TV show. Their humanism is always so taxing; the philosophy requires a historical lobotomy all the horrors present and past humans have and are perpetrating must be expunged. Fear, fear of the truth always haunts them as they run into Disneyland never to return to reality again. Imagine, you could relieve the suffering of trillions but this handful of self loving pigs are entitled. Gee, do you think that might reflect people in 1997? Actually, no the film was a huge bomb; I applaud the common American people, who while not philosophers, know disgusting selfishness when they hear and see it. Q.E.D. "},{"Title":"Its not as bad as some say.","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"56 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't let some of the bad reviews for this film put you off watching it. I finally got around to watching it last week and I must say that It was no where near as bad as what some people have said about it. In-fact I thought it was pretty good. It's not the best Star Trek film but it's not the worst either. Some people have criticized it by saying that it looks like an extended television episode- All the films except 'the motion picture' have - what's the point of changing the television look and feel when it is so good? The one time they did try to change it from the episode feel (the motion picture) it was crap. Come on people, this is Star Trek - what were you expecting - this was not meant to be another Shawshank Redemption. I like this film so I'm going to give it 8 out of 10 because I don't care what other people say. "},{"Title":"Genuinely Entertaining. What a movie!","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"62 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I would say that this movie rivals the skill of the first Next Generation movie, First Contact. If anything, the dialogue is more refined and the humour, of which there is a great deal, is well timed and raised smiles at suitable points in the movie. Many have criticised the writers for either making the humour too silly or, for not daring to take the jokes to the belly-laugh level. Personally, I think the film is richer for the homour, which seems natural, not forced, and generally hit its targets. After all though, it's not a comedy.Insurrection is a movie which displays far more humanity than the cold, but nevertheless enthralling, First Contact. To compare the movies is difficult, as they are very different, and opinions will inevitably clash. Both movies have a different agenda, I think.I would dare to say that Insurrection would do a better job at converting people to the Star Trek cause than would any of the other films. Before watching, I knew little about Star Trek, and it really stoked my interest in the series. In evaluating Insurrection I realised that the film has several outstanding set-pieces, some of which are very memorable, such as the high-speed chase between Picard and Data through the cloud layers, with The Captain trying to coax Data into performing a scene from Gilbert and Sullivan's HMS Pinafore. The scene is outrageous, and very surreal, and extremely well done. Another example would be the attack of the flying miniature transporter robots, where Worf really gets to prove how brave, and violent, he really is.Finally, the acting is universally good, and Stewart puts in a performance of depth, although not as impressive as in First Contact. The plot of Insurrection is slight, and alone doesn't manage to hold the attention. But the other elements that go into producing a good movie, such as the script, acting, directing, and, dare I say it, special effects, add up to an entertaining whole.I think that free of the limitations imposed by the classic trek rules, and the campy acting that dogged the earlier Trek flicks, the Star Trek franchise will flourish, and this movie shows how much a cast enjoying what they are doing adds to the fun and feel-good factor of watching the film with a cinema full of enthralled viewers. Well done Jonathan Frakes!  "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Piece of Work...","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"56 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is probably the best of the recent Trek films. Honestly, I don't know why many people don't like it when production wise, it couldn't have been any better. Each scene is nicely constructed and utilizes all the necessary ingredients of film making.OK, the story was simple but for what the story was, screen writer Michael Piller, wrote a screenplay that is so polished, that every one-liner was perfectly timed and the dialogue was very sharp. The drama and story unfolded not too slowly and not too fast. The characterization was fantastic particularly the conflict between Piracy and Admiral Ross. It's a story about fighting for what you believe in, which every character in the film, even the bad guys, does until the bitter end.There is no rules that says a science fiction film or Star Trek must have a complex storyline, but a storyline that tells a story and tells it well is what Insurrection does perfectlyI don't enjoy action films and I think 'Star Trek First Contact' is one of the most overrated sci-fi actioneers in years. Insurrection had a very human story and is also very audience friendly for those who have never seen Star Trek.I think people need to take another look at this film and ask what is wrong with it apart from the story being too simple? Production design looks great, the film is beautifully shot, Jerry Goldsmith's score was perfect, and the energy from performances from the entire cast comes off in the film like no other Star Trek movie.'Star Trek Insurrection' is a very underrated film, and a film that deserves way more credit.SCORE 9 out of 10  "},{"Title":"The worst TNG movie ever!!!","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" So let's get this straight The Federation has partnered with an alien race to harness the power of a planet's rings, adding years of lifespan to literally trillions of beings throughout the galaxy...the only thing they need do is re-locate 600 squatters (who have no more legal right to the planet as anyone else).This seems like a good deal, right? Isn't this what Spock taught? The needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few? Apparently not, because Picard mounts an insurrection to stop the deal, after calculating that a forced relocation was more of a moral outrage than the squatter's hording of life-extending powers, denying trillions of federation members additional years of life.So what does he do? He leads the squatters (a bunch of pacifist hippie beatniks who've rejected technology to embrace blissed ignorance) into a series of collapsing mountain caves to thwart efforts by the bad guys to beam the squatters to safety. Picard figures that the bad guys won't tap this fountain of youth until the squatters are off the surface (which will be scorched during the process).I don't know what's worse...(a) the fact that Picard is naive enough to use the squatters as human shields in hopes that the bad guys aren't really bad enough to kill them, or (b) the fact that we have bad guys who aren't really bad enough to kill the squatters. Either way, this is easily the worst Star Trek plot ever conceived.I haven't even discussed the nonsense with the chick that can inexplicably slow down time when she feels like it, or the plot demands. Or, when Whorf gets acne, or the Picard-Data duet, or the girlish scream the bad guy releases when he's tricked, or the countless other insults and indignities this film inflicts upon the viewer. Utter rubbish. Rent II, III, IV and VI "},{"Title":"Worst Star Trek movie EVER. Plot points included here.","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I won't speculate on how so many weak and irritating ideas ever made it into this movie. However, Paramount are in really bad shape if no-one there has the power to say STOP even when presented with this load of rubbish.By far the biggest irritant is that the alleged good guys are actually some of the most hateful people ever filmed. While these people, known as Baku, have been leading drippy and unproductive lives for centuries their own children have been banished to grow old and infirm on another planet. When these now technologically advanced Sona return, close to death, in an attempt to benefit from their home planet's natural regenerative radiation, the Baku hoodwink Picard and his crew into thinking that they are infact the victims. This is mainly because the Baku, basking in regenerative radiation all day long, have remained relatively pretty while the Sona are now very ugly as the film takes pains to point out. It's been thankfully a long time since I have seen a totally white cast in a film, but black people are conspicuous by there absence from the Baku. Additionally Picard takes up with a Baku who has spent her last 300 odd years learning how to look like a pouting airhead even when tons of rubble are falling on her head, yet cannot row a boat or swim when she needs to. This even though she lived next to a lake all that time!Goodness knows what sort of point Jonathan Frakes is trying to make with this film.I would recommend that anyone considering watching this film does so on DVD/video with the remote control never far away from their grasp. After you've spinned through1. Riker and Troi behaving like the first couple in school who find out how to kiss2. Picard and a woman with a charisma by-pass talking about nothing for minute after nauseating minute3. Blond kids rolling around in haystacks, there really is only about 45 mins left of F. Murray Abraham (the baddie) and spaceships.1 out of 10 and such an utter disappointment after First Contact which was a fantastic film. "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"29 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you are a Star Trek fan( of which i am) you will not be disappointed by Insurrection. The story is good and the acting is up to it's high standards the only let downs are the lack of any real great special affects and the lame enemies. I would not say this is as good as first contact but never the less well worth watching. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Best Next Gen Movie Ever","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is, in my opinion, the best Next Gen movie that they've ever made. I know it's often criticized as having a moral basis that is incorrect; as it's based on the rights of the individual as opposed to the rights of the majority--but preference for the individual over the majority in moral issues like the one presented here is what makes Star Trek, Star Trek.Michael Piller wrote an awesome script for this movie, based on the story that he and Rick Berman developed for it. It still has the action and adventure of a Star Trek movie, but it's at a much slower pace and it has the morality that I love about Star Trek.What I found truly interesting about this movie is the fact that there is more character development then in most Star Trek films--Captain Picard falls in love and Data furthers his understanding of what it means to be human through a friendship with a young boy on the Baku planet.All in all, what's not to like? It has the action and adventure of a Star Trek movie, and the morality of an episode. "},{"Title":"If only the Star Trek movies could have ended here!","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" And at the end they could have rode off into the nebula; Data would be alive and I wouldn't have this bad taste in my mouth for Next Generation Star Trek (Thank you STX).There are some parts that are sickeningly derivative, the cheesy villain having his face fixed up ala Brazil, the main example. And the captain defying orders taken too many examples--Indeed one could say Picard acts more like Kirk in this one but one can contribute that to the atmosphere around him (at least they explained it in someway) but there's also plenty of good moments.5)Beverly toting a phaser!4)Worf with his Klingon Zit. 3)I love the little love story between Picard and Anjj did not seem fakey (Lucas should have watched this when he scripted Episode II) 2)The big, funny surprise!--Data playing in the hay with the boy. 1)THE SCENE WHERE GEORDI'S ON THE MOUNTAIN LOOKING AT THE SUN--That is the most moving Geordi scene in all three Next Generation movies! There's a wide range of humorous angles here that the next movie sorely lacks which covers a lot of this movie's predictability; indeed that's what makes this filming charming--you don't know who's going to start it. It's not a the top Star Trek file for me it'still STII and VIII but it's not at the bottom (10 & 5). It's worth a look see again and again. "}{"Title":"If you like Star Trek TNG..See Insurrection","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"19 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's safe to assume a lot of people think that  Star Trek  Insurrection  is more like a 2 hour episode of TNG then a film. But if you like the Star Trek TNG series then you should see Insurrection.Personally i loved First Contact so when i saw Insurrection i wasn't expecting it to be better then First Contact. I wasn't expecting anything. Whenever i see a Star Trek movie it IS like seeing another Star Trek episode... I don't compare it to last weeks. I just want to see what the crew has to face this time and if/how they make it out OK. This Film is also filled with comedy which always works for me.  "},{"Title":"Excellent!!!","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"29 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the best Star Trek movies! It is exciting, funny and supported by Jerry Goldsmith's fourth Star Trek score. In contrast to Star Trek-First Contact very many scenes of the film do not play on the Enterprise, but on the paradise-like planet of the Ba'ku. This film is not only exciting, it also criticizes society. In many countries, for example in Ireland, people of the same races fight each other. This movie illustrates that these fights are senseless and that all people belong to one race. Jerry Goldsmith's score is also very extraordinary which makes the movie even more worth watching. Especially the Ba'ku theme is so good that you have after having seen this movie a good impression of it. "},{"Title":"Great but little different Star Trek...","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In my opinion this is quite a unique Star Trek movie, different from most of the others. Sure, there are all the typical elements that there should be in a Star Trek movie, the sense of wonder and exploration and the big space battles. But none of the common enemies like the Borg, Dominion or others appear. Instead the crew of Enterprise is thrown into a secret research mission aiming to steal an entire planet from a small population because of the miraculous healing properties it has.The tempo is a little different, actually more harmonic than many others. And the story is just as good as any other Star Trek movie. Not surprisingly, the cast is as good as always. That is one of the best part of the Star Trek movies, they have managed to keep the crew of the different Enterprises together and you feel like you get to know them. And you know them even before the movie has started.For the Star Trek fans this is a must see, even though it is a little different from the others. For non fans this might be a little trickier as it always depends upon knowing the crew and characters from beforehand. The introduction is on the light side, which works very well for the fans though.8/10 "},{"Title":"better than I remembered it being, but still not great.... here's why","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It was interesting to rewatch and reevaluate Insurrection because at the time when I saw it in the theater I was extremely disappointed. I even felt a little ripped off, because the whole affair felt to me like a pretty standard Star Trek episode stretched like the skin of the alien villains in the film well past the point of integrity. I also felt disappointed that Berman and the other Paramount decision makers had further abandoned any attempt at character development or continuity between films in the series.There just seems to be a lack of ambition and imagination surrounding the entire project. Although I definitely enjoyed it much more this time around &#150; maybe it's just that an extended STTNG episode is more appealing now in 2007 than it was in 1998&#133; the show has been off the air for a few years now and is barely syndicated at this point. But I also noticed some positive qualities &#150; Geordi LaForge was always my favorite supporting character in the show and he gets his best scene in the series here watching a sunset with Picard after gaining his vision. F. Murray Abraham is as good as the script will let him be and the makeup effect is pretty striking (I love how he starts bleeding from pores in his face when he gets angry). There are some excellent set pieces like the bit with Picard and Worf chasing down a renegade Data and singing Gilbert and Sullivan to pacify him. The first time I saw it I was confused by the characters departing so much from their established personalities, but this time I realized it was due to the sci-fi element, the effects of the planet's healing properties on the crew. From that perspective it's very nice to see characters reverting back to earlier behavior and I like seeing the clean-shaven Riker again though I never bought his relationship to Troi.But the essential reality hasn't changed. The sets and locations look and feel exactly like a dozen episodes of the Next Generation show, and the costumes for the aliens are downright mundane. It's impossible not to be reminded of little Wesley Crusher (thank the gods of ST that he and Alexander did not make film appearances) getting in trouble for throwing a ball in the bushes, when you see these perfect and mellow people in their paradise. The direction by Frakes is standard TV direction just like in First Contact. Too much of the story revolves around the 2 central plot twists, and you can almost feel the commercial break coming on. Abraham's villain is fun to look at and the concept is good, but he never really confronts Picard or the Enterprise in such a way that the conflict feels personal. Donna Murphy is a fine actress and it's great to see Picard hook up, but their love affair is too gentle to be believable, totally lacking in drama, and then it's dispensed with at the conclusion far too easily&#133;. Again, just like a TV episode in which the consequences of the episode cannot intrude into the flow of the series.One thing I did like, however, was the central concept &#150; the search for immortality is universal and compelling, and tying it into the history of forced relocations adds the kind of real-world resonance that First Contact and the first 3 films in the original series were lacking. The fact that members of the Federation are in a conspiracy and that their motives remain ambiguous even after the conspiracy is uncovered is also very much in the spirit of the best qualities of the Next Generation show with its increased emphasis on political intrigue, another element missing from previous Star Trek films (with the notable exception of The Undiscovered Country. Another interesting story element of note &#150; on the commentary for 1st Contact regular series writers Brannon Braga and Ronald Moore discuss an original draft in which Picard remains on the planet and is involved in a love affair while Riker fights the aliens in space as a B plot (btw, it's telling how even now the screenwriters discuss plot mechanics exactly like a TV episode). Here we have a different credited writer, but the resulting plot is very similar to what was originally conceived for First Contact but changed apparently on Patrick Stewart's request.In the final analysis, I feel the film is actually more pleasing to me as a fan because it's more true to the tradition of Star Trek than First Contact. At least this one actually utilizes science-fiction ideas, as opposed to simply doing an action movie in space. But the film isn't as ambitious as it should be, and I feel the central problem is that the alien culture was made too simple and earth-bound, the melodrama between Picard and his love interest was non-existent, and overall there's just not enough meat on this story's bones. But what we do get is pretty well done and pleases me as a fan of the show. "},{"Title":"Attracted to Older Women,or Picard's Idyll","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Prior to being SF,Western,sexy,or otherwise,a movie,any movie,ought to be,first,an excellent cinematographic achievement,good cinematography. In fact,there is no such thing as great SF,or great Western,but only great cinematography.Star Trek IX is a masterpiece of naturalness,humor,casualness,wit and art.This way,SF adventure who does not choose the dystopia avoids also the insipid utopianism.Frakes directed the Star Trek movies that I like most.This is what I want from a SF movie.Star TrekInsurrection is charming and fluent.Stewart,Spiner,Mrs. McFadden do great job in this film.Fortunately,Mrs. Sirtis has a greater role.There is a wonderful flavor of intelligence and good taste in this movie.Star Trek VIII and IX,Frakes' works,are mature movies,with a wealth of ideas,resourcefulness,creativity,etc.,an exquisite visual quality, what I've always wished and asked for. "},{"Title":"Strong if unspectacular Star Trek film","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"21 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" We are betraying the principles upon which the Federation was founded, states Captain Jean-Luc Picard 49 minutes into the ninth Star Trek film, It's an attack upon its very soul. Jean-Luc, answers his superior, Admiral Dougherty, We're only moving six-hundred people. How many people does it take, Admiral, before it becomes wrong, asks Picard in return, A thousand. Fifty Thousand. A million? The above exchange occurs during Insurrection's key scene. The entire first half of the film meticulously builds to this conversation between Starfleet officers. Dougherty (Anthony Derbe) justified his actions because the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few. Picard (Patrick Stewart) sights the Prime Directive, which prohibits interference with other cultures or their natural development. The two officers had remained on a collision course until the moment when something had to give.The conflict begins during a routine survey. Insurrection opens with a gorgeous panorama of an agrarian village. Children frolic about in the tall grass outside the perimeter. Farmers lift gates to aqueducts, women laugh pleasantly as they slam down their bread dough for kneading and the blacksmith works away. We are treated to long panoramic looks at the restful town and its benign inhabitants, the Ba'ku. Members of a culture survey walk about unnoticed in their isolation suits, invisible to the eye. Director Jonathan Frakes' willingness to take so much time introducing the audience to the setting demonstrates an unusual amount of focus for a movie like this.The peace is shattered when Data (Brent Spiner) begins acting wildly. He exposes the survey and follows with many more bizarre and aggressive actions. The architects of survey, Admiral Dougherty and the So'na leader Ad'har Ru'afo (F. Murray Abraham) orbit above the planet. Data's behavior puzzles and scares them, and they ask Picard how to destroy him.Delaying his orders, Picard (Patrick Stewart) arrives and successfully captures Data. Against the wishes of Dougherty, Picard stays to determine why his android became a loose cannon. Picard acquaints himself with Anij (Donna Murphy), a Ba'ku woman who informs him that Data told the Ba'ku that the survey team was their enemy. A short investigation uncovers a conspiracy to forcibly remove the Ba'ku from their planet.The planet, buried deep in a gaseous cloud called the Briar Patch, has rings that act as a fountain of youth to its inhabitants. Dougherty and Ru'afo believe that the planet must be used for medical reasons, and Picard is forced to make the choice to abandon the Ba'ku or violate his orders.It is at this point when the film accelerates. The conflict becomes a proverbial chess match between grand masters as the Enterprise crew tries to keep the planet inhabited. Both sides devise as many solutions as they can think of to accomplish their missions. The audience is almost invited to participate as the movie keeps them wondering what the next move will be.The script shines with an abnormal level of polish. It deftly handles the question of whether an officer should obey orders or stand up for what is right. Almost every line flawlessly captures the writers' intent and communicates them to the viewers with beautiful yet easily understood diction. Every character sounds expressive and well educated. The dialogue is free-flowing and enjoyable. There is even a scene where Picard calms Data with a rousing rendition of A British Tar. I imagine the production staff had a good laugh when they thought of that one.The acting is of the highest Trek standards. Abraham, one of the true gentlemen in Hollywood, is exceptionally good as Ru'afo. He is so superior that he has every subtlety mastered. The way his face sneers when he says Eliminate them, his vocal inflections, his different postures, his mannerisms, the passion and disdain in his voice all point to the work of a true master. Hatred seems to perspire from his every pore. A blood vessel bursts in his face and we can almost see hate flowing out of it. His friend Gellatin (Gregg Henry) is constantly talking him out of more extreme decisions. For Ru'afo, it is personal, but we do not find out why until the final act. He tops it all off with the best scream of anguish and frustration ever captured on film. Ru'afo may not quite be the most effective Star Trek villain, but Abraham's acting is the best in the series. He is not the most prolific actor, but he is arguably one of the best ever.Sadly, some of the story devices fall flat. In First Contact, the Enterprise was the most advanced starship ever made. Its quantum torpedoes were so powerful that it seemed nigh invincible. Here, however, it is too weak. There is one exchange where it is fighting with two So'na ships and seems badly overmatched. The Enterprise-E was designed to take on small fleets and win. If the Federation could defeat the Borg, the Cardassians, the Dominion, why can't the crown jewel of its fleet defeat two So'na cruisers? It is even controlled at one point by simple joystick. I never knew flying a 700-meter starcraft was so simple. Redemption does come with the ingenious denouement of the fight. There are also other moments that do not work, and some jokes fall flat.In the end, Insurrection shoots itself in the foot. It also suffers from following First Contact and the Borg. It is an entirely different production with different goals. It may hurt itself, but in the end it is solid enough entertainment to rate a seven out of ten. "},{"Title":"The WORST Star Trek Movie!!!","Date":"26 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" All my life I have been a Star Wars fan. Star Wars started my lifelong love for the sci-fi and fantasy genres. However, until a couple of years ago I never bothered with Star Trek because it didn't look that interesting to me. However, J.J. Abrams' two Trek movies encouraged me to check out the other 10 and I am very glad that I did. Star Trek is a brilliant franchise, even with its weaker installments - it's a vehicle for creative and interesting ideas and great characters. Even at its worst (namely The Motion Picture and The Final Frontier), it has something good to offer. Or so I thought until I saw Star Trek Insurrection. This is not only the worst Star Trek movie, but one of the worst movies ever made, period. A lot of people are criticizing Star Trek Into Darkness, but at least that movie had a plot. The Final Frontier rightfully deserves all the flak it's getting too, but at least the villain had clear motivations. Insurrection has no plot, no intriguing ideas, no heart and no interesting characters. The story (if you can even call it that) is all over the place - it feels like it's being made up as it goes along. From the opening scene I was completely lost and had no idea what was going on, what the people in this movie were fighting for or why I should care at all. The inhabitants of the planet whose name I can't even remember are underdeveloped, have (apparently) magical powers that are never explained, and therefore it is impossible for me to feel a connection to them. The same goes for the crew of the Enterprise - the previous two Trek movies gave them character development, which was non-existent here and half the time they feel like over-the-top caricatures of themselves - even more so than the characters in Final Frontier. In fact, I'll go a step further - the opening titles of the film are lazy and bland. Every single Trek movie before that had grand opening titles accompanied by amazing music. The title of this movie just flashes by and that's it. The villains of the movie are one-dimensional, their motivations are impossible to understand and are impossible to take seriously. If you've seen the movie, you know what I'm talking about. And that's another thing that makes this movie fail all the villains in the previous movies - VGER, Khan, Kruge, Sybok, Chang, Soran, the Borg Queen - had clear motivations and were a legitimate threat - something the villains in this movie are not. I am astounded that Jonathan Frakes, who directed the brilliant First Contact, looked at the script for this movie and thought it was good. In conclusion, unless you are curious or are a completionist like myself, avoid this movie like the Plague. It is not worth your time. Final rating 1/10 (But in reality it deserves a 0). "},{"Title":"I actually enjoyed this movie!","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Granted, it didn't have everything I wanted in it, but I actually enjoyed Star Trek Insurrection.  The humor was great, although I wish there was a little more between the Enterprise and the Son'a ships.  I enjoyed this movie and I own it on DVD. "},{"Title":"Probably the best Next Generation movie so far","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The writers used this movie to resolve a few of the internal and interpersonal conflicts that have been left hanging from both the series and the previous next generation movies.  It's great to see the characters grow in such a manner.Plenty of action, and a fairly good plot. "},{"Title":"Star surprise","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me say this I loved this movie. I'm not one of those unconditional trekkies, but I liked this movie a lot.And this one, by actor/director Jonathan Frakes, is a good piece of entertainment. It's intelligent, sometimes surprising, has good action (albeit the tactics and manoeuvres  of Star Trek ships are quite ridiculous - whatever the movie) and the actors chosen for this one are good performers.The Star Trek Universe is complex, rich, but not my favourite. There seem to be holes in its consistency - technology seems to be less advanced in fields where it should have been far ahead, politics seems too much like politics on any country on Earth, and society a replica of USA's, Europe's or Japan's society, military tactics seem no different of manouvering battleships like Submarines, Frigates, Air Carriers, etc. At least, there is some effort to put some science into Star Trek - even if we do not know what metaphase is or why the explosion of metronium gas is so destructive in space.The script is too simple, I grant that. But the way Insurrection was shot, the special moments achieved, a couple of twists in the plot, a reasonable dose of uncertainty and humour, leads me to say we are in the presence of a Star Trek masterpiece.It's a pity that the main motor of events isn't some larger than life quest or fight (or is it?). Those of us who grew up familiar with the grand scale of events of the Star Wars saga, the details and realism of Blade Runner and Twelve Monkeys, the ingenuity of Batman, Dark City, The Matrix, expect of movies like Insurrection something that tops or equals these other masterpieces, and when that doesn't happen, something seems to fail.But Insurrection ends up being a good work by someone that had only directed some episodes of Star Trek - The next Generation.Well, the special effects are good, the acting is good (Patrick Stewart, Donna Murphy, Zerbe, Murray Abraham, Frakes, Levar Burton, Brent Spinner - they know exactly what to do and give this movie the extra-consistency), the soundtrack is ok.If mr. Jonathan Frakes read this, I would advise him to continue his good work but to seek more complex and elaborated scripts for Star Trek. If he chooses to direct other types of movies, he does have the talent.I hope you all enjoy this. "}{"Title":"Score is captivating","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Insurrection features a wonderful score during the opening sequence and throughout. This added to my enjoyment of the film. I have to admit, the battle sequence between the Enterprise and the S'ona ships is too fast, poorly edited and unimpressive. Overall, however, I enjoyed the performances from Stewart and Donna Murphy and the light-hearted tone of the film. While not in the same league as First Contact, Insurrection is a satisfying Sci-Fi film which feels more like a good tv episode (with great cinematography). Don't expect FC and you'll do fine with this movie. "},{"Title":"Space Above and Beyond","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a good enough film it was different than the previous, it didn't have enough action. It was limited. This movie had more humor than the other previous movies and in that case it made the movie more appealing in a different view. "},{"Title":"Best Star Trek Movie Yet!","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For some reason, the best Star Trek films are the ones its niche audience -- the trekkIEs -- hate with a passion. I call this the Linux Syndrome, in which newcomers to that operating system are looked upon with scorn by the original OS adherents. Some people just can't bear to have their little indulgence understood by the rest of the world.If you get a chance to see this movie, make sure you don't have any trekkie-types in the audience. Experience proves that they'll simply whine about how horrible this movie is, so do 'em a favor and send them home before this assault to their senses starts playing.Insurrection is easily the most comfortable of all the Trek movies ever made. The characters are believable -- human (or non-human, as the case may be) beings with real emotions, instead of the stereotypical one-dimensional space jockey characters this franchise usually presents.It's a Star Trek movie that everyone can enjoy -- well, almost everyone! "},{"Title":"The best Next Generation film I've seen.","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those rare Sci-Fi films that don't require a second viewing to give it a chance at pleasing.  In fact, I liked it so much the first time around, that I sat through it again.  I rated it an 8 out of 10, which is a little unusual for me because of my affection for the original Star Trek series and films.  "},{"Title":"Good movie, great cast!","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection was a particulary good movie. Certainly better than Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan and Star Trek V The Final Frontier.This film has had some strong aspects, exceptionally its continuously brilliant cast! Patrick Stewart, Jonathan Frakes, Brent Spiner, LeVar Burton, Michael Dorn, Gates McFadden and Marina Sirtis once again give an awesome performance and bring more life to these characters we've grown to love over these past 12 years.This movie cost 50 million to produce and still lacked the intensity we've seen on Star Trek First Contact and Star Trek Generations. I guess it was time to produce a light hearted movie for a change.This movie and its story can be displayed as a light hearted story in the midst of a galaxy enveloped in chaos, war and tragedy. With the events of Star Trek Deep Space Nine and Star Trek Voyager making the timeline of the Star Trek universe, Star Trek has been changing dramatically ever since The Next Generation's 3rd or 4th Season.This movie was even funnier than Star Trek IV The Voyage Home. Picard, Riker and Data were more funny than ever! The story and action scenes mix perfectly as well as the comedy and the story. I loved the scene where Picard and Worf chase Data in the planet's atmosphere and begin singing that hilarious song.Jonathan Frakes takes the director's chair for the second time in a row. Already a veteran directing Next Generation episodes he truly knows how to make a movie come to life. I only hated seeing Michael Piller writing the movie. He took off Data's emotion chip! I don't want to see another Star Trek movie written by him. Bring Brannon Braga and Ronald D. Moore back to the writing!This movie also marks the first direct violation of the Prime Directive by Picard himself! I never believed he would actually break the chain of command. Sadly however, the movie's ending was just not worth it. Picard should still have been arrested on the charges of treason and insurrection. That happened to Sheridan on the end of the 4th Season on Babylon 5 after he took back Earth.But it's still a movie worth watching! I only hope the next Star Trek movie comes packed with lots of action and intensity like we've seen on First Contact!Great job Paramount! "},{"Title":"light as far as plot and substance,but still  a very good movie","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This ninth entry in the Star Trek series(and second outing for The Next Generation crew)is better than i remember it a few years ago.it is pretty light,as far as substance, and the plot,though also light,is somewhat interesting.and the movie is generally fun.it certainly has its whimsical moments,to be sure,but that's not a criticism of the movie.there's even a romantic aspect to it.there is less action than drama here,but the movie still maintains a good pace for the most.there are a few scenes where things get slow,but they don't last long enough to effect the film.i don't think this film is quite as good as the previous entry First Contact,but it's still more than watchable.it's actually a very good movie.as for the extras there are plenty of them on the second disc,many of them in depth.well worth the purchase price,in my opinion. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The worst Star Trek film alongside No. 5 and 7","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film, being the ninth in the installment to the Star Trek franchise suffers in the same way that all the odd numbered Star Trek films have It's a fail! After the fantastic film that was 'Star Trek First Contact', the director and writer to decided to create a ninth installment to this franchise that would fail, just to what..keep the pattern going? All the bad Star Trek films suffer in the same way. They have bad direction, lousy writing, poor explanation of the plot, uninteresting characters and have extremely uninteresting special effects and cinematography. When we look at the previous installment, there were some fantastic special effects and good action sequences, had great writing and directing and had an interesting plot. This film, is Star Trek First Contact or even Star Trek Wrath of Khan done horribly.During this film, Captain Picard played by Patrick Stewart, learns that there is a Federation dispute between the Ba'ku and the Son'a. Apparently the Son'a have begun a plot to wipe out the Ba'ku in order to regenerate the city from scrap. Hearing about this, following a malfunction of the often frustrating Data, Captain Picard and his Enterprise must prevent this Federation dispute from being completed.The plot to the film was rather difficult for me to follow simply because there wasn't enough explanation of the plot. This film is close to unbearable for me, almost topping Generations in its horribility factor. The characters are extremely uninteresting, even the ones we already know about and the romance plot in this film with Picard and the Ba'ku is extremely stupid and it made me want to grab a phaser and kill myself! The plot itself nearly made me kill myself, it was that frustrating. If these Star Trek odd numbered films do one thing, it is that they nearly make me want to commit suicide- that is all about Star Trek III Search for Spock.The special effects were truly bad in my opinion, in this film. First Contact had some great effects and an interesting story. It had fine cinematography but this film throws aside all the great things about First Contact. Apparently this film was the first to use CGI effects but boy, does everything look cheaper than ever before. It is clearly evident that when it comes to an odd numbered Star Trek film, that the director and writer completely ignore everything good about the predecessor. Let us pray that Star Trek Into Darkness, being the twelfth installment can live up to the hype...and the bloody PATTERN The reason that the New Generations films do not work well, except for First Contact which was something miraculous, is the fact that the characters simply cannot measure about to those of the original crew. They aren't interesting.Star Trek Insurrection is everything horrible about the odd numbered Star Trek films and suffers considerably from lousy writing, bad direction, horrid special effects, uninteresting cinematography and most importantly, a terrible plot. If the plan of the film was to simply follow the pattern of the odd numbered films, then this film certainly did its job but I simply don't understand. "},{"Title":"Train wreck","Date":"27 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I gave this movie four stars because as a Star Trek fan I just couldn't give less than four to a Trek movie. In reality, this film deserves one star.What a disappointment! This was the highly anticipated follow-up to the surprisingly decent First Contact, also directed by Jonathan Frakes. I understand that Frakes himself now concedes this film was a flawed endeavor. (At least that's what I've read.) Fundamentally, this movie presents as a mediocre two hour episode of the television series. What little plot there is, is lifted straight from several classic episodes, especially one where Data must convince a bunch of colonists to evacuate.The fatal flaw is the ridiculous premise that several hundred settlers are more important than a war which affects billions of people. Picard's motives are never remotely convincing, and everything seems forced, which it is.All too predictably, the enemy has a doomsday weapon which Picard must transport over to, and deactivate, during the climax.The rest of the movie is similarly clich'd. Obviously, if you're a Trek fan you'll see this, but let's not pretend it's a good movie. In fact, it's the second worst Trek movie after The Final Frontier. "},{"Title":"The Federation actually goes a little to the dark side.","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very good movie. Not the best of TNG's movies, but certainly still better then Kirk's movies, this one starts with a new race coming into the Federation ending up with a race that has people over 300 years old.Not much is there that I can tell you without giving away the story, but there is a lot of tension because the Federation wants to transport an entire race of people to another planet to get the particles that grant the long life that are around that planet. It turns out that Picard and his crew have to go against the very Federation they have pledged their life to, to save a planet full of people. With the opportunity to see Riker with a shaved face for possibly the last time, seeing Worf sing A British Tar for the one and only time, this is truly a classic ST movie. rent it today if you can.  "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Being a Star Trek fan for many years, this movie I had avoided because I had heard that is was not very good. I caught it in FLIXe the other night and, surprise, found it to be a very enjoyable movie with all the good things about Star Trek in place and done well. The Next Generation crew does a nice job taking on the issue of forced displacement of a race, feels very Trail of Tears when they are marching up the mountains.The series continues to find hot women to play the love interest in Picard (and Kirk before him), You just can't hire a bombshell to play these roles, so you need to find someone who is beautiful, sexy, but a little more mature and Donna Murphy does a nice job at this.So, maybe not as action packed as First Contact but a pretty good film. maybe a real good one for someone who has avoided Trek because it was to sci fi-ish but is willing to give it a try. "}{"Title":"Hugely underrated","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a big Star Trek fan and I have loved it from the first moment I saw it. I remember seeing Star Trek the first time with Star Trek 4 - The Voyage Home and The Next Generation series and I remember being at awe at the wonder of it all. It has been many years since then, and having watched the all the series and movies many times, especially the movies since they take such a sorter time to watch, it is clear to me that this movie depicts the very heart of Star Trek. Do we have the right to tell other people where to live and how to live? It is about tollerance and thinking of others before ourselves. The movies has so many magical moments and it very clearly dismisses the myth that the odd-numbered movies are worse than the others. It is not so much an action science fiction as First Contact, but Star Trek is NOT about action. I guess this is why I like the episodes with virtually no action and much character development and tests on the characters and how they cope with different situations the best. The movies does have some clich dialog, like when Data saying 'Sattle up. Lock and load', but Star Trek is no famous for it's one-liners.I may be in the minority when it comes to this movie, but I think it is important to defend this great Star Trek movie, especially since the really bad Nemisis came out. We have to judge this movies on it's own merits and on the idea of what Star Trek is all about.  "},{"Title":"wow, what happened?","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek First Contact (1996) was a great movie, but this...The Plot Outline pretty much describes the complete movie When the crew of the Enterprise learn of a Federation plot against the inhabitants of a unique planet, Capt. Picard begins an open rebellion. Just that, plus some more 'explorations' of Data's 'psyche' and some battle sequences.Nothing happens, one of the most boring and empty movies I've ever seen, (and I'm a great fan of ST Original Series & ST Voyager)Bottom line Any episode of Star Trek original series beats this. "},{"Title":"more like an episode than a film, and not a good episode either","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  True the film had its moments, what it lost in plot it made up for in special effects, but having watched Star Trek for a very long time I felt this was a step back.  The plot was shallower than the infants end of a swimming pool, I mean yes you could see where they were trying to go with the film, and the idea was nice, but they did a poor job communicating that idea on the screen, could have possibly done with a rewrite, but honestly I talked to many hardened Star Trek fans after watching the film and most agreed that it seemed like it belonged as an episode in one of the series. The worst Star Trek film to date, hopefully they will do better next time. 2 out of 10(a generous 2 at that) "},{"Title":"Hmm... pretty rubbish really...","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *****Warning Spoilers below, don't read if you don't want to know what happens*****Okay, well, I think the main problem (and there are many many others) with Insurrection is the basic plot. Here it is, in a nutshell- A tiny number of space colonists (called the Baku) land on a planet and find a fountain of youth there. None of them age or die or even get ill. They stay on the planet for a couple of centuries and there's now a population of 600 there (gosh, either they're VERY inbred or they don't have kids very often!).- The Federation (within whose territory the planet lies) would like everyone in the galaxy to have access to this fountain, and not just the 600 space colonists. To do this they want to move the colonists to another similar planet while they set up equipment to make the fountain available to everyone (including the 600 space colonists).- Picard & co think the space colonists should be entitled to stay on the planet as long as they like, with the planet to themselves, and no one else is allowed to touch the planet.Now, in case you can't spot the flaw in this already, allow me to assistWhy are the 600 Baku colonists entitled to the ENTIRE PLANET FOREVER while the rest of the Galaxy shouldn't set foot there? I could at least understand the moral argument if the Baku were native to the planet, but they're not, they're interstellar colonists (many of them first generation settlers) just like the people trying to evict them. What is the moral argument for Picard taking sides in what's clearly a straightforward turf war?Worse than that, why are the 600 Baku entitled to ETERNAL LIFE (having already enjoyed several illness-free centuries of bonus time) while countless millions suffering elsewhere (including the supposed villains of the whole film!) aren't given access to the fountain?Now, I know the Federation is meant to be an idealistic vision, but it's not meant to be an absurd parody. Even if the Baku had been native to the planet (which they're not), the 600 figure is just way way way too small to sound plausible as a reason for Picard's rebellion (goodness me, there are more people on board the Enterprise!).Yes, I know Picard gives a speech where he says how many before it becomes immoral?, but by that logic he would have rebelled against the federation even if there was just 1 colonist. Can you imagine how plausible the film would have seemed then? (Don't worry, Mr Baku, we and our entire crew of hundreds will die to protect your illness-free immortal lifestyle on your own private planet!)To sum up, this film supposedly tries to make a point about ethnic cleansing in Bosnia and elsewhere, but by removing all traces of the horror (the murders, the death camps, the torture, the rapes, the mass graves, the genocide, the bloodfeuds, the poisonous nationalists on *all* sides) and by making the Baku first-generation colonists rather than natives, what you have left is a comparatively minor, questionable and extremely boring treatise on international property rights.It's like watching a film discussing Norway's claim to Antarctica. Who cares? "},{"Title":"A moment in time can be a universe in itself","Date":"10 November 2010","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Upon learning of the true intentions of a race known as the Son'a who are in alliance with the Federation, Picard and crew openly rebel against their former employers to protect a unique planet's current population. Part of the anger towards this one, being called the worst of the ST films, is probably that it lacks the immediate gravity of the others... this isn't about Earth in danger(like many of the others), it's a small colony that we've never heard of before, and we don't, since. And the bad guys aren't The Borg, Romulans, Klingons or something else that has long been built up... no, it's these generic beings that behave in an evil manner. While this is genuinely funny, it also has gags and jokes that fall flat and embarrass. It gets to be too silly at times. One can wonder why the Enterprise is suddenly so weak. And the focus remains on the Captain and Data. Other than that, this is a solid entry. The plot is fairly engaging(even though disobeying orders has been explored before in this series) and the developments keep your interest. This has impeccable dialog. With very few exceptions, it is well-written and delivered spot-on. The acting is dependable. Frakes and Sirtis are cute together. This has great production and FX, and honestly inspires a sense of wonder in the audience. The action is pretty good, and this is very exciting. There is a bit of disturbing content and a little sensuality in this. The DVD comes with a decent 5 minute behind-the-scenes featurette, a trailer and a teaser. I recommend this to fans of Star Trek and The Next Generation. 7/10 "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The torch has officially been passed to the next generation crew, and this one might be to your liking as they try to aid a civilization in maintaining their paradise-like existence and ward off the bad guys who threaten it. Not quite as good as other Star Trek movies and definitely less-hyped, but not too bad.** 1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"This is Star Trek?","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  People complain about Star Trek-The Motion Picture...and this is what we've come to?This movie has no adventure, no coherent storyline, CHEESY effects, and boring dialogue...(!sigh!)Star Trek is gone...I hope the spirit of the original show will return someday... ...(Rick Berman ARE YOU LISTENING?)1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Even the TNG cast can't save the audience from boredom","Date":"5 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" While not overly bad, or even necessarily a bad movie, Insurrection is a bland, forgettable and ultimately uninspired movie. Look, I love Star Trek, and I love TNG (easily the best of the series), but this movie is not anything worth watching. Say what you will about Nemesis, but that movie at least gave us a story that seemed to motivate the characters. Here the whole, crew has to rebel against the federation to save these people seems forced. Would the federation really agree to misplace an entire planet full of people, especially since they're so into that whole 'non-interference' thing, you know, THE PRIME DIRECTIVE. While the trope of a bad Starfleet guy has been used before, they never acted with the approval of the Federation before. Like, seriously. Maybe I missed something, but that's not even the worst of it. The whole reasoning about why the immortality thing only works on this one planet felt so contrived, and beyond that the people's powers seem undefined and vague. But let's be honest, I can overlook plot-holes, no really I can. I even enjoy movies that aren't necessarily well made, that might even have gaping plot holes, but those have to give me something to like them. Here, it's just a bland, 100 minute movie filled with uninteresting side characters and some really forgettable villains. I know there's the whole, this is just like an episode of the TV series, but the two-part episodes in TNG were way better than this. This movie is more like a two-part episode of Voyager. While it is fun to see the crew behaving a little more&#x85;young, it more or less just feels like an excuse to have them act out of character. The Son'a aren't overly interesting either, which doesn't help matters, though their back-story felt like it had potential. They just kind of have a dull plain and they never get much personality of their own, aside from their obsession with immortality. Seriously, this is only worth watching if you're a trekkie, and even then, this isn't a movie you want to re-watch too much. I know most people site Nemesis or Enterprise as the reason they had to reboot the franchise, but this was the first step down that path. "},{"Title":"Resurrect It.","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek Insurrection (1998) Dir Jonathan Frakes / Cast Patrick Stewart, Jonathan Frakes, Brent Spiners, Michael Dorn, F. Murray Abraham Ninth Star Trek film is about rising up against civil and political authority. It involves a race of 600 people called the Ba'ku whose lives span many years. They are peaceful but enemies wish to conquer the land and discover the youth secret. Commander Data suffers a malfunction and Captain Piccard is ordered to destroy the android. Director Jonathan Frakes presents many surprises all the while providing humour with amusing developments with the crew. He does a fine job as director and everything seems well in place particularly the production. Frakes shaves his beard to impress a female. This is funny considering what his job requirements are. One would think that impressing a female would be easy on board the Enterprise. Patrick Stewart as Piccard is compelling as always in his concern for Data as well as the well being of these people on the planet. Brent Spiners presents the curiosity Data who encounters problems with a malfunction. Michael Dorn is featured as Worf. F. Murray Abraham joins the cast to remind viewers how great he was in Amadeus, and what he brings here. With the expected splendid makeup effects this ninth installment is visually stunning light entertainment that will please fans of the series. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"I liked this one !","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sorry for those who did not like, I did enjoy this Next Generation flick as it was close to most episodes I have viewed from the TV series.Picard uncovers a secret Federation plot driven by a mad Admiral and a vengeance-driven former native to deport residents from a planet which has some regenerative factors. Picard and his crew must turn rogue to prevent a certain Prime Directive derogation...Though it looks more a TNG episode here, I found this movie quite entertaining. Jonathan Frakes did a good job of directing here. It is a good plot, reminiscent of what Star Trek has entertained us for years.And Picard in love ? Not since Vash have we seen the Captain fall over for a woman... Same for Riker and his Imzadi ! At least better than Star Trek V or Generations... "}{"Title":"An average Star Trek Movie","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some people say this is the worst Star Trek movie, I don't know if I would go that far.I would say its still worth watching. I think its one of them films where you make your own opinion, so watch it and make your own decision. Don't let anybody else push your opinion one way or the other. Some people say its nothing more exciting than a double television episode but so what? It is Star Trek it came from the TV the next generation cast were all from the small screen, the cast crew were mostly the same, why change the chemistry if it works? I really don't know what people were expecting. Its good enough for me, I enjoyed all the Star Trek films and I watch because I enjoy them. "},{"Title":"Like They Were Only Half Trying","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek tries to do three things - provide a sci-fi adventure; showcase memorable character moments; convey a moral theme. These are the staples that when done right make Star Trek the legendary franchise that it is.With Insurrection it's like all three of these are only half done. What results is a muddled, clunky and not very memorable. Our story is engaging to start with but never quite lives up to what is needed to be interesting. Our characters are given some good moments to shine but some of it has been done a lot before in the series. You'll chuckle at funny lines but no one will pull on your heart strings.This brings us to the most controversial aspect of the film for fans the moral. On the surface it's a strong one, echoing many elements of human history to make us think. But it falls apart when examined closer. Put simply the - a noble idea but in the context of the actual movie it falls apart. This only partly puts us on the side of the main characters which bogs down the plot and makes it difficult to invest in.In terms of positives there is some great action, FX and awesome musical score as always. The performances are strong, especially from Patrick Stewart who almost cleans up the uneven moral theme. So while the story is weak there's still some entertaining moments. Honestly this edition to the franchise just falls quite flat. "},{"Title":"A good director wasted on middle-of-the-road nonsense","Date":"9 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Insurrection isn't the worst Star Trek movie, but it's also not very memorable as TNG flicks go. It doesn't have Malcolm McDowell, the Borg Queen or Tom Hardy, but it does have F. Murray Abraham (Watch it, Jack. He killed Mozart!)*, who really doesn't have a lot to work with. He does take things over the top, but this is one lame bad guy. The Son'a don't work as heavies, and they aren't sympathetic. They're just . . . there. that was my problem with the overall movie it just functions. Sure, it's an extended TNG episode like everyone says, but from one of the filler seasons. The lion's share of the movie centers on Picard most of the senior staff fighting for the Ba'ku, but the real excitement was with Riker and LaForge aboard the Enterprise. Things actually happened in those scenes, but the enjoyment was short-lived before cutting back to the condescending wine country people. There's a lot to be said here for Jonathan Frakes' direction, but this story goes down like flavorless gruel.5/10*It's not every day you can write something up about Star Trek and quote Last Action Hero. Couldn't help myself. "},{"Title":"Good Trek - not so good film","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's been said many times that Star Trek 9 Insurrection, is little more than an extended TV episode. There's little more I can add to that. And, if you liked The Next Generation's small-screen outings, then you should enjoy this.However, the films were always supposed to appeal to a wider audience, therefore they were expected to be bigger, bolder and louder. Plus Insurrection follows the excellent Star Trek 8 Fist Contact, which really took 'Trek' in a new, more action-orientated direction. Therefore Insurrection always felt like a step backwards.There's nothing wrong with this film, in fact, it's actually quite enjoyable. However, unless you're a die hard fan, you probably won't find it that interesting and there are certainly better Trek movies than this one. "},{"Title":"True to the spirit of the series","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The most common comment and/or complaint one hears about 'Star Trek Insurrection' is that it feels more like a two-part episode of the TV series than a blockbuster film. This is most certainly true, but in some ways it's one of the film's strengths.For better or worse, the 'Next Generation' TV series fully embraced the utopist, secular-humanistic philosophy of Gene Roddenberry that was always bubbling below the surface of its more adventure oriented predecessor. It was very much a reflection of the Clinton Era. Touchy-feely, activist and slightly smug and condescending in an I know better than you. sort of way. But it was also very sincere in its intentions, and I for one believe 'Insurrection' benefits by embracing this and staying true to its roots.The cast all seem to genuinely be having fun, a testament to their real life friendship and the presence of fellow cast mate Jonathan Frakes behind the camera. The story and plot are full of holes you could fly the Enterprise through, but the spirit and tone here absolutely nail what the 'Next Generation' was in its very soul. Because of this, I believe 'Star Trek Insurrection' comes the closest of any of the 12 theatrically released 'Trek' films of capturing the spirit of its TV incarnation. That itself is noteworthy and commendable. "},{"Title":"Pretty uninspiring, really","Date":"10 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" An ultimately hollow STAR TREK movie, especially considering that it followed on from the excellent FIRST CONTACT which was one of the best of the entire series. INSURRECTION feels like nothing more than a strung-out episode of STAR TREK THE NEXT GENERATION, with the actors going through their paces and finding themselves challenged by a thoroughly small-scale drama.The villain of the piece is an almost unrecognisable F. Murray Abraham, who's wasted as one of a race of plastic surgery-obsessed aliens who plan to strip a planet of its nature resources. Anthony Zerbe shows up as a stuffy officious type, while the crew of THE NEXT GENERATION are all present and correct. And for fans of the show, it's not particularly bad either; there's the requisite romance, drama and special effects. It's just that, to me, nothing particularly stands out. It all feels rather passe, and forgettable come the end. "},{"Title":"A very good, sorely underrated Star Trek film","Date":"3 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first Star Trek film that I saw in the cinema back in 1999, it lacks the epic scale of its predecessor and it feels more like a two-part TNG story than a film at times. However, it feels like a very good two-part TNG story and, since TNG is one of my favourite series, it's not a major problem for me. That said, I don't think that it has the same appeal to fans and non-fans alike as the best films in the series such as The Wrath of Khan, First Contact and The Voyage Home. Jonathan Frakes does an excellent job in directing the film and he should have been retained for Nemesis. The fact that he shaves his beard, however, disproves my theory that his powers come from his facial hair in much the same way as Samson's came from his locks.Oscar winner F. Murray Abraham makes for a very compelling villain as Ru'afo. Donna Murphy is absolutely enchanting as Anij, Picard's third and final serious love interest, and she has great chemistry with Patrick Stewart. Anthony Zerbe is very good as Admiral Dougherty, who hearkens back to the TOS tradition of admirals and other senior people being antagonists! Given their significant screen time, I was surprised that Daniel Hugh Kelly, Gregg Henry and Michael Welch's names aren't mentioned in the opening credits. The then 11-year-old Welch, who has gone on to have a good film and TV career, is very natural as Artim, whose relationship with Data is very sweet. He's a very good young actor who was excellent as Jack O'Neill's clone in Stargate SG-1's Fragile Balance, one of my favourite episodes of that series. DS9 actors Armin Shimerman and Max Grodnchik were to have cameos - the former as Quark and the latter as a Trill ensign - but both scenes were cut. Had Quark's scene been included, he would have been the only DS9 regular character besides Worf to appear in a Star Trek film.Michael Piller's final contribution to Star Trek before his untimely death in 2005, it has a strong storyline with some great social commentary regarding the forced relocation of people and the ways in which imperialism and colonialism have led to larger cultures destroying smaller ones. Picard is one of my favourite television characters as he is a man of honour and integrity who can always be relied upon to do the right thing. He knows when to take a stand and always places morality above rules and regulations. Stewart is wonderful as ever as Picard. The crew's behaviour succeeds in shaming Dougherty but it is too late as he is murdered by Ru'afo in a rather gruesome scene - particularly by Star Trek standards - which recalls the death of Zerbe's character Milton Krest in Licence to Kill. Their efforts to shame the Federation Council into changing their decision, however, are more successful. The actions of the Federation in this film highlight the problem with Spock's maxim, The needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few. Or the one. it only works if it is the few who are doing the deciding. Otherwise, it can be used to justify anything from a tiny tax increase to genocide.Overall, I think that this is a very good, sorely underrated film and the strongest of the odd numbered films. "},{"Title":"Captain's slog","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This outing for the Star Trek TNG crew I rather think is for dedicated Trekkies only. There's seem to be little or no attempt to broaden the movie's appeal outside dedicated fans without a big name actor to square off against Picard and co (all we get are a heavily made-up F Murray Abraham and rent-a-face Antjony Zerbe) and a story that looks and feels like a two-parter from the TV series presented on the big screen and a not very good two-parter at that.It doesn't help that you can see old father time catching up on our favourite crew members apart from the Captain, who of course never looked young in the first place. Even Data looks older and that of course should be impossible, although Brent Spiner seems to have filled out a little less than Geordi or Riker. The story-line leaves little for the two main female cast members, Troi and Dr Crusher, to do plus just where was wunderkind Wesley.I sort of get the allusions to contemporary events in the world at around this time over the Serbia / Bosnia conflict in the old Yugoslavia and of course laudable that Picard jettisons the Starfleet Prime Directive of non-interference to save the native species, but even then his noble action appears to be as much about wooing an attractive female he encounters on the planet surface as being a big humanitarian.As a film too it moves too slowly and unexcitingly. There are attempts at humour, as ever, involving Data, but these fall flat especially when he joins his captain in bellowing out an old Gilbert and Sullivan tune for some desperately important reason I can't even remember just now while director Frakes gets the awkward job of filming himself and Troi getting frisky with each other. This is nothing however compared to the cringe-worthy scene when Picard briefly attempts to dance the samba in a bid to recapture his youth.There was also no big race-against-time cliffhanging finish which I felt the film needed, indeed, as said earlier, I found the pacing, dialogue and editing to be poor throughout. The apex of Director Frake's imagination occurs when he dissolves a fade on the captain's buttons into a next-scene close up of Abraham's character's dentistry ( I know, not that great "},{"Title":"Episodic rehash","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm sure most of what I have to say has been said already.This film borrows a few ideas of previous episodes. 'Who watches the watchers' and 'homeward' come to mind.The film starts well, but once the admiral levels with Picard, the film sadly descends into a formulaic action flick. I'm sad to see fighting in Star Trek. Phasers set on stun, are once again swapped for BFGs. There's an argument that an injection of youth may have invigorated Picard. I prefer the captain as diplomat than cowboy.There's barely any character progression. We get silly asides. Worf is but a comedy prop. Deanna Troi is busy frolicking with number 1 when her skills as an empath were much needed early on on the bridge. The side story of the Enterprise's skirmish is both dull and unnecessary.At the end of the movie Picard shifts about scaffolding, much like in Generations.When I watched the film at the cinema, I was grateful for just a slither of trek. After watching a second time, it just left me saddened that there were no more episodes in the making. I never much liked the two parters, but this extended episode wasn't quite enough. "},{"Title":"The Best TNG Film -- not so bad...","Date":"1 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a tremendous fall-off from the previous film done by the cast of The Next Generation. We finally get away from the Alien Enemy of the Week junk that Gene Roddenberry publicly stated that he never wanted. It's all about Morality Plays, as a former cast member has publicly stated.So... The natives have a tremendously valuable resource that everyone else wants. Immortality -- that's a pretty valuable resource.Plot Flaw... How could any altruistic race not offer immortality to anyone who wanted it? The natives never, ever offer their gift to anyone, in the entire film. They're jerks -- but the film treats them like perfect angels throughout.That minor point aside, however... the basic point is that you cannot force even a small number of people to sacrifice themselves for the greater good. Once again, the plot device is poorly conceived, but the concept is valid. It's a Star Trek morality play in pretty good form.Plot Flaw #2... The Starfleet Admiral (Dougherty), the Commander of the Whosits (Son'a) -- Ru'afo -- and many of the Son'a men are held in custody aboard the Enterprise. Picard should have thrown them all in the brig -- Clear Violation of several laws and regulations. As the next-senior Starfleet officer at the scene, he had the authority, and the obligation, to do that. Any officer can toss his senior in jail for a direct violation of regulations. It's true today, and it's true in that theoretical future.However, we'd then be left with a 70-minute movie and no action. So, Picard flagrantly disregards his responsibilities and decides to go renegade instead. He gives up the power of the Enterprise and all of its resources to go it alone, with the supposed hope of an ultimately unsuccessful attempt to contact Starfleet through the Enterprise and its remaining crew. It almost Costs him his ship.It was an honest attempt at a morality play, that went horribly wrong. "}{"Title":"excellent adventure","Date":"21 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" While I didn't enjoy this third film outing for the TNG crew as much as First Contact, it's not far off, and I enjoyed it more than Generations. It certainly has flaws, but holds up as great entertainment and takes a different approach from the previous two films. It actually feels more like a cinematic episode of the series, the focus slightly less on action, and more on ideas and character. Lighter in tone than First Contact (the Borg and the implications they bring have always made them one of science fiction's best villains), the film follows the Enterprise crew as an investigation into the malfunction of Data which leads to a hilarious musical number leads them to the discovery of a race of ancient people who don't age due to the...stuff in the planet's rings (this film is particularly heavy of the Trek technobabble). They then discover a conspiracy between the federation and an interstellar race known as the Sorn to relocate the B'aku so they can mine the...stuff that prevents ageing and makes you go back to puberty. I don't know. It makes about as much sense as any of the pseudo-science from the show. So it doesn't really matter, it's up to the crew to save the B'aku (who can't save themselves because they rejected the use of technology despite using a fully functioning irrigation system, go figure), by any means necessary between being shaved in the tub by Deanna Troi and talking about the firmness of their breasts. Picard seems strangely adamant about protecting the rights of the B'aku despite having relocated a group of Native Americans in season 7 of the show. So despite the many nods to the show that'll make fans cream themselves, it's best not to approach this with a rigid sense of continuity in regards to the canon. One of the strongest points of the film for me was the beautiful photography and outstanding effects. The first computer-generated Enterprise looks magnificent battling it out in nebulae while the magic anti-aging planet looks like a paradise.So it's an excellent adventure film, just not on the level of First Contact. The performances are as you'd expect, the Enterprise crew still undoubtedly the Enterprise crew many years past the show. F. Murray Abraham also makes a cool villain. Now the only TNG film I have to see is Nemesis. "},{"Title":"A fairly strong Star Trek film","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many have derided this film for a number of reasons, but, in my opinion, it's not actually a bad movie at all. Relative to the other Star Trek movies, it is probably the 4th worst (out of 12), however it's far better than a lot of people say it is.As usual, Patrick Stewart and Brent Spiner give tremendous performances as Picard and Data respectively. The other TNG actors and actresses are all superb too, although we don't see too much of them.F. Murray Abraham gives a good performance as the antagonist, while Donna Murphy is brilliant as Picard's main companion.The soundtrack for this movie, is, in my submission, one of the best out of all of the Trek movies, as well.Despite this, there are some specific plot ambiguities - whether they were put there intentionally, I do not know, however they do get the audience thinking about moral and ethical issues - at points, I was questioning whether Picard was in the right.All in all, I would agree with the conclusion that Insurrection is akin to an extended Next Generation episode. Nevertheless, that does not bother me in the slightest. "},{"Title":"Actually I Quite Liked this one","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, with the previous two Next Generation movies seriously disappointing me, I wasn't really all that keen on seeing this one. Even so, when a Star Trek movie comes to the screen, I do drag myself out simply to see what it is like. My brother also wanted to see it so I decided that I would, and I am glad that I did because it was far better than the other two.Insurrection is a plot that twists and invites the viewer to work out what is going on. As well as being science fiction, it takes a far better approach that simply flashing Borg in front of us hoping to impress us. Instead it opens up with a problem and everything slowly unravels as the movie goes on.The movie begins on a planet among a peaceful society and the Federation, using personal cloaking devices, are monitoring these people. Suddenly Data malfunctions and reveals these spies to the village. The Enterprise is asked for the schematics and instead of simply giving it to Star Fleet, they travel to the planet to see what the problem is. The planet happens to be located in the middle of a large nebula and as such no communication out is possible, thus what is going on on the planet is hidden from the Federation, even though one of the admirals is involved.The thing about the planet is that the rings produce rejuvenating rays which restores body tissue. This is the secret of eternal youth which everybody is looking for. Such a benefit always comes with a disadvantage &#x96; and this seems to be a common plot in Star Trek &#x96; all other problems have been solved but people still die, so what can we do about it.This mimics humanities fear of death. They take everything away but there is still death so they decide to create a way in which to eliminate that as well. What Star Trek really is is humanities desire to live in a better world without having to submit to a supreme authority &#x96; God. I have had arguments regarding the morality of Star Trek with numerous trekkie friends and will always remain firm that the reason that I hate Star Trek is that they are openly against religion and claim that humanity can solve all of the world's problems itself. This I just cannot believe because in 6000 years of recorded human history we may have advanced technologically and culturally, but the same problems that faced our ancient ancestors face us today, so what makes us think we can solve them in a few hundred years. Maybe we argue that we have been evolving, but all we have to do is look at the social decay within America as everybody becomes hyper-individualistic to realise that this is not the case.I did like this movie and was suitably impressed, even with one that Jonathon Frakes directed. I was not suitably impressed with some of Frakes' directions as they generally seem nice and idealistic and generally sickening, but this was good. If they can keep up the quality of such films then I will be returning to see them. "},{"Title":"Boring and pointless","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek Insurrection is the ninth movie in the Star Trek franchise. It is the third Next Generation movie, and it is the second movie to be directed by supporting actor Jonathan Frakes. How did the movie turn out?The movie raises one question what was accomplished? I really feel that nothing was done. No step forward was made for the characters. Even in the worst Star Trek movie, The Final Frontier, something was accomplished. This film has no reason to exist.The crew of the U. S. S. Enterprise discover a planet inhabited by a people called the Ba'ku, who have lived on this planet for 300 years. The planet has some kind of scientific explanation (don't ask me exactly what, I'm not a scientist) that keeps the inhabitants from getting old. However, the Federation wants to put them in a holographic representation of their home on another planet because they want to use the planet to heal billions. Captain Picard (Patrick Stewart) and the rest of the crew want to stop this because they want the Ba'ku to stay on their planet.Now here is our first problem the premise is ridiculous. Picard wants to move the Ba'ku, even though billions could be healed by the planet. But there was a Star Trek line that really summed this situation up. Remember that line Spock had in The Wrath of Khan? For those of you who don't know, the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few. Wow. The writers went against their own franchise lessons. Also, why does the Federation need to move the colony? Can't the Ba'ku stay with other immigrants there as well?And the film takes so long to get to the point. The first hour is just the Enterprise crew getting to know the Ba'ku and the Federation planning their supposedly EVIL yet logical plan.Then there are the characters. There's no real focus on them, and no real development. A Ba'ku woman named Anij (Donna Murphy) gets a lot of screen time, yet she is utterly boring and plays no part. The villain, an alien named Ru'afo (F. Murray Abraham) is also boring, and doesn't really accomplish much.There are so many awkward, pointless, and stupid moments. There's a scene where a blue alien asks Picard if he read his paper on some techno babble, and he's never seen again. There is also a scene where android Data (Brent Spiner) loses control, and Picard tries to bring back his mind by singing Gilbert and Sullivan, because he is familiar with those two. No kidding. Singing Picard, Data, and Klingon crew member Worf (Michael Dorn) is so dumb I actually laughed.The one idea I like is the planet that heals and stops age. That is a neat idea. But again, does it affect history at all?This movie is boring and pointless. The characters are undeveloped, and nothing is accomplished. D "},{"Title":"Sweet But Not Enough Action That You Would Want in Star Trek,","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek Insurrection is a good movie with a nice storyline but I feel it tried to be too sweet to a degree that there just wasn't enough excitement that you would want in a Star Trek movie.It focuses too much on the characters,which the cast are great at doing,but it does that too much and you just want some adventure that dosen't happen for a very long time.The movie was definitely trying to be the Next Generation version of the Voyage Home,but it just didn't work out as well and didn't have that sense of humour that made it Voyage Home so enjoyable,it was way too sweet than you would want in Star Trek.Insurrection probably would have worked out better as a forty five minute episode rather than a whole movie,but I would still recommend it to Star Trek fans,it's certainly not the worst Star Trek movie,but it is the least exciting.The crew head on a mission to observe the peaceful Baku people,but the Sona covet the Baku's longevity and plan to take over the planet. "},{"Title":"Pleasant and Entirely Watchable","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek Insurrection*** (out of 4)99 mins/ PGCast Patrick Stewart, Jonathan Frakes, Brent Spiner, LeVar Burton, Michael Dorn, Gates McFadden, Marina Sirtis, F. Murray Abraham, Donna Murphy, Anthony Zerbe, Gregg Henry, Director Jonathan FrakesPlot Captain Picard tries to stop a small 'paradise' planet from being taken over by the Federation.JJ's Verdict Insurrection starts off very interesting. The Federation, down on allies, are getting Captain Picard to persuade new species to join and down on the planet of the Ba'ku, Data has a malfunctioning problem and takes the inhabitants, and the Federation members investigating it, hostage. From here Captain Picard is sent to retrieve Data and find out his problem. What follows is one of the most cringing moments I have seen in film history. By singing the song 'A British Tar' to him, Picard manages to hypnotise Data and the pair along with Michael Dorn's Worf, begin to sing at the top of their voices. Luckily this is one of the very few problems I have with this film. Although it does seem like a lengthened version of a TV episode, it is such a charming and pleasant film that I found it impossible not to like.The film's plot revolves around the planet of Ba'Ku, which has extremely exclusive minerals and nutrients that make you younger. The Federation, under pressure from the So'na race, wants to evacuate the planet so that the So'na can take control of the planet's resources. However, after viewing the small, but beautiful planet and falling in love with one of its inhabitants, Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the U.S.S Enterprise begins a rebellion to save the planet of six hundred citizens. In First Contact, the crew were saving the world, so saving six hundred people in the sequel may seem like a step down. However, First Contact came across very flat, whereas Insurrection retains the old crew's human elements and the need to do something for the greater good &#x96; not because they have to. In the Next Generation's previous instalments, there was little focus on characters apart from Picard and Data. However, Insurrection focuses on other crew-members and from this, comes a wonderful and well-matched relationship between director Jonathan Frakes and Marina Sirtis' Riker and Troi. Patrick Stewart gives a calming performance on screen and develops a wonderful bond and chemistry with love interest Donna Murphy. F.Murray Abraham also gives a good performance as the main So'na villain. The cinematography on the supposed 'paradise' planet is very nice and the action scenes both on the planet and in space are mixed with good visuals. The third act does drag on but the excitement is re-submitted successfully as a great secret is revealed towards the film's finale. Jerry Goldsmith puts in a strong score and in doing so, increases the easy watch ability of Star Trek Insurrection. "},{"Title":"Really disappointing","Date":"17 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I used to watch the TV episodes of Star Trek TOS and TNG, some of the episodes worked and had great stories and others did not work quite so well. But the point was that these were TV episodes and I cut them some slack that they were not all perfect. But when it comes to Motion Pictures I most definitely expect great stories, action and quality. So when I saw Star Trek Insurrection I was really disappointed - it would have a been an OK TV episode, but as a Motion picture it was huge let down and quite frankly, I was bored and was looking at my watch through out the movie and was glad when it finished. Don't get me wrong I am big Star Trek fan - but I am afraid that Star Trek really lost its way with this movie. "},{"Title":"This movie's biggest problem is that it is an odd numbered Star Trek movie.","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *** May contain spoilers ***Insurrection may have plot holes in it and some of the jokes are lame, but is it really as bad as some people say it is? For whatever reason, many fans seem to believe in the odd numbered curse. Out of the first few Star Trek movies, The Motion Picture was boring, The Wrath of Khan was the best one ever made, The Search For Spock was a little bit of an anti-climax and then Star Trek IV was brilliant in its own way.Ever since these movies, many fans expect the even numbered movies to be good and the odd numbered movies to be bad. Therefore, plot holes in the even numbered movies are overlooked, while similar plot holes are exaggerated and picked apart for the odd numbered movies.Not many people seem to complain about the huge error in Star Trek VI where Uhura asks Kirk, well what about all that stuff we were using to catalog gaseous anomalies?. It was actually the Excelsior that was on the cataloging mission, not the Enterprise. Similarly, very few people seem to question the character of Zefram Cochrane in First Contact. How can a drunken fool like him build such an advanced ship with only a handful of people and no money?When it comes to the odd numbered movies such as Insurrection, I have seen people looking for the smallest little plot holes and making a big deal about it. If people can overlook errors such as the ones in Star Trek VI or First Contact, who really cares why Worf was on the Enterprise or if Counselor Troi had really kissed Riker with a beard before! Even Star Trek III The Search For Spock was a reasonable movie. If it had been an even numbered one, I'm sure many people would look back more favourably at it.Many reviews of Insurrection will automatically mark it down simply because they expect an odd numbered Star Trek movie to be a bad one. Instead of looking for the good points, many people only look for the bad points in the odd numbered ones. When I first saw this movie I had read a number of very negative reviews. However, I went into the cinema with an open mind and came out pleasantly surprised. While it is not a great movie, it is very enjoyable and well worth watching. The problems with Insurrection and other odd numbered Star Trek movies are the fact they have the odd number, not the movies themselves. "},{"Title":"Excellent! Opens fire and never stops to reload!","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went in to this film with low expectations.  To a seasoned Trekker, Insurrection looked like a real rip-off nothing more than a Captain Kirk plot (leading a one-ship rebellion against the injust decision of the Federation) with the Next Generation pasted into it.  Wrong!  Insurrection was an incredibly original and thrilling film, combining the depth of thought present in all Star Trek series and films, the humor that was found to be a success in Generations and First Contact, and special effects and action that will please the modern audience.Warning!  Semi-Spoiler!  (Nothing that's not in the IMDb summary, though).The movie's premise is one that harkens back to the political symbolism that has been used successfully throughout TOS, TNG, the movies, and is used slightly in DS9 and VOY.  The most successful Star Trek stories are those that are actual historical events thrown into the 24th century; this is no exception.  The Federation is determined to force-relocate the population of a planet out in the wilderness of space.  Their cause is noble enough the planet has a special metaphysical property that can reverse the aging process, which would double lifespans, cure diseases, heal injuries, and be an all-around good thing.  Their methods, however, are despicable they plan to abduct these 600 people in their sleep and move them out of their homes, onto a holodeck recreation.  This parallels the frontier expansion into Native American territories of the 1800s, particularly the Trail of Tears. Captain Picard, obviously the voice that speaks out for justice, will not allow this to happen, and decides to risk himself, his ship, and his crew to save these people.  The movie progresses from there.Now, take this excellent plot and moral debate, and throw in more quality humor than you can possibly expect from a sci-fi film, and you've got a rockin' good time!  Ranging from diplomatic guests who eat floral arrangements to performances of Gilbert and Sullivan in the midst of a battle to Klingon pimples, I was rolling in the aisles every second that I wasn't on the edge of my seat.  You simply can't beat Data comparing Riker's shaved face to an android's bottom, or Worf re-entering Klingon adolescence and feeling aggressive tendencies.  It's just too good to be true.Overall, this film congealed into the epitome of excellence, scoring a solid 9.8 (that tough Romulan judge gave it a 9.6).  It brilliantly combines the most successful elements of Generations and First Contact, making for an awesome ride through the never-dull world of Star Trek. "},{"Title":"the curse of odd numbers continue","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  oh good god after row row row your boat comes gilbert and sulivan sung because they can. the fx is less spectacular.the movie is obviously done on the cheap.F murray abraham is wasted in a poor villan role.the flying transporter scene is awful.even the avengers movie had much better fx.the story is ok.but a Wrath of Khan it is not. "}{"Title":"An objective view. . .","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  People like to make mention of the odd-numbered curse. That is justified. But, let's look at Star Trek Insurrection objectively.Not comparing to other Star Trek The Film Frontier movies, it is an OK movie, but at times, it feels like a bloated TV episode. (Especially where Patrick Stewart wastes time talking to Admiral Dougherty)The fountain of youth idea has been visited before in Star Trek The Original Series' episode The Omega Glory. But every time it has been used, it wasn't a true fountain of youth. In Star Trek Insurrection it is genuine.Rick Berman and the other cast members have the audacity to say that this film was the best Star Trek film since Star Trek The Motion Picture. (which also had mixed reactions) But I think it is funny how they change their minds after the fans have seen it. Look at Star Trek V The Final Frontier. James Doohan (Scotty) said the fans would be pleased with it, and then three weeks later says the movie sucks.Captain Jean-Luc Picard has become the 24th century's Kirk. In Star Trek Generations he is a total wimp. In Star Trek First Contact we see for the first time, a sign of bitter rage from Captain Picard. Unfortunately, he has dropped it for the more role model look for humanity in this film.Data's character has changed dramatically since Star Trek The Next Generation. But what is unsettling about this film, is that Data never even sets foot on the bridge!Riker's character has reverted back to it's boyish character from season one of TNG. He has shaved the beard, and has become more likeable.Dr. Crusher has aged greatly. She needs to finally get together with Captain Jean-Luc Picard though. Or someone else.Counselor Troi has changed for the better since Star Trek The Next Generation. I can remember in Disaster she didn't know a sensor array from a tricorder. In Star Trek Insurrection she uses a tricorder and wants to vaporize things with her phaser! A good film for her.Worf needs to find a place and stay there. It was very un Trek-Like to have Worf's reason for being on the U.S.S. Enterprise interrupted by Riker and Geordi. Since he left Deep Space Nine to be the ambassador to Kronos, it is doubtful he will return in Star Trek XGeordi has returned to the bridge. In the first season of Star Trek The Next Generation, he was the pilot for the ship, but then becomes the chief engineer. In Star Trek Insurrection, we don't know if he is the pilot or the engineer.Ru'Afo is definately not up to par as a villian. He has every chance to evilliy take the planet, but he just sits in his office and pouts. When he kills Admiral Dougherty, it is just to re-assure us that he is the bad guy.Anij is not any Lily Sloane. Lily was a better love interest for Captain Picard because she could relate to our time, but Anij seems like she is from the 17th century, but she is more attractive that Lily.And finally Admiral Dougherty. Anthony Zerbe?! I can think of a few more people that would play him better. Like Robert DeNiro, or Sean Connery.In summary, Star Trek Insurrection may be a disappointment, but it depends on what genre of Star Trek fan you are. If you liked the Dominion War saga from Star Trek Deep Space Nine this movie isn't for you. But if you were a person who watched Star Trek because of its optimistic outlook of the future, than you'd like it. It's like Captain Picard said Can anyone remember when we used to be explorers?Besides, if they used this film for character development, just imagine what Star Trek X will be like. "},{"Title":"Despite one major flaw, a good Trek movie","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie had, in my opinion, one major flaw -- the inclusion of Worf.  When TNG ran on television, Worf was one of my favorite characters.  When he moved to DS9, however, he quickly became my most hated Trek character (even above Chakotay and Neelix, both of whom kept me from ever enjoying a single Voyager episode).  He's on DS9 now, why the **** is he here?  At least in the last movie, his appearance almost made sense.  Even Sulu had *reasons* for showing up after he got his own command in the last few TOS movies! On the other hand, this movie is, for the first time in a long time, a step in the right direction for Trek in general.  Since Roddenberry's death, Trek in general has gone downhill, and I'd almost be happy to see the whole franchise fall than put up with any more movies like First Contact.Those of you who're calling for the next movie to be the last TNG movie -- well, it's better than the alternative; DS9 or Voyager movies.   "},{"Title":"The best of the first three Next Generation movies","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"     Generations was mediocre until it fell apart in the last act, thus ruining what should have been the most poignant, heart-breaking moment in Star Trek history.  First Contact was a lot of fun and had plenty of action, but the plot was full of holes.  Insurrection has a tight plot and a story that knows its bounds.   This movie's strength is that it knows the story is not large enough in scope to warrant excessive dramatics and epic subplots (the weakness that killed Generations).  The storyline, which shows an alien race trying to harness (and deplete) the natural resources of an inhabited planet with the blessing of the Federation, is tighter than it first appears to be.  The most commonly asked question is, Why don't the aliens just find someplace to live on the planet?  Then they will receive the benefit of the fountain of youth rings without relocating anyone.  But the aliens want to live in space.  They want to live as explorers, so they are trying to have the best of both worlds.   Still, it's not a grand plot, so it's not a grand movie.  The entire movie (except when we first see the Enterprise) takes place in a single solar system.  The trek across the planet's surface is given sufficient treatment, but Frakes, as director, knows when to cut it short.  I will admit that there are a couple of weak scenes, but only a couple.  The rest of the movie moves at a good pace with solid performances all around.  What more do you need? "},{"Title":"Good, but not up to the best of Trek","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Insurrection is one of those Star Trek movies that would have made a great double episode. The story and character development are really not sufficiently grand or large scale enough for a movie. Of course, the special effects are definitely theatre quality, but sfx alone do not a good Star Trek make. The plot alone is just not big enough. We've seen prime directive motivated stories many times through most of the franchise shows (from original series through to Voyager). We've seen utopia-type cultures many times, too. Even the fountain-of-youth kinda plot has been used a few times before. Okay, this was an interesting mix of the three, but there just wasn't anything different enough about this one to really make it work. Star Trek motion picture plots should - in my opinion at least - be painted on a much broader canvas. Take 'Undiscovered Country', for example - despite it's reliance on a murder mystery, some pretty corny Kirk-jokes, and an anti-climactic ending, at least we were talking about a big, large-canvas issue.The relationships between the crew are not working as well in this one, I feel. Certainly the renewed romance between Troi and Riker comes across as forced and unimaginative - the dialogue is trite, and the performances just don't carry it off. Data is, yet again, wasted (except, perhaps, for the firm boobs line...). Worf had something of a contribution to make to the humour (Definitely experiencing aggressive tendencies, Sir!), but was otherwise underused. But some of the wink-wink, buddy-buddy stuff was excruciating, and reminiscent of the worst of Wesley Crusher.Picard's relationship with Anij could have been better developed and explored. It's becoming a little cliched to have the captain (any captain) find romance with the first good-looking support character that comes along - it was often one of the worst aspects of the original series. There were a few little differences in this one, but they weren't fully explored, and Donna Murphy was certainly underutilised.Whilst this one was good, I won't be placing it at the top of my ordered list of Star Trek movies. It's not the worst, but it's not the best.If this franchise is going to last at the cinemas, then the producers are going to have to start thinking BIG. Not only was there little visually in this one (other than the superior effects) that wouldn't have worked on the smaller screen (even the colonist's village seemed like a set from the TV show), but the opportunity to explore bigger issues and more complex plots was also wasted.  "},{"Title":"Not very good","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek has been the inspiration for what is arguably one of the best ongoing movie series ever, right up there with James Bond.  For more than twenty years, the Enterprise has graced the silver screen.  While many of these films have been very entertaining, the odd-numbered ones have always been somewhat lacking.  This has caused many people to say that there is an odd-number curse plaguing the Trek film series.For the most part, I'd have to say that's true, but Star Trek III is a strong argument against the curse theory.  It's certainly not a classic, but it is a good and entertaining film.Insurrection, on the other hand, is a strong argument supporting the curse theory.  I would have to say that this is one of the worst Trek features to date.  Don't get me wrong, it's not nearly as bad as Star Trek V. But at times it gets dangerously close.The biggest problem is the script.  In a nutshell, here is the plot  There is an implausible alien race called the Ba'ku that live peacefully all alone on a planet whose rings provide a fountain of youth-like effect on these people, keeping them youthful for all eternity.  The Ba'ku do not believe in using any sort of advanced technology unless it suits their needs, so they're really in trouble when another race called the So'na wants to relocate them so they can benefit from the effects of the planet's rings. And they'll do this without the Ba'ku even knowing about it, because the Federation is helping them, and they have a holodeck spaceship that will allow the Ba'ku to be transported away from their homeworld without ever realizing they have left their village?Confused?It makes slightly more sense if you see the movie, but the plot is still pretty confusing.  It's also pretty stupid.  I don't get why the Federation would be helping the So'na with this.  Non-Trekkies probably could care less, but any Star Trek fan could tell you that the Federation is all about peace, and this just doesn't seem like a very peaceful pursuit.One of the most annoying things about this movie was the effects.  This film had a generous budget, and that shows through some of the time.  Some cases in point are the CGI creatures a hummingbird and a pocket-walrus thingie that are both pretty cool, but put together they couldn't have more than thirty seconds of screen time.  What really gets me are all the space sequences.  Supposedly, they were done all on computers by the company that does the effects for the Star Trek TV shows.  All-CG spaceships are fine for TV shows, but in a big-screen feature you expect more.  The ships in this film look all right when they're farther away from the camera. But when they are closer to the screen, they look like CGI.  The new Enterprise-E, which looked so beautiful in First Contact, looks like a reject from Star Trek Voyager in this one.There are many other things wrong with this movie, but I doubt I can hold your attention long enough.  I just hope Star Trek X is better.  Even if it does turn out to be the last Trek film (for the Next Generation crew, anyway) it would have to be a much better send-off than this crud.After all, it'll be an even-numbered film. "},{"Title":"Where is the Insurrection?","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At first I want to say that I am a great Star Trek fan and I like every incarnation of Star Trek. Then I wanted to say, it is not a bad movie, but it is simply no blockbuster, but a tv show like adventure, which does not fit to the big screen.Firstly, the acting was not bad, but it also was not very good. Patrick Stewart gave his usual good performance as Picard.(not as good as in First Contact) Brent Spiner and the rest of the regular cast did also very well, too. As a fan I certainly liked the scenes between Riker and Troi. (Marina Sirtis looks better than ever)Secondly, the direction. I think you cannot blame the direction (Jonathan Frakes), if the writing is this bad, because Jonathan Frakes already showed us that he is a capable director,just think of First Contact or various Star Trek tv shows.Next, the biggest disappointment of the movie, the sets and visual effects. The Enterprise-E is about 700 meters in length, 100 meters longer than the old one. The old Enterprise-D had ten forward as a location for festivals , and what does the Enterprise-E have? An altered version of the observation lounge set, smaller and less impressive as ten forward, and certainly not the scale for a 60 million dollar movie. Why did not they enlarge the set by computer images? Then, the Bakoo village, same as the interior of the Enterprise, too small, or do you believe 600 people have enough living space in ten huts? You certainly do not, because it is unbelievable. Again my question. Why did not the producers just build up three huts and create the rest by computer images and mate paintings, instead of building an expansive full scale village. Dont tell me it is not possible today by using computers, because I know it is and because George Lucas did it without computers in 1976, by using paintings to enlarge the death star sets. The visual effects of the space scenes did not convince me either. They looked faked and computer like clean and they have (forgive me the expression) no soul. The producers had better got ILM for the job, because their effects are always fantastic ( forget Spawn) and have a soul.(frankly I prefer models, because you know at least they blew something up,  not just computer animated graphics.) At last , the action in Insurrection. (the rhyme is a coincidence) Lets talk about the action. Which action you might ask and you are right, there is no action. All I saw was a bid of fighting against boring flying drones and photon torpedos impacting on the planets surface just causing minor damages. (remember, they once could destroy whole star ships with shields)Okay, thats the end. I am looking forward to seeing Star Trek X, because we know very well, that this was just an ought numbered star trek movie and they never are as good as even numbered ones. "},{"Title":"What's with all the BEST TREK EVER! comments?","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Do these people work for Paramount? Honestly, anyone thinking Insurrection is the BEST TREK EVER! did not see Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan or Star Trek First Contact.This plot (forced relocation) has been done about four times in the regular series -- the most recent being Wesley Crusher's final episode.How much like a TV episode is it? IT STARS ANTHONY ZERBE FOR CHRISSAKES!The only thing that remotely interested me was the romance between Patrick Stewart and Donna Murphy, because, honestly, they're the only two actors who weren't hamming it up for the camera. Just the opposite, in the scenes they're alone together, they're quite understated and poignant. Compare that to the over-the-top Riker/Troi scenes, or Crusher's annoying quip about her boobs. All in all, Insurrection was one huge snoozefest, and since Amadeus, F. Murray Abraham has been in one clunker role after another. He's really gone downhill. "},{"Title":"Oh lord, here we go again...","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Another installment of the Picard & Data Show... TNG is dead, and I hope nr.10 will be the last. In the TNG series, it seems that Data and Picard are the only ones that actually get to do something. Picard gets involved with some woman and by the end he dumps her or she dumps him because it won't work out! Data interacts with some person or kid, everytime trying to be more human, and at times seems to achieve this, but by the next scene, seems to have forgotten all about his previous experiences. Commander Beard (Riker) gets a few seconds in the limelight, while the others run around doing their usual boring stuff. Oh well... Let's just end it now, one can only stretch it out -that- long!  "},{"Title":"A dramatic insight","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was definitely a setback after First Contact, but it was a very decent movie.Jonathan Frakes once again did a great job directing this movie. It's visually astonishing. Along with Jerry Goldsmith's outstanding soundtrack, this movie takes us in an unbelievable journey. Insurrection displays the best location filming ever featured in Star Trek history. The Ba'Ku homeworld has spetacular features and visuals.The movie's 3 bottom lines are1.Bad Screenplay2.Excessive use of humor coupled with unreal reactions of the actors.3.100 minutes of duration (too short for the movie's storyline)The movie's screenplay was written by Michael Piller based upon his and Rick Berman's story. Michael Piller is an excellent writer if this were to be a TV episode or movie. Piller's skills aren't good for the big screen. I have no doubt Insurrection would have pulled high ratings along the best Deep Space Nine episodes if it were broadcast directly on TV, instead of opening it on movie theatres.It was a mistake from Frakes and Piller to attempt overshadowing First Contact and The Voyage Home in the humor arena. It was forced. Some scenes were outstanding such as when Picard and Worf sing A British Tar and Worf surrendering the So'Na claiming they want to negotiate a cease-fire because they only have three minutes of air left aboard their ship. There were also extremely awful scenes such as Beverly and Deanna commenting about boobs.Even without Industrial Light and Magic, the movie's visual and special effects were still outstanding. Star Trek always holds its own in that area.If it weren't for Michael Piller's screenplay, this could have been the best Star Trek story to date. Rick Berman did an excellent job in creating a very dramatic and insightful story about the Ba'Ku and the So'Na with the Enterprise crew caught in the middle of the story. This story was perfectly crafted to concide in the very middle of the Dominion War taking place during DS9's 6th and 7th seasons. It was a light-hearted story in the middle of highly dramatic stories taking place throughout the Alpha Quadrant.I loved Picard's moments with Anij. But it should have been more explored. There wasn't even a single kiss! On the other hand, it was great to see Riker and Deanna finally get together. The return of Geordi's sight turned out to be one of the best parts in the movie. Insurrection was great storytelling featuring intense character development.It was awful however to see Worf's puberty or his gorch. He should have never been brought to this movie on the first place. His visit on the Enterprise isn't even explained. He should be on Deep Space Nine following his own storyline (grieving the loss of his wife and eventually the events which would make him the ambassador of Kronos in the end of DS9).Data's performance wasn't affected and it was interesting to see his scenes with the young Ba'Ku boy, Artim. I only wish he had brought his emotion chip with him. I understand it was Michael Piller's decision not to feature the chip again. I hope to see an emotional Data on the next Star Trek movie.The villain Ru'Afo was badly developed. He could have been more menacing. Not as menacing as the Borg were in the previous movie, but as menacing as Khan or Soran.The cast is outstanding! I just don't want to see another forced comedy in the next movie. Brannon Braga and Ronald D Moore are the truly excellent writers of Star Trek movies.The space battles were a disappointment, but I loved that subspace weapon used by the So'Na. What would have happened if the subspace tear had caught the Enterprise?Overall, it was an almost fantastic movie like First Contact! Jerry Goldsmith's soundtrack really set the mood for Insurrection. This was the second best TNG movie and the third best Star Trek movie after First Contact and The Undiscovered Country.Congratulations Paramount Pictures! "},{"Title":"stop comparing","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I get sick and tired of reading the comments about the odd movies being worse than the even ones.Just take each movie and judge it (if neccessary) on it`s own merits.Sure the motion picture is`nt the greatest of all but this was just to re-introduce the whole concept of Star Trek and bring itup to date(I hate that phrase)The next three were linked and should be viewed in sequence.The Final Frontier is the only oddity but is still a brilliant concept.The next two say a sad farewell to Kirk and co. and bring in the Next Generation.First Contact is excellant in it`s own right and finally on to Insurrection. Whilst I agree it`s not the best of the bunch(even I have succumbed to the comparing disease)viewed apart from the other films the story and charachters stand proudly in the Star Trek mould. I`m not going to dissect the plot but just watch it and either enjoy it or never watch it again. Personally,sad person that I am,every few months I dig out all the films and watch them in order . Who could ask for more. "}{"Title":"Annoying...","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This installment in the Trek feature series annoyed me. It should have been produced for the small screen, as it was nothing but a bloated tv episode with suggestions of sitcom humor. The story was okay, but not something I'd suggest wasting money to see in a theater. Should have waited for the video/dvd release, or better yet... waited til it hit broadcast television. Nothing will be edited, because there is nothing to edit out! The plot revolves around Picard and crew trying to protect the inhabitants of a world where life is pleasant and a ring of radiation around the planet keeps them young and content. But someone in the Federation wants to change things... Like I said, wait for it on tv.    "},{"Title":"Breaks the Odd-movie curse","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was greater than the last. it had the humer of Star trek IV, while SPOILERStar trek First contact had the Time travel. There's the Amusing scene when Picard and worf are persuing data, and Worf's Regeneration it was an amusing movie. the best Next Generation Movie so far "},{"Title":"Kind of blah","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having seen Star Trek Insurrection a few times in the theater and now on video, I finally realized how dull the movie is. I am a big Star Trek fan, and I find this movie watchable, but the movie had a been there, done that before feeling to it. The main premise of the movie, about moving people from one planet to another, was done (better I might add) in an episode of The Next Generation featuring Paul Sorvino. Why bring the plot up again? Also, the action sequences were very pale in comparison to Wrath of Kahn or Undiscovered Country. I really hate to compare movies, but this film seems warmed over. Also, the humor really seemed staged and it wasn't natural. They also relied a little on gross or bathroom humor.Those things aside, I did enjoy the subplot with Picard and the woman, about the single moment of time. The acting and the direction were fine.If a more original story was presented, I wouldn't have felt so blah. To me, even when Star Trek is bad, it's still watchable. I give this film a C+  "},{"Title":"Insurrection is pure Trek","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although overall not as compelling as First Contact, Insurrection breaks, in my mind, the fabled odd-number Trek film jinx.  It scales back the action and goes back to what Star Trek does best, the old-fashioned morality play.  One can't watch this film and not think of one of the uglier parts of our American heritage the forced relocation of the Native Americans.  This film reminds us to learn from our past mistakes. Outstanding, and deserved a better take at the box office.  The one gripe that keeps this from being a 10 didn't we just do the eternal youth thingy two films ago, in Generations? "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Aside from making First Contact and maybe even Generations seem less appalling by comparison, this film has no redeeming qualities.  It's too boring to be good commercial sci-fi-thriller, and to busy *trying* (unsuccessfully, I think) to pander to the toy-buying teenage boys to be the technobabble thought-opera The Next Generation usually was on TV.If they can't tell, or can't (to the CineMall crowd) sell, a good story, at least make it exciting and as believable as sci-fi gets.  Lose Captain Shakespeare, put the paunchy android on a diet, and COME ON(!!!)  I enjoy comic relief (I even liked Jar Jar Binx a little) but is Worf a warrior or a weenie?  A grown Klingon in the 24th century can't find Clearasil? Starfleet medical can cure a subdural hematoma with a flashlight and an old salt shaker but can't zap a zit?  Suspending disbelief is one thing, but checking my brain at the door to a supposedly intelligent film is another.I enjoy Star Trek on TV, but lately the movies have been failing.  (Every one after The Voyage Home, to be blunt, has been a waste of time, and I'm now only guilty of watching them because that's what someone's playing on the VCR of the on-call lounge.) "},{"Title":"Star Trek at an all time low!!","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection by far is the worst of the nine existing Trek films. No, no, worse than that--it doesn't deserve the name Star Trek.Its focus on the evils of transplanting of a small group of people is somewhat enlightening, but this was simply not a compelling story.  For the first time ever with a Trek movie, I was bored to death in the theatre. At least in Generations, the second worst film, I could await the much anticipated appearance of Kirk. Insurrection fails, I think, because the storyline lags behind with virtually no action.  The cutsie little attempts at making this movie entertaining with the Next Generation crew is simply terrible---the writers of Star Trek need to think some things through before they depend on Riker's beard-shaving, a navigation joystick, and Data's playing to carry a Star Trek film. In my own opinion, the plot fails because the storyline is not far-reaching enough---most viewers I presume want to see Earth in danger, then the Enterprise (or whatever ship they'll use later) swoops in to save the day. The Star Trek shows that get the worst reviews (V, Gen., Insurrection) were event driven in some remote corner of the galaxy that was virtually unimportant. First Contact, The Undiscovered Country, and the rest create an Armaggeddon of a storyline, then our heros swoop in to save the day.  Sure it makes for predictability, but most movies are predictable these days. Insurrection is by far, a miss. I hope Rick Berman gets it right next time! -) "},{"Title":"excellent if your a Star Trek fan; otherwise ...","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a Star Trek fan, I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.  It was one of the best of the Star Trek movies.  Of course, that makes it about the same as a particularly good double episode of the series.  As a result, my guess is that non-Star Trek fans would not enjoy the movie. "},{"Title":"Star Trek What's to Generate?","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen every Star Trek episode of all four television series as well as all the movies. Sad to say, on average, the best of the tv shows is generally superior to most of the films (with some notable exceptions). Perhaps this is because, like the X-Files movie, the director has to explain to the non-fans who and what the characters are all about.Insurrection was a bitter disappointment coming as it did on the heels of the excellent First Contact. I rank it below Generations, another disappointment. You want a great TNG story? Try the two-part series finale. Now that was a show superb acting, excellent plot, compelling mystery.As for Insurrection, my rating is 6 out of 10. How very sad... "},{"Title":"For its faults, Insurrection wins at letting characters shine","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay let's lay down the negative parts of the film first so I can get to the positive aspects (that's what I'm reviewing this movie for anyway). Insurrection suffers from a double-edged plot line inadequately unfolded in a mere 90 minutes, the lack of a definite lead villain (though I enjoyed Ru'afa, he's no Kahn Noonian Singh), and the absence of a satisfying and fulfilling ending. Insurrection would be the perfect Next Generation flick if it had only posessed these things.Now's the point where I second-guess my own review so far the plotline was not designed for a feature film; it was designed to be used in a series episode, perhaps a two-parter. So Insurrection had that going against it from the start. The Federation-Sona' conspiracy was too complex already to have room for a definitive villain (even General Chang in Undiscovered Country just missed it). And the dramatic elements never built up enough to have the material for a slam-bang ending.Now on to the primary element that made alone Insurrection worth watching... The extended on-location shooting and the human element of slavery and ethics gave the characters a real chance to shine, specifically Picard and Data. In Insurrection, we see Data in the way that we grew to love him; inquisitive, selfless and innocent, the Data who saw things with the wonder of a child, which Tasha Yar once said, makes him more human than any of us.I'm afraid if I said anything about Picard's shining moments, I would give away too much of the plot. Just see it and find out. Suffice it to say that Patrick Stewart did his usual wonderful job throughout the movie. Although his character was the unfortunate victim of a slightly-corny romantic element (that's ALL I'll say hehehe), it is easy to ignore in light of Picard's many shining moments.Some other little tidbits, good and bad- The shuttlecraft chase between Picard, Worf and Data would be worth double the admission EVEN if that was all we saw. Priceless. Absolutely priceless. - How the Tribble did Worf get back there AGAIN?! Geordi starts babbling just when we're about to find out!! Ahhh!!- Worf enters puberty. It's arguable that Worf was just here in Insurrection to be made fun of, but admit Trekkies you LOVED it. -)- We're beginning to see a definite pattern in Jonathan Frakes' directing style - fresh, heroic, and light-hearted even during dramatic moments. I must say I wouldn't mind if he began a directing career.- Paramount needs to lock Jerry Goldmith in a room and only feed him if he contractually agrees to score every Star Trek film for all eternity. Speaking bluntly, no one does it better. (If you need more proof, be reminded that both the Next Generation theme music and the Klingon theme originated with Goldsmith).I believe it to be overall the best of the TNG movies, the greatest reason being that the characters have always been the most interesting part of Roddenberry's original vision, and here we TNG fans, for the first time since the series, really got to see our beloved characters shine.   "},{"Title":"An excellent film!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before I rented this film, I wasn't a huge Star Trek fan; however, my view changed after I saw this film. I now want to see all of the Star Trek films because this was that good. Star Trek Insurrection begins as Jean-Luc Picard leads his crew of Riker, Wharf, and Data in a mission to save a colony of people from being removed from their land. The Baku are a colony of immortals who will soon be removed if the Star Fleet can't do anything about it. The enemy is a group called the Sonar led by Ru'afo. Later on in the movie a great twist involving the Sonar and Baku is revealed. There is a little bit of chemistry between the Counselor Troi and Commander Riker played by the director, Jonathan Frakes as well as Anij and Captain Picard whom he met while he was on the surface. Jonathan Frakes did an excellent job as he pulled double duty as star and director. The special effects one film were really good. Star Trek Insurrection is one of those movies that all trekkies will enjoy and in my case new interest will arise from those who have not seen a Star Trek film before. This film also includes all the ingredients such as romance, drama, and action; for this reason, it is a reason for everyone to see. "}{"Title":"Star Trek  Indigestion","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What do you do when your TV series fades into cosmic, particulate matter? Answer  you make another movie entitled Star Trek Insurrection.The gang's all here again, looking older and fatter - except Jean-Luc Picard(Patrick Stewart), who looks great as usual.  This time the Federation is the enemy.  It seems there is a certain planet whose environment arrests and even turns back the aging process - kind of a Planet Geritol, if you will.   The perspicacious Picard uncovers a Federation plot to relocate the planet's inhabitants so that it can be assimilated within the Federation collective.  Sounds almost Borg-like to us.As the story unfolds, Picard learns he can't even trust his own colleagues, one of whom is the Admiral Matthew Dougherty (the wonderfully oily Anthony Zerbe).  Then there is Ahdar Ru'afo (F.Murray Abraham), who looks an awful lot like he did as the older Soliari in Amadeus.   Ru'afo (don't you love these names?) is actually former inhabitant of the planet who, judging from his face,  obviously should have used a higher SPF.  Anyway,  Jean-Luc decides this relocation stuff must be stopped and, along the way, falls for a 300-year-old beauty while compatriot Data (Brent Spiner) falls for a 12-year-old boy (it's really very innocent).But it's appallingly uninspired and well, rather dull.  It does however, give us one more chance to appreciate the other-worldly beauty of Marina Sirtis, who gives 7-of-9 a run for the money. "},{"Title":"Star Trek  Indigestion","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What do you do when your TV series fades into cosmic, particulate matter? Answer  you make another movie entitled Star Trek Insurrection.The gang's all here again, looking older and fatter - except Jean-Luc Picard(Patrick Stewart), who looks great as usual.  This time the Federation is the enemy.  It seems there is a certain planet whose environment arrests and even turns back the aging process - kind of a Planet Geritol, if you will.   The perspicacious Picard uncovers a Federation plot to relocate the planet's inhabitants so that it can be assimilated within the Federation collective.  Sounds almost Borg-like to us.As the story unfolds, Picard learns he can't even trust his own colleagues, one of whom is the Admiral Matthew Dougherty (the wonderfully oily Anthony Zerbe).  Then there is Ahdar Ru'afo (F.Murray Abraham), who looks an awful lot like he did as the older Soliari in Amadeus.   Ru'afo (don't you love these names?) is actually former inhabitant of the planet who, judging from his face,  obviously should have used a higher SPF.  Anyway,  Jean-Luc decides this relocation stuff must be stopped and, along the way, falls for a 300-year-old beauty while compatriot Data (Brent Spiner) falls for a 12-year-old boy (it's really very innocent).But it's also appallingly uninspired and well, rather dull.  It does however, give us one more chance to appreciate the other-worldly beauty of Marina Sirtis.  She is still a 10 -- and definitely gives 7-of-9 a run for the money. "},{"Title":"A bad movie...","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a Star Trek fan, so I am sorry to say that this movie is one of the worst of the lot.  I felt sorry for Brent Spiner, a talented actor, who had to say cheesy lines like saddle up! and lock and load!  I cringed when he uttered those words!The bad guys (the Son'a) did not elicit any fear so there was no overwhelming sense of danger.  The protagonist race, the Baku, were inexplicably all Caucasian humans.  Paramount didn't even attempt to make them look non-human!  For the most part, they were average, so it was hard to generate any feelings for them.The Star Trek universe gives Paramount Pictures' writers unlimited story possibilities.  It is a shame that Star Trek Insurrection was the best they could do for this latest movie.A better concept would have been to focus the movie on the beings who sent the V'Ger probe to Earth, or focus on interesting aliens such as the Tholians.  They should put more effort into creating better quality movies that provide thrilling entertainment for audiences. "},{"Title":"Hmmm...","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection proves to be just another movie of a franchise that NEVER goes beyond the final frontier.  While the film certainly puts on an entertaining show, I can't help but feel that the plot is banal and full of cliches.  Star Trek Insurrection tries to be one of those hip, rockin' sci-fi films like Independence Day with catchy phrases saddle up, lock and load, but we all heard that a dozen times in the commercials.  To be fair, Star Trek Insurrection revives the old plot where the hero in the white hat comes to town to save some poor widow's farm from cattle rustlers--a warming nostalgia--which gives the movie a kind of good ol' feeling.  The villains are unmistakable in this film although its puzzling that something as liberal as Star Trek employs hired goons who are African-American aliens. And can someone tell me why the a world that is called paradise is only inhabited by Caucasians nonetheless?  Star Trek Insurrection certainly brushes on the displacement of American-Indians with a preachy lecture by the hereo--Captain Picard.  That's Insurrection's greatest problem it tries to be intellectual yet action packed simultaneously.  Consequently, the plot involves a lot of juvenile humor--Aliens with pimples for example--that comes off rather bizarre.  Insurrection is the easiest Star Trek film to understand as charachter development is nil to none, but that's understandable considering the Next Generation series ended six years ago and all personal growth is dead.  What Insurrection does succeed in is positively illuminating sci-fi which, incidentally, is a genre that has been grossly macabre in recent years.  Insurrection is worth watching as entertainment but you won't be musing about it in the shower the next morning. "},{"Title":"this movie angers me.. boo writing","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forget that this is a star trek film for a minute imagine a movie, any movie, which ends with the big moral being, and I quote, remember you have to have a little fun.. every day. Aaah! that's terrible!Okay, back to the context of Trek movies... this is indeed the worst one ever made.  A lot of people say #5 is.. but at least, at the beginning, you had a guy out in the cold, and you could believe that he was in pain.  In this, most of the characters are completely unconvincing, making boring speeches and little look at us, we're in a movie lines like the ha, another speech about the prime directive! thing.  Womp womp womp.  And the seeming promise of the film in the trailer, that we will get to see Picard and crew rebelling against the federation, is a total letdown. And... the jokes!  Soooo bad!  Whew... I guess the picture is gotten. Trekkers have to see this movie, it's part of the territory, but don't rent it unless you want a movie to make fun of. And Data has had more fun than playing in haystacks before! grr! "},{"Title":"The Curse of the Odd Trek Films Returns!","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While not the worse Trek film by any means, Star Trek V proudly takes that honor, it definitely doesn't rank up there with Star Trek II or First Contact.  This is basically a comedy.  There is loads of humor, which isn't necessarily bad when it's done with a decent story like in Star Trek IV, but the story is so unoriginal that most of the jokes just seem tacked so that people will not focus on the lame plot.  The effects are pretty good for the most part, but nothing very outstanding like the opening of First Contact with the battle against the Borg cube.  If you're a Trek fan, I suggest you see this simply because you're a Trek fan.  If you're not a Trekkie, avoid this sub-par Trek film.  If you want to rent a good sci-fi movie that's come out in recent years rent Dark City.  Avoid the Independence Days and Fifth Elements at all costs. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the last one.","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mm...The story is little boring. Not as exciting as First Contect. And I don`t think the meaning of A second is eternity has been well expressed in this story. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Star Trek movies","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Along with the Undiscovered Country and First Contact, Insurrection is one of the superior entries in the Star Trek series.  That is by comparing the Star Trek movies among themselves and not among other mainstream movies. The production, special effects, plot, dialog and acting are well done. Speaking of those who complain about the Insurrection's plot and dialog, I can't wait for the offering of fellow genre series Star Wars I The Phantom Menace;  Let's see, bad guy says, I am here to conquer your solar system, about 10,000 times.  Ruler of planet being attacked responds, I cannot allow you to subjugate my helpless citizens, about 500 times, while Jedi Knights repeat the phrase, May the Force Be With Us, about 9 million times.  Yep, great plot and dialog in those Star Wars movies.  No wonder so many people criticize Star Trek movies. There ARE flaws aplenty  Joy stick navigation, the enemy blown up just in time, Picard inducing Data to sing opera, having to hover over a space-station to Picard aboard.  But I enjoyed the breeziness of the characters interactions and finally some sexual situations! Picard's romance is handled beautifully. Troi is underused but luscious! I am annoyed that Worf, Giordi and Dr. Crusher are ignored. I understand Riker being under used;  Jonathan Frakes has expressed his concern over the difficulty of directing and acting in a pressure cooker environment. In some ways, TNG is becoming more like Classic Trek by concentrating on just Picard and Data.  It's almost as insulting as The Adventures Of 7 Of 9. Jonathan Frakes's direction, independent of the script, is superb.  I think adults will enjoy this movie more than teenagers because it centers more on inter-character banter than explosions. Anyway, Paramount and Jonathan Frakes have announced no more Star Trek movies until after the new Star Wars Trilogy is completed.  Translate that as no more movies since the Trilogy will probably take about 10 years to play out its financial course. Unfortunately, the Star Trek dynasty, which never really translated successfully into the commercial market place of movie theaters is dead.  Sad. "},{"Title":"Star Trek gets back to real Science Fiction","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let's face it.Star Trek The Next Generation was a good show.  Much of the time they dealt with interesting topics, sometimes it was just fun, and there were always great special effects.  This is great for us if we want to watch the shows, but it's really bad for the people who make the movies.  Why?  Think about it - they have to make a product along the same lines which is so much better than the show that people will go out to the theatres and pay $7 to see it.They have a really tough job.  Which is why I really feel sorry for them that another one of the Star Trek movies has fallen short of the goal they need to set for themselves.  Star Trek Insurrection, at least, is written with an interesting premise - one that draws on American treatment of the Native Americans, among other sources.There's a decent space battle, and a lot of good moments with Picard & Company, but in all honesty, I felt about this movie the same way I felt about First Contact It was like a pretty good episode.  Neither one was as good as the best episodes the show had; neither one was as good as Star Trek VI, my favorite of the series.Don't get me wrong - this movie is fun.  It's got good special effects, lots of great one-liners, a solid plot and decent acting for the most part. But because it's Star Trek and I can see all that every night on television, I feel it fell short of what it should've been. "},{"Title":"Midlife Crisis!","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What were the creators thinking when they drew the plot for Insurrection. It's not like there are no good stories in the 24th century. All Star Trek movies have succeeded with plot lines that represent political thrillers and action while exploring the human condition the exception being Star Trek IV. The Cardassians, The Bajorans, and the whole quadrant of the Dominion must pose some excitement for a movie line? I, however, feel comforted that by the time the next movie comes along good old Q may be back or else we will get to see some serious Romulan action who have never been casted as an adversary.  The creators must fix this midlife crisis of this Star Trek stagnation otherwise we may sadly see a series diminish prematurely. "}{"Title":"Story Line is up there, Action lacking from First Contact","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The story line of this movie is way up there.  The plot development and detail easily supersedes STFirst Contact.  Which was basically kill the Borg and save the Earth and that's about it.  However, no storyline can compete with STGenerations  whose story and mystery is very good indeed. The action sequences are lacking ever so slightly, and little seems to occur on board the Enterprise.  First Contacts action sequences especially at the beginning with the Borg cube attacking Earth was brilliant, and this action was lacking from Insurrection.  On the whole Generations was more rounded, but a great film nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Beyond, the rim of starlight...","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  GREAT movie - 'specially if you're a moderate trekkie; really was a fun show, overall, but the romance made me just a wee bit nautious.  Keep 'em comin', I say -- but leave out all (at least some) of the musshhy.  "},{"Title":"Pretty Weak","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An OK time waster but weak plot that anyone with an ounce of intelligence could have figured out within the first 30 minutes. Nothing new. This movie was just a overlong TV episode (and a mediocre one at that) with better special effects.One other thing, when are they going to get some type of targeting device for their phasers. We have laser designators now, I imagine in 350 years they aught to have something a lot more sophisticated or has their prime directive dulled their senses? "},{"Title":"Disappointing. The curse of the odd numbered movies lives on.","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For me, Insurrection was not a good film. It seems the odd numbered Star Trek films continue to be a let down in comparison to the even numbered films.Insurrection's plot is one of the oldest science-fiction plots in history. That is not a bad thing, but what is bad is the fact that with such a plot, there is an enormous amount of potential, of which Insurrection doesn't follow through on.Even the name Insurrection doesn't fit the context of the film, because Picard and his crew's so-called rebellion isn't against Starfleet or the Federation, but it is against one Admiral, and what the Son'a plan to do to the helpless Ba'ku race.Also, the fact that Picard's actions are so blatantly one-sided that NO ONE in the Federation would ever view his actions as wrong or even controversial, so the Insurrection itself does not exist.The humour in the film was hammered in too hard, so instead of being funny, it was being annoying and forced.The thing that annoyed me the most about this film, especially being a huge Star Trek fan, was the ending. I've read about the original ending, and would've found that more satisfying, even though it wasn't too great either.In First Contact, we had a really great ending, but in Insurrection, we had a Hollywood Safe ending, where Captain Picard is beamed out at the Last Possible Moment. This not only lacked suspense (because there was no doubt that he was going to survive and Ru'afo was going to get blown up real good) but it lacked imagination and thought. It sounded like it was thought up in a few minutes (and seeing as though the original ending was changed, it probably was!)In fact, what annoyed me the most was what the writers did with Data. Michael Piller said that he didn't like the fact that Data had an emotion chip, so he decided to regress his character. Aparently, Data just didn't bring the emotion chip, and spent the entire movie as a socially inept naivete, which is how he was around 5th or 6th season Next Generation. He took such a leap forward and grew so much in First Contact, and in Insurrection, he took about six or seven steps backwards.The plot of finding the fountain of youth was not dealt with well. This discovery has to potential to have massive repercussions throughout the entire Federation, especially since the planet is in THEIR space. However, instead of showing us this, the film gives us ONE representative (Admiral Dougherty, who is in leage with the Son'a), who dies, is not enough. It was a waste of the plot if all it meant was that it would be logged as Another Day At The Office.Furthermore, the Picard romance with Anij was not very good. Anij was a peaceful character and was very slow-paced and tame. Picard has always gone after fresh, vibant women, and now he finds himself in love with this woman who, because she is so at peace with herself, becomes infuriatingly dull and annoying.The scene where she ALMOST died was completely unnecessary, as it added nothing to the plot of the movie.Overall, I was extremely disappointed with Insurrection. I hope that with the Next Generation's next (and probably final) film, they do a better job. They tried to give us a light-hearted story and it came across as ill-conceived and dull. The humour was forced out of the characters, unlike in Star Trek IV The Voyage Home, when it naturally grew out of the characters.Here's hoping for a better STAR TREK X "},{"Title":"Why I ask, Why?","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why did they make this movie? They could have made something better in 3 years than slap something together in less than 2. I can wait for good movies; I waited for 6 after the terrible #5 and the anti-climatic #4. I waited for First Contact after 5 years without a good Star Trek movie. God, I hope next time they'll think about the fans and Gene before making another Star Trek movie. I can wait for good ones, I can't wait to throw away bad ones.  "},{"Title":"A sound addition to the series","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, I had hoped to be writing a gushing review of the latest Trek film after watching it, but in truth I'm really not sure what to make of it. I don't doubt that after its 5th or so showing I'll love it, but my initial reaction was &#145;Ho Hum'. It certainly left us all wanting more, basically because it didn't really end well, but Star Trek isn't exactly famed for its amazing finishes, is it? (See any STVoyager episode for proof).In essence Insurrection was made in the true Star Trek tradition; Rodenberry's hope for a greater future and the betterment of man, plenty of humour al la The Voyage Home &#150; at times even slapstick - and many action plots like Frake's created in First Contact.F. Murray Abraham is an excellent addition to the regular cast as the &#145;baddie' Raufo. Garbed in a costume which can only politely be described as ridiculous, it was his acting which shone out for me, as well as the forever Oscar-denied Stewart of course!! Riker loses his beard halfway through &#150; is that a hint that something bad is looming? (1st series STTNG). Anthony Zerbe (Shark-owning bloke in The Living Daylights) is not bad either as the misguided Starfleet Admiral.It was quite clear that Industrial Light and Magic were too busy doing &#145;The Phantom Menace' as there was a new style to the SFX. I thought the space shots were a bit too smooth, except the impressive Riker manoeuvre, which cost slightly more than tugging at the bottom of your tunic. However, the Son'a tagging devices on the Baku planet made up for it.As always, Jerry Goldsmith wrote an excellent musical score which matched the mood of the film throughout. The opening theme was a gentle tune introducing us to the Planet Bak'u over the credits. Much more effective than the usual fanfare over stars nonsense.Once again Crusher hardly features and Brent Spiner is underused.All in all I guess Insurrection was quite good &#150; it dragged on a bit &#150; but in the end it stayed true to the Star Trek tradition and was fun to watch. Let's just hope it's not the last . "},{"Title":"Star Trek will live long and prosper...","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was actually glad to see this movie.  I am a big hard core Trek fan and I almost lost interest after the death of Gene Roddenberry (the writers started to get weird after his death).  I was also disappointed in First Contact. But after seeing this movie, I am reassured that Trek is still a wonderful saga and will live long and prosper.Patrick Stewart and Jonathan Frakes both do great jobs at acting, producing, and directing.  (Stewart produced the film and Frakes directed it)Overall an 8.5 out of 10.  It kept the quality and wonders of the Next Generation series. "},{"Title":"Loved this movie","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I won't tell you about the plot of this picture, firstly because there's not much of it, and secondly because I feel it's a bit beside the point of this film.Also, please understand that I think the whole star trek idea, is for hundreds of reasons, not only physically impossible (matter-antimatter converters! Sound in space!) but also, if you ignore all of this, which I do, very, very improbable (as if responsible people would send out away teams to the surface of a hostile planet without checking for dangerous viruses!)So, you can criticize all you want about these aspects of the film, and I'd probably agree with you.What I loved about Insurrection for one, the whole film was so thoroughly made. The acting was good, it was well-paced, the images were very beautifully conceived, none of the dialogues were rusty, there was a lot of sentiment but it was convincing. Second, it was (I felt) more personal than the usual TNG stuff; I felt as if the characters in the movie stood a fair chance of actually changing. Riker and Picard get to have very pleasing love affairs, which for once, I found beautiful instead of plastic. And for once, their women don't die by the end of the movie. Data actually gets crazy. Worf restarts his puberty... I loved the humour of the film as well.Comparing 'Insurrection' to the other TNG movies I thought 'Generations' was really bad. I found this film matched the quality of First Contact, but it was different in that there was not as much violence, which I enjoyed because I hate violence, but some of you will probably miss that.Apparently, Jonathan Frakes knows how to direct. It also seems  the actors enjoyed doing this movie. I rated this movie 8, which means it's not art, but apart from that it has everything.  "},{"Title":"Maybe its heresy.","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This may be heretical, but in my opinion, Insurrection was far better than First Contact.  First Contact was too dark for Star Trek,  Insurrection hit all the right notes, it was light and funny. It did not take itself too seriously.It is also nice to see that it has managed to break the curse of the odd numbered Star Trek.  Unfortunately we are now all searching for something new to believe in. Our beliefs have been shattered. "},{"Title":"First Contact was much better...","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In my opinion, Insurrection was not the kind of sequel I was hoping for after enjoying First Contact. The latter one had the Borg, it had fights between starships, it had deads... It had action! But Insurrection lacks any action! The story isn't exciting and it doesn't surprise you at all.The plot shows us some psycho-analytic views of Picard and Data, it puts the characters into the foreground... But by that, the story itself is cut down. And the worst thing A powerfully armed Federation vessel is attacked by a little starship and doesn't defend itself! Yes, the Federation has become weak. This movie gave us the last evidence we needed for this conclusion. "}{"Title":"yippee ! they're back !","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Who cares if the crew are aging a bit or the jokes are a bit standard - they're back ! and we can drift off with them to yet another planet, yet another dilemma, yet more special effects and humanoid aliens. The story is simple but controversial and Jean Luc is the tower of strength that a captain should be even if Number One is lurking waiting to step into his shoes ! His character is developing with each film as Kirk did many years before. Well done crew and thanks for more hours of tongue in cheek adventure ! "},{"Title":"Explosion of FX","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Generations was a mistake, Star Trek First Contact was several steps forward and with this latest installment we step a couple back as the story line in once again missing from yet another Hollywood film. As far as Star Trek films go, this is certainly better than the majority of the Trek films, although Trek 1 was a complete disaster. The acting, however is restricted simply by the fact that only three or four people in the film could act. Frakes continues to be impressive as director as the film contains a rhythmic feel to it as each scene nicely blends into the next but it still is no more than just an over rated/budgeted Trek episode. Still extremely entertaining as part of the series but there is no character development (as with all TNG films) and you have to be a major fan to admire the films anyway. However, this does contains stunning FX and some tongue in cheek humour which we haven't seen since Star Trek 6. "},{"Title":"Star Trek for softies","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jezus, this movie is bad. It is however the best of the odd-numbered movies. You can't even speak of a mystery and/or adventure, because the story unravels itself so damn fast. I wished they'd step on the brake more often. Then there is the complete absence of appropriate Trek-language. Major goof-ups 1 You expect us to believe that a highly sofisticated Starship     like the Enterprise uses a joystick for manual helm control?!?! 2 Riker is able to command the manual steering and transfer helm   control to manual without security authorization in place?!? 3 Why the hell are the Warp-nacelles smokin' when the Enterprise     is running on full-impulse in the Briar patch to evade the Son'A?!! 4 Where are the evasive maneuvers patterns??? 5 This is just unforgivable As the Enterprise-E breaks orbit in     order to contact the Federation High Council, the Captain's Yacht is still in place! Also watch for it when she gracefully sweeps across the injector-assembly. 5 Where is the Tech-language, when the Captain's Yacht is launched (docking-clamps, thrusters, deploying nacelles,   etc....)??!! 6 Bad editing, cue shot about two-thirds into the movie.     Transition from the Dark caves (Anij is recovering) to the sunlit outside of the Mountain ridges. That really smarted my eyes!Characters The TNG-group is more rounded, more developed. Gone is the forced, childish humor so vividly present in FC (You do remember how to fire Phasers) opposed to mature, natural humor Smooth as an androids bottom. One-liners to remember, especially from cast-members you wouldn't expect. Rua'fo is not as bad, his intentions are (Khan-like). He screams like a GIRL! Unforgivable. Data's acting is far more better and fluent than in previous episodes. I had expected a far better verbal fight between Picard and Dougherty in the ready-room. It's too soft. Picard should be arguing like hell and raising his voice for everyone on the bridge to hear!FX Better than in First Contact. Motion is more fluent, when compared to the first-ever shots of the Enterprise-E in space at the beginning of FC.Sound/Music Acceptable..... Too much brass instruments used in the score. Getting tired of J. Goldsmith's predictable repertoire (STV, STFC, STINS) Score should be more like STVI, divers, dark and sweeping. Explosions are not up to Dolby-specs.Recommendations Dump Jerry Goldsmith for the next movie. Bring the score CD out  with HDCD-technology and by one of the bigger record labels. More use of A. Courage's Trek-theme than Goldsmith's TNG-theme Time to introduce a new theme. This is going to be the tenth  movie. Celebrate it! Introduce DS9 castmembers, or involve them in it. We want a war, more battle scenes.... The Federation at the  brink of extinction. Dump Rick Berman. Keep Jonathan Frakes as director. More attention to detail. Last but not least, Kill Picard and let Riker take over as was  promised in Generations.The best Trek-movie is still STII -Wrath of Khan- "},{"Title":"One Hell Of A Fun Movie!","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I would say this entry in the Star Trek series is one of the best. Next to First Contact and Generations, this is easily the best sequel. The acting is great, the action thrilling, and the effects better than ever! Director Frakes has made a sensational film!  "},{"Title":"Average... just what you expect.","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I consider myself a Trekkie.  I thought the movie was good.  It wasn't really spectacular or anything.  It's what you expect.  Trekkies will find it great and everyone else will think it's OK.  "},{"Title":"Great flick...8.5 out of 10.","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This 9th istallment of the Star Trek movie series (the 3rd of Next Generation cast) was witty, humorous, and had just enough action to keep you on your toes. I think this was better than Generations and First Contact in multiple ways. Allows Trekkie's to enjoy what they've come to expect and love. Plus, it offers a great adventure and humor even the novice will find incredibly funny. Go see it, your money will be well spent. "},{"Title":"Not Subject to the Odd-Numbered Curse of the Bastard Trek","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was very pleased with this film. Star Trek IX was a rich and heady brew of humor, adventure, and romance featuring lustrous performances from Stewart, Spiner, and the rest of the Enterprise crew. Of course, the greatest thrill was to watch the dastardly, delightful, and ever delicious F. Murray Abraham sink his feral incisors into the role of Ru'afo. While I generally wasn't WOW!ed by the special effects/ship shots, they were certainly very good. The finale, however, was abundantly WOW!icious. The holo-ship whilst in the lake was also WOW!ful. The scenery grabbed my breath time and time ag'in. The shots of Picard, Data, and Anij on the lake b'neath the snowy peaks of Bak'u-backcountry where overwhelmingly stunning. Aye, 'twas Oh boy! Oberto! good. Don't walk, run -- no, ENERGIZE your way to the theater now! and Bring me mo' horses!, or should I say Go see Star Trek IX!!! "},{"Title":"Nice one!","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The critics I've seen have given this installment two stars and two and a half stars out of a possible four.  I have no idea why they're scoring it so low.  It's got action almost as good as the last one, humor almost as good as Trek IV, fine performances all round (F. Murray Abraham makes a great villain), and the exciting direction of Jonathan Frakes, who is even better as a director than he ever was at playing Cmdr. Riker.  If there's any justice, Insurrection will break the movie warp speed barrier by making more than a hundred million dollars. "},{"Title":"Best Star Trek movie ever!!!!","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie.  I give it 3 thumbs up!!!! It was hilarious and funny, it was full of space stuff, and it provoked violent urges in Worf. Data played with a kid, and Riker and Troi finally kissed. Then she shaved his beard. The Enterprise got the crap shot out of, it as usual. I would suggest this movie to everyone.And that's my official word!!! "},{"Title":"The best yet","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What can I say? This was probably my favorite of the bunch (although I'm tempted to stick by Wrath of Khan Just out of nostalgia). A perfect balance of humor, romance, drama, and action. Some nice character development for the main cast with a good balance of screen time for all of them. Stewart was excellent (as always) as the BDCISF (that's Best Damn Captain in Star Fleet), and even characters that used to annoy me, like Troi, I found enjoyable in this one. Except for some extremely minor nitpicks (too minor to mention), I have nothing bad to say about this film. It's all good. "}{"Title":"In the tradition of other odd-numbered Star Trek movies...","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an odd-numbered Star Trek movie. As such, it follows in the footsteps of predecessors like Star Trek 5 and 7. Although there are plenty of genuinely funny moments, Insurrection is full of campy dialogue and poor comedic attempts. Instead of having Kirk, Spock, and McCoy sing Row, Row, Row Your Boat around a campfire (ala ST5), we now have Picard, Data, and Worf singing a Gilbert and Sulivan number. (Complete with a follow-the-bouncing-ball for Worf.) We can at least look forward to the next movie (even-numbered), since the odds are that it will be spectacular. "},{"Title":"Star Trek Insurrection (1998) 7 out of 10 Stars","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The action adventure movie Star Trek First Contact is followed up by a light hearted/heart of darkness comedy movie called Star Trek Insurrection. The movie contains two different story lines. One concerning (spoilers) an out of control Data. And the second being (Spoilers) the Baku(a new alien race that has just become a member of the Federation)which are trying to acquire a Fountion Of Youth planet from the Sona(a race of people who are related to the Baku, but chose different path in life) with the help of the Federation. The main plot of the film has Picard and his crew committing Insurrection to try and stop the Baku and Federation from stealing the Sona's Planet Of Youth properties with a giant collector. Although this movie is no First Contact(meaning no great space battles or Borg element) it does have its moments. The planet action scenes are great along with the comedy and it does have some space battles with the Baku(which I felt was missing some footage or was just added on at the last minute to the film). So with all that said  I found Insurrection to be more of a family/Trek Fan film rather than a hard core action adventure film like First Contact was.  But by no means is this movie a failure it does deliver some great moments in character development and comedy. 7 out of 10 Stars  "},{"Title":"Nice looking film","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've only seen the Star Trek movies from VI on. So I couldn't compare this one with many others. However, from seeing VI, 7, and 8 prior to this, I can definitely say that this is the best one I've seen. Personally, I thought First Contact was a bit dark for my tastes, but it chronicalled wonderfully the crews personal struggles. Insurrection was considerably lighter. I enjoyed the story, and it was aesthetically pleasing. It was nice to see Picard's biceps, and to see Riker shave off the beard. The only complaint I have about this movie is that I missed some parts, due to the unanimous laughter and applause in the theatre. Especially during a nice rendition of A British Tar. Who knew Worf could sing?  "},{"Title":"This movie ROCKS!!!","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Trek Fans, REJOICE!!! The latest incarnation of the Star Trek saga has arrived, and its name is INSURRECTION!The effects in this movie are spectacular, and the story line is good as well!The twist comes about 2/3 of the way through the movie (no, I won't spoil it here! <G>) Just remember that it has to do with the identity of the villains in this movie! )So, go and enjoy this movie! This is one I intend to purchase when it comes out on video!!! "},{"Title":"Would've made a nice tv episode, but nothing special...","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not incredibly disappointed, but #9 really doesn't rank up there with the better trek flicks -- the story really isn't toointeresting, there are a few good one-liners, and there's about 10 minutes of the movie dedicated to skeet-shooting which gets boring quick. Slightly predictable and not really top-notch effects but still worth seeing on the big screen-I give it a 7/10. And in rankings for trek movies about 5th place (my rankings #8, #2, #4, #3, #9, #6, #7, #5, #1) ---Was hoping for a lot, but after First Contact, which I think was the best one yet, it was slightly a bummer. "},{"Title":"Classic Next Generation","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This show was much better than I thought it was going to be.  It is classic Next Generation - humor, romance, twists in plot, and of course, space battles; this film was really great.  There was one part missing, and I don't want to give it away, but I came away from the theater feeling a bit empty.  I think it will be apparent.  I will dare say that I even liked this one better than First Contact!  Finally, we get to see a new planet with a new race with a new plot!  Star Trek is still alive and well! "},{"Title":"Shatner the reason for the odd-number curse?","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Contradictory to previous odd-numbers Trek films like Generations and The Final Frontier, the latest entry in the series, Star Trek Insurrection, is one of the best films yet.  Strange, this is the film that breaks the odd-number curse and Shatner is nowhere to be seen or mentioned.  Go figure.While retaining the big-screen effects and action, the light-hearted story harkens back to the TV adventures of Picard and company.  Sure, some of it was hokey and ridiculous, but that's probably what makes Star Trek so endearing to fans.  Besides, they needed a lighter approach after the dark and grim Star Trek  First Contact (my personal favorite).  Besides, Insurrection has its own fair share of sinister evil in the form of the Son'a and their leader Ru'afo.In all, Star Trek  Insurrection is one of the best Trek films to grace the silver screen, and a nice two-hour escape from the real world. Personally, I can't wait for the DVD release (maybe with some decent features too). "},{"Title":"A great flick worthy of the Star Trek name!","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As every Trek fan is aware, there's just something about those odd numbered movies.  It's been called the odd numbered curse, and for good reason.  The movies 1, 3, 5, and 7 were all sub-parr movies when compared to 2, 4, 6, and First Contact.Insurrection, however, does not suffer from this stigma.  It lives up to the hype, and delivers, and although this film provides more drama and less action, it doesn't hold back when it counts.The plot is simple, but the underlying ramifications and story will remind you of the classic moral plays that Gene Roddenberry was famous for.  The question  Is it acceptable to relocate a race of beings (in this case only 600 people) to a different world in order to steal the planet's secret to eternal youth?  To Picard and others, the answer is NO, but Starfleet command, particularly Admiral Dougerty think differently.  Picard and crew must violate orders to save these people and fight for the cause of righteousness.All in all, a well done film, even if the story could have been stronger.  I wait, somewhat impatiently now, for this movie to make its way off the big screen into my DVD player. "},{"Title":"following in a great tradition","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just saw this movie this afternoon. It follows a great tradition of Star Trek movies and is one of the best Trekkie movies to date.Lots of special effects, lots of  humor, and a very interesting plot.  Worf is priceless, Data is endearing as ever and Captain Picard is just a joy to behold.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys adventure, sci-fi and/or a juicy plot.  I can't wait for it to come out on video to add to my collection! "},{"Title":"They didn't Blow enough Stuff up","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Overall well done, although they went for the rebellious, Action genre when it was too late. A lot of people were expecting First Contact to bring in Action viewers along side the Trekkies. First Contact was a good movie but to put it short....They didn't blow enough stuff up Insurrection has blown enough stuff up, but so many people who don't usually watch ST were disappointed with First Contact that Insurrection doesn't have enough people going to it that would get a really good kick out of it. "}{"Title":"Well written, upbeat and awesome!","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen a sneak preview of this film and I can say that it should do quite well!  Very much in the flavor of Star Trek 04, which also did well at the box office.The humor is upbeat and improves the characters as you watch the film, it will appeal to the Trek Crowd and non-trek crowd alike.  Great special effects!The movie tries to mix elements of all the Trek series and does so quite handily.  This movie definitely breaks the odd numbered Trek curse! "},{"Title":"Star Trek Insurrection","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The next generation crew steps up to the plate with a third film but does it knock one out of the park? Well not to beat around the bush no it doesn't, its a full strike if you ask me.I'm not gonna sugar coat it, gotta be cold here. For me this was easily the weakest Trek film so far, even worse than 'Star Trek V'. I know I have used the term 'outstretched TV episode' a few times in previous reviews with Star Trek but this one term really sums up this film to a tee.Apart from the quite dreadful grey scale shaded tone that accompanies every scene on board the Enterprise which somehow now seems more intrusive than in the previous two films, the plot is utterly non-engaging or even remotely interesting. A planet which harbours immortal regeneration powers that Starfleet and the alien race Son'a wish to keep for themselves whilst at the same time evicting the local hippie population. Say what now?? yes that's right, its basically all about evicting some perfect happy go lucky boring blonde haired blue eyed farm folk off their planet...and that's it. I'm not even sure if there were any bad guys in this! I suppose they were naughty, not really much of a threat though, it was just a few groups fighting amongst themselves really, nothing more.The whole film is so so utterly pointless and dull for virtually the entire run time! It only kicks into action for a small segment near the finale and even that was very mediocre stuff. Everything looks exactly as it does on the TV show, there is nothing that would make you think this is a big budget movie. The effects are no better! you would think they might be getting better but no, this film actually goes a step backwards.There is just something about the next generation design, even though these are movies they just can't seem to shake the look and feel of the TV series. The classic crew movies didn't always look tremendous but they were always much better looking than the original show, they always had real silver screen moments. I'm afraid to say this entry has none what so ever.It seems as though everything is now fully CGI here, I'm not a fan of computer generated effects and I think this is a good example why. The only thing that looks good and realistic in this film are the space panoramas, nebulae, planets etc...which is exactly what CGI is good at. Starships can be done well but here they are no better than their TV counterparts, satisfactory at best. There are still the age old issues of dodgy bluescreen going on but now they also have the added downside of completely fake CGI sequences on top.So apart from the dreadful plot and god awful CGI are there any plus points? I guess F. Murray Abraham does add a sprinkle of class onto the proceedings, its just a shame he does completely nothing of interest for the whole film. The alien race he portrays (Son'a) are such a generic concept with little to no imagination in design, their faces are simply plain grey just like all the uniforms of the Enterprise cre...zzzzz.So the film ticks along with tonnes of dialog including so much space jargon I felt completely bewildered and detached. I'm sure this one film has more Trek technical mumbo jumbo speeches than any other, by the end of the film I had actually lost how or what they were all suppose to be doing.Add to this some really vomit inducing romance with Picard, really hokey sets, really fake plastic looking props, hokey fights and the very annoying practically perfect farm civilisation in their typically 'I'm a goodie' beige/white loose fit garments. Yeah I know its a Star Trek film and you come to expect this kinda stuff but by this point I think certain aspects of this really should be better. The classic Trek crew were loved for their quirky comedic like adventures and Shatner's fluffy fist fights. The next generation crew just can't pull that off, they are too serious and too dull basically. For me they can't get away with the charming nonsense that the classic crew got away with.This film lacks punch and energy, its a complete non entity and in my opinion will only please Trekkies. For fans it basically has all you need as its pretty much a very long TV episode so you can't go wrong. For neutral non-fan folk it will be a slow arduous slog through some heavy dialog that will probably leave you dizzy whilst offering no reward at the end.3/10 "},{"Title":"You can't go home again","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ***Warning! Spoiler Information Inside***After the amazing achievement that was Star Trek First Contact(1996),there was no question a sequel was due. After three years we were delivered the mediocre follow up Star Trek Insurrection.Starfleet it seems has jumped into cohorts with an alien race called the So'na. These aliens claim that the energy from the ring surrounding their former homeworld can advance life and medicine hundreds of years in a few years. Great. Oh , they also have to displace an entire civilization called the Baku to do it. No problem for Starfleet, until Data(Brent Spiner) finds out about it.The script and the flow of this movie are dreadful. The constant Jibber-jaba between any character and Admiral Dougherty (Anthony Zerbe),stops any momentum dead in it's tracks. Totally unrequired is the expanded diatribe of Data and the village boy Artim,the only value seemed to be an attempt to market to the Family Film crowd. I don't fault the actors both main and support alike that brought their A game , especially in the case of Ru'afo (F. Murray Abraham) and Gallatin (Gregg Henry).You can only do so much with the script you are handed.Three stars(of 5.) "},{"Title":"A good idea ruined by a dreadful script and weak action","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of the four TNG films this is probably closest to capturing the spirit of the series itself and ironically its probably the poorest of all four said films. The plot attempts to tackle a series of serious ethical and moral challenges that made TNG, in my opinion, the finest example of scfi drama, and of course with Patrick Stewart on board you known the acting is going to be first class. Unfortunately all this is usurped by two fundamental flaws; the script and the action elements.In terms of the script, its fair to say that the writers definitely had a serious off-day. Trek comedy has always been fairly hit and miss, but whoever thought Data asking Worf 'if his boobs were firming up' or that Picard and Worf distracting Data during a mid-air dogfight with Gilbert and Sullivan was comedy gold was clearing smoking something good. There are just so, so many cringeworthy lines in this film, mostly revolving around Data and so many attempts at a cheap laugh. Quite why the writers felt they needed to spice up a story involving forced relocation, genetic manipulation and insubordination with gags such as Worf getting acne and Data inflating into a buoyancy aid is beyond me.If that were all, then the positives of Insurrection, such as the aforementioned engaging plot and strong acting from Stewart would still come to the fore. But sadly its not.The action elements in this film are sadly as lamentable as its script. Again, it's not as if Trek in general is renowned for its action, especially TNG, undoubtedly the most cerebral and least 'old west in space' of the franchise. If you are going to make a film appealing to the philosophical strenghs of TNG then why do you need so many weak phaser fights and running around? Added to that there's a ludicrous ship-to-ship duel in which Riker pilots the Enterprise with....a joystick.Obviously I recognise there needs to be an element of action if the title of the film is 'Insurrection', but surely it could have been done better than this? The sight of a portly Brent Spiner diving around should have stayed on the cutting room floor. Compared with the fight scenes in 'First Contact', well there is no comparison.This review is ultimately very negative, which is a shame because there are some very touching and brilliantly done moments which temporarily make you forget you're watching a bad film, Geordi watching the sunset without his visor or bionic eyes for instance. But surely enough some five minutes later there's another 'Lock and Load' quality line which makes you despair again. And thats a real pity. "},{"Title":"Like a good Star Trek episode ...","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nice movie! It reminds me of how good the TV series was - it's like a good, long episode from the series. It seems like the time went by pretty quick and not a whole lot happened - but, that's OK because it was a pleasant, easy-going way to spend the time.The story begins when an invisible/shielded research facility becomes exposed to the primitive townsfolk they are studying. There is a lot of surprise on both ends - but even more surprising is the discovery of a cloaked ship below a nearby lake. Why is it there and what's going on? The story progresses from there.As I mentioned, this movie is more like a good episode of Star Trek The Next Generation. It's not quite stellar material on it's own right, but it is enjoyable to watch. If you like Star Trek, don't go out of your way to see it - but do see it eventually. It is good. "},{"Title":"Would have worked better as an episode of the series, not as a movie","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" For the longest time, there was this belief among trekkies that the even number films, 2,4,6,8, were the better trek films, were as the odd numbers were the lesser ones. This being the 9th trek film, this theory seemed to hold up well.The problem with the film is that it seems like its script was developed for the TV show, and not a major motion picture. Its as if they just grabbed an unproduced TV show script and said, lets make this a movie. The results are mixed. The entire story, about a people who live on a planet that regenerates there youth, is an instering idea, but it just doesn't work for me. Of all the things one can do in a trek film, hardly do we ever get a rip roaring epic event or story. The closest we got was with wrath of kahin, or First Contact. Undiscovered Country was a great who done it, but the stakes never seemed major in a trek film, even with first contact. This film, i could honestly care less if the youth planet people are removed from there world or not.In closing, its worth a watch, then forget about it. The only lasting thing it sets up is further advancing the relationship of riker and troy, which pays off in the next film, but other then that, its all disposable. "},{"Title":"this is what star trek is about, sorry fans that u don't understand","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have heard many arguments that the odd numbered trek films are the worst, and I agree that some of them are not as technically perfect as say, star trek 8 first contact. However, Star trek 1 the motion picture and especially insurrection, are actually the only 2 films of the 10 which stand out as proper star trek films. Any genre can do action and conventional story lines, but this is exactly what star trek isn't about, despite how popular it has become. All of the other film stories, with the partial exception of star trek generations (hey! another odd numbered film), are set in 'the world of star trek', they are not 'star trek' as gene roddenberry created it they are spin-offs so to speak. Part of Gene Roddenberry's vision seems to have been the explanation and formulation of potential and alternative realities through science, which lead to unscientifically definable conclusions (i.e. fantasy). This combination made star trek unique. Unfortunately, these stories are very hard to create because their is a limit to human imagination and intelligence. Insurrection is an excellent microcosm of many previous star trek TV episodes. The people who call themselves 'fans' don't seem to understand this, and incidentally tend to be the ones who favour the voyager and/or enterprise series' which says something about the latter. Star trek 1 the motion picture is the most 'star trek' film of the lot. Insurrection suffers from what was probably the producer's decision, i.e. that a significant portion of the film be edited out. The initially slow and involving story is in the second half suppressed by favour of slick editing, which increases the action more in line with what star trek has now become; thanks to all those so called fans who have actually destroyed the idea. If insurrection had been allowed to be the slow and deep story it was surely written as (and written very well, the dialogue is fantastic), then it would have been a real trek success. Star trek has now officially died, thanks to 2 reasons that I can see 1) by law of nature anything that becomes popular, loses its true original meaning, and 2) the people with big money and no talent have ruined it. Nevertheless, insurrection remains a good story, true to gene roddenberry's word. Think about it... "},{"Title":"The third of the TNG Star Trek movies, and one of the better ones in my opinion.","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Starring Patrick Stewart, Jonathon Frakes, Brent Spiner, Michael Dorn Well, basically, this is a movie for Trekkies. If you don't like Trek, then you may as well just run away screaming now man. This movie is not for you. But if you do like Trek, oh ho ho. Good flick.So anyway, the movie opens up in a serene and peaceful little village. Then we see that Star Fleet is essentially spying on them while wearing suits that make them invisible to all the villagers. Then Data (Spiner) goes berserk and starts running towards the village while being fired at by other Star Fleet officers. Bwa? So he gets the suit off and exposes the Star Fleet spy base to the villagers.Meanwhile, back on the Enterprise, Captain Picard (Stewart) and Commander Riker (Frakes) are busy welcoming a new race into the Federation family. But they also get news that Commander Data has gone berserk on his current mission. Somewhere in there we have a sloppy scene that inserts Worf (Dorn) into the movie. Picard comes out, sees Worf and says, Mr. Worf! What the hell are you doing here? He may as well have responded, Well, I heard they were making another Star Trek movie, so I thought I'd better show up. Sloppy, sloppy character insertion. Whatever, it needed to be done. I mean, a TNG movie with no Worf? What's the point? Anyway, the Enterprise heads off towards the planet where Data has been stationed and conducting research. They hope to offer their assistance in capturing him and/or subduing him, which they do.When they go down to the surface of the planet to investigate and get the hostages back, they find that they really aren't being held against their will. The inhabitants of the planet are very peaceful, very friendly folks who, despite the fact that they appear to have no technological knowledge, do posses quite a bit. They just choose not to use it.When all the folks get back to the Enterprise, they start to realize that everybody is doing a bit better physically. At least the people who were on the planet. Later, when Picard heads down to the surface to investigate further, he finds out that it's because the planet is essentially the fountain of youth, and if you stay there long enough, well, you get better. Picard really oughta hang out for a few years and grow some hair. He'd look great with a mullet.But then we find out what the real purpose is in Star Fleet spying on this planet. They want to move all the inhabitants off the planet so they can harness the stuff in the rings around the planet that do the whole fountain of youth thing so they can start up a new branch of medical science and research and such.It's an entertaining little premise that works fairly well, and so then we have Picard and the Enterprise rebelling against Star Fleet and fighting for the people.Again, this is a movie for Trekkies. Avoid like the plague if that doesn't float your boat.Bottom Line 3.5 out of 4 (worth a look) "},{"Title":"Recycled from the heap, why?","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the brilliant First Contact adventure we shared with the crew, we get this lame story involving the Enterprise. This seems like a bad episode that was stretched into full-length time. There are no surprises here, nothing worth noting. It lacked adventure and there was nothing to care about in the plot. What a disappointment! It makes you wonder how such brilliant writing can happen within the star trek series and movies like this fall short of one hour stories shown on the small screen. I saw this in the theatre only to find that I should have stayed home! It was a video release. I wish the executives would take chances with the plot lines, not be afraid to focus on action and drama. Have an all-out battle, have some detailed fight scenes or give us a look at the things that were only mentioned in the series. If you want box office like Alien, then act like it!  "},{"Title":"Fine representation of TNG; weak production","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Insurrection stands as a fine demonstration of the Star Trek storytelling that evolved post Kirk and Spock, with a subject matter that has been sparking discussion ever since its release. The script, often overlooked, is likely the most complex in scope of any of the feature films in this franchise, but lacks the production values of many of the previous films. It falls victim to the curse of the computer generated image- the effects, especially on the small screen, don't differ from anything presented on 'Voyager' or 'Enterprise'. I much prefer the physical models floating around in pursuit of each other in 'The Wrath of Khan' than the generic look of the effects in 'Insurrection'- much in the same way I'd rather see Peter Mayhew in a Wookiee costume than a pixel-generated Jar Jar Binks. In addition, there have been many complaints that this is nothing more than an extended episode, and this is somewhat true. The characters and situations don't expand to fill the big screen in the space opera way they did in First Contact, Wrath of Khan, or even Search for Spock. I was thrilled to see this crew upgraded to true movie heroes in FC; here they return a bit to their small-screen roots, probably due to the film's different writer. Overall, though, this remains a fine couple of hours of what has become the new classic standard for Star Trek.  "}{"Title":"Trek shows the truth behind Gene's Utopia","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In Star Trek Needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few ot the one SO someone who has more must be obligated to give what he has to help those with few.In Insurrection, the Federation takes this to extremes, showing the Federation is not the benelovent Utopia Gene Roddenberry wants us to believe.  The Federation was willing to displace and destroy an entire culture so a few people who have immortality can be given to all. But do all people in the federation even deserve to even have what this small community has?What about the right for their culture to exist and follow their traditions a practices they hold dear?So the Federation in reality is a overbearing all powerful entity which will not hesitate to use its power in the name of equality. Sounds like ever oppressive communist regime on earth.  Murdering millions in the name of social justice.IN the end this is why the movie failed, instead of concentration on thiese major moral and political issues, Berman aand Braga turn this film into a slapstick parody.Worf a conflicted tragic figure of the TV series, is relagated to getting zits. Dr Crusher gets better breasts and Troi and Riker covort around as the Federation borders on commiting Cultural genocide. Trek has in the end some almost a sad parody of itself which is not a good sign of health.In my TV criticism class, I learned when a genre or series is nearing end of it's life the as the quality and relevance of its newest products fade. This has started with Innsurrection and continued on with Nemesis. "},{"Title":"Finally a truly decent Star Trek with Patrick Stewart","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The ninth part in the Star Trek series is the best one i have seen so far with the &#145;new' crew, without having seen the latest installment, Star Trek Nemesis though. The fact that this is the best one, has nothing to do with great villains, an original story, overwhelming special effects or so, but rather with the fact that the other installments were not very good and that for the first time since the new Generation came to the big screen, there was quality and stability throughout the main part of the movie. The exception to that would be the beginning with Data which is a bit confusing and sudden as a starter. From that point on though, the story picks it up quite nicely and the film remains stable throughout. I must admit, that the story is nothing original, but in my opinion, it is at least much more similar to the stories in the Star Trek films featuring Captain Kirk, than it is with those of Generations and First Contact, which partially did the trick for me as there were more things to think about, maybe even a deeper meaning.Despite the fact that this film has some entertaining value, there is nothing great about this film and I still feel that the new Generation does not measure up to the &#145;old' one. However this film is pretty enjoyable and one does not regret having spent two hours watching it. There may be quite a few better films out there, but there are a lot worse ones as well. If you want to plug into the adventures of Picard, you might want to try this one, if you just want to see some Star Trek, watch one with the original crew, preferably Star Trek II, IV or VI (in that order).7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Reasonable, but not up to standard","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen this movie twice now and I must admit it's a pretty poor attempt, in many ways inferior not just to the other movies in the series but the original TV show itself.There are some serious credibility issues with the whole movie.  The unnecessary subplot where Data learns what it's like to be a boy for example doesn't fit with the mood of the movie.  A fair number of the gags almost parody Star Trek itself too - Spiner's flotation device and boobs gags being the worst offenders.Picard's love interest could also be considered unnecessary, but it at least filled out the fairly sketchy plot and showed the talents of actress Donna Murphy off well.  Not just a pretty face unlike Jolie's Lara Croft in Tomb Raider.The action scenes were about average, but below par in comparison to Generations and First Contact.  The most exciting part of these scenes was when Riker ejects the Enterprise warp core to seal a rift which threatens to tear the ship apart.  The effect is then ruined when Riker takes control of the ship using what appears to be a joystick from an 80s Atari console.I must say that while I enjoyed the movie, as I still enjoy the whole premise and idealism of Star Trek in general, it's poor plot and credibility prevent it from making it a worthy addition to the films that precede it. The issues of the plot were far too minor and it failed to excite, with weak turns by the NG cast not helping matters.6/10 "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not a patch on ST6","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not a bad movie, in fact it's one  of my favourite movies of all all ten trek movies. However having said that there were parts of it that made this movie feel like a very long episode of the TV series.That's not to say that I didn't like it because I like this movie. It's got some very emotional music in the opening minutes, and for me those first few minutes were one of my favourite trek moments. Also having said that holding this up to earlier entries in the trek stable this film just doesn't hold up to the others, namely Star Trek 6.I'd still give it a healthy 7/10 "},{"Title":"A huge disappointment","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection (1998) D Jonathan Frakes. Patrick Stewart, Jonathan Frakes, Brent Spiner, LeVar Burton, Michael Dorn, Gates McFadden, Marina Sirtis. Horrid attempts at humor sink this lowly 9th entry in the long-running STAR TREK series. Dull film places the crew of the U.S.S. Enterprise in the way of a Federation plot against the unique inhabitants of a utopian planet. So boring, I couldn't even make it until the end. A huge disappointment after STAR TREK FIRST CONTACT. RATING 4 out of 10. Rated PG for violence, profanity, and sexual situations.  "},{"Title":"Star Bland","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Insurrection is a totally unoriginal entry to the Star Trek franchise. Violating the Prime Directive? Like that hasn't been done before. The villain was not imposing in the least. Megadoses of Botox would cure him! The battle scenes in space were in no way innovative and in fact were nothing more than standard fare. The romance between Picard and a native of the endangered planet was not developed enough and had virtually no repercussions. Even the creators don't take Roddenberry's brainchild serious anymore as evidenced by Data's mentioning that he could function as a flotation device. Not good, not good at all...5/10. After the zenith of First Contact this was a huge letdown. "},{"Title":"Boldly Going...Going...Gone","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After a trial run with help from Shatner and a solo run with the help of Trek's greatest villains, The Borg, we are treated to what could just as easily have been a script for a series episode.  After catching up and reacquainting ourselves with the crew, it's off to deep space and some minor-league territorial disputes that involve the cliched issue of the Prime Directive, immortality, dual cultures at odds with each other and, of course, Data's search for humanity.Hiding behind the bad guy makeup this time is F. Murray Abraham as skin-peeling Adhar Ru'afowho is ineffective on his own in the same way any other Next Gen villain is due to limitations of screen time and any real sense of danger.The problem with this episode is that it resigns to telling small stories on a big screen and assuming fans or neutral moviegoers will accept something that wouldn't have been greenlit as a film without the Star Trek logo. But since the props were in the closet and wardrobe still warm from the dryers across the lot on Voyager, it was cheap and easy to shell out another episode for the built-in audience, tie it into marketing millions in merchandise, cash a fat check and add another lame, inept story to the increasing library of Star Trek videos.At this rate, Star Trek X could be about the peril confronted when an Enterprise toilet malfunctions, so long as we stop every ten minutes to find out what color hair Dr. Crusher has this time out, hear Worf growl, and give Data ten minutes to explain that he's a puppet without strings dreaming of being a real boy.  It would still make money.  Fans would complain, but they'd still shell out the money for the new insignia patches, the new uniform patterns, soundtracks, action figures and not care a graceful Gideon's damn about the simple fact that there is no longer anything vaguely resembling an adventure story in the Star Trek universe outside the novels.Better scripts are written for ensemble casts of comparable size while incorporating moral and philosophical ideas that seem to make Trek unique in its genre.  I wonder if it's time to look outside the Trek ranch for new ideas and influence to revitalize the franchise. "},{"Title":"I Do not Understand","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this film was pretty good. The dialogue was strong enough the acting was emotional enough. In all I thought it lacked a little but was still pretty good.  The crew of the enterprise is doing exactly what a good officer is trained to do, follow orders that they agree with and disapprove of the ones they don't. "},{"Title":"The least entertaining Star Trek to date","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek Insurrection was the first time in my estimation that the entire Star Trek generation looked to be in Jeopardy.  At this point Star Trek Voyager was doing worse in the ratings and generally considered to not be up with the original two series' and Deep Space Nine was about to go off the air.  With Star Trek on TV looking to falter, as the empire has many times before they turned to a movie.  This movie is just not up to par, and the entire Star Trek genre appeared to be in a spiral.Not that this is a bad movie but as a Star Trek movie this is not very good.  The one thing that stands out in this movie is the special effects.  What little opportunity there is to have special effects they are very good.  It shows people worked a lot on special effects for this movie.The problem with this movie is that there is no grand plot.  The plot looks more like an episode of Star Trek than a big budget movie that is suppose to have all kinds of action thrills, suspense and the like.  The plot is about the fountain of youth, not in Florida as Ponce De Leon thought but on a completely different planet.  There are people on a planet that do not age. Of course there is a plot involved to get rid of the inhabitants of this fountain of youth by a group that is not from the planet.  And Starfleet backs this group.  Captain Picard Realizes that this is against the prime Directive so he decides to rebel against the government, an &#145;Insurrection,' hence the title.There are no great battles, no intrigue the whole affair is really mundane.  The plot is relatively predictable and the writing is not bad in this movie it is just unexciting and uninspiring.  There are no gaping plotholes in the movie but there really is not in any Star Trek movies (except for Star Trek Generations.)  With the plot the movie tries to say something significant about convictions and going against the establishment if you know in your heart of hearts you are right despite the fact authority might be wrong.  Again the message really does not matter in this movie because overall the movie is boring.I can say with confidence this is perhaps the least entertaining Star Trek movie.  It is good but it is not a Star Trek 6 or First Contact.  It is nice to watch only if you are watching a Star Trek marathon.  The most notable thing about the movie is the role of F. Murray Abraham as the head bad guy.  He does a good job in a role that should have had much more depth and purpose.  "},{"Title":"A pretty entertaining movie","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What to say, what to say? Well, it  was an interesting commentary on  current society. Youth overtakes, and  the desire for such tastes tends to  leave a big hole in the heart. Such  was the meaning of this movie. It was  rather poignant, considering the  Federation was backing off the Prime  Directive just to maintain the hope of  being young again. I will say this, F.  Murray Abraham had possibly the  oddest performance in a career that  has taken a dive since he won an  Oscar for Amadeus. A good edition  to say the least. "}{"Title":"Star Trek lite","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The ninth film in the series has fallen victim to the infamous odd-numbered curse. It's an utterly generic entry into a market saturated with so many more of its ilk that it probably would have flopped if not for the Star Trek name. When we go to see a movie with the word Insurrection in the title, one expects something a bit bigger than a minor skirmish in some obscure blood feud.The worst part it, the film panders to the lowest common denominator for the sake of cheap laughs, some of which are painful to watch. Trek comedy has worked in the past when the humor was a natural outgrowth of the characters and situations. If you don't believe me just catch the original series episode The Trouble With Tribbes, long regarded as one of the highlights of the franchise.Technically, this is the most polished entry in the series. With some fine special effects, set design, and photography, the film always looks great. However, it's just a glossy, empty package.It's pretty well-performed given the circumstances. All the series regulars fall comfortably into their old roles. F. Murray Abraham makes an okay villian, but he can't match Ricardo Montalban in Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan. Anthony Zerbe is good but is wasted as a rouge Starfleet admiral.Please, let Star Trek X be better than this!** (out of ****)Released by Paramount Pictures "},{"Title":"Energize The Action!","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS** Wow! What a movie. Maybe, the best Star TrekTNG movie ever (out of the other two). First of all, the comic relief is so refreshing as it comes from the entire Enterprise-E crew. With a plot that is so moving, Rebellion is the key word to describe the movie. There is so much action. Most comes when the crew beams to the Ba'ku planet to save the people. I mean, all character fight in some way or another, even Dr. Crusher and Deanna Troi who fire phasers as many times as Picard, Data and Worf. Riker and LaForge are busy on the Enterprise fighting the enemy So'na ships, which turns out to be a really good Ship-To-Ship fight. Of course, all this happens in the middle of the movie. So the First Act takes off with a mystery. But the whole film is great. But the only thing missing is the Captain's log. I couldn't find the Captain making a log. But over all a good movie. If you like Star Trek, go see it. "},{"Title":"Best Odd Numbered Trek Movie","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection may not be a work of high art, but is an exceptionally well-crafted and superbly paced film.  From start to finish it works well.I really enjoy the start of the movie, seeing Data go wild and expose the Federation Observation Station spying on the agrarian and peaceful Ba'Ku.  From there we go off to the Enterprise where a ceremony to welcome a new race to the Federation is taking place, and Crusher is berating Picard for having a fatter neck than he used to.  I really enjoy the sense of camaraderie that seems to have built up among these characters over the years, and this is really the first time we've seen it played out on screen.  I also like the references to the Federation's losses to the Borg and the Dominion, making it feel as though these really are dangerous times for the Federation and it's Starfleet.As the movie progresses, the storytelling becomes more whimsical, with the peaceful Ba'Ku being juxtaposed with the aggressive and warlike Son'a.  The scenes that take place on the planet have just the right feel to them, and you can see where the money went, the Ba'Ku village sets look fantastic, although I must say that the Son'a ship sets are diabolical.I'd say that Insurrection is definitely the best of the odd-numbered Trek films, and that the supposed 'curse' may even have been broken.  It compares well with First Contact and is far superior to Generations, even though it is drastically different in tone to both of those films.*** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Whilst not actually bad, this film simply feels like a Next Generation two parter spliced together. In my opinion the beauty of the Star Trek films has always been that they have taken the crew places the series couldn't go, this film simply does not do that. "},{"Title":"The best Star Trek movie to date. Very entertaining!","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To me, this is the best of all nine Star Trek movies. With Generations too weird a plot and First Contact too much an action movie this one brings in all that has made the television series so entertaining, without losing contact to the Star Trek first-timers.To the Star Trek veteran (which doesn't have to equal Star Trek fans) seeing this movie is like coming home to meet old friends. And I really like that kind of humour that shows you how much fun the family of actors had during the shooting. "},{"Title":"Brilliant. I love it.","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I do love this film - it always makes me laugh. Another film that does not take itself to seriously - and wins by that.  At the same time you do believe that the whole problem is dead serious and that it is not a comedy. "},{"Title":"Very ambitious film... but falls (far) short of its goal","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Startrek Insurrection is an ambitious film.  It tries to be many things at once Funny, action-packed, and thought-provoking.  Unfortunately, it falls short in each of these goals.First time I saw this movie was in the theaters.  I disliked it.  I rented it on DVD a year later --- thinking I might enjoy it more on the second viewing.  I was wrong.  I was so bored, I turned it off near the end during the climax of the story.  And I'm supposed to be the big Startrek fan who has seen all the other Startrek movies at least twice.The movie falls flat in just about every way.  Humor is very forced, unnatural, and unfunny.  Very childish --- from Worf's Big Pimple, to a Video Game Joystick at the ship's helm, to Riker throwing paper balls at an unsuspecting Troi.  When I saw this movie at the theater, the packed audience was deathly silent through these unfunny gags.  Painfully silent.The film tries hard to be thought-provoking.  Incessant (not-so-subtle) attempts to make us cherish each moment, carpe diem, and all that stuff. The film goes as far as actually *lecturing* us several times.  Anji & Picard have several (looooong) monologues.  The writers of the script don't realize that good movies should *show* us these philosphies, not *lecture* us about it.To me, this film ranks with Startrek V as the worst in the Startrek franchise.  The people who like this film do so only because of the words Star Trek are attached to Insurrection.  I enjoyed the other imperfect Startrek movies (STMotion Picture, ST3, STGenerations) because they had several memorable scenes.  Insurrection doesn't have a single memorable moment.  Rather ironic, for a movie that keeps harping the motto seize the moment.I'd rate this 3.9/10.   "},{"Title":"Picard and crew stand their ground against aliens and corrupt Admiral.","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a pretty good film.  It has a good story with a moral to it and enough action to keep things moving.  The only bad thing I noticed is that ever since Kirk, Starfleet does not have an admiral that isnt rotten to the core.  Still this film has good moments with the crew and Data is at the center of the conflict right with Picard.  Jerry Goldsmith provides a great score for the film and Jonathan Frakes is outstanding again in the director's chair.   "},{"Title":"The insurrection against the fallen of heaven!","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A good idea gives a touch of originality to this title that continues the great saga of the  Captain Jean-Luc  Picard and of his crew.The life of a population is in trouble and for this reason the good heart of a man arises against the role of captain that should follow the advanced's orders.It's the time of a new battle the battle for good principles, the battle for life, the battle for heaven's immortality!       "},{"Title":"How do robots age?","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All in all,a reasonable if undistinguished entry in the series. The story is fairly true to Star Trek principles if somewhat twee and contrived. The special effects are okay but mostly unexciting. What worries me is that Data the android is showing signs of ageing.Yes the wrinkles are there and his face is beginning to fill-out.I wonder if he will lose his hair in future movies. Also,it is time Picard started dating women his own age.  "}{"Title":"Most Certainly One Of The Most Gripping Sci-Fi Movies!","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek has not only been very successful over the past thirty years, but it has generated a new genre of movies. Sci-Fi is not the most popular genre of film. When I went to the premier of Insurrection the atmosphere was unlike any I have experienced before. People laughed, and silenced when the sad scenes arrived. It is clear to me that the Director (J. Frakes) and the producers of the movie have done the best job in this movie than in any other. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Like... a TV episode","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a Star Trek TNG fan, I can't say I did not like the movie. However, I must say that I would have been satisfied to see it on video rather than on the big screen, since the story and the action was close to what it was when the series was still on TV. "},{"Title":"To Not Boldly Go Where They Have Been Before","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Since this is a movie and not a TV episode with The Phantom Menace and Dark City to be compared to, Insurrection falls short. Still, it is not a mindless shoot em up which most sci-fi movies are these days, so overall I enjoyed it.Like all Star Trek movies Insurrection has a convoluted plot that involves various pseudo scientific details and Star Trek concepts and in jokes. Meaning, it helps to have seen the TV shows to better understand what is going on. This is probably the main obstacle to why Star Trek movies have never been blockbusters. Now about the plot. This may be a spoiler so, you have been warned. The basis of the film is greed and robbery. The Ba'ku who live on a beautiful planet are a defenseless culture who have something valuable, a special form of energy called metaphasic energy which reverses aging. The bad guys, the Son'a, want to kill the Ba'ku for it. The Federation proposes a forced evacuation of the Ba'ku so the Federation can share this valuable thing with the Son'a. Captain Picard insists on a compromise that would allow the Ba'ku to continue their life on their planet and for the Son'a and the Federation in cooperation with the Ba'ku to use the metaphasic energy of for an anti-aging treatment.You might have been confused by that paragraph but being a Star Trek fan this was pretty routine. Insurrection is about a Star Trek idea called the prime directive which means the Federation is not supposed to interfere with the cultures of other planets. Is this interesting enough to be a good movie? It could have been if presented in a more clear and unusual way.   Besides the complicated plot, the main problem with Insurrection is that the Ba'ku are pretty boring. They look like people from California living in a hippie commune. If you compare this to the planet Tatooine in Star Wars you can see that the Ba'ku planet could have been more exciting. Another problem is the typical love affair between the Star Trek captain and one of the cute aliens. A pretty worn out plot twist.So, why did I like Insurrection? There was a lot of humor in the film that I enjoyed. The special effects were alright. But the main reason I thought Insurrection was fun was because I kept my expectations low (repeat after me, this is not Star Wars) and I was open to sci-fi that has some thought behind it.   "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Son'a want to remove the Ba'Ku from their perfect world and Captain Picard intends to stop them; hence the tagline The Battle For Paradise Has Begun This Star Trek adventure has a number of breathtaking visual effects and a wide new range of ships. It's a humanitarian type of story that's a lot of fun to watch. That was the goal of the filmmakers, they wanted it to be fun, funny, show relations between characters and as always tell a good story. In my view they successfully achieved what they were aiming for. There isn't really anything wrong with the story, it addressee's moral issues and questions. Do we have a right to force people from their homes so we can destroy their land? I think some Trek fans were expecting some thing like First Contact and as a result wrongfully called the film crap. In this feature Diana Troi and Will Riker restart their relationship and Picard falls in love with Anij a 200 year old Ba'Ku woman. A great addition to the Star Trek franchise. It's exciting, entertaining, has a good sense of humor, a lot of fun and the special effects are excellent. 10/10  "},{"Title":"Wrongfully Abused","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie took quite a few bits of abuse by critics. I didn't find much wrong with Star Trek Insurrection. It was a very good movie, as well as one of the best Trek films out there, even surpassing First Contact! It goes back to the roots of Star Trek, the way we used to see it, instead of the pathetic series DS9 and Voyager which have deteriorated. It was also released at a bad time as well. Does Sci-Fi always have to be so serious? Does it? I think not! I loved the humor numbers like the HMS Pinafore number that Picard and Worf were singing. It had you guessing for what was going on! Most of my friends enjoyed it as well! Plus a more redeeming battle sequence than the one we saw in Generations. It being another Star Trek V? I don't think so! I don't think Frakes would direct as bad as Razzie Award winning Shatner. Added to the fact that Star Trek movies don't have to be about saving Earth or the galaxy from Armageddon each time. And they didn't have time travel, which has been overused in Trek.Now the film did have  a few bad sides to it - the mild use of technobabble. We don't need to hear extreme flux, isolitic, inertial dampers, coupling, blah-blah-blah. This has made the recent Treks, especially Voyager, suffer. At least it wasn't used for solutions. If I were editing, I would cut all those non-necessary parts out. You don't need to hear them.Now I won't rant too hard, but we need to get some more alien looking aliens. Enough foreheads and makeup. We need the Star Wars kind. Perhaps they can do CGI, or perhaps hire the Jim Henson company to help them. Hmmmm? But the fact that the Son'a were falling apart was original, and their attempts to make themselves look better (flesh stretching sessions, genetic manipulating), the mere fact that these people were falling apart! Well, maybe the next movie.Otherwise, it's good to go. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Entertainment at it's best","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Now this was a film, that has it all. Not only that the actors had some very good days while shooting this film, but all around it, the story, the concept, THE DIRECTION (hello Jonathan ) ) were absolutely perfect. Sometimes, you might think, the story gets boring, but the next time all doubts are blown away, and there is pure sci-fi-like entertainment. VERY VERY GOOD. "},{"Title":"Ho-hum","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not good, not bad, not much of anything.  The enjoyment I felt in this movie was entirely due to seeing the characters again; the story was confused and uninteresting.  It wasn't until months after I'd seen it that I finally realized that Insurrection referred to Capt. Picard!  Oh, yeah, he's breaking some kind of rule -- the problem is, the authority he was rebelling against seemed so distant and unimportant, it was easy to forget that there was any other dimension to the story than the shooting and hide-and-seek between the heroes and the bad guys.  The whole plot was boring and uninvolving, probably because the pastoral Ba'ku who need protection are unbelievable even in a science fiction movie.  A race of hippy immortals who know all about advanced science, but choose not to use it; do we know anyone who prefers to haul their water by hand and lug it to the house if a better method is available? Anything more advanced, it seems, would be corrupting, but they are willing to accept the help of the more advanced weapons Picard and his crew are equipped with when push comes to shove.  The romance between Anij and Picard was merely exasperating; perhaps they thought this movie would be daring and original by showing the captain falling for a mature woman instead of the usual twenty-something who sets her cap for him, but Anij overdoes the Earth-mother bit.  It's hard to believe Picard could have anything to say to this po-faced bore; when they settle down in a glen for her to teach him about slowing down time, I searched in vain for the standard incense sticks and windchimes.  Oh, but I forgot - she's brilliant, too.First Contact was genuinely exciting and engaging; several times during that movie I caught myself wondering how on earth are they going to escape?  This movie, by contrast, was a plod.  At one point late in the movie my attention wavered, I missed one line, and from then on had no idea what was going on or what was the point of the climactic duel between Picard and the arch-villain.  I still haven't really figured that out, because I would have to watch the movie again to do so, and I don't intend to. "},{"Title":"This sequel is as smooth as an android's bottom!","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The wife and I went and saw this together, as she is a Trekkie as well as I am.  Once again Picard meets a BEAUTIFUL woman, and doesn't do anything. Once again Worf has a reason to be in yet another movie...... Of course without Worf there, there couldn't be another Next Generation movie!  This is a MUST SEE!  Riker shaves his beard off!  Data has Fun!  Deanna gets horny!  Picards new love interest is WOW!  Worf sings!  Geordi Sees!  Dr. Crusher......... well she's there anyway!  You will love this, specially if you love Star Trek The Next Generation. "},{"Title":"I loved it, so did my 3.5 year old son!","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My 3.5 year old son and I had a really good time watching this movie, cheering the heroes and jeering at the villains, yelling out, Get 'em Worf/Jean Luc/Data! This probably wouldn't have been appropriate behavior in the theater, but at home it works very well. Some may raise eyebrows at my 3.5 year old watching it, but the only questionable word was boobs and it had about as much violence as the original TV series. Actually, the face stretching was kinda gross, I remember my son and I yelling, Ooooh, yuuuuck! This really was a good movie on several different levels. It was exciting and action packed, while being thought provoking as well. I can't decide who's acting I liked best. I have always liked Anthony Zerbe, and F. Murray Abraham's acting (and his screaming defiantly!!!) were spectacular, but I was very, very surprised that I liked Jonathan Frakes so darn much in this movie. He kicked some butt, I must say! And that is not to detract from Patrick Stewart in any way, he's always so good. I guess I liked F. Murray Abraham the very best. "},{"Title":"The Best Star Trek of Them All!!!","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For someone who's been a Trekky from the 1970's, making the transition from Captain Kirk to Captain Picard was a difficult one.  Let's face it, with no Vulcan, and a Kling-On on board, it was a bit of trip.  However, Patrick Stewart does make that transition a little easier.  Insurrection is probably the best of all the Star Trek Next Generation movies...the metamorphosis of Captain Picard, the softer, more gentle character...my hat off to you Patrick.  Your decision to refine your character was a fantastic one.The special effects were spectacular, and the dialogue moved with speed.  My favorite line in the entire movie comes from Worf, Definitely experiencing aggressive tendencies, Sir. Simply marvelous from a character that is self-contained, and wound so tightly; it was hysterical.Oh, and Patrick, that headdress, I'm afraid, does remind me of Eeoah, but it worked!!! "}{"Title":"True to its roots!","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This Trek film, more than any other starring the Next-Gen crew has a subtle continuity with the series that true fans can see and go Oh, that's a reference to the first season episode such and such!. I felt these little touches gave the movie a far more familar feel than say First Contact, which was a wonderful epic but only required a glimpse of Best of Both Worlds prior to admission to be up to date on everything Picard feels.How many people noticed the significance of geordi looking at the sunrise on the planet through Normal eyes? He told Tasha in The Naked Now 11 years ago that he longed to be able to do that more than anything. It was a nice touch! Data learning to be a child was perfect too! He'd always had a child-like quality to his quest to be more human but never had a child instructing him prior to this!I understand that there probably won't be another NG film until 2001 or 2002 but if they put the effort into the characters again as they did here then it will be box office gold.One negative comment though, when are they going to give Beverley something to do in the movies? Some series episodes served her character very well and it's a shame to discard it at the expense of including WORF. He could have been excluded due to his DS9 posting and some more dialogue could have been given to the rest of the ensemble. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but...","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I'm a hard core trekkie, but this film seemed to lack something, and even now, 8 months after seeing it, I'm still not sure what it is. I guess a lot of the comedy in the movie tended to work but the characters didn't seem to merge with the jokes (e.g the rumba scene with Picard). I'm sure that a lot of people liked it, and I like it too, but In my opinion, I think they could have improved the movie, to the point of Star Trek 4. "},{"Title":"This movie continues the curse of odd numbered Trek movies","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie blows, and I don't mean that in the nicest possible way.  Only the party faithful will find redeeming qualities in this film.  The eye-candy has been sitting on the shelf a little too long, like and old box of Ju-Ju Bees.  The premise could have been made up by a high school English class.  There are some amusing moments, but not enough to call it a comedy. There is some action, but not enough to call it an action film.  It was basically a two hour TV movie.  Where do they get off using up perfectly good theater space for this stuff?  If they get another shot at making a movie, I hope they put the warm, fuzzy crap on the shelf and come up with a story that's worth paying $8 for. "},{"Title":"Best one yet, it has everything a trekkie is looking for","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is by far the best Star Trek movie yet.  It has lots of one liners, and a good mix of humor.  The drama & romance are first rate.  Plenty of action makes it go by quickly, but you can still enjoy the film.  i loved it. "},{"Title":"A return to the old values","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is about what made Star Trek great, the humanity of the crew in saving a peaceful people from aggressors is what the original series was all about.This is the best Star Trek film since the Wrath Of Kahn, and although less action oriented than films 2, 6 (The Undiscovered Country), 8 (First Contact) it has much more of a plot.An excellent film that removes the myth about no odd numbered Star Trek film being good!!  "},{"Title":"A good way to spend two hours","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the success of First Contact, I suspect the producers felt tempted to create another all-action adventure. Wisely, they resisted this temptation and in the process have delivered a film that doesn't take itself too seriously, which makes for a good thing. I've seen too many sci-fi films attempt to take themselves way too seriously, and as a result, they tend to become bogged down with their own self-importance. These films should take a leaf out of Insurrection's book, because by taking a different approach than normal, we are treated to a thoroughly entertaining two-hour adventure.After 100+ episodes and 2 feature films the crew know their characters like the back of their hands, but they still find the odd occasion to show a different side to what we expect from them - largely due to the plot, which concerns eternal youth. Jonathan Frakes manages to make this the most humorous Trek film yet, and just when you think a scene is becoming boring, he injects some humour and action to move up the tempo. Indeed, most of the highlights come in the more comical scenes; from the opening look at Picard's overly serious approach to things, to Riker's attempts at scoring with Troi - he even manages to lose his beard at one point.Insurrection was never going to be original, but gladly it never becomes boring, something which Generations managed to be. A change of pace is a good thing, and Star Trek manages to be enjoyable for mainstream audiences and for long time Trekkers, who will appreciate the winks and in-jokes that non-trekkers will probably miss.7/10. "},{"Title":"The Essence of Trek","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was quite superb.  It keeps in the tradition of thought provoking ideas(and hasn't strayed to the abhorrent non trek currents of deep space nine)Although Ru'afo wasn't very convincing as a villain the development of picard's relationship with Anj was quite interesting(in fact I wish they had spent a little more time on it)I hear disturbing rumours of how paramount wants to reinvent the franchise by dumping stewart from the movies.  I presume they wish to turn trek into a more popular kind of experience.  It's sad to see a brilliant TV show and movie event destroyed by gluttonous money grabbing executives. If gene roddenberry saw DS9 he would be rolling in his grave.  If he saw insurrection however a tear would trickle down his cheek as if to indicate all is not yet lost. "},{"Title":"A good episode","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed Star Trek Insurrection, although it felt more like a two-hour episode of the TV series than a movie. Not as good as II, IV or First Contact, but certainly better than V. "},{"Title":"Nicely Done","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Up till this point, there had been one steadfast guide to the Star Trek films the even-numbered ones are always good and the odd-numbered ones are usually okay to lousy. This one breaks that mold. It is certainly the best of the odd-numbered ones and competes with some of the others. I think any Trek movie that has Worf getting acne is worth seeing. See it, and you'll thank me. "},{"Title":"Star Trek Insurrection is Amazing","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having seen Star Trek Insurrection 3 times, I think I am qualified enough to tell you that it was BRILLIANT! The romance battles and humour were well worth the price of entry 3 times over. The directing acting and effects are un-paralleled and there were a few lines that are the best I have ever heard, for those of you who haven't seen it yet keep an ear out for Riker's line on the Bridge and the conversation between Troi and Crusher on the Ba'ku planet were hilarious. If you haven't seen it then don't miss out go and see it before you get left behind by this phenominal movie. Roll on 2001 for the next Star Trek installment, I can't wait! "}{"Title":"Loved it, but...","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was too short. I had expected at least two full hours. Ah,well, it continues the great tradition so what the heck. Star Trek is always Star Trek even if this one had an unusual sense of humor. Patrick Stewart really owns the screen in every scene, his presence is, overwhelming. And what nasty villains, Adhar Ruafo, bad boy. The second time I saw it I just surrendered. The first time I was so afraid Id miss something that I didnt dare to laugh. Well, its definitely worth seeing again, what better fun can you have for 9 $ today, I only ask. Looking forward to Star Trek X. "},{"Title":"Great film. Great plot. Great acting. Great effects","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The film is one of the best Star Trek productions. The computer generated special effects were really crisp. The acting was superb. The plot was neat. And finally they injected some humour into the series.  "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the best Star Trek movies ever.  This movie ranks behind, First Contact and The Wrath of Khan.  Need I remind the people who didn't like it, of start trek 1 and 5?  This film has it all. It has great action, it's funny, and it has good suspense.  The plot is good, i especially liked the fountain of youth idea, good job writers.  I can't wait for the next one to come out.  Go and see this film today.  "},{"Title":"Not the worst but not the best either","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My Rating- **2 StarsThis one would not fall in my best nor worst list of Star Trek movies. It would probably fall around where Star trek Generations falls. The first half of this movie was slow and boring and the second half had little action and excitement. It looks like the Star Trek odd curse has cursed this movie also. I would advise people to skip this one. "},{"Title":"Disappointing.","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very sloppy and a little dull, I can't imagine how awful this film would be for non-trekkers. An utterly disappointing movie after the exciting FIRST CONTACT. Seems slapped together.  "},{"Title":"If not for the Star Trek mark on it, this film would fall into oblivion.","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What's wrong in this film? First of all the events in the story are totally unlinked one wonders why something is happening, but there is no explanation. Second is the poor attention paid to details, some scenes show a lack of preparation not acceptable for me. Third the director seems to have lost himself in a couple of scenes. There are a few cuts that are totally unexplainable. At the end, this film is suggested only to fans of ST that will like it, but only because it's ST.   "},{"Title":"Not quite as good as First Contact, but still very good.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Insurrection, while not as great as First Contact, (what Star Trek film could ever be) is still quite entertaining. It brings back the values the show embraced. The effects were top notch, the humor funny and not forced, and the romantic aspect attracted some non fans as well. Overall, a very good value for your film dollar. GO SEE STAR TREK INSURRECTION!  "},{"Title":"Effects and Laughs","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The trailor gives you an impression of a different film - well done, this meant the story was not spoilt and was great fun all the way through the film.  I did not move once and was gratified by the belly laughs - well done the script writers and well done Star Trek for remaining human with a sense of humour.  Excellent entertainment.  "},{"Title":"The Odd Number Curse has been Lifted","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Insurrection is not only the best of the usually sub-par odd-numbered Trek sequels, it is arguably the best of the films featuring the Next Generation cast.It features a solid story which is reminiscent of the best classic Trek episodes, raising questions about moral decisions and the consequences of sacrificing a small group for the greater good of society.The regular cast delivers solid performances, with Patrick Stewart finally being allowed to display a wider range than the brooding, vengeful characterization he was stuck with in Generations and First Contact.F. Murray Abrahan chews the scenery delightfully in an over the top performance as the chief villain.In all, one of the best of the Star Trek films. If the franchise can continue this trend, I look forward to further voyages of the Enterprise.  "},{"Title":"Deja Vu","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An alien scientist has a brush with a highly localised anomalous wotzit in space that offers eternal youth. When it slips from his grasp, he develops an overwhelming obsession to reclaim it, and becomes a mad alien scientist. An expensive piece of federation hardware breaks less than a week after coming online, leaving everyone very embarrassed. Meanwhile during a formal ceremony on board the Enterprise (which involves dressing up) Captain Picard is interrupted by a disturbing subspace message from starfleet concerning some one very close to him. Picard, Worf & Data sing a raucous song connected with the sea.This is all related to the mad alien scientist's scheme (involving a large cloaked secret device) to regain access to the localised anomalous wotzit, and thereby regain access to eternal life. To aid him in this quest, he is conspiring with a rebel faction of one of the Star Trek super-powers, who has supplied a cloaked ship. In regaining access to the localised anomalous wotzit, the mad alien scientist is willing to sacrifice the (relatively small) pre-industrial population of a nearby planet. Picard finds out about this, nearly falls under the spell of the localised anomalous wotzit and decides to stop the mad alien scientist.One of Picard's crew loses a handicap that he has had since the start of TNG, but this is just used as an excuse for bad puns. Picard beams down to the rocky planet (which resembles the northern United States) while Riker commands the Enterprise in battle (very badly) against a vastly inferior craft that is, in fact, cheating. The confrontation ends in the explosion of the Enterprise's warp core. Eventually, the mad alien scientist powers up a large electric thingamajig to exploit the anomalous immortality wotzit, which will (inexplicably) destroy the pre-industrial civilisation. Picard beams over to a big metal gantry on which the controls for the electric thingamajig are mounted, for the final one-on-one battle to the death with the mad alien scientist. I can't tell you how it ends, because I fell asleep, in spite of the very expensive CGI; and the last time I did that was while watching Batman & Robin.If this sounds like a review of Star Trek Generations, it's not. Given that the plot and excess of technobabble in that particular film were it's most criticised aspects, it's strange to see them recycled wholesale here. And it's not just these things that seem unoriginal. Picard falls in love (again), Data indulges in his obsession with small boys (again) and Picard makes lots of long, boring speeches about the Prime directive (are you seeing a recurring theme here?).Anthony Zerbe as Admiral Doughoty stands out for special mention, for failing to react to anything that happens in any way whatsoever. Not since Barbara Bain in Space1999 has a SF character seemed so completely disinterested or without motivation.Insurrection sums up Gene Rodenberry's vision of Star Trek perfectly. We have here a future world where there is no war, no hunger, no poverty and in which people have evolved to a point where they are concerned only with becoming bettering themselves, spiritually and intellectually. Excuse me, but where's the fun in that? Real Science Fiction has giant wasps in it.And one last bitch why is Worf in this picture, aside from contractual obligations? No mention of his relationship with Troi, no mention of Jadzia, not even an explanation as to why he is on the Enterprise. If he had turned up in the Defiant to aid Picard, as Sulu did in the Undiscovered Country, it would have made much more sense.  "}{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I never had such fun watching a Star Trek movie since Star Trek IV. This is far better than the pure action stuff of the Borg movie. Brent Spiner does a great job. Its really a pity that he wants to cancel as Data in one of the next movies. I always loved Patrick Stewart and hes great here, too! I nearly cried laughing when Riker used the joystick to navigate the Enterprise. More of that stuff in the future! And let Data live! And bring us a Q story to complete the fun! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Brilliant...Gene would be proud","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had read the transcript of the film about 3 months before I saw it.  I laughed then, and I laughed again when I saw the film.  It is a fantastic vehicle for the NexGen cast to really work together as a family, and they do a damn good job of it.  The scene where Worf shakes his head when Picard sings left me in stitches, as to did the Boob line delivered by Data!A fantastic film, and a credit to its director, Jonathan Frakes, though its a shame Riker and Geordi were sent away again (As in First Contact, where we hardly saw them).  I'm glad Beverly gets to say more than He'll be fine, but I wish we could have seen Deanna and Riker, well, a lot more than we did (they ARE SO right for each other!).  anyway, watch the film, it's fantastic10/10 "},{"Title":"The Enterprise and crew fight inner-Starfleet and alien attempt to steal revitalising force from paradise-like planet","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not even really being a `trekkie`, i was quite disappointed about the `new Star Trek film`. The script isn`t what I would have thought it could be. A good part of the story I had seen in Star Trek TNG before, such as the main scene in which Data reveals the hidden enemies on the giftet planet they land on. Some of the quotes are too bad to bear, the whole story was boring and you could easily foresee all of what happened. They put a fistful of pretty good jokes (most performed by Data) in the plot, but they wouldn`t really fit. There wasn`t one new idea to Star Trek, not even great SFX, however, i think this film pretty much sucks.  "},{"Title":"Breath-taking","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well what can I say.  A return to the old ways of Star Trek TNG.  Gripping from the opening sequence as Data runs amok in an alien colony until the credits rolled at the end.  A ST movie that we can be proud of. "},{"Title":"9 points for St-Insurrection","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  St-Insurrection, the ninth installment of the popular TV series, is a very well done movie. I was surprised of this odd-numbered film. It was an event in Star Trek, which Im not able to forget. The FXs were great and the story is well written by Michael Piller. If you are a fan of Star Trek, you have to watch this new installment of the succesful movie series. I promise you, you will have fun and 104 minutes,which become exciting. There are two main stories in the plot. The first one is the story about the Sonas and their wrath against the Baku. The second one is the lovestory between Picard und Anji, which is a little bit stereotyped. Moreover there are some more small stories in the plot e.g. Troi and Riker, the child and Data. Im only able to say,watch this film and have fun with this kind of Star Trek film. Its not too dark like First Contact and there are more humourous elements than in First Contact. Star Trek is back and will continue its successful way of entertainment. Sisko "},{"Title":"The Curse Broken ???","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have just seen this film, and by no doubt it is the best odd numbered film currently made. But does it make it a good film ??  It was an enjoyable few hours but it is definitely not a classic, it was amusing but I thought the effects were very plastiky.  It had too many plot holes.  A cloaked federation ship ?? I think not.  No explanation why worf was there. Don't get me wrong though, there was some great moments data talking about his breasts being firmer.  I gave the voyage home 7.5 out of 10 so Insurrection would get a 6.5.  I think this film would be better if you were not a trekkie, but I am. Make your own mind up.In summary, a good film, the curse is broken, but there are better trek films. "},{"Title":"A satisfying film.","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Way Cool!  It had the feel of a really good two-parter TV episode.  Nothing too unbelievable or out of character.My favorite sight gag  The Enterprise's joy stick popping up for Riker to go in for the kill.  An homage to the gamers of the world.Most characteristic moment  Worf refusing to sing Gilbert and Sullivan.Very satisfying.LL & P "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly Good","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After Reading quite a few negative posts about the movie, I was prepared for the worst. I took my Girlfriend (who has never seen a Star Trek Film) to see it. I must say that she enjoyed the film more then I would have thought, and I found it to be quite good too. I found that many of the arguments against the film were pure nonsense and most of the issues surfaced only require someone to pay attention to the film. I'll definitely recommend Insurrection to anyone Star Trek fan or not. "},{"Title":"Pretty good.","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was really worried when Insurrection came out, because Star Trek movies seem to get progressively worse each time they come out.  Thankfully, this was not the case with Insurrection.  I went to see it with a few of my friends, one of whom has never seen STTNG before.  She didn't seem to have too much of a problem catching on, even though it was a bit confusing at first.  It does get kind of mushy with Picard finding a girlfriend.  Data continues learning more about humanity, especially from a little boy on the planet (Note look for the little creature he carries around--it's adorable!).  All in all, I give it a 8. "},{"Title":"The Best Yet!!!!!","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Best Yet!!!!   That is saying quite a lot as there have been so many Star Trek movies.  But this movie is about people and their choices on how to live and a mother's love.  Not as much action as in some of the past movies but enough for the story line.  It was good to see more humor and sex in space.  The cast has acted like no sex, no fun drones in some of the past movies.  Worf showed up without his wife (Dax from Deep Space 9).  She would have made a good addition to the cast. I liked Star Trek First Contact but this one is better......  "}{"Title":"Best of the odd flicks!","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection is the best of the odd ST flicks. I enjoyed it at least as much as First Contact.  They did, however, start a number of subplots and didn't go anywhere with them.  Namely Riker and Troi's relationship and Warf's puberty. "},{"Title":"A Mediocre Outing","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A mediocre outing for the Star Trek movie series. I agreed with the reviewer who retitled the film Star Trek The Planet of the Hippie People. That about sums it up for me. Nothing really new or exciting here, just a lot of retreading, going to places man (and woman) has gone before. I would say there are better TV episodes than the big budget Insurrection production. "},{"Title":"The tradition continues","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Man, my friends warned me, but I was obstinate and went to watch it anyway...  how painful!How many one-liners made my stomach turn??  It was like StarTrek 5 humour all over again...  I think the height of it was the Gilbert and Sullivan bit.  The plot and premise of the movie didn't make up for the humour, unfortunately.  It was worse than your typical episode, and definitely a let-down after an amazing First Contact.Well, it was an odd numbered film, so all is somewhat expected. Let's hope 10 continues the tradition too. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  stit wasn't quit what i was expecting.  i was all hyped to see the movie when it came out and i wasn't all too disapointed with it.  it had humor, realisic fx, good acting, and a good plot.  but like all movies it had its lame parts (ie the joystick at the end).i was happy to se that it didnt fall to the odd numberd curse that has plagued the movies.  granted it wasn't as good as TWoK, or FC.  on a scale of 1-10 was about a 7.5.but it was worth the $7 ticket, and i will probably see it again in the theaters before it comes out on video "},{"Title":"A solid movie","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With comedy, action, romance, and drama, Star Trek Insurrection is able to destroy the curse of the odd sequels.  The plot centers around a planet that contains youth giving elements, that is sought after by a disfigured race of humanoids.  It's up to the crew of the Enterprise to stop them from kidnapping the inhabitants and harnessing the youth for their own purposes. The plot is pretty straight forward and not as confusing as First Contact's time travel plot.  This movie delivered what I wanted  solid entertainment. I really enjoyed the Data character and his comic reliefs.With the special effects and the setting of the paradise planet, Insurrection supplies sufficient eye candy with it's good plot, good acting, and all around entertainment value. 8/10   "},{"Title":"Would Make Roddenberry Proud","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a fan of Star Trek since the days of Kirk and Spock, I was very pleased with Insurrection.  Having read all the criticisms made by other fans on these pages, I still must say that this was one of the better Star Trek movies.  Yes, some of the plot points were predictable (the use of the holoship in the end, and there was absolutely no suspense to Picard's hair's breadth escape) but I found that when the movie dragged, I spent all my brain-power wondering whether the Son'a represented the Palestinians or the Israelis.  It is a tribute to the filmmakers that they never made it clear which.  Thus, the audience is free to think.  Just what Gene Roddenberry would have wanted.  It is by transporting 20th century problems into science fiction that Star Trek fulfills its charter and it is then that it is at its best.  It is sad that so many of the motion pictures don't seem to have this in mind.  Insurrection does. "},{"Title":"pretty darn good","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  the 9th star trek movie was fairly well done. i don't need to say much, but go see it. it's a good time with all the fun and humour we've come to expect from the star trek franchise.ps- no swearing from data this time. too bad. "},{"Title":"a dull episode","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Maybe I'm getting too old for this (at age 43).  I was bored.  Bring back the Borgs.  And by the way, who told Counselor Troy she's allowed to age?  I may rescind my offer to father her child. "},{"Title":"Extremely Enjoyable","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first 20 minutes of Star Trek Insurrection kind of made me nervous for it and for the Star Trek franchise. Frankly, I was afraid that Insurrection would be a horrible movie. The image that sticks out in my mind as epitomizing the unevenness of those first 20 minutes is the irritating at best and embarrassing at worst head shot of that female Starfleet officer repeatedly screaming Data! Stand down! Thank you, Jonathan Frakes. Not only did it make a longtime Star Trek fan like myself cringe, but I also feared that it did everything to reinforce the perception of non-fans that Star Trek is nothing but people in funny suits barking orders at each other, which, of course, is not the case. I also didn't like the first few minutes the movie spent on the Enterprise during the reception for that new alien race. While I was glad they didn't even attempt to explain away Worf's presence on the ship (I just didn't care how he got there as long as he was there), it just seemed as if Patrick Stewart and his supporting cast were going through the motions.However, once the movie progresses to the point where Picard and Worf go to save Data, it slides into an amazing groove which it rides to its conclusion. The H.M.S. Pinafore bit was very funny, and while it may not have made a lot of sense, it didn't really matter, as Insurrection seems to be all about downplaying the means to reach the ends, which are often very entertaining. Picard's relationship with the Bak'u, the exodus from the village, and the journey to safety are all done very well, with many humorous moments and many toughing ones thrown in. I felt Picard's romance with the Bak'u leader carried much weight and was very well done; it was more resonant than the only other comparable relationship in the Star Trek films, which was between William Shatner and the marine biologist in The Voyage Home. Their relationship was pulled off so well that the sequence at the end of the film when Picard says that he has shore leave coming up and that he's going to spend it there is not empty in the slightest. I enjoyed the mysticism surrounding the planet's fountain-of-youth type qualities; I expected the scenes where time stood still to come off as hollow, but, to my surprise, I found myself instilled with a sense of wonder, which is a credit to the filmmakers. I also enjoyed the Riker scenes, and I felt they were some of the best Riker in command scenes since The Best of Both Worlds II, if not the best scenes. As for the manual steering column that some have mentioned (disparagingly), I felt it was more of a joke than an action sequence device used by the writers. Hey, I laughed.Aside from the first 20 minutes, the things I didn't like about the film were, 1) The lack of Gates McFadden. I felt sorry for her throughout the film that her character has been relegated to such a bit part, and I hope she gets a bigger role (or at least some good moments) in the next film. 2) The under-usage of F. Murray Abraham. Abraham is a wonderful talent, and he is under-used here (perhaps his portrayal of Salieri in Amadeus raised my expectations to an unfair level). He had the potential to be the most interesting Star Trek movie villain yet and the most alien villain yet. It's not as if he was used as a conventional villain; on the contrary, he was most unconventional (except in perhaps the climax). I just wanted to see more of him and I wanted more of the interest he instilled in me when I viewed him. 3) The exploration of the fact that the Son'a and the Bak'u were once one people. In a film that is designed to entertain, this kind of thing is perhaps the greatest casualty. Instead of exploring the insane desire for revenge Ru'afo has or the extreme regret and wanting-to-go-home-again type of feeling of his first-officer guy (and perhaps some of the other Son'a), the fact that the Son'a and Bak'u are genetically the same is cast aside, save until the end when the Son'a guy who helps Picard (the first officer) is reunited with his family. If they had more of that kind of thing, the film would have carried more emotional resonance.In the end, while I think First Contact was a better movie, the sheer entertainment value of Insurrection is greater. I would recommend it to all Star Trek fans and to non-fans who are curious, who feel brave, or who are relegated to seeing it due to the lack of anything better at the theater. Don't worry if you are of the latter, you'll laugh - just disregard the first 20 minutes. "},{"Title":"Fun, fun, fun","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Breezy and light, Star Trek Insurrection is the perfect follow-up to the suspense juggernaut Star Trek First Contact.  Featuring the cast of Star Trek The Next Generation (1987-94) in their second solo feature film, this ninth entry into the three-decade sci-fi franchise leisurely bounces along, concerned with little more than giving some old characters a fresh, comfortable makeover.The story, concerning an intergalactic struggle over a planet with rings that contain fountain of youth properties, goes down as easy as a glass of lemonade in the summer. It's truly delightful to watch Patrick Stewart dive into Captain Jean-Luc Picard with unusual relish, and although the supporting characters' screen time is frustratingly low (just how many lines did Dr. Crusher have?), they're all in fine form.  Everyone on screen is clearly having a great time, and not trying to turn this relatively ineffectual little outdoor adventure into a space opera.One wonders, however, just how much those behind the scenes cared about the project.  While Jonathan Frakes's direction comes and goes (in many moments, he's on the mark, although his staging of the final confrontation between Picard and Son'a leader F. Murray Abraham - merely nibbling on the scenery), other production values are unbelievably low-grade.  Herman Zimmerman's sets look like they were cobbled together from the leftovers of Star Trek Voyager (and they probably were!), and the visual effects, for the first time in nearly a decade of Star Trek films not by Industrial Light & Magic, are blindingly sub-par (When will Hollywood learn that computer generated images ARE NOT YET ABLE to replace traditional visual effects processes!!).There's a pleasant Jerry Goldsmith score, however, with a theme for the peaceful Bak'u that will haunt memory long after the end credits have finished their roll.  And for the most part, however, Star Trek Insurrection does little to push the franchise in a new direction.  But when the results are this much fun, who wants a push? "}{"Title":"It's worth it.","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was ready for worse, I was expecting it to be like Star Trek Generations (movie)-which is ok but I've expected more - kind of movie. But this movie is definitely better and not deserving of the 2 star given by Toronto Star. It deserves more. I enjoy the movie, although some friends who are trekkers seems to feel it's just like another TV series. But I should say it's worth it. Having watch some Star Trek on TV myself, I think this one is good for the big screen. There's more humor and lighter compared to First Contact which is darker.  "},{"Title":"THE FUNNIEST AND BEST TREK SO FAR","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THIS WAS FAR THE FUNNIEST TREK MOVIE OF ALL TIME. ESPECIALLY THE SCENE WHEN WORF AND PICARD ARE CHASING DATA THEY START RECITING A PLAY AND WHEN DATA OVERHEARS A CONVERSATION BETWEEN TROI AND CRUSHER AND REPEATS IT TO WORF. THIS MOVIE IS PROBABLY RANKED IN THE TOP 4 OF STAR TREK MOVIES.I CAN'T WAIT FOR STAR TREK 10 "},{"Title":"Maybe the best Star Trek Movie yet.","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found the new movie VERY GOOD.  It has action, adventure, romance, comedy... all the elements of a great movie. It will make you sit on the edge of your seat; laugh; and if you are an emotional softy like me, probably cry. The scenery is absolutely gorgeous, and the SFX are very well done. Jonathan Frakes does another fine job in directing AND acting in the latest ST offering.  Patrick Stewart leads the rest of the entire TNG cast in a well written, well acted movie. This movie can be enjoyed by the whole family, without worry of excess violence or gratuitous coarse language.Perhaps my best endorsement would be to say that I would be willing to pay to see this movie again. You see, I rarely go to movies to begin with .. and to see a movie a SECOND time at a theater is almost unheard of for me.BOLDLY GO ... and ENJOY!Bill "},{"Title":"The Surprising View","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have, quite possibly, seen the trailer for this film about 200 times, and every time I see it I cringe at it.  The trailer makes a point of making this film appear LAME...but lame it is not.  I was beyond the realm of surprise upon viewing this campy, yet amusing movie.  Although light on action, this is a decent movie, with good acting, and that chemistry this cast is known for.  I prefer First Contact, or Wrath of Khan, but this was a well made movie.  I said it to my friends as I left the theater, and I'll say it to you, This was like a good 'Next Generation' episode with a big budget.  They agree... "},{"Title":"Well, it's Star Trek...","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What did you expect? I liked the movie because I knew what awaited me. But I was really surprised when Picard started singing in his quarters ('cause of the radiation, I know). What I expected was that Data actually does grow older (sorry, Mr. Spiner!) and that there would be another reason for Mr. Burton to take his visor off. I expected perfect landscapes, perfect clothes, perfect machines. I mean Doesn't anyone misbehave somehow? Doesn't a tree lose a branch sometimes? Every Trekkie gets excited when someone's late for duty! In Star Trek, machines are not mankind's way to ease live, no, they are so perfect that they live on their own (nothing against Data!) but what I want to state here is that this is getting so weird! If there was a solve problem-button, nobody would criticise! I have to out myself as a Star Wars fan. Well, I love Star Trek, too, it is the second third of sci-fi movies, but different. But I am drifting away here... All I wanted to say about Star Trek Insurrection is the following It is a good movie. I liked it. It's fun. It's action. It's space and not high-school horror *again*, for heaven's sake! It continues the Star Trek history. But It's different and unexpected setting (the youthening) makes it hard to accept as Star Trek. Some ideas were taken from Star Wars, but that's okay, as we all know it ) And finally It's far better than any of us could have made it. So, if someone of the team reads this give my best wishes to Mr. Frakes and the cast They did a hell of a job! "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as I was expecting!","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to the theater last night expecting the usual dreg known as Star Trek ever since Rick Berman took over.  I was pleasantly surprised!  The movie was, in a word, fun.  Good action, great effects, and one liners up the ying yang.  I might even consider seeing it again, and it will definitely be a DVD in my collection.I gave the movie a 7 out of 10 because of three problems I found with it. 1.  Way too much technobabble.  Too often, now, Star Trek resolves its problems by coming up with some new technobabble to throw at it.  2.  The Enterprise is treated in the same way that most movies treat 1982 Ford sedans--just fodder for the car chase scenes.  A long time ago, the Enterprise used to be a character on Star Trek.  When the Enterprise died in Star Trek 3, I cried.  When the Enterprise was near destruction in First Contact and Insurrection, I shrugged it off.  3.  Who on earth came up with the Manual Steering Column?!?!  This had to be the most incredibly stupid thing I have ever seen in a Star Trek movie.  Luckily, it was only there for a second (making me ask again why it was needed), so it didn't grate me like other stupid ideas (like Star Trek 5's elevator shaft)...All that being said, I felt that those issues were minor in comparison to how much fun the movie was.  I'd say it broke the odd number curse, but I never believed in such a thing, since I felt that ST8 was trash, and ST1 and 3 were some of the best films ever made.  So, get your ticket, check your brain at the door, set your phaser on stun, and get a good seat! "},{"Title":"OK. Not as good as First Contact","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like I said, not as good as First Contact. I thought the script was trying to be too humorous in the first half, although this settled down within half and hour. As the film progressed, there were still funny moments and scenes, but these served to break up tense moments or as interludes to dramatic scenes, and were thus a welcome reprieve.Rating 7/10. I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Enough. Enough. Enough","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am trying to figure out a review for INSURRECTION. It wasn't good, it wasn't bad. This movie will do well at the box office because of the STAR TREK name.  The plot was marginal at best.  Better writing would help.  But, until the producers, directors, writers, etc. decide to take a chance and come up with something more original Star Trek has reached the Final Frontier.  *** out of *****.   "},{"Title":"waste of time","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was a major let-down compared to the previous Star Trek movie. Whereas the previous Star Trek movie, First Contact, was well-written, ingenious, funny, exciting, and an excellent movie in every way, this one had a very weak, unexciting story to tell, a weak plot, nothing particularly funny or exciting, and was just plain boring.  It did have one interesting twist at the end, but nothing that came close to the ingenious surprises in First Contact.  The movie was constantly having to go to obvious measures to explain itself, and this points to an effort to salvage a hastily written script.  The character development was almost non-existent, including that of the character with which Picard was supposed to be having a romantic relationship.  It is just as well that the evidence of this relationship was also virtually non-existent, because this would have seemed terribly shallow given that we knew next to nothing about this person.  Even the battle scenes, or what semblance of battle scenes there were, relied extensively and repeatedly on a single device the tactical use of the transporter.  The plot developments made such extensive use of this that the movie might instead have been called Textbook examples of the use of the teleporter in tactical situations, as an addendum to a Starfleet manual. "},{"Title":"An excellent blend of action, humour and story","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a GOOD movie.The screen writer was able to fuse humour, action (without real violence), and a good story into a nearly seamless film.Even though he is one of my favorite actors, it took me half the film to recognize F. Murray Abraham as the villain.  His character was close to evil incarnate.There were some very good plot twists, a real hallmark of the Star Trek films.Of course you know that everything must work out in the end or there would be no sequel -- but, as usual, it does leave you on the edge of your seat until the final resolution.Sure, it was somewhat formulaic -- but what the heck -- it was a darn good movie. "}{"Title":"I wasn't expecting much, but I was still ticked off.","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've learned over the years not to expect more than mediocrity from the Trek franchise machinery, and I'm a Star Trek fan. It was painfully bad in places like when you go to the dentist and he pokes that pointy thing around your teeth and gums and asks does this hurt? Frakes gave himself way too many bloated close-ups, and as for Picard's much-touted love interest if she had any more collagen in her lips and cheeks she would burst like a bloodfilled tick! Not a pretty picture...I could only relieve myself by hissing witticisms in the bf's ear every few minutes, although at one point I think I begged him to hit me over the head with a large polo mallet (to steal from Woody Allen).  "},{"Title":"funny more than anything","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I will always like these characters on screen, Data is as always the Key figure for this series' cast, and Frakes hasn't forgot that fact.   I thought the initial scenes aboard the Enterprise opened up too informally seeing the crew so chummy and with the Captain trying to remember how to say a name in the turbo-lift was almost like walking into a wrong room and seeing the President naked. But all in all, it was way more entertaining than the last two; and it was fun just to sit back and enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"Are they kidding?","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Is Gerry Anderson doing Sci-Fi again? If I had any doubt that the Trek franchise is dead it was erased with this latest big screen installment. This movie is so bad it's embarrassing. Even the worst Babylon 5 episode is better than this garbage, and it's an appalling testament to how bad things must be at Paramount. The plot is trite and contrived, the acting is pedestrian, the humor is inappropriate and corny, and its delivery might aspire to the level of vaudeville, if it had ambition. Worst of all, the cast has begun to commit the ultimate unpardonable sin if you're a Trek fan they're letting their age show. Remember all the fun made of the original cast's final films? Next Generations also have next generations after them. It will be interesting to see if Next Gen's fans visit upon the current crew of the Enterprise the same vitriol that was heaped upon the originals for simply growing older. At any rate, it's a great time not to be a Trek fan. Phasers on retire. "},{"Title":"Just for Fun","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very enjoyable.  Don't go in with expectations of a sci-fi classic but more of the tongue-in-cheek fun/ adventure that you saw in Start Trek IV and you will enjoy it.  Don't read the newspaper reviews as they spoil the plot twists.  Ignore the illogic of the battle scenes; don't expect Gates McFadden or Marina Sirtis to have any actual purpose in the film.  Could someone tell Gates that she should try something besides a matronly smile in every scene? "},{"Title":"Great entertainment","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a good movie and I found it very entertaining.  I have been a Trekkie for years and, while I miss the old crew, this movie makes the TNG crew more endearing.  The plot is not that complex, but it does flow well. The action was top notch and I believe I liked it better than any Star Trek movie except Wrath of Khan and The Search for Spock.  A must see for Trekkies . . .   and an enjoyable story for those who are not. "},{"Title":"dull","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Booooring. Didn't use the characters well- there was little interaction and chemistry. Boring story with stupid new age hippies running around in earthtones. Cheesey computer generated effects. Bad news. "},{"Title":"This is why I keep coming back...","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film works on every level. Of course, I am biased... I AM A FAN. I've loved every one of the Star Trek films. Some more than others... but all pass the test. I get a kick out of reading other reviews where people complain that the movies tend to be JUST regular new double episodes released on the big screen. That's funny because THAT'S WHAT I WANT! What these people fail to realize is that the STTNG series on TV week after week with a few glaring exceptions was of cinematic quality. I can still plug in a tape of a double episode that aired on TV and be BLOWN AWAY. Blown away by the sights, the sounds, and the emotions evoked. I think by watching the series for all these years we have all been SPOILED. The series is dead. But instead of complaining how much like a TV show the movies are, let's be glad we had a series that was like a new movie every week.Lord knows we don't have any TV series like that today. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie!","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Better than First Contact. Great story, great action, great humor! I loved this movie. Will definitely go back to see it again! Wow! "},{"Title":"Great film, but a couple of problems","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Definitely the best of the odd numbered films.  I want to see it again before trying to do a ranking, but I would say it may be in the top three or four ST films so far.I don't have any problems with the story line, but I do have a couple of complaints.  First, while the light-heartedness of the film was a nice change, I think it went just a bit too far.  I could have done without Data making that crack about being designed as a floatation device.  Second, would the designer of a military / exploration vessel really include large bathtubs in crew-member's quarters?  Third, having Worf just happen to show up for every movie is getting a bit contrived.  Fourth, why is it that every Federation admiral is either spineless, evil, or insane?  (I guess it's because the really good captains don't want to be promoted). "},{"Title":"one of the best","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  STIX is one of the best ST movies ever. Thankfully, we don't have to be insulted by another yet again, the Enterprise saves the galaxy type plots. The movie plays like a Next Gen episode, but of feature length. But will a plot of more limited scope be enough to give the movie mass-market appeal and commercial success? Only time will tell. Gripes the Enterprise is mostly seen turning tail and running, maybe a bit too much dopey humor, Picard still doesn't get to kiss the girl. Good stuff solid visual effects, cleaner, crisper interior lighting than the dim and dull interior scenes in First Contact. Can't wait until the next installment! Until then, please see the movie a few times and buy the video when it comes out! "}{"Title":"Good, but short","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Next Generation crew are back on the silver screen for Star Trek's ninth movie outing. Picard and his crew find themselves rebels of the federation when an admiral sides with the villains and proposes to force out a planet of six hundred immortal souls. The story was great, considering that the villains are brand new, and the acting is well done. But the length of the film bothered me. Less than two hours. I was expecting along the lines of two hours and fifteen minutes. What happened to the length of the Star Trek films? First Contact was long, but it delivered high powered performances and visual effects. This one is more on the lines of make-up effects and what would it be like to be immortal. I guess they thought the story was more important than the film. Jonathan Frakes is a great Star Trek director and I hope he does other projects in the near future. Star Trek fans will love this movie. First time Star Trek watchers need to go rent some past Star Trek flicks before viewing this one. "},{"Title":"a pleaure to the mind, the eye and the ear","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an easy one. The plot is palatable, the effects are beautiful, the color is a challenge to the Dutch Master painting school, and the music...virtuoso playing and composition doing justice to the new all stadium seatings. For those that never cared for the intergalaxic media, there were excellent actors and boastingly beautiful photography. For those that never cared for futuristic newborn faces placed on adults, there were some handsome real human beauties to inspire the eye. Probably one of the season's best, deserving a 10 but best keeping some room for the next star treked production, giving it a 9+.  "},{"Title":"Good, solid work","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is definitely one of the better movies in the series. Plenty of good shoot-'em-up stuff, laced with the humor which made the series so enjoyable.  Everyone got a fair amount of screen time, although Beverly Crusher's role did seem a little thin.  Very interesting plot twist towards the end.  Next time out, we need to get poor Jean-Luc some romantic interest who will at least do more than hold hands.  "},{"Title":"Sigh...","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Was it a pleasant movie? Sure. Was it particularly good. Not even. Some nice laughs, some pretty pictures, and in the end you're 2 1/2 hours older without much to show for it. Every time we found something really special (time stands still), Frakes gives us about two seconds to enjoy it and then we're off. The ship effects were pretty awful -- were all the ship battles done on a PlayStation? Worf turns into a teenager? Puh-leeze! Spiner and Stewart come out well, everyone else in the crew fades from sight. Donna Murphy is one of the most beautiful and talented actresses around, and she's brilliant in a thankless role -- but there's more truth and learning and love in one shot of her eyes than in the rest of the entire film. "},{"Title":"Good movie.","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I would have to say that this installment of the Star Trek saga does not suffer from the same syndrome of the other odd-numbered Trek movies.  I found that this movie was entertaining from the beginning. "},{"Title":"Best of the Trek Movies","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm a Trek fan from the beginning & I do mean the very beginning.  And I can say without a doubt this is the best Trek movie to date.Great to see the next generation crew again & sorry Patrick but this is the role I like you best in.This movie is a thinking person's sci-fi, with gentle humor and a good plot.The Look, gosh what can I say, most excellent!Big Thumbs up from me. "},{"Title":"They finally broke the curse!","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I only have one bad comment about this film, and that is that the opening sequence (credits) were too simple for a Star Trek film, especially following the cool drifting thing in First Contact.  Overall, the movie was excellent.  Well placed humor, excellent storyline, and for the first time, a decent villain twice in a row (Borg Queen and Ru'afo).  The combination of Rick Berman's producing and Jonathan Frakes' directing (don't the words A Jonathan Frakes film just look cool??), they finally broke the odd-numbered curse.  It's not the best they've ever done (First Contact), but it settles well into second best!Best placed comedy  The goofy joystick!  Looks like mine! "},{"Title":"The Curse is dead!  Long live the Sequels!","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Vindication!!!  I must admit I breathed a sigh of relief when I left the theater Friday.  Insurrection was a movie that didn't trump itself up in its previews.  The movie, as someone has already pointed out, follows the path of Star Trek IV The Voyage Home. The action in the movie was NOWHERE near the level it was in First Contact; however, the storytelling and overall inter-character chemistry carry this movie.  (I will say that the Riker/Troi chemistry was a treat to watch) The humor was the big surprise for me. And, the characters of Crusher and Warf were given some lines and situations that were surprising to hear in a TREK movie (Boob is not a word I usually associate with Starfleet). However, F. Murray Abraham's performance as the heavy was flat and one-dimensional. His second in command actually showed more dimension then Abraham did! Where was the Saleri of my past?  Other than that, I TOTALLY recommend this movie.  It is by far not the best TREK movie; but Insurrection is a tasty morsel that, I hope, leads to a TREK movie with Q in it!!!*wink wink Paramount!*     "},{"Title":"  Good effort, Good acting and super character and plot development.","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw Star TrekInsurrection and I have to say they have made a good film and a very good Star Trek film.  The  film is a very good T.V. episode in long form.  This is to say they have delivered a complete and well constructed package.  The characters have been well developed as was usually done on the T.V. series and the actors all have credible parts.  It will be interesting to see how they involve the whole cast as time goes on.  They need to have credible purpose as characters or Star Trek 5 will be recreated.  This movie involved good actors as the villains. F.Murray Abraham was very good in his role.  Overall it was a satisfying movie going experience.  I don't think The Wrath of Khan will ever be matched as the best Star Trek film, but Insurrection is a very good effort for the crew of the Enterprise E.  "},{"Title":"Worth Seeing Again","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the better movies of the Star Trek movie series, on par with STIV (Star Trek IV), STVI and First Contact (but I don't think it or any other Star Trek movie can compare with STII The Wrath of Kahn). I would say the movie is about as good, or possibly better than STFirst Contact.This movie excels above all the others with its fantastic special effects, mostly computer-generated. There is plenty of humor, some of which are inside to fans of the STNG (Star Trek The Next Generation) series, but most of the humor can be enjoyed by all. There are plenty of new , impressive strategies in the battle sequences.The main plot centers around a fountain-of-youth (in Star Trek terms, DNA-regenerating) planet where the Ba'Ku people live. The Federation and the Son'a race want to relocate its 600 inhabitants off-planet in an effort to mine the planet of its regenerating properties.There are plenty of subplots in the movie as well, including romances between Captain Picard and Anij (a beautiful Ba'Ku native woman) and a sensual second chance romance (first chance was in the STNG series) between Commander Riker and Counselor Troi.The whole crew of the Enterprise is here, including Lt. Worf, who is visiting from Deep Space Nine.Here are some things to look for - How the rogue Data is stopped - Something happens to Lt. Geordi - Picard learns something new - Fun things to do with transporters and holograms - Invisibility suits - Evil *Batteries Not Included hoverbots - Skin stretching operations using a staplerIt's definitely worth seeing again. "}{"Title":"The Odd Number Curse Broken!","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Though not the best addition to the series, Star Trek Insurrection provides a fresh look comparable to 'The Voyage Home'.  It is visually stunning, the plot is original and good, and there is some great one liners put in there. The finally was not as climatic as it could have been and some of the banter dialogue seemed forced.  However, I was very pleased with the film and after First Contact I had high expectations, they were met. "},{"Title":"A watchable Star Trek movie","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First, I shall admit to everyone reading this that I am a Star Trek fan. I'm not a geek who knows every single line of dialogue ever spoken by any character, but I have seen every movie and probably every single episode of every incarnation of the show.  So I'm a pretty big fan.That having been said, I think this movie could really only be enjoyed by a Star Trek fan.  Every time a Star Trek movie comes out, I hear an interview where the producers promise that they make a good movie first and make a good Trek movie second.  And almost every time, they're wrong.For Trek fans, this is a good movie.This is the ninth Star Trek film, and the odd-numbered films are traditionally among the least well received.  This movie does break that tradition; however, there really are no stand-out scenes and the plot seems like it could have been written for an episode of the television show.  The story doesn't seem really worthy to have warranted big-screen treatment.It's great to see all the cast together again.  I love how the presence of Worf (the Klingon) is explained.  (For non-fans, the character of Worf was part of the crew on the television show, but has since been reassigned to Deep Space Nine, one of the Star Trek shows currently on the air.  This constantly poses the problem of explaining how come Worf is on board the Enterprise when he's not a part of their crew.)  Picard see's Worf and asks him Worf.  What the hell are you doing here?  As Worf starts to explain, other characters start talking and you never hear exactly what his reasons were for being there.One of the enjoyable facets of the movie (for a Trek fan) was the fact that Deep Space Nine was mentioned (several times) and the threat of the Dominion was mentioned (several times).There were some good special effects.  There were some humorous moments. The only real embarrassingly bad moment was Worf, Picard, and Data singing an old Gilbert & Sullivan song.In case you're wondering how this stacks up in my opinion of all the other Star Trek films, I rank them in this orderStar Trek II  The Wrath of KhanStar Trek IV  The Voyage HomeStar Trek VI  The Final FrontierStar Trek - First ContactStar Trek III  The Search for SpockStar Trek - InsurrectionStar Trek - GenerationsStar Trek V  The Final FrontierStar Trek - The Motion PictureI rate this movie a 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"to boldly go for just the pure fun of it","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Movies are usually made just for the entertainment value.  Insurrection fulfills that with action and humor; much of the humor directed at themselves.For most who enjoy Star Trek, and for others new to the genre (where have you been!?!), this movie shall be a pleasant diversion from hero-based movies that take themselves way too seriously and the blood-n-gore constantly spilling across our screens with nothing to feed our intellectual yearnings.  "},{"Title":"Part morality play, love story, space war and comedy, Insurrection is a solid entry in the Star Trek series.","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has a lighter tone, maybe because the enemy is not as lethal as the Borg. The humorous touches are welcome in an otherwise serious test of the Prime Directive, where a planet of beings is threatened by a Star Fleet sponsored group of aliens, intent on mining a mineral substance capable of prolonging life.  Only the crew of the Enterprise can save the day. Patrick Stewart delivers another fine performance as Picard. A romance with Donna Murphy as Anij, is understated and subtle. The Enterprise crew, while not featured in large rolls, is great fun to watch. This film is a good blend of action, comedy and morality. Throw in some new uniforms and some sleek alien spacecraft and you have the makings of a good time. "},{"Title":"Well played, well written, well what else do you want?","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was nice to see the cast of Star Trek in something that was worthy of calling a Star Trek Movie. The perfect balance of comedy and suspense/drama. Berman should try to follow the formula used to create this film in future movies. Frakes did a great job of directing this installment, and I look forward to him doing films other than Star Trek.  "},{"Title":"Almost as good as First Contact","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jonathon Frakes turns in another well-done film in the Star Trek line. Insurrection's major flaw is the slightly thin story.While an interesting plot involving the choices between relocating a small group of citizens from a planet to learn the secrets of eternal youth, it would have been better suited to a 1 hour TV show than a 2 hour movie. There's simply not enough material.That aside, the movie is full of gorgeous music and scenery, winning performances, and the combination of action, adventure, and warmth that built Star Trek and the Voyager and DS9 lack altogether. "},{"Title":"A fun film, definitely worth while, especially for S.T. fans","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As we all know, Star Trek movies can often be less excellent than their television counterparts, and this has proven especially true of the first two Next Generation movies.  Insurrection, however, is a ton of fun, and definitely worth seeing, especially if you're already a Star Trek fan.  It gives the audience what it wants to see in the way of nostalgic and funny character scences, and it has a pretty good adventure component as well.  I enjoyed watching Insurrection tremendously, and had a great deal of fun reconnecting with my old Next Generation buddies.  Most people, even non-fans, should get a lot of enjoyment out of the film. "},{"Title":"Good, but not as good as Star Trek 2 or 8","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Another fun Star Trek movie, to be sure, but wasn't as gripping as some of the previous ST movies, 2 or 8 in particular.  Still, it was exciting, full of all the campy, Star Trek humour that you've come to expect.  The new Enterprise looks sharp, and they touch on some of the long running themes that STTNG fans will enjoy revisiting.  In general, a good flick. "},{"Title":"Lighthearted, Well-done","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In this ninth Treck installment, I found that the light-heartedness and PG feel had a positive impact on the film. There is more characterization, and with that came humor. I felt like I could have taken my mother, who fell asleep during Star Wars. "},{"Title":"average 2-hour TV episode","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  STI is a much more light-hearted approach to the Star Trek universe than its previous two movies (First Contact and Generations). I had seen the previews and realized before I went to see it that this story wasn't being promoted as the action-sci-fi movie its two predecessors were.After watching STG and STFC about 50 times BG, I was a little disappointed in the storyline of this movie. It's similar to STIV, a light-hearted approach to a decent script.That's not to say I hate STIV --- I love that movie NOW, but it had to grow on me. I think space-bound trekkers might agree with me. The more I think the almost comical approach to STI, the more I believe the light-heartedness was neccessary given the dark tones and themes of the previous two installments.The storyline even set the stage for darker times ahead for the Federation.I think fans will appreciate and enjoy the break in the doomsday themes of the past.Live long and prosper! "}{"Title":"Good, but when will they make a REAL Star Trek film?","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this one was good, almost as First Contact.  The action was great, however lack of a good space battle degrades the experience.  Overall, everybody got a good amount of screen time except Beverly.  Funny too.But when are they going to make a really great Romulan war story?  I've got a great simple idea.  A renegade Romulan subcommander leads a fleet of warbirds and an experimental battle cruiser in an attempt to destroy Earth. The Enterprise discovers, however, that they aren't so renegade and that they are actually a ploy by the Empire to strike the Federation while maintaining the alliance against the Dominion.  Now, was that so hard?All of the TNG films have been OK or just good.  When are they gonna make a big budget epic film?  I guess we have to wait for The Phantom Menace.  "},{"Title":"Trek films still cursed","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection is the ninth Star Trek film to be made, and the third made with the TNG crew.  Either way, it is an odd-numbered trek film and all trek fans know about the curse that seem to infect all odd-numbered trek films they all suck.  I am sad to add Insurrection as another victim to this curse.Insurrection is a well directed, well acted, and well edited film with some of the best special effects to be found in a trek movie.  Jonathan Frakes had proved his ability as a director yet again, and the cast of TNG, especially Patrick Stewart, as usual delivered some of the best acting in sci-fi.  The writing, however, left a lot to be desired.  First, the basic plot is vintage Star Trek from the original series, and the crew's idealism seemed to lack a roughness at the edge that seemed to be mandatory in our more cynical age.  Second, there had been too little character development besides Picard and Data.  Riker seemed to have too little screen time compared with the television series.  The villains are pretty stereotypical and therefore boring.  This film had the making of a decent two hour episode, but not a great trek movie. "},{"Title":"Our heroes are in good form; lots of eye candy.","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jonathan Frakes (our Cmdr. Riker) has done yet another great job of directing crew and effects -- this movie is a very cool installment in the Star Trek series.Good story (suspenseful, interesting,  heart warming and humorous!), really GREAT special F/X, cool bad guys ... and F U N to watch! Loved it and I am hoping for a Star Trek 10, 11, 12, etc! "},{"Title":"Sure hope Star Wars in May isn't this much of a disappointment!","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Once it got past the first half hour, it finally started getting interesting, but it sure took forever to get going.  And it wasn't just plot development to ensure a richly detailed story as we'd expect from Star Trek. It was simply poorly delivered lines and terrible dialogue.  Most of the actors seemed so out of practice in their roles, the lines could have all been delivered by Data, they were so wooden and stiff.  And they of course had the same gang's all back together again deal going through the first part of the movie.  Even the humor wasn't there!  The humor they attempted mostly seemed to be inside, ooooh, bet the Trekkies'll love this one type jokes.  I saw it among a crowd of die-hards on opening night who had waited for an hour to get tickets, so you know they were *eager* to like this movie, but there wasn't much laughing for the jokes.  And in general, not much reaction to most of the movie.  If you can't an opening night crowd of die-hards to get into it, I'm afraid the casual fan won't find much of interest in the movie.  To be fair, a good number of the friends who went with me enjoyed it a great deal.  Oh, and Troi looks as good as she always has. > "},{"Title":"The perfect blend.","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection held the characteristics of a truly entertaining movie that any fan will enjoy.  The previews almost made it seem like it would be too much action and not enough story, but on the contrary it blended the old (and well loved) original Star Trek morality issues with a good amount of action.  Excellent special effects, and of course (what else is expected) the crew did a nice job acting.  If you have enjoyed Star Trek in the past, go see it.  If you enjoy Science Fiction, go see it.  If you - oh just go see it!  =)-Wilson "},{"Title":"The Odd Numbered Curse Continues!","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was not terrible but what is it about Star Trek movies which makes it impossible for an odd-numbered one to top a great even numbered one (First Contact)?  This film was boasted to be more lighthearted and fun than the last film but it seemed to be a bit more depressing.  Of course, First Contact had TONS of chemistry -- not only with the core cast but also with the guest roles.  Insurrection seems to be lacking in this area somehow. It was also sort of difficult to see Gene Roddenberry's vision of a future with a strong, righteous organization like the Federation, become a crippled, lying, cheating and thieving entity on the verge of extinction. Dear Lord, don't let the Trek legacy go out on this note... Do a tenth (even numbered) one and end it right. "},{"Title":"Is this supposed to be a comedy?","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, aside from being low on the action, this movie also has an abnormally high laugh potential.  I mean when you have Picard, Worf, and Data singing Gilbert and Sullivan, you know that the writers are going for the cheap laughs.  It took away from the experience in my opinion.  In addition the sappy romantic plotlines were disappointing.  The previews for this movie were totally misleading; they promised action where there was little, and drama where there was melodrama.  Very sappy.  The movie was worth seeing once, but I'm afraid not on the big screen.  Oh, and one more thing.  The Enterprise-E, a ship designed to go head to head with the Borg and the Dominion, getting beat up by two ships of an alien species we've never heard of before? Please. "},{"Title":"Impressive for the odds","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The ninth Star Trek installment was a nice one.  By far better than Generations but not as good as First Contact.  I had a tough time understanding some of the parts and what was going on but that is just me. The beginning is somewhat humorous with Data going nuts and Worf and Picard trying to get him back.  The whole story is about the Bak'tu and their homeworld.  They have technology but just don't want to use it.  Their world is a fountain of youth because their cells are being regenerated all the time.  Starfleet, under the direction of their Admiral, is trying to get the Bak'tu off the planet, until the Enterprise finds out.  In one of the greatest scenes ever in a Star Trek film Picard takes off his rank buttons one by one.  This of course to symbolize that he is going against the Federation in an attempt to save the Bak'tu.  I loved seeing this because for the first time Picard turned into Kirk and did not use the diplomatic approach.  After some interesting moves and some space fights the Enterprise, of course, prevails and the Bak'tu are allowed their civilization for eternity.  Patrick Stewart gives another Oscar worthy performance, as always, that really shows he was meant to be Picard.  Brent Spiner (Data), Michael Dorn (Worf), and LaVar Burton (LaForge) are the other main ingredients in the film and offer great performances with Spiner shining as usual in his comic scenes.  The minor characters in this one being Jonathon Frakes (Riker), Gates McFadden (Crusher), and Marina Sirtis (Troi) also do a fine job with Frakes showing that Riker really deserves the captain's chair.  As for Frakes's second try at directing a Star Trek film he does a very nice job.  The special effects are extraordinary and a sight to see.  He deserves the next film as well.  Frakes as proved himself a good director and a good actor.  The only main problem I had with the entire film was some of the jokes.  Some were amazing and as good as some comedies get, while some were just uncalled for and useless.  They attempted to turn the film into another Star Trek 4 and failed at doing that.  This film falls into the the current order with films 4,2,6,8, and then 9.  I give it 3.99999 stars out of the possible 5.  Maybe the second time I see it it will go higher.  Until then... "},{"Title":"Better than worse","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unlike most odd-numbered films, Insurrection was fairly good. It was not as good as The Undiscovered Country or First Contact, but it was still an enjoyable film to watch. Some scenes were somewhat slow, and I didn't get the point or why they included the slowing of time scenes, but the majority of it was well done. The graphics looked good, but different from most computer graphics. Acting was good and the villains were good... and hopefully for the next movie, they'll have the Dominion "},{"Title":"At last! A good 2 part episode!","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What makes this a wonderful film is that the Enterprise and company are NOT meeting god, saving the universe or determining the fate of human kind.It is, for all practical purposes a two-hour episode that has been brought to the big screen. All our favorite characters were there The Captain being the CAPTAIN, Riker being our heroic big lug, and Data and Worf getting off getting good lines.The characters are moved forward in their development. On going subplot are furthered. And, as usual, the Enterprise saves the day because their hearts are pure (well almost)!There has been a lot to talk on the net about how there wasn't enough, shall we say, action of a specific type. And there are a few plot holes big enough to drive a Galaxy class ship through. But, I for one left the theater feeling that my $7.50 was very well spent.The one regret that I'll mention here is that I was very disappointed when they didn't show next week's coming episode!  "}{"Title":"Well...","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen better episodes than this.  Typical that it feels like an episode, rather than a movie.  They've got to stop having TV writers penning the films (I don't care if it is the sacrosanct Berman or Piller behind the keyboard.  They just don't cut it.)The movie, in a word  *yawn*  "},{"Title":"Lost in Space or Hidden Agenda (Sequel IX)","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Read a comment yesterday in the paper that being the ninth movie in the series (and all odd numbered Star Trek movies were flops) - would be a box-office flop.I came away with a good feeling, but the plot was boring and for some reason the movie looked OUT-OF-FOCUS (Is it just me???) even wearing glasses!I was surprised that the producer would use a blind sequence in another sequel at the beginning of the movie??? The movie does have a hidden agenda that doesn't come out till the very end.It would have been nice (without giving away the ending away, of course ...) if at the end of the story we could see what the Son'a really did look like (without all that makeup)!!! There was a touching scene at the end with a mother being reunited with her son (not giving anything way again, of course).Evidently the ending of one story maybe the beginning of the next, who knows!Thank God, the crew wasn't trying to save the Universe again or trying to talk to God as in the other series!Rating  7 out 10 stars (I'm being generous ...)  "},{"Title":"Superb!","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Saw the movie on the day of release and what can I say except that the movie kicks ass!! I knew they had replaced the old crew (graphics designers etc) but after seeing the movie I think they made the right choice; the graphics, sound & everything else was simply superb!! I found that the movie had something different that the previous ones didn't have; for instance, romance, humour (lots of it & good one) and lots of scenes off the ship. Usually, when one thinks of STAR TREK, he/she probably assumes its mostly in the galaxy but in this case it isn't. Humour is probably the strong point in this movie.Though the movie is not as good as FIRST CONTACT but like I mentioned before, it's a different type of movie. First Contact was more of a GALAXY-ACTION Adventure movie (which frankly was pretty darn good, i'd give a 10 out of 10) while Insurrection is a bit of an all rounder.Data, as always has been my favorite character in TNG & in this I'd say he did his best & quite frankly I LOVED IT!! "},{"Title":"good....but cheesy!","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie last night...and after waiting in a long line to  get into the theatre...i was surrounded by Star Trek fanatics..I was dragged to this movie by friends..I rarely watch the show and have not seen any other star trek movies.  The movie was actually better than I thought it would be..but kinda cheesy, plus the people in the theatre clapping after every stupid thing kinda got annoying...i dunno maybe tis just me but isn't it a little weird to start clapping at the first sight of the..um..enterprise? I think that's what it's called.  Well..I thoguht that android data was cool..maybe I will go back and see the other Star Trek movies ) "},{"Title":"Classic Trek","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The people who made this movie knew what they were doing.  It's no First Contact or Wrath of Kahn but it will hold its own as one of the top three easily.  Each actor pulls off their roles perfectly, like a well fitted glove.  Good character development more is learned about these characters in two hours than 5 episodes put together.  The Ba'ku were excellent villains , their facial contorionism is very frightening.  All in all a great and not one to be missed. "},{"Title":"Possibly the best Star Trek film yet","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm really surprised by the negative press I'm seeing about Star Trek Insurrection.  The film is witty and touching, and offers excellent drama, character development, and special effects.  I (and the audience I saw it with on opening day) thoroughly enjoyed it! "},{"Title":"What Odd-Numbered Curse?","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When people talked about Insurrection before it came out, comments were something like slow, too romantic, not funny. I saw the film opening night, however, and I just wanted to say that this may not be the best Trek film ever made, but it was one that I thoroughly enjoyed. F. Murray Abraham's Ru'afo was a sinister villain who was quite comparable to that of Star Trek II's Khan. It was hard to predict how we would react to major movie points, and his reactions ended up being quite gruesome. Patrick Stewart played a much lighter Jean-Luc Picard, almost a complete reversal from his character's portrayal in First Contact. Although the story contained a lot of romance and comedy, it did keep moving at a fairly good pace. The special effects weren't the greatest, but since they weren't done by ILM, I guess this is as good as they get. Don't let the odd number fool you. See Insurrection!! "},{"Title":"One of the best Star Trek films in the franchise; wonderful!","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I absolutely enjoyed myself while viewing ST9. It breaks the tradition of odd-numbered Trek films lacking in quality. The audience had smiles on their face during the entire movie. The plot is among the best in the franchise and the special effects. OH MY GOSH!! It caught me by surprise because I didn't expect the SFX to advance THAT much since First Contact but they did. The two love stories are highly enjoyable which is special since romance isn't my favorite of genres. This was a feel good Trek film that was as hilarious as it was entertaining. Picard fits Shatner's shoes quite nicely. The cinematography was excellent a definite Oscar nomination there. The stage direction and acting was also great. I left the theater with a big smile on my face. The film gave you a feeling of warmth it puts the 'feel good' in A feel good movie. IT IS DEFINITELY WORTH SEEING! I can't wait to see it again!!!Only two other films have gotten a perfect score Saving Private Ryan and Truman Show. Add Star Trek Insurrection to that list.I give it a 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"good fun but not too deep","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i enjoyed the movie thoroughly but then again i am a trekker. the movie on the whole is pretty good however it feels rushed and the space battle scenes don't have that level of tension. the basic conflict was the same old one with new twists. nothing too different but entertaining nonetheless. in the end i would like to add that the creative team behind trek can come up with a better story and i hope they do so for 10 "},{"Title":"Great combinations","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a big Star Trek fan and I feel that this movie does a better job of mixing action, comedy, and the actors seemed to have more fun then in any other Star Trek movie. I am an old school fan and my favorite ST has always been The Wrath of Kahn, but I believe that this is a better movie. First Contact was also very well done, and is better then all except 2 and now 9. I feel that with Frakes directing and keeping with this mix, st movies can only get better and better. "}{"Title":"Not as good as First Contact","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There were TNG TV episodes with a better story. "},{"Title":"TREK IS BACK!","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the travesty that was known as First Contact, I was worried that this Trek movie would be virtually unwatchable (after all, the previous two TNG movies went from 'tolerable' to 'only tolerable if you don't think of it as Trek.').  I was, however, pleasantly surprised. From the beginning of this movie (when Picard subtly points out, on purpose or not, that the crew of the Enterprise USED to be explorers), there is a definite feeling of getting back to what The Next Generation (if not Star Trek itself) was supposed to be.Every main character has at least a line somewhere in this movie that makes me remember why I loved this crew so much.  If you were EVER a fan of this series, you MUST SEE THIS MOVIE!   "},{"Title":"Cool, but still an odd-numbered Trek.","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection has a lot of playfulness in it that may only be enjoyable to the real fans of the shows.  Unfortunately, that playfulness was taken to far and went into the silliness, and a couple times into the cheesiness range.  The character of Anij I felt was played so low-key, that I couldn't decide whether she was going for that wizened feel, or whether the character was supposed to be half-asleep.  It is true that Data is back to the Pinocchio type character in this picture, which is kind of cool, though odd considering his character's developments in the last two pictures. The story, dealing with life, youth, etc. was interesting, but I found that to be the McGuffin.  I ended up not caring about that, and waiting for the next funny line or cool effect to pop up on the screen.  The Bak'u are cool, though gratuitously gross; at least they have a passion driving them.  The Starfleet villain didn't really do it for me.  The acting was very fine indeed, but the whole principles of the character and of the whole Federation I didn't quite buy into. I felt that the demise of a certain bad guy really stretched the limits of how much suspension of disbelief we are willing to engage in.  I would say that if you are a fan, you should give it a chance, though I'm sure you already have, but don't expect Insurrection to break that long-standing rule that the odd-Treks are weaker than the even-Treks.  "},{"Title":"Boldly Goes Down In Flames","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Leonard Nimoy's 1986 film Star Trek IV  The Voyage Home was the first, and most successful, turn into humor in the Star Trek franchise.  Nimoy used trans-cultural situations to bring his comedy across within the context of a mission that had social impact on both the world of Star Trek, and in our own 20th Century.  The message of saving the whales in that film was not only important to the Earth of Captain Kirk's time, but also stands as an important message to us, in OUR time.  Shatner's directorial debut in Star Trek V attempted to travel the same road, with dismal results.  Star Trek became, in that film, a hokey romp of camp humor that was a black eye to all that Star Trek had stood for.  Beyond the multi-colored uniforms and often unintentionally humorous dialog, Star Trek had always presented itself not as science fiction, but as a future to our race that was not only quite possible, but also quite plausible.Director Frakes, following the huge success of First Contact in his debut, seems to fall into the same trap that ruined Shatner's Final Frontier nine years earlier.  Insurrection's obvious comedy-driven plot is laced with one-liners and gag situations, to the point that the underlying story suffers from it.  Like Final Frontier, the story of the So'na and the B'aku could have been a compelling philosophical masterpiece relevant to the Saxons' relocation of Native Americans upon claiming North America as their own.  Instead, what we get is a jumbled message behind the humor that is difficult to identify with.  Even the often stoic and typically reserved Picard is unfortunately also drawn into this mess, delivering quips from the onset of the film that immediately set the tone.  As for action, so muddled by humor, there is little that in truly entertaining.  The Enterprise, for example, while never intended as the center of any Star Trek story, is hardly present, and is depicted not as the rough and tumble battleship of First Contact, but as an actually rather weak vessel that must resort to trickery to defeat enemies never established as superior.All in all, Insurrection begins with an uncomfortable first act established by Picard's sudden and inexplicable change of persona, during which familiar characters act as they never had before, followed by a second act that is an improvement but never compelling.  The finale is ultimately weak compared to other Trek triumphs of the past, contriving a way to put a principal cast member in grave danger when a more obvious solution would seem more suitable.Star Trek needs to lose the bug of catch phrases established by Nick Meyer in Star Trek VI (Nimoy's Go to hell.), and return to the original vision, which was that of a Wagon Train to the Stars.  Even while the Enterprise was shooting them up in The Wrath of Khan, there was still an underlying philosophical principal, and at least there was a lot of excitement. Insurrection is not as bad as Final Frontier, but perhaps it's time to refuel the Dilithium Crystals and get this ship back on course.** (Below Average) "},{"Title":"Comments on Star Trek Insurrection","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A warm, semi-spiritual, yet all too predictable installment of the ST series, Insurrection introduces several intriguing ideas that are never fully explained or explored. At 101 minutes running time, I was surprised Director Frakes would focus on the action and humor instead of some of the darker and even lighter philosophical/spiritual questions only hinted at in the film.  After his direction of the darker and more fully realized STFirst Contact, I was mildly disappointed in Insurrection, feeling like I'd eaten Chinese takeout with the proverbial hunger an hour later. Great opening, good middle and predictable and all-too-quick ending.  Did Frakes, Stewart and company have somewhere to go? "},{"Title":"same old stuff","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This entry in the Star Trek log seems uninspired.  First Contact had a better plot and much better guest stars (Alfre Woodard and James Cromwell vs. Donna Murphy and F. Murry Abraham).  This film is only marginally better than a Next Generation episode.  The Phantom Menace trailer was more exciting. "},{"Title":"Predictions","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I would predict that this movie (9th installment) would do well in the box office, as well with critics. Here is my numerical reasoning.Insurrection (9th) and First Contact (8th) was directed by Jonathan Frakes (who also plays as the first officer in command Cmd. William Riker).If you divide 9 by 3 you get 3rd installment Search for Spock and divide 8 by 2 you get 4th installment Voyage Home.Both 3rd and 4th installment was directed by Leonard Nimoy (1st officer in command, Cmdr. Spock).Voyage Home (ST IV) was commerically and critically successful.First Contact (ST 8) was also commerically and critically successful.ST 3 Search for Spock is a nice movie compared to ST 5 and ST 1.It had good visual effects, and continues off ST 2. I personally liked ST 3 and am waiting for its DVD release.Given that, I have a feeling that ST 9 Insurrection would do well with both Critics and box office. I am sure Frakes realized that this is an odd number and decide to take the director's helm.  "},{"Title":"A Trek Tribute to The Battle of Helm's Deep.","Date":"18 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this in the Theatre, my only complaint was of scenes of the Enterprise E in The Briar Patch and the Sonic Attack my ears were subjected to by bad Audio Editing and misuse of Sensurround effects.But this is a beautiful story - About 5 episode's worth. And written wholly by Berman and Pillar, no Ron D Moore, no Brannon Braga involved to make argumentative and conflicting (And most important, Canon- Breaking) scenes.This story takes place while The Federation is involved in The Dominion War, shortly after Jadzia Dax had been brutally murdered at the hands of a Kosst Amogen infected Gul Dukat. The Sisko was back On Earth recovering, and Kira Neres had been elevated to Colonel in the Bajoran Militia. So this is a brief pause in Hostilities where Starfleet is recollecting its assets. Starfleet needs Allies, even if they are newly Warp-Capable races, like the short reptilian species Picard must teach how to dance. In this way, it reflects Lord of The Rings, The Two Towers, there will be more about that.Data is on an idyllic planet where he is involved in a secret Starfleet/Son'a alliance, there is a hidden Duckblind overlooking a Baku Village, similar to the one that malfunctioned on Mintaka III in The Next Generation.But only this time, Data apparently Malfucntions and Picard is called to send an Admiral Dougherty (Anthony Zerbe) Data's Schematics. He orders Picard to stay put, but it's DATA and he has to go.When Picard gets to The Briar Patch, he is accosted by Dougherty and a Son'a named Gal'Na/Ru'Afo* (The guy who killed Mozart, F. Murray Abraham). They both want Picard to leave asap, but when Picard and Worf (Who has been visiting from Deep Space Nine, after his wife Jadzia had been killed) use a Runabout-Style Shuttle to chase him down and capture him, Geordi sees right away that Data's damage was caused by a Son'a Disruptor - So Data's Ethical Program had kicked in, and was following Starfleet Procedure.A Huge conspiracy is unraveled involving a forced relocation of The Baku and a huge Cloaked Holodeck Ship - but Dougherty IS Starfleet, and Picard has to form an Insurrection to keep Starfleet's Principles.Not to mention, Geordi's Eyes grow back, Riker shaves his beard, and Worf grows a Huge GORCH on his nose. Had Worf squeezed it, it would have covered Picard's head with Klingon Goo, Klingons never do anything small. Picard visits a Baku Woman he likes, Anij (a very handsome Donna Murphy) revealing she is over 300 years old. So these people are on a Magic Planet that can make old people young and the Son'a and Dougherty both want to develop it's resources which is a political way of saying they want to steal the planet's magic particles.Picard gathers most of the Bridge Crew for a midnight flight in the Captain's Yacht while Riker and Geordi go to have a discussion with Starfleet about that is happening here.So they gather the Baku Villagers, and in a Scene from The Two Towers, they collect their belongings and head to a Baku version of Helms Deep - A rock fortress of Kelbonite and Fistrium that will prevent Gal'Na from beaming them off the planet so they can irradiate it.Mark Deakins is Tournel - A Villager who stands on the rooftops and shouts out words we heard in Two Towers Do not take any treasures, Take only what you need... and The Baku with Picard make their long pilgrimage to the Kelbonite Hills with Wargs and Son'a on either side. Compare this to The Two Towers when Hma (John Leigh) says practically the same thing to the Villagers in Edoras.This is probably the Longest and most Complex Trek film of the whole 20 year run of Films, except for the First Trek Motion Picture Directors Cut at 2 hours, or the two new Reboot offering which are close to 2 hours each. This one is 143 and not one idle minute.Picard/Gandalf has to ensure the safety of The Baku, even if he is to be killed in doing so, which comes very close to almost happening. and there is a secret relationship between the Son'a and The Baku which is a revelation and a Macguffin at the same time.This one took repeated viewings until I finally admitted It is one of the best Next Generation movies.*It will be seen later in the movie how Ru'Afo has two names. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable TNG movie","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Federation (or, rather, a corrupt Federation high-up) joins with one humanoid group in order to try to remove another small humanoid group (600 people) from the planet which brings them long life, so as to provide this benefit to a larger group. While this appears to fit with Spock's Wrath Of Khan philosophy that The needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few, it also breaches the Federation's Prime Directive of non-interference. Factor in some humorous shenanigans involving Data, and Picard finding romance with one of the colonists, some bright colourful exteriors, with a moderate amount of action, and you have an enjoyable, entertaining sci-fi romp.There are two other things. One is that there is some food for thought - the balancing of needs and rights, the issue of prejudice etc. And the other is a terrific performance by F Murray Abraham as the chief antagonist.Plus I like Donna Murphy in anything! "},{"Title":"No lasting value","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was actually led to a book written by Michael Piller about the process of writing the screenplay for 'Insurrection', in a kind of internet garden-path approach which began with Harry S. Plinckett's review of 'Insurrection'.From watching the Plinckett review of 'Insurrection', one gets the idea that 'Insurrection' was written in a single afternoon by someone with little writing credential. For this reason I have found 'Fade In' a fascinating read, though partly in that kind of perverse sense in which you might watch the supplemental material included on a DVD of a movie you didn't enjoy--commentaries, Making Of featurettes, etc. Who was behind this; what went wrong; why did they spend all this time and money on such a mediocre film? I was surprised to learn that the screen writer, Michael Piller, is actually a veteran screenwriter (at least on television) where he wrote many classic STTNG episodes. It appears that he was much more restrained here than he ever was for a TV episode. The screenplay went through hundreds of drafts and tweaks, including significant executive meddling given the comparatively higher investment for a movie. It does seem as though the movie would have been better if he'd been granted greater creative control.There were also some budgetary restraints, which sometimes dictated the story elements. However, I wouldn't say that these justify the story here being sub-par. 'Serenity' was made on a smaller budget and is still a much better sci-fi movie.After watching the Plinckett review, the sheer number of glaring plot holes in 'Insurrection' does call into question whether Piller really knew what he was doing. I noticed that many of Plinckett's criticisms were actually the very same concerns that had been raised while the script was still being written. Paramount raised all of the following questions- How is the Baku race just 600 people, do they have children, and why haven't they died off from inbreeding? (question from Paramount executives)- Why is Starfleet bending to the demands of weird aliens, why are the aliens employing the help of Starfleet? They appear to possess much advanced technology. The Enterprise was poorly matched against their fleet. They probably could have deployed the Collector without ever having gotten Starfleet involved or even registered on Starfleet's radar they indicated that this was a fairly out-of-the-way planet, and it was surrounded in some kind of sensor-jamming ion storm.It seems from 'Fade In' that Piller wanted to write 'Insurrection' as a short, sweet Picard story, with themes of love, regrowth, rejuvenation, old & young. But at each step, he was thwarted by executives who told him that he needed less dialogue, faster pacing, more action, cool weapons, and a big space battle involving a large explosion. Many viewers, including Plickett, complained about how Picard's behavior veers widely from TV Picard; however, Piller had intended this precise change in Picard's outlook on life to be the film's primary arc, his hero's journey as Piller stated it. Earlier versions of the screenplay devoted much dialogue to establishing this change in Picard; however, Piller was forced to minimize this dialogue and much of what *was* filmed of these scenes was later cut. I think that Piller was trying to veer the film into a character-building direction, while everyone else involved was trying to veer it into a big-dumb-action-movie direction, and so the tone of the resultant product is very confused because Piller essentially just can't really write film-grade action.Overall a very dull effort, with nothing of lasting value to Star Trek. Aesthetically, both new alien races are duller than dull, with the Baku not even possessing a single distinctive non-human trait. Their clothing and village set pieces show zero creative effort. Although this was intended as a spiritual companion to The Search For Spock and The Journey Home, people will continue to discuss the latter two movies for decades to come; nothing in 'Insurrection' has similar lasting value. "}{"Title":"Star Trek Keeps On Trekking!","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" No, Star Trek Insurrection is not as good as Star Trek First Contact. Nevertheless, the ninth entry in the long-lived but prosperous space odysseys of Captain Jean-Luc Picard and the crew of the Starship Enterprise still has what it takes to boldly go. Director Jonathan Frakes, who helmed First Contact, shifts the emphasis away from the usual swashbuckling heroics in this otherwise predictable but entertaining installment. Instead, Frakes focuses on the camaraderie among the Enterprise crew. Character dominates action in Insurrection. Although younger Star Trek fans may complain about the scarcity of photon torpedo dogfights, the old guard will applaud Insurrection because the entire crew rather than Picard alone influences the outcome. The Rick Berman & Michael Piller scenario has the Enterprise thwarting the forced relocation of 600 helpless colonists from their Eden-like planet whose properties make it a fountain of youth. Picard (Patrick Stewart) and crew find themselves drawn into an interstellar blood feud when android Cmdr. Data (Brent Spiner) runs amok while participating in a Federation mission on the Shangri-La home planet of a gentle people called the Ba'ku. The Ba'ku live simple, uncomplicated lives comparable to the Quakers and the Amish. Shunning technology, these self-sufficient folks grow their own food and produce by hand their own clothes, tools, and art. According to the Ba'ku, when you create a machine to do a Manos work, you take something away from the man. Over 300 years have passed since the Ba'ku encamped on this unique planet in an unstable quadrant of space designated 'the Briar Patch.' Moreover, this Caucasian race of humans has weathered the ravages of centuries. The 'metaphasic radiation' emanating from the planet's rings has given them perpetual youth. Meanwhile, suffering a dire reversal of fortune, the Federation has grown weak. The Borg and other enemy aliens have taken their toll, and the Federation has formed an uneasy alliance with the Son'a, a dying but technologically advanced race of fascists who dress like a cross-between of the Mummy and Marvel Comics' Dr. Strange. You know the Son'a are the bad guys the moment you see them because they look hideous. The Son'a endure constant face-lifts, like the cosmetic surgery in the Terry Gilliam movie Brazil, because they cannot keep their wrinkled and rotting skins wrapped tightly enough. These devious dastards have teamed up with the Federation, and they are observing the unsuspecting Ba'ku before they pack them off the planet. Dressed in orange outfits which enable them to pass sight unseen among the inhabitants, Son'a and Federation scientists both study the planet and plan for the removal of the Ba'ki. When the Son'a fire without provocation on Data, the pale-faced android short-circuits and destroys the cloaking device concealing the expedition from the Ba'ku. Suddenly, the Ba'ku find themselves surrounded by intruders. Hijacking a starship, Data opens fire on the Son'a flagship from which the Son'a chieftain, Ru'afo (F. Murray Abraham, who played the evil Salieri in Amadeus), and Star fleet Admiral Dougherty (Anthony License to Kill Zerbe), coordinate the mission.Dougherty contacts Picard during a diplomatic ceremony and requests Data's schematics. When Picard offers to help, Dougherty politely declines. Pointing out that the Enterprise has been assigned elsewhere, Dougherty assures the inquisitive captain that Ru'afo and he can handle Data. An incredulous Picard decides to check things out for himself; he cannot believe that Data would turn rogue without a good reason. As they chart a course for the far side of the galaxy, Picard invites Worf on Deep Space Nine to accompany them. When Picard's navigator indicates that the Ba'ku planet is in the opposite direction of what they have been ordered, Picard shrugs it off as if it were nothing. When the Enterprise enters the 'Briar Patch,' the age reversal harmonics of the Ba'ku planet affect the crew. Cmdr. Riker (Jonathan Frakes) and Lt. Cmdr. Troi (Marina Sirtis) rekindle a long-dormant romance. Soaking by candle-light in a tubful of bubbles, Troi shaves off Riker's beard. Not only does Cmdr. La Forge (Roots LeVar Burton) regain his sight without the aid of technology, but also he experiences his first sunrise. Lt. Cmdr. Worf (Michael Dorn) suffers an outbreak of Klingon acne as well as a blood lust for combat. Finally, Picard himself dances to mambo music in his own quarters. When he beams down to the planet, Picard falls in love with the sensuous Anij (Donna Murphy), a 350 year old Ba'ku dame who doesn't look a day over 40 thanks to the regenerative particles in the planet's rings. Sadly, Frakes and his writers leave Dr. Crusher (Gates McFadden) hanging without a mini-subplot of her own. Nevertheless, Insurrection qualifies as an ensemble effort with everybody getting into the act, even if they don't have a subplot to distract their actions. The Rick Berman & Michael Pillar script hearkens back to those venerable 1930s' Lone Star westerns with John Wayne where the city slicker bad guys try to steal the mineral rich ranch lands from under the naive pilgrims who don't realize the wealth that lies beneath their lands. Like John Wayne, Capt. Picard decides to intervene. Already deeply in love with Amij, who has shown him the eternal beauty of a single moment in time, Picard disobeys Admiral Dougherty's orders to clear out. Amij reciprocates and supports Picard when he reveals that the Son'a are going to destroy their way of life. As cheery and good-natured as Insurrection is, this Star Trek has its share of problems. Although Insurrection generates warp-speed momentum in story-telling, too many things are left unexplained. The filmmakers rely on the yucky looks of the Saran-wrap-skinned villains who bleed when they become enraged, but Frakes never explains why the Son'a resemble burglars with pantyhose stretched across their faces. No, you neither have to be a Trekkie nor a Trekker to appreciate Insurrection, but it wouldn't hurt. History will record Insurrection as more of a more crew intensive adventure. "},{"Title":"Will Always Be Underrated","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" And you know why? The reason is this. Most of the time, when Star Trek does an allegory, it's either dismissed as brainless futurism or allegory on an irrelevant topic. Well, Insurrection has allegory on a very relevant topic and a stinging chapter in American history the removal from native lands of a small group of people in favor of a large group of people. As Picard says himself (one of the best dramatic lines ever issued in a sci-fi film), How many people does it take... before it becomes wrong? Well, a lot of American people view the re-population of America as a good thing. I, even though I live in America, happen to find it repulsive and hideous and disgusting. So the plot line of this film was one I happened to find very intelligent, thought-provoking, necessary, and well-executed. I could talk about the incredible special effects or the phenomenal action sequences, but I believe that the allegory is what really makes this film worthy of a 10 out of 10 rating. But this film will continue to be regarded as one of the worst of the Star Trek series, along with The Final Frontier and The Motion Picture (both of which I also *love*), and I have only this vague idea of why. "},{"Title":"Really a great entry","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek IX Insurrection - Stardate UnknownI hear many people say this is a weak installment in the Star Trek saga, but personally I like it better than most of the other Star Trek films. Yes, you can argue this isn't as epic as the great Star Trek films like II, VI, and First Contact, with a localized story which doesn't really put the main characters into any inherent danger, but regardless, this film has its perks. This has to do with the fact that there is a sense of family among The Next Generation crew (with many humorous moments between various cast members - Riker and Troi rekindling their romance as an example - with Riker sporting his Season 1 non-beard look!). This isn't the case in the other Next Generation films in my opinion. This sense of family always brings a smile to my face because it's obvious that this crew has become a close knit group after 9 years together (it also shows how the actors portraying the characters have come to know each other, considering each other as friends). This is a must see entry in the Star Trek saga. "},{"Title":"better than the Luke-warm response it got when first released suggests","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Picard and his crew of the next generation Enterprise must rebel against an alien race, So'na, lead by Ad'har Ru'afo (the superb F. Murray Abraham), and Starfleet itself, when they find out about the proposed plan to abduct the Ba'ku,a peaceful race who have forsaken technology in order to get back closer to nature, in order to get a hold of the regenerating properties of the land. It's up to the crew of the Enterprise-E to withhold the Prime Directive which states no Starfleet expedition may interfere with the natural development of other civilizations.All non-Trekkie's aren't likely to appreciate all the allusions to past Ster Trek events, as revealed on ST TNG, nor the particularities of both the quarks and nobilities of the characters, so if you're one of those aforementioned people feel free to take a few stars of my rating. But for those well versed in the rich mythology of the universe of TNG, this film is likely to pay back said knowledge in spades with enjoyment. It's the closest thing to 2 new episodes that we're likely going to get as the film duplicate the feel and tone of the show quite admirably. Not to say that all out action has no place in the Star Trek lore, as I enjoyed First Contact as well, just for vastly different reasons. This is definitely a movie that has aged well and gotten long deserved respect as opposed to the short shift it got while it was in theaters.My Grade B 2 disc Special Edition DVD Extras Disc 1) Text Commentary by Michael and Denise Okuda Disc 2) 7 Production Featurettes; 2 Star Trek Universe Featurettes; 3 Creating the Illusion Featurettes; 7 Deleted Scenes with introduction by co-producer Peter Lauritson; Storyboards; photo gallery; Ad for the Las Vegas Borg Invasion show; Original promo piece; and Teaser & Theatrical trailer 3 Easter Eggs all 3 eggs are on disc 2. In the Production menu to the left of it takes a village is a white hexagon, click on it for Marina Sirtis bitching about the food; In the 'Star Trek Universe' menu, highlight the word 'main menu' and press right for another hexagon, click on it for Tom Morello of 'Rage Against the Machine' talking about being an alien in the film; lastly, go to the 'advertising' menu, down to the words 'main menu' and press left to highlight a third hexagon, click it to go to Micheal Dern and Marina Sirtis putting the movie in a nutshell, the funniest thing about this easter egg is that it comes with it's own credits listing the writer of the little egg ha "},{"Title":"An eloquent parable...","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's obvious, this third film featuring the cast of STAR TREK TNG, is a commentary on human greed and selfishness and its effect on other cultures, other worlds, etc. The extermination and segregation of Native Americans, Hitler's legacy of death, and other atrocities come to mind when you consider that members of the Federation are in league with an unattractive species called the So'Na to remove the inhabitants of Ba'Ku, a magical moon with the mysterious power to prevent the aging process. The Ba'Ku people, represented by actors Donna Murphy and Daniel Hugh Kelley, are intelligent and have knowledge of technology, but have rejected it in favor of a very leisurely pace of simple life. A Federation Admiral argues that removing the Ba'Ku people and mining and prospecting the moon would benefit mankind in millions of ways, and that we are only removing 600 people. As Picard so wonderfully puts it, How many people does it take for something to be wrong??? A thousand??? A million??? In spite of it not being as financially successful as the earlier Star Trek movies, it really is a good, intelligent, thought provoking parable. "},{"Title":"The Best Next Generation Star Trek Movie!","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"     This movie is the best Star Trek movie for the Next Generation cast. It has lots of action and great acting. Jerry Goldsmith as usual provides a maximum impact music score and Mathew F. Leonetti's cinematography is some of the best in any Star Trek Movie. I liked this film of Star Trek First Contact because it was not as serious and was more interesting. The visual effects were very good compaired to some of the other Star Trek Movies. Brent Spiner played Data with humor and made the best performance for his character in this movie. I can't say enough because there's a lot of wonderful things about this one and i'm a little dissapointed that it's under rated. Watch this and have fun. "},{"Title":"It's a Gorch !","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think Insurrection gets a hard time by some fans. Of course it's not as good as First Contact, but it's far from being a bad film. How could any film featuring Picard and Data singing the HMS Pinafore be bad ? - or a film featuring a kingfisher trapped in a perfect moment in time - or the scene where Bev examines Geordi's eyes in sickbay.I would highly recommend this film to Trekkies and non-Trekkies, but make sure you give Star Trek V a whirl first, as it's probably the best damn film you're ever likely to see. "},{"Title":"A Weak Trek Entry","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek movies were growing tired by the time this 9th installment was released. The effects have become common place and the characters too familiar. So the key to making the movie work, to make it new, is a great villain. As much as I admire F. Murray Abraham, Ru'afo not cut it here as the wrinkly-faced bad guy. He is a cartoon character.Insurrection follows the story of a small race of people living on a planet where the aging process as slowed so much that it has nearly completely stopped. As a result, Worf breaks in zits, Troi and #1's hormones run wild, Jordi's vision starts to come back and Picard, well, he is still bald.The Federation is trying to supplant the small number of inhabitants of this planet so that others can make use of its special life restoring radiation. Hardly a plot worthy of a feature film. Data goes nuts, Picard does not follow orders (I do not feel that this is a spoiler since the title is Insurrection) and Worf sings HMS Pinafore. They bad guys try to hide their secret and nobody believes Picard as he uncovers the truth. Yawn.There are worse entries in this franchise, but Insurrection signaled the beginning of the end that Nemesis seems to have completed. What this movie tells us the most is that they should have stopped at First Contact. ** out of ****. "},{"Title":"All in all, not too bad","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I saw Insurrection in the theatres, I was appalled and horrified.  My favorite science fiction franchise of all time had become a singing and laughing bad joke affair.  I walked out of the theatre disgusted.  I even refused to watch it on video when my mother rented it. Four years later though, I've had a change of heart.  If you take away the singing and the jokes about butts and boobs, this movie is Star Trek the way Gene Roddenberry wanted it.  The movie is generally good, but not Wrath of Kahn, First Contact or Nemesis great.  The film is a little hokey from time to time, and the jokes wouldn't be so bad if there weren't so many of them (I couldn't look at Data the same way again after the butt joke.) No offensive to Mr. Spiner, but leave the music on broadway.  He's a great singer, but you can't win a tony if you're singing in a movie!  The special effects were pretty good (I liked the little pet pocket thing, that was cute.)  The orchestral score lacked a little, but it was still good.  My final thought on this movie; not as bad some people make it out to be. "},{"Title":"Shines from every angle! )","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I do forget a lot of the time that not everyone can be a Star Trek fan, but I definately am one!  Insurrection was the best movie in the Next Generation series!  I loved the music most of all!  Jerry Goldsmith wrote an absolutely gorgeous score for this film!  I also loved the costuming, the plot, the characters as always, the great action scenes, and the awsome special effects!  I liked the fact there was growth as the NG Movie series continued.  This film has a lot of power and is very artistic in so many ways.  If you haven't seen this one yet, whether you're a fan or not, make sure that you do.  This is one of those films that no one should be deprived of!  ) "}{"Title":"The worst Next Generation Trek.","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  3.5 out of 10Aside from the assured performances from the cast a half a dozen or so (intentional) belly laughs, Star Trek Insurrection is a complete waste of time and money, and further proof the odd-numbered curse is for real.  This time around, the Next Generation crew is on a mission to protect the inhabitants of a planet that appears to be a fountain of youth.  Lots of new-age philosophies are spouted and little action ensues.The story plays little more than an overlong episode, but it's even preachier than usual, thanks to a weak plot twist late in the film. While some of the humor is funny, a lot of it is cringe-inducing (Data singing, Data interacting with a kid, and Data learning life lessons from said kid).  The special effects are average and actually weaker than those in its immediate predecessor, First Contact.  As a result, the action scenes are less than invigorating.  All we get is the crew shooting at small, flying electronic devices that beam people up.  If not for the handful of laughs, this could very well be the weakest Trek adventure of them all.   "},{"Title":"Superb Addition to the Star Trek Series!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film a great deal, there was virtually nothing that I didn't like about it.  The story was excellent, the acting is great, the sets are amazing, the directing is outstanding, the humor is right-on, and the special effects were just phenomenal!  I thought everything about this film was top notch.I thought the story was very interesting because it is very conflicting.  Do these people, the Ba'ku, deserve to keep this planet to themselves?  They aren't indigenous.  Do the needs of the many outweight the needs of the few (to use a quote from one of the previous Star Trek films)?  In the end, I believe all the questions are answered and you are left with a very acceptable solution.  I thought the story was just excellent and was done incredibly well.The acting was superb on all accounts.  The core Star Trek cast did a great job, as they always do.  I have to mention that Marina Sirtis and Gates McFadden are just looking better and better.  F. Murray Abraham pulls off a great performance as Adhar Ru'afo, I guess that's why he got his Oscar.  Donna Murphy did a fantastic job as Anij and looked absolutely beautiful throughout the film.  The rest of the cast did a great job as well.The last thing I have to mention is the special effects.  I was in awe at how well done, crisp and clear the special effects are in this film.  There are several scenes that I can't help but grin at because of how well done they are.  If there is any reason to watch this film, please watch it for the special effects.  Not only that, but sets in this film are just excellent!  I'm sure an enormous amount of work went into the building of the sets and creation of the special effects, so please appreciate them.If you are a science fiction fan, then I would definitely recommend seeing this film.  There are so many good things about this movie, you can't afford to not see this.  Even if you know very little or nothing about the previous Star Trek films, you won't have a problem understanding this film (although I recommend watching the others, just to get a frame of reference).  If you're a fan of the Star Trek films, then you should DEFINITELY see this film.  I thought it was just as good as Generations and First Contact.  When/If you do get around to seeing this film, I genuinely hope that you'll enjoy it as much as I do.  Thanks for reading,-ChrisP.S. Can't wait for Star Trek Nemesis, only a few months to go. "},{"Title":"Best Trek Movie","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This one may well be the best of the series. Not counting the first movie (which I need to view again to give it a proper assessment). It was a genuine Star Trek (and I mean the real thing not the lame spinoffs) that Gene Roddenberry would have been proud of. It had a meaningful and idealistic plot and wasn't some overblown action adventure shlockfest. "},{"Title":"Simply no good.","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even considering my reasonably low expectations this film managed to disappoint me. I sometimes enjoy watching Star Trek on TV. It is OK entertainment, but come on! This is just another long TV-episode that the greedy people of the Star Trek enterprise attempt to pass on as an real film. It sadly has neither the story or even the budget to be an actual film. They have simply stretched the shallow script into oblivion. If you havent followed the TV-series you will not even be able to understand what the characters are all about.At least the first Star Trek films, with the excellent Wrath of Khan at the helm, were real movies made for the silver screen. This is just the cinematic version of high-way robbery! I regret paying good money to rent this. Only for the devoted. (and even then only for those obsessed with Star Trek) "},{"Title":"Star Trek  Insurrection is exciting and entertaining.","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek  Insurrection is an exciting movie with plenty of action and humor as well.  I especially loved Commander Data.  He is a wonderful character.  The movie includes beautiful scenery and keeps one entertained the whole time.  It is a wonderful addition to the Star Trek movies.  I look forward to the tenth installment - Star Trek  Nemesis.  Live Long and Prosper! "},{"Title":"A truly amazing movie. One of the best I've ever seen!!","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Rarely have I seen such a truly amazingly well written movie. The acting is on the absolute top. Jonathan Frakes had truly made an amazing work directing this wonderful movie. This is one of those rare movies that really has a great script, and does not rely  99% on special effects, violence and action. Not that the movie doesn't have action and really amazing special effects, because it has. But it does not depend on it, instead this movie depends more on it's story. Indeed Star Trek Insurrection proves that great movies still can be made. Oh, I admit that Star Trek First Contact was something extra, with the Borg, a lot of action and great special effects. And, sure, FC was really a great movie. But Insurrection is still a little bit better, due to it's great story. Also, FC was a very dark movie, with the fearsome Borg collective. Insurrection, on the other hand, is much... should I say, brighter. Well, I won't say anything more now. Except, that I really recommend Insurrection, as well as any other TNG movies or TNG/Ds9 episodes!! "},{"Title":"Big disappointment","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I haven't seen First Contact, but surely, it must be ten times better than this crap... Off course, I am a big fan of the Next Generation series, and therefore I had some anticipation before watching this flick. But frankly, many of the episodes are a lot better produced and have a much more compelling story than this movie. "},{"Title":"Holds true to the Star Trek lone of movies.","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That is true only in that odd numbered Star Trek movies friggin suck.  I hated this movie.  I really really really really really really really hated this movie.  First Contact was fantastic and it left me thinking wow I like Star Trek movies again.  Then I watched this movie.  I was then forced to go into relapse and watch Wrath of Khan and the Star Wars movies (not Episode 1) to see what good sci-fi movies are.  I am not a trekkie or a geek, but I mean come on this is a bad Star Trek movie.  My dad said that this was a good movie and worthy of watching.  I am now in the process of excommunicating myself from my family.Never ever under any circumstances watch this movie.  If you are at someones house and they want you to watch it. DON'T. Stop others from watching it.  Everyone in the room will be dumber for having watched it.  I award it no points and may God have mercy on Gene Roddenberry's soul. "},{"Title":"Not great, but true to its genre. *** out of ****","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  STAR TREK INSURRECTION (1998) ***Starring Patrick Stewart, Jonathan Frakes, Brent Spiner, LeVar Burton, and F. Murray Abraham Director Jonathan Frakes   103 minutes   Rated PG (for sci-fi violence, mild language, and brief sensuality)By Blake French--Please note this review is coming from an individual who is not a big fan of the titled series/productions, nor against science fiction based movies, including Star Trek.--just thought you'd like to know.The Star Trek series very often appeals to fans of science fiction. And what movie is more true to its genre than Star Trek Insurrection, a film that I highly recommend to people who like Star Trek, but also to individuals who like a smart script and interesting characters; this is not a movie in which you have to be a member of the trekkie club to enjoy-I know this because I'm not one. Watching it with an open mind should be enough.The story is little complicated to explain if you're not familiar with the baseline of events that have propelled the many years of productions. To make a long story short, it takes place in the future. Massive space vessels house the members of elite teams to promote world peace, sort of. There are good and bad guys. The ship in focus in Star Trek Insurrection is called the Enterprise, with a crew including Commander Geordi LaForge (LeVar Burton), Commander Data (Brent Spiner) and Captain Jean-Luc Picard.The plot basically involves one individual planet located in the middle of space. It apparently holds the beloved galaxy mixture that produces eternal youth. The planets' inhabitants are humble and kind, but when the film's villain comes along lusting for revenge to solve past conflicts, it is up to the Enterprise and her crew to save the day for the 600 innocent pedestrians who have been living happily in this world for several hundred years.The film starts out with a pretty solid story, and a relatively interesting though-line of events that connect to each other--and continues its success throughout the production. Although there are few comic elements here and there, Star Trek Insurrection takes itself seriously. It doesn't go over the top with anything, including visual effects. The story has some depth to it, perhaps even enough to interest the anti-science fiction folks as well as the trekkies.The dialogue is smart and focused. The characters stay on task, without too many interruptions distracting them. It does, however, explain some of the plot to us, instead of showing the audience with actions and events. But even then, it keeps us informed on the many confusions accruing in the film.The performances are good, but not great. There isn't a strong supporting cast here, or at least one with major significance. Patrick Stewart comes off as a little overwrought, although I did like his performance. Jonathan Frakes, who also directs this film, is a little different in character here. I suppose you could call him the villain, but not really. See the film, then you'll understand what I mean.The special effects in Star Trek Insurrection aren't anything special, and to some extent, a bit disappointing. The space ships are pervasive and good looking, but not awe-inspiring. There are a few neat explosions and laser wars that are realistic--and the makeup effects are, as always, perplexing. But overall, although the plot is solid, Jonathan Franks focuses a little too much on story here, and not enough on one of the main traditional reasons that many people will see this film for special effects.Brought to you by Paramount Pictures.  "},{"Title":"Typical Trek.","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This could have been a two-part episode. Picard and Enterprise crew set out to stop Data from running amok. Then they realize everything is not as what it seems on the planet, with its inhabitants and with themselves. Ru'afo is the only pleasant surprise notable as everything else seems to be a one time moment. Not as stale as THE FINAL FRONTIER yet nowhere close to THE WRATH OF KHAN. Overall it's pleasant, but with the Star Trek world falling apart, let's get some villains and a plot with a lasting impression. "}{"Title":"Strangely uninvolving, with poor production values.","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I like Star Trek. The characters are fun to watch and the movies are usually entertaining, sometimes very good.In Star Trek Insurrection, the latest in the series, the crew must try to protect a mystical fountain of youth planet from being over-taken by villains using an alliance with the Federation.OK. Sounds simple enough, right? Wrong.  This Star Trek movie has some great ideas for a good movie, but nothing is right.  The actors are incredibly indifferent to the material. They are lazy.  Where is the customary urgency, the sense that the crew needs to race time to save humanity? It's missing because the actors make no effort to make us care about the people on this planet that makes them stay youthful.A subplot involving a romance between Riker (Jonathan Frakes) and Counselor Troi (Marina Sirtis) is handled with such an abruptness and awkward timing that it generates no interest.  The comedic moments are so badly timed that they aren't funny, just perplexing.Captain Picard's involvment with one of the planet's inhabitants is sweet but inconsequential.  And other subplots concerning Data are wasted, adding only annoyance to the film.Even the usually adequate special effects and sets are cheesy this time. The magic is not there.Frakes directed the much more confident First Contact a few years ago. That film was suspensful, funny and well-acted.  The story moved with eased and grace, creating a sense of awe and interest in its characters. Insurrection is directly the opposite.  Instead of moving along breezily, it slogs along.  I'm inclined to say this is worse than Star Trek V. At least the film makers seemed to be trying for something in that one. "},{"Title":"How very lame","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Next Generation films are certainly proving to be a poor substitute for the classic Trek films.  Data's childishness is embarrassing and contrived, totally out of keeping with his television persona.  Picard tries to act tough like Kirk but doesn't have the machismo or charisma.  F. Murray Abraham was a terrible villain, totally nonmenacing, in silly makeup. Spiner and Stewart drained too much of the budget; the effects were barely above TV level, brief and unimpressive.  The Riker Manuever was also contrived and unrealistic. "},{"Title":"Probably the worst Star Trek movie ever..","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That's it?! Is that what we've been waiting for for the last 2 years?! The movie, other than a few good jokes, had been a flat movie, without a descent peak, without a worthy battle scene, without a worthy enemy and without any of the ingenuity that Star Trek had accustomed us to in the previous 8 films (and not that all of them had been good, but this one is really the worst..). I hope that the Paramount and the Star Trek crew understand that they had better put the level up on their next movie, or else they will hardly have any audience left.. "},{"Title":"Did anything about this movie make sense?","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm a big fan of The Next Generation TV series, and this movie disappointed me a lot. I don't expect a Trek movie to be too deep, because they have to appease the gods of Hollywood, but this movie was too superficial, immature, ill-concieved and nonsensical for my taste.Like Generations, the story was based on a highly contrived plot device; in this case a magic fountain-of-youth-type planet. Unlike Generations, the details did not save this movie, they just hindered it even further.And then there were things that were just plain dumbInvisible people would still leave footprints and make noise, at least if they can splash in the river.Picard has a stack of computer terminals, but couldn't one do the same thing? This isn't the Flintstones!The connection between the two shuttles that were falling through the clouds could not have enough structural integrity to hold them together; they'd tear apart.Singing to an android would probably not bring his positonic brain back to a working mode, if I may be so bold as to judge treknology.Why cloak something that is underwater?How can an ancient woman not know how to swim?  It seems like after 200 years or so you'd run out of other stuff to do.Wouldn't an undying population multiply rather quickly; especially one with so many children?Data, one of the most interesting TV characters of all time, is reduced to a prop.The movement of the ship in space defies well known laws of physics that even 3D animators should know.The joystick (which doesn't have enough inputs to move a ship in space) is as out of place as it would be on an aircraft carrier.Why mechanically stretch skin when you have access to a dermal-regenerator?Note that this is by no means a complete listing!There are so many TV episodes that have done similar subjects better. It's sad that this crew I love so much gets wasted on the big screen.  "},{"Title":"Transparency isn't always a good thing!","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I usually come out of a new Trek film really pleased with myself, having spent the last couple of hours lapping up the offering as if I were a cat starved of milk for a week. Not this Trek offering, though. I came out wondering just why it was worth making a film about such a blindingly obvious storyline, and not a particularly good film at that. Of course the guys at ILM can carry even a film as transparent as Insurrection, but if this is the shape of things to come, please put us out of our misery and finish the saga there. (No, on second thoughts, please make one more that is up to the superb standard of all (except ST5), and call it quits then!) "},{"Title":"Complete banana. Very flaky. (but I did enjoy it)","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The plot didn't hang together. The technology was appalling and inconsistent with the other Star Treks (e.g. where did they get cloaking devices that fitted into suits, why does Data's failsafe mode turn him dangerous?).I could go on for hours but that would just get dull.Don't get me wrong. I really enjoyed this. I would have just appreciated it a whole lot more if the plot, the characters, the technology and the physics worked. Then I wouldn't have to leave my brain at the door. "},{"Title":"Cheap Laughs Star Trek for the sake of Star Trek","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Maybe they should have called it Star Trek The Contractual Obligation Movie. I certainly can't think of any other reason to explain why this particular story was developed into a feature film.Insurrection was the ultimate two-hour television episode. I was a big fan of the Next Generation TV series, but the movies need to be something more than a simple update on the lives of Picard, Data, et al. Otherwise, what's the point in shelling out the money to go to the cinema when it would play just as well on TV?The basic story involving two alien races vying for the 'fountain of youth' was not entirely without promise, and the writers did manage to slip in *one* somewhat interesting plot twist. But in the end the whole thing was overwhelmed by an avalanche of cheap jokes, obvious set-ups and groaning Star Trek 'Wit.'Klingon zits? Beardless first officers? Starship joysticks? ... Heh ... Ahem. Star Trek has always showcased future technologies far beyond the comprehension of people today. With gags like the ones I just listed, Insurrection shows that the same can be said of 24th century humour. They were the kinds of jokes that could make only hardcore Trekkies laugh -- loud Klingon belly laughs, no doubt -- but as for the rest of the movie-going public, well, again I say ... Ahem.Insurrection was a mediocre film at best. I give it a 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Dull, uninvolving and one-dimensional","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the last Star Trek movie First Contact, I had some hope for the general tv/movie Star Trek franchise. But this film is its first step into the grave. This movie is really awful.The story is so limp, this style of story has been told hundreds of times before and it was so predictable.How can we care for the characters when the characterization is so bad ? We know hardly anything about the enemy. We can't hate them or feel sorry for them.I had no emotional or intellectual involvement whatsoever in this film. And if Sci-Fi doesnt make you think or question then what's the point ?Its the kind of film you stumble across late at night when you are scanning channels for something worthwhile to watch... you'ld watch it because there is nothing else on.Now if only Joe Michael Stracynski had the money to make a multi-million dollar movie... mmm.... "},{"Title":"Not a Star Trek Film!","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing this movie I was very disappointed. This film is not a Star Trek movie anymore, this is a really stupid action-only movie (finally with some cool jokes in it, that's right, but that does not make a good movie), and it breaks with nearly all the characters of Next Generation, their behaviours, intentions toward each other, everything you know about them. Why did they make a movie this superficial? My god, with the basic idea of the story this movie could have been really much better made.Disappointing, I don't understand. First Contact was really the contrary. "},{"Title":"Plot holes to drive a starship through","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Welcome to the 24th century, where the plot runs thin and predictability runs high. I'd like to suspend my disbelief that I spent $10 to see this.If you like hoaky line set-ups, cardboard characters, implausible storylines and Patrick Stewart's accent, you'll love Star Trek Insurrection.PS. It is a stretch of the imagination and the definition of the word to say that anyone insurrects anyone else in this film.  "}{"Title":"Mr. LaForge, get that plot back online!!","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Awful.  I found myself pining for Star Trek V's plot!?#$A No character development style was heaped on top of poorly framed camp and delivered in letter-bomb sized packages by Frakes.  All of his stuff seems to prefer dumping off a load of information, rather than leading the audience anywhere or making you feel like he participated in the film.  I hope the axiom about every other one being worthwhile holds.  First Contact was fantastic and this was a dog, so...NB I saw this film for free and felt jipped.  Stay home and catch it on Fox in two years to sate your curiosity. "},{"Title":"The Squabble for a Small Village has Begun!","Date":"13 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Strangely, I've only seen this one twice. Once in 1998, and once just a few months ago in 2010. I say strangely because I've seen the other Trek films countless times, and I'm an avid fan of the TV shows (well, some of them...). I remember disliking Insurrection when it came out, for all the usual reasons lame comic relief, an ineffectual villain, muddled morals.In The Wrath of Khan we learned that The needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few, which is used here as the villains' justification. The Sona are many, and the Baku are few, so the Sona get the Federation's help to move the Baku off the Fountain of Youth Planet. Picard gets in the way, and adventure and excitement ensue.I like my Star Trek movies to have some kind of meaning to them, so I appreciate that screenwriter Michael Piller tried to make this a story about forced relocation. That's a sensitive subject to Americans, because we don't like to look at the seedier aspects of our collective past, but it's a very good topic for Trek to cover. Too bad it gets swamped by technobabble, pointless details, and hectic action scenes. There's a good story in there somewhere.The other big issue is the attempt to make this movie lighter and more fun than the previous movie, First Contact. The jokes are still as forced and un-funny as the comedy in any other Trek movie, so the real problem is that the writer and producers decided to include so many of them. Most of them are rather juvenile, such as the scene where Worf has a Klingon pimple. Some other groans come from the direction of Data and his mawkish attempts to understand humanity.As usual with Next Gen films, the focus is exclusively on Picard and Data. Everyone else gets little cameos to remind you of their existence Worf gets a zit, Geordi grows new eyes, Riker shaves his beard, etc. Troi and Crusher probably get the smallest parts.So, I can't fault this movie for its aspirations, but I'll have to agree with public opinion on this one. They tried, but they didn't quite make it. "},{"Title":"Star Trek Insurrection A Flaccid Movie Hardly!","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I personally saw each Star Trek film at the theater and can say that First Contact is my favorite Next Generation Film however Insurrection was a film on its own merits, both films show Jonathan Frakes self-indulgent directing style, and the films of the Next Generation are strengthened by Jerry Goldsmith's fine musical scores. If you are looking for a movie that involves action scenes and a romantic dramatic story, then this is the film for you.I think if it wasn't for the dwindling support for the Star Trek films they would have made more of them, but history has shown a serious lack of support for these films.In Generations the Trekkies were angered by Captain Kirks death at the hands of Dr. Soran, well I hate to tell but he already died 80 years ago when the ribbon struck the ship. So get over it or a William Shatner has said Get A LifeSo forget the naysayers like Mr. flaccid remake and enjoy (***) out of (****) "},{"Title":"Poorest of the 10","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" (some spoilers follow) I'm sad to say that Star Trek Insurrection is, to me, the weakest of the 10 Star Trek films produced to date. I really want to like it, because it at least attempts to have a sophisticated philosophical and moral component, but ultimately I find it to be preachy and - worse yet - rather flat.The beginning of the film shows some promise. The sequence when Data goes berserk, though hardly thrilling, is pretty exciting and it rouses the audience's curiosity about what's going on. Unfortunately, I think the screenwriters chickened out a bit and failed to really explore Data's potential as an antagonist (if only a temporary one).There's also some good character development and even some decent humor moments early on. I enjoy the romance scenes between Troi and Riker, and I wish their subplot was given some more screen time and development. (It sure is more interesting than watching Worf re-develop his adolescent acne troubles!) The film starts to fall apart in the second act, when the moral dilemma is introduced. Picard makes a lot of big speeches about how the forced relocation of the Ba'ku is a huge crime - but the film, and its villains, are so tame that I never really feel like the Ba'ku are in any great danger. Also, the Ba'ku society is simply unconvincing; it all seems too idyllic, too perfect. Their village doesn't look like a place where people really live - it's more like a superclean Hollywood set, isn't it? Speaking of the villains, they're unusually weak here, especially by Star Trek standards. F. Murray Abraham may have been great in Amadeus, but he's awful here as Ru'afo, the putty-faced bad guy. Great Star Trek villains of the past were usually either tough and over-the-top (like Khan), or cunning and dignified (like General Chang), but Ru'afo possesses none of these qualities. He's basically a whiny brat. At one point, he even emits a thoroughly childlike and embarrassing shriek of defeat - why should I respect this guy? The film also has other, production-related problems. It's the first Star Trek film to rely exclusively on computer-generated (CGI) special effects, and while some of the effects shots are pretty, others already look rather primitive and cartoon-like, by contemporary standards.Adding to the list of woes, the space battle scenes are distinctly lacking in verve. Part of the problem is the repetitive music, which fails to generate tension. There's also a lot of boring medium and long shots in the battle scenes. By contrast, Wrath of Khan and First Contact generally used close-up shots that were far more effective (the photon torpedoes in those films tend to shoot right toward the viewer's face, for example).I also really hate the fact that Riker needs to contrive a weird gimmick to defeat the Son'a ships, which somehow involves a joystick and lots of incomprehensible techno-babble. Why can't the Enterprise just tear into an enemy ship for a change? Why does there always have to be some stupid angle to the fights? Lest I sound entirely negative, I'd like to point out that Jonathan Frakes' direction in this film is still pretty solid (he also helmed the previous, far more successful Star Trek film, First Contact). He includes lots of lovely panoramic shots of the countryside that occasionally give the film a very poetic and attractive feel. But, by contrast, the interior sets - and I'm thinking chiefly of Ru'afo's ship here - are really ugly and crude-looking.On balance, then, I really believe this is the worst film of the Star Trek stable. There's no way I can accept that Star Trek V could be called worse than this! (Shatner at least had a clear vision for that film, even if its execution was flawed.) Even the often-tedious Star Trek I is better than Insurrection, if only because it has more dignity... "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable...enterprise.","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me start this off by saying I found this movie to be endearing, sweet, and very well written. But is that really what we look for in a Star Trek movie? No. At least it isn't what I look for. It's what I would expect from an episode on the series, but not in a full-length feature film. While I found this production to be quite well done, I never expected such low quality to be present in one of the movies. This FELT and played like an over-long episode of the television series. Spiner and Stewart, having the control they do, get to make script changes seemingly at whim, before ever signing into their contracts, guaranteeing them certain assurances of screen time and story line. Both have apparently utilized that option in this production, and with Frakes directing, it seems to have created a serious gap in the production quality.This simply was not of feature film quality and should have been reduced to the weekly series where it belonged. That having been said, there is one other seriously disturbing factor to this installment. The procedures performed upon the So'na were just disgusting. This was an obvious attempt to draw horror fans and teens who had not grown up with the series, into the Star Trek fold. Gore has no place in Star Trek, in my opinion. There are many franchises which offer that feastial eye candy, and Star Trek, until this production, was not one of them. Because of that sole factor, this movie turned off a lot of die-hard fans.Premise the Ba'ku are a nature and peace loving society who live on a planet which is the apparent equivalent of Tuck's Everlasting, in that the environment provides an almost eternal life to its inhabitants. The So'na, lead by Ru'afo, have worked with Star Fleet in establishing a base, secreted in the heart of the Ba'ku village from which they can bear witness to the life of the Ba'ku, run tests on the environment, and attempt to duplicate the effects of the planet's environment on behalf of the So'na who are dying, as a race.However, DATA malfunctions, due to some unknown interference, and exposes the hidden base, and its inhabitants to the Ba'ku, thereby nullifying the entire mission. The mystery is why? The premise is quite good, but as I said, it belonged more as part of the series, rather than this line of feature films.Also, Piccard's love interest was rather disturbing. I expected Kirk to go after every female within a 20 light year radius, but not Piccard. I thought it was well-established that that was Riker's job, anyway. It rates a 7.6/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Are we all talking about the same movie?","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ************SPOILERS*********** I did not like Insurrection at all. The villains were stereotypical, the dialogue weak, and the climax was total crap. Self-destruct, yeah that's REAL original. And how was the away-team able to get onto the holoship, make a holoprogram of the Sonar ship's bridge, and get the whole thing into orbit in 5 minutes? These kinds of errors are hard to ignore. There was a lot of doubling-up in the script too, which made it weak. For example, they introduce things called Shield Harmonics and transport inhibitors in the scene where Worf and Picard are trying to stop Data. I think they did this to make the end less confusing, because they used both of these ideas only once more in the script.The only good scene occurs when Riker is in command (just like Generations! Hmm, coincidence?) and they are fighting the Sonar ships. That scene was pretty memorable. Riker is definitely a more interesting tactician than Picard. I would probably give this a 2/4, because the ending was predictable and unimaginative. So I can't imagine what all these rave reviews are about as I'm going through the archives. "},{"Title":"Boring.","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I will start out by saying that I am a pretty big Trek fan. (On a 1-10 scale, I'm probably a 7.5) I loved TNG and DS9, and was really looking forward to this film. I saw it exactly 1 time in the theater (I saw the previous two films at least twice), and about a 4th of the way through on DVD. I don't ask a lot of a Trek film. Give me a decent plot, a decent villian, and show me a lot of the ship. This movie didn't even come close to fufilling those simple demands. The plot was completely uninteresting and the film was largely pieced together from parts of TNG episodes that I didn't like to begin with.Do yourself a favor If you ever think about watching this film, grab the disc to First Contact or Wrath of Khan (or hell, even Trek 5). You'll thank me later.  "},{"Title":"A reasonably good double-episode; a dreadful movie!","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was written using the normal Star Trek The Next Generation episode formula.  That would be great for an episode but it makes for a terrible movie.  Whereas other Star Trek movies are of galactic importance or deeply important to the characters this is just a day in the life.  Not worthy of movie status!   "},{"Title":"Absolutely without a doubt the worst Star Trek Movie ever","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Too many cheap laughs. Data mimicking Deanna and Beverly's boob discussion?, Picard doing the Mambo, Deanna giggling and saying yuck at Riker's beard?  Even under the planet's so-called effects of youth, I cannot believe that these people would behave in so ridiculous of a manner. I am not without a sense of humor, I work for an improv comedy business... but these laughs were cheap just for the sake of getting a laugh.  The writers disappoint me. "},{"Title":"Not Even TV Worthy","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sorry, but I have been a long time Star Trek fan and was greatly disappointed with this installment.  This wouldnt even have made a good two part episode for the series.  It was BORING!!!  Time to bring Q back for a movie.  Possibly only First Contact comes close to matching the series finale. "}{"Title":"Weak Trek movie","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This seems more like an extremely mediocre 2-part TV series episode than a big screen movie. The plot was very weak and unoriginal, even going so far as to borrow elements from William Shatner's first Star Trek novel, the Ashes of Eden (which was far superior to this movie). One of my biggest complaints was the comedy-too much, too corny, and ultimately, too stupid. The special effects were good, but there were no truly spectacular sequences to show them off. The brief space battle sequence was unexciting, and even a little too cerebral. Why not just fight a ship the old fashioned way, using phasers and photon torpedoes, not meteor gas or whatever it was. And what happened to the good old leading man fights leading bad guy one on one in the finale? I was waiting and hoping for this, but it never happened. In conclusion, the movie was a mess, and definitely the weakest Trek movie to date (yes, I liked Star Trek V better than this). "},{"Title":"Bring back the Wrath of Khan team","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This installment played out like a 2 hour TV episode. Except for  Stewart, Spiner, and Dorn, you can just send the crew out an airlock.- The culmination of the romance between Riker and Troi was juvenile.- The Enterprise no longer seems to be important. It's just another ship in the fleet. It's too radically different, and we're not given an opportunity to connect with it.- There's nothing like actual models for ships as far as I'm concerned.- There was no satisfaction in the Enterprise battle scene. We didn't even get to see the Enterprise win the battle. And let's not even mention the joystick scene (oops, I did).- The villains were weak.The production team needs to hand the reins over to a group with some FILMMAKING experience to get away from the TV feeling.Bring back the author/director/screenwriting team from Wrath of Khan. "},{"Title":"A poor excuse for a sequel.","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film would have been better if all of the action ACTUALLY took place in space, since it didn't, this movie was a poorly made excuse for a sequel. If they have another Star Trek movie, i hope it's better than Insurrection. "},{"Title":"Insurrection is no resurrection","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As movies go, ST9 was wholly OK.  It was not a GREAT film, and the one thing the trek genre needs is a GREAT film.  It falls short in several respects. The special effects are not done my ILM this time, and it shows.  There are shortcomings and they are obvious.  The first half of the film was ok, but then it mires itself in trekdom, never to return.  No particular plot is explored to its fullest extent, probably the result of the entire ensemble cast requiring some screen time.  And please quit giving us Andriod 101 in every single film -- OK, WE GET IT!  He's a machine that wants to be human, NO DO SOMETHING WITH THAT.  This film left a very bland taste in my mouth. Please, for the next film, pull in some blood from outside the Berman, Piller, Frakes triumverite and make a REAL MOVIE.  And would one of them please shell out the cash for a real space battle once (along the magnitude of season 6 DS9 battles).  Quit super-scooping explosive gas and just shoot each other.  But, for about an hour of good laughs and the mediocre continuation of the series, ST9 fits the bill. "},{"Title":"I believe that Star Trek Insurrection was the best of the TNG films","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There was much more comedy in this installment.  Not since Voyage Home have I laughed so much at a Trek film. There was (lock and loads of) action, more than First Contact.  And the chemistry between Picard and Anij was great!  Donna Murphy is beautiful!  F. Murray Abraham (who I thought was great in Amadeus) plays an excellent protagonist, and when that vein bursts on his forehead in Picard's ready room----really adds to the feeling of his desperate mission. What I didn't like There was a question as to how Worf happened to be onboard the Enterprise E that was poorly explained.  And anybody who has had a beard knows that you cannot easily shave it off with a straight razor without clipping it first.  But that's nit-picking. This movie was great and I place it second on the list just after Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan and before Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country.  Go see it! "},{"Title":"`Remind me to lodge a protest!'","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the excellent First Contact, the Next Generation crew limped in with this soul less effort.  Many Star Trek fans recall that infamously awful original series episode with the hippies; in terms of naffness this is probably the film equivalent.The strong performances from the previous film are missing, the script is weak and the ensemble do the best they can with a lack lustre plot whilst battling the unlikeable Sonar and a renegade Federation Admiral to protect a bunch of new age planet dwellers.Having said that, Riker looks like he is enjoying himself when let loose to blow up the Sonar but that is one of only a very few highlights in what is otherwise a very tiring and dull entry in the Trek franchise.  "},{"Title":"A flaccid Installment","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A somewhat limp adventure for the Enterprise crew in which they get into one of those moral quandaries that Star Trek can do so well but here, regrettably doesn't. Insurrection is yet another example, following on from its two predecessors, of a Trek movie which is produced by the same people as the T.V series which therefore resembles an expensive episode but one which a script that would just about have made a mid-season filler for the show. Michael Piller wrote the best ever episode of the t.v incarnation but his fountain of eternal youth/forced relocation drama just isn't particularly meaty or exciting. The cast are relaxed and exhibit some likable on screen chemistry but in-between there's a bit of a dull romance to get through, some self-important moralising and some not especially interesting action sequences. It's all very light and lacking in oomph, so much so in fact that you've got time to concentrate on the surprisingly cheap looking special effects and Jerry Goldsmith's anonymous score - God knows why they kept hiring him, he hadn't put anything descent together since the beginning of the decade. Dissilusioned fans on horror watch should look out for moments like Data's cringe inducing lock and load line (this is Star Trek not a Jerry Bruckheimer movie) or my all time favourite in which Riker proclaims We're thorough running from these bastards! before pressing a button to reveal a PC joystick to steer the ship. I think its supposed to be a joke but it actually just hammers another nail into the now splintered and well nailed coffin lid of what was once a tightly written and lavishly produced T.V experience. Trekkies should weep. "},{"Title":"good lord!!!","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was so painful.  It betrayed most everything that is Star Trek. I truly wish I could have enjoyed this as much as everyone said I would, but jeez -- instead of being truly witty, this played into every Trek stereotype there was!!  If I'd been in the market to see this, I would've...  I don't know, rented some B-movie parody.  Sigh...  And to think I went into this film with such high expectations...  Oh well...  If you hold Trek dear, don't see this flick. "},{"Title":"Horrible Storyline, Horrible F/X... I Warn You!!","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Garbage, that's what it is. No matter if you are a trekker or just a simple moviegoer. Boring actors, boring director, stupid script, horribly dirty rotten f/x. Everything here is an insult to the audience, from the very beginning (with those main titles reminding you of a B-type movie) to the very end.                                                   Counting down using minutes and seconds? How is it possible for Piccard to know about the complicate procedures to disable that thing orbiting the planet? What about all those stupid phrases containing terms such as metaphysical energy? Where have all the writers gone? Is this the Rodenberry legacy? I don't really think so... but, just in case, I won't ever go to see the next ST movie  STAR TREK 10 MAMBO GLAMOROSO (and extended version of ST9 including more deleted scenes of Picard dancing along with mambo music inside the Enterprise's holodeck , Riker having sex with Troy in the kitchen, Data suffering of an embarrassing loss of makeup (take a look at his neck towards the end of the movie...), and much, much more...      Please, don't make audiences all over the world suffer with such a thing like this one. I used to be a trekker... until yesterday, and I have something to tell them be critics!! "},{"Title":"Bloated, smug, plodding, over-extended episode of a pants TV series.","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek meets Shangri-La.By the time this Star Trek movie was made the whole franchise was so far up its own hoop that it was incomprehensible and unwatchable by anyone other than the initiates of the Great Star Trek Cult.Though I admire the cast's abilities to deliver long, pseudo-scientific Treky gobbledygook*. I really object to this movie being labelled Science Fiction. It's about as much Science Fiction as an episode of 'Bewitched' (but not as funny). It's magic. Any situation these characters get themselves into, they recalibrate something, or re-route, or bypass something, talk Treky Babble at each other for a few minutes press a couple of buttons and Hey Presto! They are saved - again! It hardly allows for any build up of tension if you know the script writer can (and will) rewrite the basic laws of physics, or introduce a new gosh-wow gizmo whenever he feels like it.The Pointless Questions raised by this movie include What the hell is the 'Warp Core' on the Enterprise actually FOR? It seems to be easily eject able and yet the ship seems to run fine without it.Why are space ships fitted with a self-destruct mechanism? I mean WHY? (Especially one that has to be operated by hand and only has a 2 second delay).Why do alien self-destruct mechanisms, on alien space ships, covered in alien glyphs, have a countdown in Arabic numerals like a cheap digital watch? The answer to all the above questions (and to too many more) is that this is a dumb movie made for dumb people who want the illusion of having seen something challenging but without having to actually think.Not a good film.*I've re-calibrated the Ionic Tribullshitamine Wafflator to maximise the the shield capacity by 18 percent, this should divert the enhanced tachyon emissions into the warp containment core and by linking it to the desynchronising defrooblination devise I will be able to... to... er, sorry Captain, what was it you wanted me to do again? "}{"Title":"Appalling - suffers the odd numbered curse with aplomb","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek is known for suffering the odd number curse where all the odd number films are poor while the even numbered are decent up to good. Insurrection perpetuates this curse it's dreadful. In fact it's one of the worst movies I viewed this year.The plot? It's rubbish. It reeks of a bog-standard Next Generation 2-part episode feel. There is little substance or dimension in it to translate it into a movie. A movie on screen should not feel like a television series. This does. What's there is desperately unoriginal and undeverdeveloped - oh look we must save some colonists. Oh look there's a fountain of youth element. As original as re-inventing the sliced pan.The themes? Picard must stop the nasty Federation and aliens (read invaders) who wish to use the land of some peaceful colonists (read Native Americans). Now was their plan to massacre the settlers there? No. In fact they were going to re-locate them to a nice new home. If the planet had been taken was their objective to harvest the healing properties for latinum? No, it was to help heal thousands of people. So basically it ends up this Picard is risking his life so a bunch of stubborn colonists (yes non-natives) don't have to move to a nice new home rather than potentially helping untold millions live a better life. Star Trek moralising is mostly highly irritating but this must be the zenith of cringe-worthyness.The script? Some of the lines are dreadful. I winced visibly when Troi and Crusher talked about their boobs. Are they trying to be racy? It's not working. And why are they *still* having Data acting like a complete numb skull when it comes to humanity? Can't he read - doesn't he realize kids like to play? It's hardly a secret. Instead Data must discover more of what it's like to be human and annoy us deeply with his cheap, done-it-before philosophising which we've seen since 1986.The acting? Average. None of the Trek actors have ever been particularly accomplished and they can tend to look a bit lost on the big screen. They're neither better nor worse than they have been before.The directing? Banal. Nothing visually sticks in your mind (except perhaps the tacky, weak SFX). The film just drifts by you.Overall? A very weak movie. If it hadn't been affixed with the Trek label it wouldn't even have gone straight-to-video because it would never have been made. Don't ever bother seeing this unless you're either a Trek completist or a sadist. "},{"Title":"Incompetent","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The plotting in this film is beyond poor.  How can the Enterprise drop the warp core yet still make it back in time to save Picard?  Why does the ship need to fly over the collector to transport Picard back to safety?  Why doesn't the holodeck simulate the collection after simulating the collection sequence?  And the proliferation of hideous cliches ... the child running back into danger; the ram scoot (which was tired by the 40's); the fight sequence predictably ending in the stretching chair.  The villains claim they don't want to co-inhabit the planet because it would take ten years to feel the effects, yet the Enterprise crew are significantly affected within hours!  And I haven't even mentioned the joystick yet... "},{"Title":"Awfully disappointing.","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *Insurrection* quickly plummets into a boring and predictable storyline, with some obligatory special effects sequences thrown in to alleviate the pain.  The script for this film needed some more time on the drawing board; nobody I know could understand what was really so bad about what the Federation was planning to do.  Relocate 600 vegan yuppies to provide increased lifespans for billions of people?--come on, already--violate the prime directive!!  Some of the special effects are spectacular, but others are generic, especially the Tron-ish deployment ship.  In a move that's sure to warrant comparisons to *Star Trek V,* the writers go for a lighter tone in this film, throwing in way too many jokes, and even the standard Worf-gets-up-and-bumps-his-head, ha-ha-ha scene.  I really had hoped to be more positive about this film, but near the middle it becomes a morass of extremely screwed-up psychobabble and moral analysis, with one very disgusting murder scene thrown in just to assure you the badguy is really bad.  Avoid this one; it's a real dud.   "},{"Title":"The best Star Trek parody ever","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ************************* SPOILER ALERT POSSIBLE SPOILERS PRESENT *************************I have to say this movie was the greatest Star Trek parody I have ever seen. With an exaggerated typical trek story, and out of character portrayals of the characters, it had me laughing from the beginning. It was funny when Worf materialized out of nowhere, and the villians were the funniest villians ever. The conversation between Troi and Crusher was a great piece of parody, and Picard and Data's performance of Gilbert and Sullivan the most absurd out of place scene. Only a parody could pull that off.I like the fact that the creator of this parody finds it logical that the best warship in the fleet should spend the Dominion War transplanting a tiny group of colonists off of a Fountain of Youth planet so a decaying race can use the planet to save there worthless culture.Data was the best parody of a character ever. Having him run around with only his head showing, saving stupid lines from action movies, and forgetting all of his human development over the past several years was very funny.I am kind of suprised that Paramount released the logos, characters, and actors for this piece, as it was called Star Trek, and the characters were named the same as the characters from the TV series and the two real TNG movies. For this parody I give it a ten out of...(Someone whispers in the reviewers ear)What, you are telling me this was a real Star Trek movie???? Well, in that case, the curse of the odd numbered Treks live on. I give this movie a 1. "},{"Title":"Awful, horrible...","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just saw Insurrection yesterday from TV, and after having read many other comments, I decided to add my own.ST 9 was a horrible waste of the actors time, waste of the production staff time, and even more horrible waste of the audiences time. i can't believe how hard it is for Star Trek to write an interesting storyline for their movies! Just look at DS 9! They could have made some kind of a movie about the Dominion War. But no. The new characters were so uninteresting, so boring that I had no feelings for them, but hope to see them shot by the bad guys, but even they were poor, the films bad guys were easily the least unintimitading foes who you would think. At least the idea behind the movie was good about the Federation bending their principles, but someone should have read the script before shooting started. It had simply no hope. No one ever explained why Worf came to the Enterprise in the first place (this was well done in First Contact). And the humour was mostly childish, Worf's puberty, and so many more could have made you cry before making you laugh. The only thing I laughed to was the British Tar.Let's hope the producer's spar up next time.  "},{"Title":"Perhaps the WEAKEST of the Next Gen films, but not the disaster many are making it out to be.","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The rating I gave this title - a 6 - is actually a 6.5, so if I remember my math correctly from elementary school, it should have been 7, but a 7 seems a bit too generous for this third installment of Picard and crew's many epic big screen adventures. The most common complaint - yes, let's get the negative crap out of the way first - about Insurrection is that it feels like a drawn-out episode of Next Gen. Yes, this is true, but is that really such a bad thing? The plot structure is certainly reminiscent of some of the moral dilemmas faced by the Enterprise's crew, and the themes of life, death, youth, aging, property rights, and human (and alien) rights permeate this inter-species and intercultural tale, making for an interesting and appealing story that should attract a broad spectrum of viewers - both fans and non-fans alike.The villains, however, do seem to be underwritten and, despite what little material he had to work with, F. Murray Abraham does an excellent job of fleshing out the lead baddie. I feel that it was a good decision on the part of the writers to take us to a whole new world and story with a new species different from all past Trek films, but in doing so, they seem to not have quite as much mythology to fuel the characterizations and the story line, overall.The effects are spectacular, and the Enterprise-E has never been more beautiful. The outer space shots are superb, colorful, and eye-catching. All the rest of the technical aspects of the movie are slick as Hollywood can produce, and the editing, sound, and production design are all top notch. Ultimately, however, Insurrection does fall short of becoming a true- blue classic, if only because of the execution of a story that's, while different and interesting, not exactly involving or even memorable. It's definitely worth it, however, if you happen to purchase all four Next Gen movies in their blu-ray four pack, and there are some cool bonuses involving the making of Insurrection and the direction they took in terms of story and design.All in all great effects, slick production, classic cast, silly humor, beautiful cosmic cinematography, and a story that barely holds it all together. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"This Star Trek Movie is underrated","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This TNG film is underrated and it focused on the problem of dislocating a few people to satisfy the demands of a much larger group of people. In the past, Native Americans were scooted off of their land to satisfy the demands of larger populations of white people and this caused problems. The Son'a and parts of the federation wanted to move the 600 Ba'Ku to satisfy the demands of billions of people to use the fountain of youth from the planet. The Son'a were obsessed with retaining youth and would go to extreme lengths to be young again with extreme cosmetic surgery. This is something people have felt form time armorial of not wanting to grow old. I like the use of the Bussard collectors on the Enterprise-E's nacelles and how Picard was rescued as the Son'a Collector was being destroyed. "},{"Title":"Insurrection wasn't a crap movie, but. . .","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It wasn't spectacular either! What was it about again? Yeah, I only saw it once. Every Trek movie except for IX and X, I've enjoyed more than once. After viewing the first time, I always looked forward to either a second viewing in the theater or for it to come out on video (and subsequently DVD when the latter became the home viewing standard).I went through the whole movie waiting for it to pick up (and it was bearable), but to no avail. To all those folks who gave this movie high marks and enjoyed it, I respect your opinion and that you were able to find something in it that you liked. But to me and a lot of other Trek fans, this movie lacked the appeal of the last two TNG movies.I don't know if bad eps of DS9 or Voyager started the downward spiral for the Trek franchise at the time, but Insurrection sure didn't help it any. All new material after it (Enterprise and Nemesis) was not up to par. It was as if our favorite franchise was dying a slow death.But that's okay. Every franchise has a bad period of time I guess. We got our re-vamp in 2009! "},{"Title":"We need a little more action...","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If not a Trek storytelling film, just a good ole' fashioned Trek Western. Good guys wear uniforms, bad guys wear black... and they wear uniforms.The lost in the shuffle social message retelling, this one is just good fun. Our heroes are vibrant, feisty and ready to rock. Sure, Picard gets a little action and Riker gets a lot more, but it neatly ties up several series loose ends, without even trying. Add in some space faring chase scenes and a riled up commanding officer who is tired of 'these bastards'... and it just cooks.Would Roddenberry have approved? Sure, after all, this is wagon train to the stars. "},{"Title":"Star Trek keeps on trekking (even if it has nowhere to go)","Date":"22 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" With Star Trek Insurrection (pt9), the Star Trek film series is beginning to seem stale. They've always been caught between catering to the demands of the fan circuit, and operating as a space adventure to reach mass market appeal. In 1998, The Next Generation had been off the air for four years. And the fans, being the salivating dogs that they are (myself included), have demanded that TNG continues to boldly go where no one has gone before. But this sadly has worked to variable effect on film.ST Generations was completely ill-prepared for the big screen and ended up severely lacking. While First Contact managed to do everything right that the other film did so wrong. But with ST Insurrection, the film series almost looks out of steam. First Contact had an exceptionally involving plot to concentrate on. That isn't the case here.If you are a fan of the series, Insurrection will seem eerily familiar. That's because it resembles one of TNG's two-part stories. But also (for those eagle-eyed ST fans) its a combination of two episodes from the series, Who Watches the Watchers? and Homeward. The themes of a primitive culture being observed in secret by Starfleet, and the idea of forced relocation.After Jonathan Frakes did a superb job directing First Contact, he returns to see out Insurrection. And while his direction is as excellent as ever, he doesn't quite deliver on the promise he showed with First Contact. The film raises a few interesting points about the ethics of humanity in the 24th Century, and the so-called enlightened human race. But it doesn't quite sink its teeth into it the way it ought to. That's the type of self-analysis that Deep Space Nine does so well.But its only skated over in Insurrection. There are quite a few things about the film that bother me actually. For one, the plot Insurrection is graced with hardly seems worthy of a feature film. Like I said, this one really should have been a two-parter in the series. The villains hardly set the world on fire, and barring Patrick Stewart, the regulars are given precious little to do.The film's plot about a planet that promotes immortality is something that Gene Roddenberry might have thought up for The Original Series. Although I'm sure in his hands it would have emerged much more laboured and stilted than it does here. It's to Frakes' credit that he doesn't batter us over the head with heavy-handed moralising. Yes the film does raise a few ethical points, but they never feel strident.The alien culture of the week this time is the Ba'Ku, a peaceful race of technophobes who live on this wondrous planet of youth and beauty. But a militant race the So'Na want the planet and its powers of rejuvenation to ensure the longevity of their own dying race. Even if it means strip-mining the place. So with Federation assistance(!), they plan to relocate the Ba'Ku. Not if Picard has anything to say about it!ST Insurrection feels inconsequential as a major motion picture. Personally I feel ST films are notoriously difficult to get right. They either wind up too overblown or too underwhelming. And the TNG films are especially indicative of that problem. First Contact is the only one that managed to pull everything together, but that's because it was driven by an exceedingly strong story.I just didn't care much for the one that propelled Insurrection. Its a shame that for all the sophistication and confidence Frakes demonstrated with FC, he fails to do the same here. He delivers plenty when it comes to the special effects and action sequences but the cast are a whole different kettle of fish.Frakes sets up little vignettes for each individual cast member (except Gates McFadden's Dr Crusher. Like the preceding entries, she's given criminally little to do), but somehow I found them wanting. Picard gets a romance. Riker rekindles his with Deanna Troi's. Data learns about fun. Geordi regains the use of his eyes. And Worf rediscovers Klingon puberty.Picard comes off OK because his love interest (Donna Murphy) is a worthy match for him. They're romance is fine. But Riker's and Troi's really should have been left on the cutting room floor. As should Data's story. Its nice to see him emotionless again. His character has suffered somewhat of late thanks to that emotion chip, but he's not given anything worthwhile to work with.The scene where Geordi enjoys a sunset with normal vision is nice because of LeVar Burton's natural style of acting, but nothing else is made of it. And as for Worf, ever since he jumped ship to DS9, the writers have had to contrive to outrageous lengths to get him back in the cast. In First Contact, they just about got away with it, but here he makes some vague offhand remark about being in the same star system, which I didn't believe for a second.At least Frakes delivers the requisite thrills and spills. Battles in space and on the ground are pretty exciting, even if the hopping about from place to place does get a bit wearisome. There are some lovely shots of a nebula cloud, the Ba'Ku village makes use of some beautiful location shooting, and the So'Na solar sail is impressive inside and out.But Star Trek Insurrection failed to move me. It opens with a whopper of a shocker. Data goes berserk, attacking his own colleagues in an invisibility suit. But then the film settles into a comfortable ease that feels slack for far too much of the running time. Its a shame it took a further film for the producers to realise TNG had run its course. Galaxy Quest, which emerged the following year, and although a spoof, is actually a far superior film. Its everything a Star Trek film ought to be, and everything Insurrection isn't. "}{"Title":"Get a bunch of friends together with a number of cameras, a large crew, and a huge special effects budget....","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek Insurrection is a silly movie, of that there is no doubt. The plot is designed to let characters have fun (Klingon puberty, for example), the dire situation is just dire enough to be interesting, but not enough to get in the way of the actors just kicking back and having a blast, especially since they spend a lot of time in pretty terrain enjoying themselves.This makes sense. The actors from the TNG crew are known for being quite close, and being directed by Frakes, there were few outside influences to get in the way of their good time. There are a lot of little gags and moments where it's clear the actors just wanted to goof off. This, for some people, might hurt things. But for me, it works. It catches the TNG crew as they haven't been seen for years, just having fun and enjoying each other's company. It doesn't make for a movie that will rival the best movies in the series, but it's nice. If you like the characters - as I do - it's nice to see them all again, and it's nice to see them enjoying themselves. Sure some of the ideas were plain bad, or possibly in-jokes which the audience isn't privvy to, but as a whole, it's just good old fashioned fun with a group of old friends. How can you dislike that? "},{"Title":"One of the more sci-fi Star Trek films","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is one of the better Star Trek films in terms of it being true science fiction. Most of the Star Trek movies are space combat, lots of explosions, and weak character development. This film actually deals with people and issues, both political and personal.Like Star Trek IV, the conflict between the Sona and Baku reflects the conflict in modern life between technology and nature, the rush to new inventions versus the wisdom of understanding what those inventions mean to society as a whole. Picard, of course, is the convergence of the two he is wise beyond his years while still a member of a technological society.The story is tight and well-developed. There aren't a lot of forced actions, i.e. Why did he do that? Perhaps Picard and Data have too much screen time, but it does keep the story focused and on track. Jonathan Frakes as Riker has one of his more commanding roles and does a great job of directing as well.There's also a good dose of character development, including romance, friendships new and old, and witty banter.If you like the rock 'em, sock 'em conflicts of Star Trek II and VI, Insurrection is not for you (though I love Star Trek II as well). I think of it more along the lines of Star Trek IV, with great characters and a plot with feeling (minus much of the goofy humor of IV). "},{"Title":"A little sloppy, but still really good.","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are a few things that are a bit sloppy about the movie, but it still has that thing that makes Star Trek one of the greatest science fiction genres of all time.It falls onto the classic Trek tradition of disobeying orders for the greater good. But more galactially involved than the others. The last few notable times involved saving Spock. From the Genesis planet (Star Trek 3) and from his ponn far (Amok Time). This time, it involve saving a civilization from the Federation.But there is still some problems with the movie (All will be reveled from interviews and trailers without using spoilers). Like how did Worf get on board the Enterprise when he was stationed at Deep Space 9? That was never really answered. As well as the foreshadowing on who is going to the planet, specifically what the crew are wearing when they decided to start the insurrection.But the movie still maintains a fair amount of continuity and other features that are very appealing. Riker now clean shaved when he sported a beard since the second season of the Next Generation ten years earlier. Discussion of the Dominion war as well as the Borg from Deep Space Nine and Star Trek First Contact. As well as Geordi's eyes.Either way, it's Star Trek at its best. Bring forth the prime directive, the classic decision making, and will be very appealing to many. "},{"Title":"Good departure...","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know why people don't like this film, its better than Nemesis or Generations and tells a fantastic story, something neither of those movies did. Sure its no First Contact, but it is a ST movie Roddenberry would be proud of. It has fantastic acting, good special effects, good action (not too much) and a relatively big surprise towards the end. Sure if u look hard enough you can find plot holes or places where the movie got kinda slow, but as a whole, it told an incredibly thought provoking and emotional tale that even in todays time raises some serious questions about the shades of grey in our rights and wrongs.Where this movie lacks is that it feels like it was put together over a month or so. It really could have a little more time to tweak some of the small problems, nothing too bad though. "},{"Title":"As strong as any Next Generation Trek","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having not seen Insurrection since it came out in theaters, I was not sure what to expect - but the fact that I hadn't bothered to see it again meant that it must not have made much of an impression. In fact, with the benefit of seven years behind me, it seems that this may be the strongest of the Trek movies to feature the Next Generation crew, especially in light of the terrible Nemesis.First and foremost, the thing that separates Star Trek from Star Wars is in play continuously. The Next Generation TV show excelled in its ability to serve up complex moral dilemmas in 45-minute bites, but the previous two movies before this one had not really bothered with these problems. While somewhat underdeveloped, Insurrection does feature a moral issue prominently - a risk that is admirable in light of the Manichean world view that dominates most action films. This is, by the way, most certainly an action movie. There are more shootouts and space battles in Insurrection than in Nemesis and Generations combined, an especially impressive fact considering that there was no other meat to either of the aforementioned Treks.Finally, and perhaps most importantly, this is the only Next Generation movie to show the cast at the height of their chemistry. The last few seasons of the TV show were characterized primarily (in both its best and worst moments) by the friendship between cast members that was so clearly visible in its performances. Neither of the two previous movies or the one after show this as clearly as Insurrection does. All actors seem at ease with their characters and each other.Does Insurrection deliver for non-Trek fans? I would answer with a qualified yes. As all the Next Generation movies do to an inordinate degree, Insurrection relies on prior knowledge of the characters and ideas of the TV show, thus consigning it to a niche market of moviegoers. However, there is still enough wit, complexity, and excitement left to enjoy, even after the prior knowledge is subtracted, to make it a fairly satisfying movie. Recommended with a caveat for non-Trekkies - this may be an acquired taste. "},{"Title":"Great for Trekkies, maybe not for others","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This Star Trek installment was mostly about character development. As is typical with odd-numbered Star Trek movies (this is #9,) a Trekkie would appreciate it far more than most people.Still, you get some action, some comedy, a little romance, a little conspiracy... it could have been more conspiracy without making the Federation seem corrupt. Something did feel watered-down about the plot. I understand some scene cuts may have undermined significant plot points.Nonetheless, the performances were wonderful. However, Anthony Zerbe as Admiral Dougherty seemed to be a forced performance. It certainly was a great directing job by Jonathan Frakes. If you enjoy Star Trek at all, I strongly recommend this one. "},{"Title":"What Star Trek needs is a Trilogu","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A Movie Trilogy. So they can take their time over three movies to explore a whole new Trek World, say set 150+ years after the events of the god-awful Nemesis. A real epic story involving all established Races. Three movies done well may even lead to a new series. (one that would hopefully be better then Enterprise....well a week old bucket of pig's liver on a hot day is better then Enterprise)Overall Insurrection was tolerable at best. It could have done without the love story and more scenes of the Enterprise battling the Son'a.Perhaps the next Trek venture will yield more preferable results. But only if they hire *actual* Trek fans to write/produce/direct it. "},{"Title":"Recycled from the heap, why?","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the brilliant First Contact adventure we shared with the crew, we get this lame story involving the Enterprise. This seems like a bad episode that was stretched into full-length time. There are no surprises here, nothing worth noting. It lacked adventure and there was nothing to care about in the plot. What a disappointment! It makes you wonder how such brilliant writing can happen within the star trek series and movies like this fall short of one hour stories shown on the small screen. I saw this in the theatre only to find that I should have stayed home! It was a video release. I wish the executives would take chances with the plot lines, not be afraid to focus on action and drama. Have an all-out battle, have some detailed fight scenes or give us a look at the things that were only mentioned in the series. If you want box office like Alien, then act like it!  "},{"Title":"AWESOME FLICK!","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is highly underrated. The plot, while contrived, is well written and more rounded at theedges when compared to 'First Contact' (which had a rather better plotidea but sadly ended up looking like a campy farce...)The humor feels more natural, and even the sophomoric bits (like theboobs joke) fit better. The only terribly big problem is the ending. If Kirk offers to saveKhan at the end of Trek II, why does our purportedly moral Picardreadily allow Ru'afo to die? (not to forget the Borg Queen in 'FirstContact', of which they could have gotten a LOT of information out ofher... No wonder Janeway got promoted to Admiral and he didn't!)A problem, not so big but big enough, is why it's calledInsurrection. We're led to believe that all of Starfleet is behindthis eco- and relocation-atrocity but by the end the Starfleet villainswere just one or two people who wanted to take the technobabbleradiation and treat people across the Federation with it. (surely theFederation has dealt with enough environmental issues to think that byremoving the radiation that (a) the planet may be ruined or (b)removing the radiation renders it useless. This is why the plot iscontrived, it glosses over the deeper possibilities in favor of 'thiswill work, don't think about it.') 'Insurrection' has a charm and decency that is ideal for somebodyunfamiliar to the trek franchise. It's got its problems (thanks asalways to Rick Berman and company, who should have retired by 1993),but of the Next Generation movies, this one is by far the most coherentand watchable (even if prior NG movies had potentially better plotideas).  "},{"Title":"Underated, yet not up to par.","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek IX Insurrection had two severe dis-advantages to start with  It was an odd-numbered film, which in Star Trek Lore generally means the movie will not be that great.  It was also coming after, what many including myself consider to be the best Trek of all First Contact.  However, Insurrection has it's own good moments, and is still a better movie then many others that are out there.  The story was written by Michael Pillar, who has been a genius in writing Trek for over a decade.  In typical Star Trek genius, the story deals with something that Humans have dealt with since time immortal The Fountain of Youth.  In space, one is found.  It is the Planet Bak'u in the Briar Patch. There is a race known as the Son'a who want to posses it's regenerative effects, and there are several Starfleet Officers who are willing to go along with them.  Included in them is Admiral Mathew Dougherty.  As usual, the Crew of the Starship Enterprise are there to save the defenseless Bak'u from the ruthlessness of the Son'a and their compatriots.  The story itself is strong, and asks many questions, the most obvious is do we have the right to live forever? A question that was also asked in Star Trek Generations, and one in which Trek has left open for debate.  So the question of this film is If we find a fountain of youth, is it morally right to use it?  And at what cost? "}{"Title":"HIDDEN PLOTS!!","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Its surprising to see that not many people will know what actually made this film unique amongst its sister films in the series. After reading many StarTrek novels and watching this film a few times you'll realize that what I've said here is something that should/could have been explored in the film. Nonetheless watching any StarTrek films with the TNG crew was great ).Parts that follow maybe considered as a SPOILER!!Insurrection wasn't only created to explore the 'Prime Directive' that as we know is the very essence of what the United Federation of Planets is. What isn't shown or explained throughout the film or even exploited to the extent of stating that it is, is the 'Dark Side' of the Federation, 'SECTION 31'.'SECTION 31' is a hidden intelligence (and many more things of course) division within the Federation made of numerous people that will go to extremes to expand, protect and strengthen the United Federation of Planets at any COST! As long as the Federation exist, So does 'SECTION 31'.. now thats sounds rhetorical. This division acquires support from lower ranking officers to the very high levels of echelon.During the film you'll hear the Admiral say something along these lines, I'm acting on orders from the Federation Council. This is true but those orders where from high-ranking Starfleet officers in line with 'SECTION 31'. This is what makes the movie more mysterious and how the plot has more interwoven threads then it cares to expose. Why would the Federation do this? And thats what Picard was asking himself. Of course after the films' plot 'Section 31' would no doubt be pulling out and the Federation of course would have no evidence of what actually occurred or what began this all.There is more story to this film that what appears, of course you could read what I've said so far but it barely touches the surfaces. This movie was masterpiece to the true StarTrek fan but not for a first timer! 4 Stars!!  "},{"Title":"Bland but not particularly bad.","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection isn't a terrible movie It isn't even that bad.It's just that almost everything about it is so bland, unoriginal and formulaic that there isn't much to admire, leaving a passably entertaining, if completely unexceptional, sci-fi adventure that ends up feeling like an overlong TV episode.The story is satisfactory, in a simple, action-yarn way A few twists, a few turns, but really nothing particularly original or different, certainly nothing that stands out.The acting is also perfectly acceptable, in a tired way, as you can tell that everyone would really rather be doing something else; the terrific F. Murray Abraham (Oscar winner- Amadeus) has a part that hardly showcases his talent, although he's absolutely fine, but it is sad to see such a great actor in such mediocre roles and such mediocre films. Poor old Patrick Stewart is also good, but has been stuck in the Star Trek rut for so long that he has simply chosen one style and stayed with it permanently Adequate for the film, but once again not exactly a role that stretches his acting ability. The rest of the cast act in a way that suits the film they just act as if they were in a Star Trek TV episode, albeit around the 999th, judging by the effort.The special effects are the one high-point, with some fabulous space backdrops and some very nice shots of the Enterprise flying around; still, nothing exactly jaw-dropping.However, where the film really falls flat is the direction, and it is probably Mr. Frakes' fault that the whole affair is so completely unexceptional the direction is an unsteady mix of the truly insipid, the laughably sentimental and a love of explosions A sort of blend of Donald Petrie Miss Congeniality, Penny Marshall Big and Michael Bay it-who-must-not-be-named (aka Pearl Harbor), but with all their worst characteristics on show (although it has to be said that Bay has no good characteristics). In conclusion, a fairly amusing but depressingly average experience Acting, storyline and most other aspects of the film are no less than acceptable, but the whole picture is brought down by awful, lifeless direction.Run-of-the-Mill stuff, if there ever was any.A.T.   "},{"Title":"Bland but not particularly bad.","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection isn't a terrible movie It isn't even that bad.It's just that almost everything about it is so bland, unoriginal and formulaic that there isn't much to admire, leaving a passably entertaining, if completely unexceptional, sci-fi adventure that ends up feeling like an overlong TV episode.The story is satisfactory, in a simple, action-yarn way A few twists, a few turns, but really nothing particularly original or different, certainly nothing that stands out.The acting is also perfectly acceptable, in a tired way, as you can tell that everyone would really rather be doing something else; the terrific F. Murray Abraham (Oscar winner- Amadeus) has a part that hardly showcases his talent, although he's absolutely fine, but it is sad to see such a great actor in such mediocre roles and such mediocre films. Poor old Patrick Stewart is also good, but has been stuck in the Star Trek rut for so long that he has simply chosen one style and stayed with it permanently Adequate for the film, but once again not exactly a role that stretches his acting ability. The rest of the cast act in a way that suits the film they just act as if they were in a Star Trek TV episode, albeit around the 999th, judging by the effort.The special effects are the one high-point, with some fabulous space backdrops and some very nice shots of the Enterprise flying around; still, nothing exactly jaw-dropping.However, where the film really falls flat is the direction, and it is probably Mr. Frakes' fault that the whole affair is so completely unexceptional the direction is an unsteady mix of the truly insipid, the laughably sentimental and a love of explosions A sort of blend of Donald Petrie Miss Congeniality, Penny Marshall Big and Michael Bay it-who-must-not-be-named (aka Pearl Harbor), but with all their worst characteristics on show (although it has to be said that Bay has no good characteristics). In conclusion, a fairly amusing but depressingly average experience Acting, storyline and most other aspects of the film are no less than acceptable, but the whole picture is brought down by awful, lifeless direction.Run-of-the-Mill stuff, if there ever was any.A.T.   "},{"Title":"Bland but not particularly bad.","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection isn't a terrible movie It isn't even that bad.It's just that almost everything about it is so bland, unoriginal and formulaic that there isn't much to admire, leaving a passably entertaining, if completely unexceptional, sci-fi adventure that ends up feeling like an overlong TV episode.The story is satisfactory, in a simple, action-yarn way A few twists, a few turns, but really nothing particularly original or different, certainly nothing that stands out.The acting is also perfectly acceptable, in a tired way, as you can tell that everyone would really rather be doing something else; the terrific F. Murray Abraham (Oscar winner- Amadeus) has a part that hardly showcases his talent, although he's absolutely fine, but it is sad to see such a great actor in such mediocre roles and such mediocre films. Poor old Patrick Stewart is also good, but has been stuck in the Star Trek rut for so long that he has simply chosen one style and stayed with it permanently Adequate for the film, but once again not exactly a role that stretches his acting ability. The rest of the cast act in a way that suits the film they just act as if they were in a Star Trek TV episode, albeit around the 999th, judging by the effort.The special effects are the one high-point, with some fabulous space backdrops and some very nice shots of the Enterprise flying around; still, nothing exactly jaw-dropping.However, where the film really falls flat is the direction, and it is probably Mr. Frakes' fault that the whole affair is so completely unexceptional the direction is an unsteady mix of the truly insipid, the laughably sentimental and a love of explosions A sort of blend of Donald Petrie Miss Congeniality, Penny Marshall Big and Michael Bay it-who-must-not-be-named (aka Pearl Harbor), but with all their worst characteristics on show (although it has to be said that Bay has no good characteristics). In conclusion, a fairly amusing but depressingly average experience Acting, storyline and most other aspects of the film are no less than acceptable, but the whole picture is brought down by awful, lifeless direction.Run-of-the-Mill stuff, if there ever was any.A.T.   "},{"Title":"Bland but not particularly bad.","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection isn't a terrible movie It isn't even that bad.It's just that almost everything about it is so bland, unoriginal and formulaic that there isn't much to admire, leaving a passably entertaining, if completely unexceptional, sci-fi adventure that ends up feeling like an overlong TV episode.The story is satisfactory, in a simple, action-yarn way A few twists, a few turns, but really nothing particularly original or different, certainly nothing that stands out.The acting is also perfectly acceptable, in a tired way, as you can tell that everyone would really rather be doing something else; the terrific F. Murray Abraham (Oscar winner- Amadeus) has a part that hardly showcases his talent, although he's absolutely fine, but it is sad to see such a great actor in such mediocre roles and such mediocre films. Poor old Patrick Stewart is also good, but has been stuck in the Star Trek rut for so long that he has simply chosen one style and stayed with it permanently Adequate for the film, but once again not exactly a role that stretches his acting ability. The rest of the cast act in a way that suits the film they just act as if they were in a Star Trek TV episode, albeit around the 999th, judging by the effort.The special effects are the one high-point, with some fabulous space backdrops and some very nice shots of the Enterprise flying around; still, nothing exactly jaw-dropping.However, where the film really falls flat is the direction, and it is probably Mr. Frakes' fault that the whole affair is so completely unexceptional the direction is an unsteady mix of the truly insipid, the laughably sentimental and a love of explosions A sort of blend of Donald Petrie Miss Congeniality, Penny Marshall Big and Michael Bay it-who-must-not-be-named (aka Pearl Harbor), but with all their worst characteristics on show (although it has to be said that Bay has no good characteristics). In conclusion, a fairly amusing but depressingly average experience Acting, storyline and most other aspects of the film are no less than acceptable, but the whole picture is brought down by awful, lifeless direction.Run-of-the-Mill stuff, if there ever was any.A.T.   "},{"Title":"for real fans of Trek only","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An excellent movie if you actually like Star Trek. Plot and character depth are excellent, along with a well-written script from the same writer who continued Gene Rodenberry's legacy in the Next Generation and DS9; Rick Berman. For those of you who wanted phaser fire, ugly Borg baddies and ridiculously loose plotlines (like in First Contact and Nemesis respectively), don't watch this. This movie is better left to those who actually like a good sci-fi plot and enjoyed the series. In my eyes, this is the second best Star Trek movie ever produced, right after the Wrath of Khan. Much better than the futuristic shoot-em-up First Contact, or the barely-Star Trek, no-plot-line, ridiculous Nemesis.  "},{"Title":"Beautifully shot, wonderful cast","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a fan, my opinions may be biased, so read into them what you will.Star Trek Insurrection is a beautifully shot film, and a complete contrast to it's darker predecessor, First Contact.  (Not that that film wasn't great)Jonathan Frakes, who also directed First Contact, shows his versatility here as he creates a moving film worthy of the good Star Trek name.  From the opening credits, which paint a picture of the ideallistic Ba'ku homeworld, to the chemistry between Picard and Anij, Frakes does a wonderful job.The script is well written, and is probably the most accessible film to non-fans.  It has the right blend of action, comedy and romance to satisfy all, and even the most ardent Trek hater would be hard pushed to criticise this one.The plot is genuinly intriguing, the moral dilemma concerning the relocation of a few hundred people to benefit a million more is something many cultures here on Earth have been faced with.The supporting cast is strong, which is something a Trek film really needs. (Unfortunately this trend was not continued with Star Trek Nemesis, whose supporting cast is woeful to say the least)There are good performances all round, and the regular Trek crew are as entertaining as ever.  From Worf's gorch to Riker's Android's Bottom, there are delightful scenes to satisfy the hardcore Trekkies.Top notch film, can't think of any flaws. 9 out of 10 for me. "},{"Title":"Bad outweighs the good.","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Slow-paced, confusing... Now, I personally believe that there is no such thing as a truly, 100% bad Star Trek movie. Even the most poorly-conceived Trek movie is a whole hell of a lot better than most other movies (especially movies filmed in 1998! What a horrible year for film!), so perhaps this really was an awful movie and I'm just biased. Who knows.Either way, the bad definitely outweighed the good. While it was pretty funny to see Mozart's nemesis Salieri (F. Murray Abraham) duking it out with Jean-Luc Picard, the character of Ru'afo (sp?) was possibly the least menacing Trek villain I've ever seen, and the plot, while definitely relevant to the times (moreso now, after the war in Iraq!) lacked a lot of the passion of earlier Trek movies. It was also quite disheartening to see that nearly all of Starfleet, with the exception of the Enterprise crew, were suddenly so corrupt. What happened?!Data managed to be both cool and irritating, and not in the Oh, that wacky Data! way, either. Nearly everytime he was around that little boy, I just wanted to turn it off. That kid brought out the worst in him.The good, however, I dare say was remarkably good. (that bias again?) The makeup artistry was stunning. While Jean-Luc was sharing his moments with Anji, he was genuinely glowing. He looked younger! Deanna and Will's romance scenes were a total scream, and I teared up when Geordi teared up at the sight of the sunrise. I just wonder... is it too much to ask for one of these films to show Beverly for more than one or two scenes?? I can't even remember what she did in this movie, and that's not a good sign. Far too much Picard, too much annoying Data, too much no-longer-cool-but-just-silly Worf... and almost no Beverly. Or Geordi, for that matter. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Star Trek movies","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the best star trek movies--it has everything Trek should have  a good plot and storyline, theme, love interest (for the captain, natch), and humor.This is not as good as First Contact (what is?) but far far superior to Nemesis, which is a downer.  Naturally, like any Trek movie, it has its plot holes--but any ST does.    I rate the Star Treks on how often I want to watch them at home, and this one I watch often.  Excellent! "},{"Title":"One of the best ST films!  9/10","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most of the Star Trek film series has seemed unsatisfactory on the big screen, and I think I figured out why... it's a small screen series. When you watch most of the films on the small screen, they've usually played much better than in the theater. Perhaps in that context, you compare it more to what you're used to watching, the TV series, and realize that any Star Trek film is like having a brand new, 2 hour episode with better filming and effects. But with Insurrection and its predecessor First Contact, there are now two excellent Star Trek films that work very well both on the big and small screens. In the case of Insurrection, the story is more of a small screen one indicative of typical Next Generation fare, but it was executed with such good writing, humor, action and inventive Star Trek situations, that it plays very big. I saw this film twice on the big screen and enjoyed it, but appreciated it even more watching the DVD recently, especially after having just seen the far inferior and less imaginative Nemesis.I won't give away any details for anyone who hasn't seen it yet, but I urge everyone to watch and enjoy this film for its use of the Star Trek world (particularly Next Generation style) and its characters in a very well crafted work. "}{"Title":"Just how forgettable is this film?","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Almost all of the Star Trek movies with the original cast were exciting, moving, entertaining, or some combination of the above.THIS film, on the other hand...One day I was in the video store, when I came across this film on the shelf. I stared at the box for a little while before suddenly realizing... I had rented and viewed this movie LESS THAN A MONTH BEFORE.Now THAT'S how truly uninspiring this film is. So far, it's the ONLY film I can think of to ever have achieved the dubious honor of being almost totally forgotten within 2 or 3 weeks of the viewing.I've long been a Star Trek fan, but it's a shame they wasted so much film on this turkey, when they could have used it to produce good cereal commercials instead. If you want something better, see if you can find the final episode of Star Trek Voyager somewhere -- its only flaw that was even really noticeable that it was actually a good, strong, full-blown, big-screen-quality movie that deserved movie-style ending credits -- rather than the same old TV-series ending credits that they gave it. "},{"Title":"microsoft force feedback controller 2000","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  a ship nearly 700 metres long being controlled by a joystick. emmmm no. riker being in control of the enterprise, crashed the last one, blows the hell out of the new one, why couldnt they let him crash it into the shimitar. "},{"Title":"One of the best Star Trek movies out there","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection is a very enjoyable movie and one of the best Star Trek movies ever. I don't know why people seem to knock this movie so much, the Borg can't be in every movie. The two Star Trek movies that were directed by Jonathan Frakes were both been very good while the other two Next Generation movies were average at best. Star Trek Insurrection has a lot of humor and a very good story. The new movie Nemesis should have thought a bit more about the story, it is lacking in that department. You can't just blow things up, you need a reason to make people interested. Also, I believe that if Jonathan Frakes had directed Nemesis it would have been much better because he knows what Star Trek fans want to see. Non Star Trek directors might know how to make a movie, but not how to please a certain crowd, i.e. Star Trek fans. Unfortunately they made the movie for the wrong crowd. I hope if they do make another movie they get back to the spirit of Insurrection, the best Star Trek movie since The Undiscovered Country. "},{"Title":"Preachy, Plodding and Pointless","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection is not necessarily an awful film, but is ultimately pointless in the greater scheme of things.  There is no new ground covered by the story, the morality of the choices of the characters is debatable and unclear, the production values are lacking the polish of the previous two films, and there is very little action or character development to off-set the negative aspects of the film.If Star Trek Insurrection was a two-part episode of the television series, it may be have been acceptable.  But as a big-screen entry, it seems rather weak.  The audience learns nothing new about Picard and crew, and the talents of F. Murray Abraham as the lead villain are wasted.  There is not one memorable moment during the entire duration of the film, and by the end all that is left is a preachy premise about the nuances of the Prime Directive, a theme that has been milked dry by the various movies and television series.Ultimately, Star Trek Insurrection is an absolutely pointless entry in the franchise, seemingly designed only to rake in a few million dollars without attaching any quality or interesting material to make the effort worthwhile.  This ninth chapter is among the worst.   "},{"Title":"Ugh! For the love of god, make it stop!","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a hunk of calculated, manipulative crap! I loved The Wrath of Khan. Saw it in 70mm in an old Cinerama house! And since the final film (Nemesis) opened today I've had my memory jogged as to just how awful Insurrection was. It's my justification for both avoiding the new one and thanking heaven it's the end of the line.I've got a good friend who dragged me to see this celluloid pantsing shortly after it came out. When the pasted-in child character's pasted-in pocket-sized pet was introduced, I knew there was some bad stuff in the pipeline; when they finally got to the obscenely-telegraphed, tacked-on pet rescue sequence, my good friend had to grab my arm to keep me from storming out of the auditorium and demanding my $7 back. Who writes this garbage? Does he/she work for GW now? "},{"Title":"Unimpressive - Like a TV show on the big screen","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recently watched Star Trek III The Search for Spock and Star Trek Insurrection back to back and I realized that III seemed to have much better effects and was much more cinematic in scope.What has happened to the Star Trek franchise? The effects look like a really good video game on my computer. The Planets look like Planet Southern California. The interiors of the alien ships look like something out of a low-budget  Sci-Fi channel series. And please! - the utopian community with its little ponds and bridges and children playing on unaturallly green manicured lawns (??).Whatever happened to cinematic scope in the Star Trek films? Treks II and III were made on relatively low budgets yet these films still made the universe seem vast and full of wonder, not Planet Southern California.  Hasn't anyone noticed that the ships in the old films look real large ships in space, lit by the sun. The new ships all look like video games. Perhaps its time to take a look back at some of the old methods of effects and see why they made the movies so magical.I  fear for the next Trek film. I just saw a dune buggy in the trailer... "},{"Title":"The curse lives on!","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Boy, this movie sucked. It sucked hard. Like EVERY odd-numbered Trek. First Contact was fantastic - humor, action, and Picard and Co, save the world!Spoilers...ST The Motion Picture - Boring, boring, boring. WAY too long.ST3  The Search for Spock - Should've left him dead, or never killed him off in the first place.ST5 The Final Frontier - This movie is so bad, I can't even express it.ST7 Generations - One of the better odd ones, but still a mediocre film, especially for non-fans.ST9 Insurrection - Lame. "},{"Title":"Sucks","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even considering my reasonably low expectations this film managed to disappoint me. I sometimes enjoy watching Star Trek on TV. It is OK entertainment, but come on! This is just another long TV-episode that the greedy people of the Star Trek enterprise attempt to pass on as an real film. It sadly has neither the story or even the budget to be an actual film. They have simply stretched the shallow script into oblivion. If you havent followed the TV-series you will not even be able to understand what the characters are all about "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Even/Odd curse of Star Trek lives. Insurrection, being an odd numbered star trek movie, is not as good as any of the even numbered ones. Although it is by far not the best in the series (First contact is), it is entertaining.However, it felt more like a episode of TNG than a movie.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek IX Insurrection is one of my favorite ST movies, mainly because it adds another layer to the crew of Enterprise-E (the most beautiful enterprise by the way). I shouldn't go into details, but some of the characters are developed and rediscovered.There are some downs to this movie as well. The written lines for some of the characters are at times undeveloped and short. For example, we have cheesy jokes that tend to to have a kind of 'behind the camera' or 'bloopers' feel. I probably shouldn't mention that at one time Riker pilots the Enterprise with a lowbudget early 90's computer Joystick, but hey, we can't all be perfect.There are a lot of complaints about this movie. The moral of the story is sometimes complained about, mostly by people who didn't get the big picture (or see the end?).Well, overall, I'd give this movie 7.5 / 10//Note There is no odd number curse to the Star Trek movie series. I can agree that Star Trek The motion picture isn't that good, but it was the first attempt at the big screen, so you have to be forgiving. No, the worst Star Trek movie is without a doubt IV (even no.) The Voyage Home. Cheap and cheesy attempt at making an 80's (scifi/)comedy with save the whales moral context. // "}{"Title":"Best Odd Numbered Trek Movie","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection may not be a work of high art, but is an exceptionally well-crafted and superbly paced film.  From start to finish it works well.I really enjoy the start of the movie, seeing Data go wild and expose the Federation Observation Station spying on the agrarian and peaceful Ba'Ku.  From there we go off to the Enterprise where a ceremony to welcome a new race to the Federation is taking place, and Crusher is berating Picard for having a fatter neck than he used to.  I really enjoy the sense of camaraderie that seems to have built up among these characters over the years, and this is really the first time we've seen it played out on screen.  I also like the references to the Federation's losses to the Borg and the Dominion, making it feel as though these really are dangerous times for the Federation and it's Starfleet.As the movie progresses, the storytelling becomes more whimsical, with the peaceful Ba'Ku being juxtaposed with the aggressive and warlike Son'a.  The scenes that take place on the planet have just the right feel to them, and you can see where the money went, the Ba'Ku village sets look fantastic, although I must say that the Son'a ship sets are diabolical.I'd say that Insurrection is definitely the best of the odd-numbered Trek films, and that the supposed 'curse' may even have been broken.  It compares well with First Contact and is far superior to Generations, even though it is drastically different in tone to both of those films.*** out of ***** "},{"Title":"What Star Trek *Should* Be","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is my second favourite Star Trek film, only second by a small margin to Star Trek IV. It's everything that I enjoy about Star Trek, and that's an overall optimistic outlook on our lives and futures. The little seal-squirrel, computer-generated creature, known to some as Mel, was a great addition to this flick in that it accentuated the emotive effects already constructed in wide-spread fashion throughout its course. "},{"Title":"Not the best in the Star Trek film series, but good non the less","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This review contains spoilersStar Trek Insurrection is a good Star Trek Film, but dosent rank as high as First Contact, The Undiscovered Country, and The Voyage Home.  The film contained a moral message, and got the audience thinking about the relocation of the Indians on our planet.Insurrection opens with the Federation and a race called the Sna spying on the Ba'ku an alien population, and Data appears and exposes the observation post.  It is found out later that Data is Malfunctioning.  Picard and crew go to investigate and find something disturbing.  After they capture Data in a spectacular aerial chase.  They find out he was damaged by phaser fire, because he was going to discover the Federation hollow ship, which is sent to remove the Baku. The planet is found out to have regenerative properties, that interest the Federation and the Son.  Picard finds out about this and realizes that this goes against the Prime Directive.  He confronts the Admiral in charge of the mission, but the Admiral gives him orders to leave.  So Picard and crew go renegade, and stop this removal.The cast in the film shines.  Patrick Stewart is great as Picard.  Picard is a Captain that is loyal to Starfleet ideals.  He believes that those ideals are threatened because starfleet would condone these sort of actions. Riker and Trois romance blossomed in this film, and Riker shaves off his beard. I hope there is a follow up to this romance in the next film.  Data was great as usual.  I loved seeing him interact with the Baku boy, and I liked seeing him play in the hay at the end of the film.  It was great that the character was interested in what it is like to be a child.  Data has been a character that has been explored in each of the next generation films. Worf had his moments too, seeing him endure Klingon puberty was hilarious, because of the planet metaphasic properties, and when Georgi regained his sight was a powerful moment in the movie.Insurrection failed to live up to its predecessor.  I believed that Rufo played by F. Murray Abraham didnt live up to Alice Kriges Borg Queen.  I felt that he was a weak and misguided villain who followed rules, unlike the Borg who dont care about a planets population.  The film lacked numerous action sequences.  The story wasnt as great, it was slow moving at times, but it had you asking questions.Insurrection had its moments of humor.  The scenes with Data, the Riker and Troi romance, and the scene in which Troi and Crusher talk about how their breasts start to firm up, and Data telling this to Worf was hilarious.Insurrection is a decent Star Trek film.  It did raise moral questions, like would we sacrifice our morality to have something we want from someone else. It also showed that the federation has flaws, and that humans will still have a bit of selfishness about them in the 24th century.  The story failed to live up to my expectations, but a good Star Trek film overallI give this film a B  "},{"Title":"Despite one major flaw, a good Trek movie","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie had, in my opinion, one major flaw -- the inclusion of Worf.  When TNG ran on television, Worf was one of my favorite characters.  When he moved to DS9, however, he quickly became my most hated Trek character (even above Chakotay and Neelix, both of whom kept me from ever enjoying a single Voyager episode).  He's on DS9 now, why the **** is he here?  At least in the last movie, his appearance almost made sense.  Even Sulu had *reasons* for showing up after he got his own command in the last few TOS movies! On the other hand, this movie is, for the first time in a long time, a step in the right direction for Trek in general.  Since Roddenberry's death, Trek in general has gone downhill, and I'd almost be happy to see the whole franchise fall than put up with any more movies like First Contact.Those of you who're calling for the next movie to be the last TNG movie -- well, it's better than the alternative; DS9 or Voyager movies.   "},{"Title":"True to the spirit of Star Trek, and a whetting of the appetite for more...","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I happen to be one of the rare people who is a long-time Star Trek fan who also happened to love Insurrection.The movie was slickly made and well-directed (as is to be expected of Jonathon Frakes), with solid acting and enough action to keep the keenest Trekkie occupied.The script was well-written and conveyed the characters' attitudes succinctly, without appearing preachy (as Star Trek is sometimes inclined to do). The characters' passions were drawn out of the script, helped along by the superb acting talents of Patrick Stewart (as usual), Brent Spiner and (in a supporting role) Donna Murphy. Even the smaller roles had delightfully appropriate moments, such as Beverly Crusher's (Gates McFadden) derisive snort when Picard (Stewart) claims his collar size is the same now as at the Academy forty years ago.One thing I have found disconcerting is the most common objection to the movie Insurrection that the moral theme of the story is flawed. I believe anyone who thinks this is either ignorant of or is ignoring one of the fundamental tenets of the Star Trek series that is, the basic human (sentient?) rights of an individual are sacrosanct, and to violate them is to devalue those rights for all.I have heard the line the greatest good for the greatest number quoted to argue against what Picard et al did during the movie - that the forcible displacement of 600 people in order to benefit millions was an acceptable moral decision. I'm sorry, but I cannot agree. A more apt aphorism for such an action is the ends justifies the means, and the mere fact that so many people charge Insurrection as being flawed in presenting this position as wrong demonstrates how far we have to go, morally, as a people.The greatest good for the greatest number would apply if, say, limited food resources had to be sent somewhere, and the choice was to a million people on Colony A and 600 people on Colony B. Nothing active is being done to harm the 600, only to try and save the million. The situation in Insurrection, however, was the active and deliberate abrogation of the rights of the 600 in order to gain an additional benefit for the millions.Whichever way you slice it, this boils down to the ends justifying the means, pure and simple. It is no different from saying it was okay for Josef Mengele to experiment on Jewish prisoners during the Holocaust because the fruits of his research have led to cures for many diseases as a result of improved understanding of genetics. Should the research be thrown out? No - that would not bring back those who were sacrificed. Should it be repeated? Not in a million years.The same applies to the moral principle here as Picard so eloquently points out when told it's only six hundred people. When does it become wrong, Admiral? When it's a thousand? Fifty thousand? A million? When does it BECOME wrong?The actions were in the character of Captain Picard (as demonstrated in the The Next Generation episode Journey's End), who despises the concept of forced relocation of people, and they were within the moral framework long-established for Star Trek.The mere fact that so many people today object to this ethical position is ample evidence that we still have a *long* way to go before we can hope to establish a gentle, democratic and rights-respecting government such as the United Federation of Planets. "},{"Title":"A long episode","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie wasn't bad.  In fact, it was pretty darn good for an odd numbered Star Trek flick -- Star Treks I, V and VII were veritable stinkers.Having said all that, the script used wasn't ideal for a movie.  This is basically a 48 minute episode stretched into a movie of double length.  As a result, it feels long.  Plus, it has the misfortune of being odd numbered, and of following the kick-ass-and-take-names Star Trek VIII. "},{"Title":"It singlehandedly ended TNG's(Next Generation cast's) run","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What makes a Trek film bad?  Well, when the plot has less depth than about 40 Next Generation episodes, that's never a bonus.  The main plot problem lies in the fact that any astute person would take the side of the Federation conspiritarsnot the Next Gen cast. Why? Becuase Yes! it's worth violating the prime directive(oh noo! we can't violate the prime directive)to save millions of lives in the universe if all we are doing is tampering with one culture, and a boring one at that.  That plot flaw was pointed out by Spiner and others during production (and no, I'm not making that up) but the writers choose to ignore their pleas. nstead, they choose to release a movie that would make the cast look like idiots and cause Paramount to say that the next Trek film would be the last for TNG because no one went to see Insurrection.  The fact that they choosea horrible special effects company because they couldn't wait for the good one to be done with Star Wars does not bother me nearly as much as the scrap-pile script. If this film had made as much money as First Contact, then P. Stewart would not have said that he's creatively bored and that the next one should be the last.  Also, take my word for it, Spiner would have said that he's too old to play Data, either. (Whatever that even means. How can you be too old to play a character who wears globs of make-up with Paramount's de-aging make-up at your disposal.) Congratulations, writers, you ended TNG's run. "},{"Title":"Suceeds on many levels","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With every rule there is an exception and Insurrection prove to be the exception to the rule that odd numbered Star Trek films are inferior to the even numbered ones.  This movie is a lot deeper than one would think and does a good job foreshadowing the events.First of all is the small scene near the beginning where Picard notices the slight difference in the ship's vibration.  While many may see this scene as filler, it ties very nicely into Picard's character as well as the Baku's abilities.  Picard is able to have total control of his environment and therefore has attained the peace of mind the Baku talk about.There are several moments in this film that are small like the aforementioned scene, but that tie very nicely into the overall storyline. Things like Worf having a nightmare, which many attribute to the recent loss of his wife on DS9 and Geordi experiencing a headache, which is a prelude to his regaining his sight.  Perhaps the best of these small moments is when Worf arrives.  The producers did a nice job of avoiding the clich of getting Worf back on the Enterprise with a reasonable explanation by drowning out his answer.  A lot of scenes in this movie neglect trivial details to focus on the larger picture.The film is also full of great dialogue that ties the crew of the Enterprise to the events in DS9, but still keeping them separate.  If you do not watch DS9, you will not miss anything here, but if you do, you'll be able to pick up on these small things.  Perhaps the best of these lines is Picard's lament, `do you remember when we used to be explorers?'The action in this film is well paced and the humor is right on key.  The pace moves quickly and never gets bogged down.  Best of all, the characters, while still staying true to what came before are given more humanized dialogue.  Troi and Crusher discuss what the environmental conditions are doing to their bodies and Worf tries to live down Klingon pimples.Picard shines through in this movie as does Patrick Stewart's acting abilities.  Taking a cue from `First Contact's' dialogue about `the line must be drawn here,' Stewart is given a lot of speeches that he delivers masterfully.  If I were being exploited, I'd want Captain Picard on my side.I recommend this movie wholeheartedly.  Do not see it with preconceived notions, but do see it if you want action, humor, humanized characters, and a little romance.  "},{"Title":"Second best odd-numbered Trek","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection, the ninth film in the long running series, is a pretty good Star Trek picture. My hopes weren't all that high for this one because the odd-numbered movies in the series have been weaker than the even-numbered ones and it received mostly lukewarm responses from critics. But to my surprise, it was better than I expected, and it falls right behind Star Trek III as the second best odd-numbered Star Trek movie. Star Trek Insurrection is a more lighthearted movie than the previous film in the series (the much darker Star Trek First Contact). Insurrection takes the Enterprise crew to a planet that seems to be a fountain of youth. The people of this mystical world (known as the Ba'ku) have their lives threatened by a race of baddies (the Son'a) who have one thing in common with these people. Captain Picard (Patrick Stewart) eventually finds out that the Son'a are on orders from the Federation counsel. This gets Picard steaming mad. So he, along with the rest of the Enterprise crew, tries to help out the Ba'ku from getting into the hands of the Son'a. The special effects this time out are not quite top-notch as in the other Star Trek films with the possible exception of Star Trek I and Star Trek V, but the effects are pretty entertaining. Plus this film is nicely paced and never boring. Jonathan Frakes, who plays Riker, stepped behind the cameras for the second straight time to direct a Star Trek film, and once again does an exceptional job. He made this film as well as First Contact fun, and he makes the Enterprise crew look like their having a great time making it. The entire cast of Next Generation is here (Stewart, Frakes, Brent Spiner, LeVar Burton, Michael Dorn, Gates McFadden, and Marina Sirtis) and all do their job well. Guest stars this time out include Tony award winning actress Donna Murphy as Anij, a Ba'ku woman who Picard falls in love with; Oscar winning actor F. Murray Abraham (Amadeus) as Ru'afo, the leader of the Son'a; and Anthony Zerbe as Admiral Dougherty, a member of the Federation who tries to assist the Son'a. Star Trek Insurrection is not a perfect movie. There are a few scenes that are too silly for words, and Abraham is an even sillier villain. But overall, it's an enjoyable film. As far as the Star Trek films to star the Next Generation cast go, it's not as good as First Contact but it's better than Generations. And I'm looking forward to Star Trek X which should be out next year.*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"The Best Star Trek Epic Ever!  (*Plot spoilers*)","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That's what I would have said if Rick Berman and his crew decided to follow up the incredible First Contact with a good film.The biggest problem Insurrection suffers is the dreaded Third Act disease in which the filmmakers know how to set up the plot, but can't wrap it all up in a neat conclusion.  But I'm getting ahead of myself, since they couldn't sell us the viewer this sketchy premise to begin with.First off, why are the S'ona and B'aku fighting over an entire planet? There are only 300 B'aku, couldn't they share the planet?  I mean, it's a planet!  Oh wait, that's what they end up doing anyway.  Good thing they needed Picard to step in and help them figure that out.While I sat in the theater and watched Picard and Worf singing, Roddenberry's ghost appeared before me and asked, What is this?   What happened to my 'Wagon Train to the Stars' concept?The renegade admiral was a good idea on paper, and could've been executed well, but instead of making a powerful man fall from grace, ADM Dougherty was shifty, weak in his leadership ability and made you wonder how he would get promoted in the first place.Once again, the beautiful and wonderful Gates McFadden had nothing to do but talk about her breasts with Troi.  Hopefully in Star Trek X, she'll get some romance time Picard, instead of some new age guest star.After a lifetime of blindness and computer generated sight, Geordi finally gets to see and Picard couldn't care less.  Everyone else suffers from Chekov Syndrome by proxy, the condition in which the extras get more screen time than the co-stars.  Only Data is spared from this fate, and his emotion chip is turned off the whole film, thankfully, since Data with emotions is like a laughing Vulcan and that worked well didn't it?This movie tried to be funny like Voyage Home but everyone forgot to place the characters in a humorous circumstance.  So what you have left are jokes for the sake of being jokey.  I thought Full House was funnier.On a good note, I thought Frakes and his DP did a good job capturing the John Ford-esque visual eyecandy.  It had a cinematic feel, unlike Generations, which looked like a two-parter on a giant screen TV.By the boring space battle finale I was half asleep, and the usher had to come in and slap the back of my head because my eyes got stuck from rolling them so hard when Riker pulled the Commodore 64 joystick out and flew the ship.Please, Rick Berman, Jonathan Frakes and Sherry Lansing, learn from this film when making the next one.  grade  D "}{"Title":"One big misstep...Second best of the Odds","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alright, Insurrection is not the greatest of the Treks, but it is not the worst either.  That honor is between The Motionless Picture and Final Frontier.  Insurrection is a little bit better than Generations also.  So where did this movie go wrong?  I don't know.After the monster success of First Contact, maybe producers felt that people would watch anything dealing with Star Trek.  The movie did have a good premise, protecting a planet that gave eternal youth, from our own Federation!  Good idea, great foundation to start building on, unfortunately the screen writers thought that humor should be involved with this concept as well.  There are an incredible number of jokes in this film, an even split between good ones and bad ones.  Some slapstick here and there also.  A lot of the humor resorts back to Final Frontier where there was an overabundance of it, the nice thing is none of the characters are really being made fun of that much as they were in the film formerly mentioned.  Still, a lot of the humor seems to be painfully out of place, like how Worf and Picard capture Data, Worf's Klingon pimple, and Picard's bead necklace.  The humor is so out of place that it seems our heros have forgotten that a mad man is orbiting the planet and is intent on killing off all of its inhabitants.  Which brings me to my next point, the villain.F. Murray Abraham is an outstanding actor and he does a good job convincing the audience that he is an alien Hitler.  Yet there are so many opportunities the writers never took advantage of in making him that scary of a villain.  We are never given much of a background on him, and are uncertain as to what is his driving motive for wanting to destroy the Baku, is it revenge or the desire to stay healthy and young forever? The screenplay is unforgivably weak, and leaves audiences feeling cheated.  The rekindling of Riker and Troi's relationship is handled so poorly that we are glad to see it so briefly, another missed opportunity by the producers.  This could have been excellent sub-plot to the movie, instead the viewers are treated to Picard developing a possible relationship.Picard meets woman on the planet he is protecting and the two fall of each other.  This handled with a little more care than Riker and Troi were, the chemistry between Stewart and Murphy is commendable, but never really attracts much attention.  (What about Picard and Crusher?  They had more chemistry between them than Picard and Anij)  You never see these two kiss on screen and you are almost glad to see it not happen. The special effects in this film are good, but by no means spectacular as they were in First Contact.  The reason behind this is the fact that producers didn't utilize ILM's wizardry, and it shows, especially when watching this film on television.  Star Trek has not used ILM three times in the past, Insurrection, Final Frontier, and Motion Picture, and all of these films have failed to measure up to their hype.  There is a message there if anyone is listening.  Despite all of its shortcomings, and there are a lot!  Insurrection does offer a nice change of pace for Trekkers, instead of an action packed film, you are given a nice quiet little adventure that will make you laugh along the way.  If you thought First Contact was a little too dark and haunting, then Insurrection is for you.  Even diehard Trekkers will sit through it and find it...amusing.  Although it is no First Contact, it not a Motion Picture, Generation or Final Frontier, either, which makes this the second best of the Odd numbered Treks! "},{"Title":"Average film, needed to be bigger","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This entry in the franchise is rather bland and I blame the screenplay, which is too simple and not though-provoking at all.Jonathan Frakes direction surprised me, he seemed to handle the scenes well, making use of the entire Panavision width. I think Frakes needed to work on the actors more and push for a much better screenplay. At times, this picture plays as a TV show.The special effects were not good, they looked too clean. The acting is fine.As usual, I highly recommend viewing this in widescreen otherwise you will miss out on 43% of the action.The curse of the odd-numbered Trek films continues. "},{"Title":"The Odd Numbered Curse?","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The odd-numbered episodes of the Star Trek franchise seem to have the reputation of not being as good as the even-numbered.  The original movie, the Final Frontier and Generations would seem to confirm this, compared to classics as Wrath of Khan, Voyage Home and the brilliant First Contact.However, for this viewer, it is obviously a division between TV stories and cinema stories.  Khan, Voyage Home and First Contact were films to be seen in a movie complex.  The screen was full of action, the shots were made to be seen in wide-screen mode.  Whereas in Generations, and even the original movie etc, you could see them on television, and not lose the whole scope of the intended look.Let me make this clear.  The script, the acting, the special effects, the costumes and the direction are just as good in this movie as they were in First Contact.  But whereas First Contact should be best seen at the movies, this movie can be seen at home on video.  You won't lose anything really.  Jonathan Frakes should be congratulated on his scope of direction ... he can move between cinema and television stories very well.So, it all depends on where you view the show.  If you rent this movie on video or see it on television, go for it.  If you hear it's at the movies again for a special showing ... well, rent it instead. "},{"Title":"Different and unique","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Compared to First Contact the story is less dark but reminds me on some of the best TNG-plots, where an action-packed story is combined with a philosophical problem beyond. Here we are talking about the (important) question of the necessity to disobey unjust orders.  Special effects are as good as always. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the previous movies","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must admit, I am a big Star Trek fan, so when I saw that they were making Next Generation movies, I was delighted. Generations and First Contact were excellent movies, with really impressive plots. So after them, I was eagerly looking forward to the next movie. Insurrection left me merely satisfied, not overall impressed like its two predecessors. It's mainly because of the plot - seeing two alien nations fighting each other doesn't quite cut it after having saved the whole population of the Earth. Also I did not like the way they intended to have a comical angle to the movie, with Picard and Worf singing and all that, and also Picard's romance with the alien woman. Nevertheless, this movie wasn't all bad. The overall execution and acting was quite good. As Star Trek movies go, I give it a rating of average. But I'm still eagerly waiting for the 10th Star Trek movie...  "},{"Title":"A solid Star Trek film action, fun, drama, but not unique","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed this film that I just recently rented on video, though it doesn't get high marks for original thinking.  But post-Kirk Star Trek always seems to stick to their tried & true formula (some may take this next sentence to be a spoiler, but I think it's too general) something goes wrong, usually with a crew member, it looks like the good guys will loose, but the crew saves the day, at the last moment.This time the formula worked for me.  Jerry Goldsmith does another great score.  There was some good drama with Riker & Troy and the Captain with the beautiful lady (forgot her name).  There were some moments of fun and some of reflection as well; the one race of people prefer to live without technology saying when machines do the work of a man, the man becomes less (my paraphrase).  The special effects were good, though nothing new or extraordinary.  I guess the best summary is that it was like a good TV episode.  I hope they get better, but I can enjoy this level of Treking if they don't.  "},{"Title":"Not bad, not good either","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It seems the odd numbers curse had itself another victim. This Star Trek movie wasn't good (but not really bad either, thank God).The story was lame, too much attention to ethical aspects. There was some action but is was just way too less. All by all this movie was more like a movie-length episode of the TV series.Although the story was lame and focused way too much on ethics, any real ST fan should see it. But this movie definitely wouldn't be a good introduction to the genre for non-ST fans. Non-ST fans should watch ST First Contact, which really was an impressive movie - lots of action combined with lots of bad guys *and* with a decent story.  "},{"Title":"a little lite Trek","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was a little more lite than Contact. It wasn't as dark as Contact. I like this movie. The plot was good. Everything about it was good. I'm a Star Trek fan and i really enjoyed this movie. I really don't have anything bad to say about this movie.  The music was good. I recommend this movie to anyone who is a big Star Trek fan, and loves movies. "},{"Title":"Long live STTNG, the TV series...","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As much as I've enjoyed the Star Trek franchise over the years, I still can't bring myself to heap accolades on this middle-of-the-road addition to the Star Trek film catalog.  While it does have entertainment value, it really comes off no better than your typical two-part Next Generation TV episode.  The plot is predictable from the beginning of the film (the unknowing race of people being taken advantage of, the starship captain's Damn the Prime Directive declaration, the first we're the bad guy, now we're the good guy opinions that the victims have toward their rescuers, etc.), and the acting no better than what the series had to offer.  Not that it's a BAD film by any means, it just lacks that extra spark that could have ignited this into an exciting blaze of a film.In other words, it would have been a good TV episode.First Contact also suffered from the same problems, but it also managed to dredge up old bits and pieces from the Next Generation TV series, like The Borg as the enemy (we've already HAD a Borg episode, thank you), Data's fully functional sexual status, etc...nothing new is offered in this film, other than to blow everything up on a movie screen instead of the TV.Finally, it still annoys me in these new films that Data now has emotions (when he chooses to use them) and Geordi can now see without his prosthesis; what the producers, directors and storywriters have done is essentially stripped away their uniqueness.  Both had their handicaps, but part of the enjoyment of watching these episodes on TV was watching how Data and Geordi overcame their handicaps as part of the Enterprise team.If this film series is to continue, we need to get beyond the pedestrian plot lines and merely adequate acting.  The high points of the original Star Trek movies were often the guest actors.  Insurrection didn't even have that.  And they all certainly had better plot lines.  All the more reason to pop in a classic Next Generation episode and see how great the television series was, and think of how a good production staff and screenwriting team can give us Trek fans something substantial to bite into.  And silently wish that Gene Roddenberry's death was a bad joke, and that he'll come back to lend his creativity to the franchise. "},{"Title":"Quite a disappointment...","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of all three full-length movies with the crew of Next Generation, this one is in my opinion the least interesting. The plot is not very original and overall it does not have as many SF ideas as the other, concentrating instead on political conflicts. And the characters do not behave in any way like you would expect them to, knowing them from the TV series - especially captain Picard. I really hope they are going to make a fourth one and come up with something better. Actually, it is quite sad, because the TV series was really excellent. But if you want full length Star Trek movies that are worthwhile, you should check the old series, with captain's Kirk crew. Although they date a few good years back, they are still up to the competition, if what you are interested in is good science-fiction and you are not so concerned about the special effects.  "}{"Title":"Average Star Trek","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The running gag about odd-numbered Star Trek movies being the worst proves true once again. This entry ranks between Star Trek 5 and 7 in my book. The average story line includes little or no character development for the crew we all know and love and some clumsy attempts at humor. Excellent score by Jerry Goldsmith, though. "},{"Title":"Save me from the writers preaching","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Admit it Trekkies (or Trekkers, I keep on forgetting which is which) Star Trek Insurrection was as bad as a Voyager episode at its lowest. And that is a shame since The Next Generation movies up to Insurrection were pretty good.Berman and Pillar have written a movie that has elements of a story that Deep Space Nine incorporated into its arc. A moralistic plot that tries to hammer its point to the people watching the movie forced relocating of people, much like what happened to the American Indians, is horrible. No matter what the circumstance, it should be in our moral philosophy that relocating people without their explicit permission is wrong. A variation of Kantian philosophy the ends don't justify the means.As others have mentioned, the plot is flimsy, and the characters of the Enterprise act like buffoons. The romance between Picard and the Baku woman was lacking complete substance. What woman would want to have a relationship with Picard, who has the personality of a door knob? Well, maybe Tipper Gore.Going back to the moral point of view the other Star Trek movies had some moral lesson to teach, but it was hardly as rampant as it was in Insurrection. Oh, sure,  ST4 The Voyage Home wanted us to save the whales, but it was used as background in a time-travel story. However, what Berman and Pillar are trying to say in this movie is that forced deportation no matter the number of people is wrong. Of course, the radiation emanating from the planet had the potential to save trillions of lives in the galaxy, but 600 people would be forced to move! Oh, those poor Baku!Think about this Berman and Pillar. There is something organic that can cure AIDS and it resides only in a certain region on the Earth. On this region contained a village of about 600 people, who would be forced to relocate themselves, because the medical community would need to cultivate the soil for the medication. Who here would be against this policy? A policy that can save millions of lives? It's common sense siding with the 600 persons against millions would be rather stupid, wouldn't it? And yet the writers say that would be totally wrong. Have we forgotten Spock's words in The Wrath of Khan? The needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few?Berman and Pillar better get back on track with the next Star Trek movie. And they will have late 2005 to release due to Episode 3 of Star Wars being released in May of 2005.  "},{"Title":"Good intentions, so-so results","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This time they go out on a limb with a story that doesn't involve saving the lives of millions or billions of people (as in  STI,IV,VII,VIII) but only 600. The story is meant to have parallels with episodes in our past, the forced relocation of people  for the benefit of larger, more powerful group.  I'm glad to see a more personal Trek that is more character driven than usual, and where its hard to tell the heroes and the villains apart.  Where the movie starts to lose me is with the portrayal of the oppressed people.  We meet this settlement of blonde haired, earnest, white skinned humans who live in paradise.  The planet they live on gives them a special energy that keeps them young-looking,  good-looking, and thin.They knead their bread and weed their gardens under sunny skies  with no hardships, dirty fingernails, nor storm clouds on the horizon.    Apparently the makers of the movie chose non-ethnic extras so the audience wouldn't immediately think of American Indians, Jews, Palestinians, ethnic Albanians.  To me, however this oppressed group comes across more  like affluent and tan Californians in a gated community who want to preserve their way of life from the people who didn't  make it in before the gate closed.  While STNext Generation has always been awfully tidy and utopian, this ends up being too  much like a yuppie Celestine fantasy for me to empathize with these people.    Finally, a couple of sticky points.  Is it realistic to have a group of people who have rejected all machines, yet have warp  capability and can work on an android's positronic brain?  Wouldn't there be tools for android-fixing and something to  practice the tools on?  Wouldn't there also be a space ship somewhere?   If they had let the ship get rusty they wouldn't still have warp  capability, if they kept it running they'd have at least on very complex machine.  Also, considering that there is just one town of 600 people who only travel  on foot and have no interest in starting new little towns, couldn't they let the Federation folks set up a few quiet hospital/spas on the other side of the planet? "},{"Title":"One terrific...TV episode.","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Picard and crew protect the people of an idyllic village from bad guy F.Murray Abraham in this ninth Star Trek flick. Decent special effects and nice sets fail,however,to promote the film into Big-screen feature status,and it ultimately feels more like a glorified television episode of Star TrekThe Next Generation. A worthy effort,but nothing more.   ** out of **** "},{"Title":"Don't fret about missing this Trek","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm a Star Trek fan, bigtime, but this movie left me cold.  It just didn't have the impact of a bigtime scifi movie, but neither did First Contact,  which everyone seemed to love except for me.  I think they need a real director, sorry Jonthan Frakes.  I remember when the Star Trek movies were true events, not dull, watered down action flics.  Oh well, after seeing this its time to dust off a few videos from the only true Star Trek from the 1960's, which holds up beautifully, warts and all.  I can't imagine this movie will be remembered for very long. "},{"Title":"Startrek needs to be Re-invented!","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After watching this installment of Startrek, i couldn't help but feel that trek is in trouble! The acting and the effects could not be falted as usual, however, the storyline was to be blunt...pointless!With the Alpha Quadrant powers at war with the Dominion, i was expecting the Federation flagship to be taking some active role, instead of worrying about some unintresting people in the middle of nowhere.With the proposed new 5th series expected to be moving further away from traditional startrek roots, it might be a good idea for some thought to go into the future of trek and decide if its time to end it for good or allow it develop in whatever direction instead of being restricted to the 'disaster of the week' format. "},{"Title":"Not for Trekkers, non-trekkie, or any other breathing creature","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection isn't for made for Trekkers, or for even non-Trekkie for that matter.The story line felt unfocused, and thrown together at the last minute. All the character chemistry that The Next Generation cast had built since 1987 was completely missing in this movie except during the Picard/Data chase scene.The action and pace of the story was littered with fluff. The sub plots never added to the overall flow of the movie.Also, it felt as if the characters themselves were compromised. The new ultra-modern Enterprise E that was introduced in Star Trek First Contact sees it's first bit of screen action here. Well, sort of. The new supposedly battle happy Enterprise gets womped on by the bad guys. This was truly a wasted opportunity to add a little action to this melodramatic pool of sap. On top of that, there's a scene where the Enterprise is controlled with a joy stick. How thought of this one?The plot for the movie lacked any emotional resonance. The main dilemma never seemed to achieve any sort of weight or urgency. The attempt to make a parallel between the relocation of the Baku people to recent day politcal oppression failed. It felt like a bit of a stretch.Star Trek Insurrection failed when the Star Trek Franchise needed a success more than ever. I would say to anyone, avoid this movie unless you're that curious, and have about 2 hours "},{"Title":"No sense of direction","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  the characters of Riker and Counselor Deanna Troi to a couple of flirting adolescents in an intimate scene in which the two share a bubblebath. No passionate embrace, no fireworks (within the constraints of a PG film of course) and what the average Trek fan like myself is left with are thoughts of what might have been. Star Trek needs direction as the writers refocus their vision for the future of this franchise. This film had promise, but the comedic attempts that fail so miserably with non-fans who are just looking for a cheap thrill should never have made it off the cutting room floor. Ultimately they end up costing the movie some of its credibility (manual steering column anyone?) Star Trek must return to its roots of exploration for the next film with a big budget to attain that level of believability that can't be harnessed by Maudlin overacting. I want to see better special effects shots (the CGI Enterprise looked like s*** compared to the model ILM gave us for First Contact) and less emphasis on making sure each character gets equal screen time. (If you have to take away someone's screen time, for God's sake blow Riker and Troi out the f***ing airlock.) All in all, Insurrection is a flawed attempt, but with some fine moments turned in by Patrick Stewart and with kudos to Donna Murphy, who plays well to Picard's gentlemanly graces as his love interest. Although the two share little more onscreen romance than holding hands, it's preferable to the aforementioned bubblebath scene.  "},{"Title":"Time for the series to take a few years off...","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Insurrection would have best been left to the small screen.  While Deep Space Nine and Voyager were outdoing themselves week after week during the 1998/1999 season, Insurrection came along seeming insignificant and out of touch, far removed from the Star Trek Universe since we had last seen the crew of the Enterprise.  While all previous chapters of the film series contributed significantly to Star Trek as a whole (including Star Trek V), Insurrection will have no impact, existing only to carry on the film franchise within the two year window Paramount seems to prefer.The effects, while fine for a weekly series, looked flat and uninspired. I wanted nothing more than to see the beautifully detailed Enterprise E model constructed for First Contact, not the flat CG renderings that appeared throughout the film.  The CG effects produced for Voyager and DS9 hold their own and surpass what was produced for Insurrection (unfortunately when half your budget goes for salaries there's not a lot of money left for top notch effects work).It's been almost a year since the release of Insurrection and Paramount still hasn't green-lighted another feature -- and that's OK.  The film series needs a rest and maybe it's time for Rick Berman to step aside and let the folks on Voyager and DS9 take the helm. "},{"Title":"A good made for TV movie.","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is not a bad movie.  However, for a theatrical release it was not worthy waiting 2 or so years production.  Unfortunately, The X-Files, beat them with offering a TV quality story.  I was expecting more action and tension.  This after all was no more than a two-hour reunion episode. I am a Star Trek fan, back to the original series.  Star Trek II Wrath of Khan is so far the best.  But I'll list the things I liked about the movie. Picard acknowledges that the Enterprise no longer explores, and perhaps made a mention that these were perilous times. List over. List of things I didn't like. Lame-O story. Yet ANOTHER time Data goes berserk and the Captain has to save him from being taken apart and sent to the nearest galaxy land fill. Yet ANOTHER time the crew of the Enterprise runs into a highly evolved society that can manipulate space and time. Yet ANOTHER time, the Captain can't seem to get the girl. Singing scene. (but its funny, some say - right) Did I mention the originality of Data going berserk again.  He may need androidal Prozac. This movie is worth no more than rush-hour if you're a Star Trek fan. Good news, it was not as bad as Star Trek 5.  (nothing can) Bad news, there may never be a Star Trek 10. "}{"Title":"Something is missing","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Firstly - I am a star trek TNG fan and have all the tv series and the movies. I will buy this one for my collection.BUT - Something is missing and i can't put my finger on it. The acting was good, story was OK, the special effects were good, but nothing was GREAT. I still give it 7/10, but if you are not a fan i would give this one a miss or borrow the video off a friend and save your money - enough said. "},{"Title":"Ambivilence is my rating","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie works for me emotionally.  And if you ignore the every-typical 50,000 continuity screw ups this movie is passable and ranks behind Generations but ahead of First Contact as being worthwhile.My main problem with this movie is twofold1.  The theme is so worn and outdated (no interference w/other species and Federation integrity)... it could have worked, but2a.  One huge planet with only 600 dudes on it?2b.  Any remaining credibility is lost when the killer revelation is revealed that both races are the same, one just called themselves Ragu and the others Prego.To expand on 2a  Why can't the Sona just locate themselves on the other side of the planet and not bring in the Federation (who later tell the Federation how they're a dying breed thanks to breen, romulans, borg, jam heder, etc!) to mess up the planet?Despite a bunch of tests, which convinced the federation and friends but hardly convinced any viewer who appreciates science, anything can happen when piddling about with a planet's atmosphere.There is a lot of silly humor, too, with Data borrowing a Romulan cloak-suit and a dumb shuttle chase by Picard and Word, who merrily break out into song and dance just to confuse Data (and the audience by accident).And if the Federation is now designing ships with cloaks, isn't that violating the treaty of Algeron?  Or was The Pegasus a foreshadow since a lot of the upper eschelon of the Federation were worred about the Pegasus (an experimental ship with cloak) was found near Romulan space...Insurrection is the second of TNG movies to have Picard directly violate Starfleet orders (usually to have Data reply To hell with our orders and getting a loud laugh from the audience).  It was purile in First Contact and now when somebody wants to use the scenario for a serious reason, how many of us are going to really believe it?  personally, I feel that First Contact was never made so the I'm going to violate their direct order routine works for me, but most people love FC to pieces so they won't.Succinctly, they were finally getting back on the right track, but the movie still ends up as being a glossy, sloppily-written TV show story that had plenty of development time to be more.Sorry, but the Trek movie franchise is dying.Maybe Nick Meyer and Harve Bennett will return and save us from the Aged, Old, and Burnt-out Three who have had control of the Trek phenomenon since appx 1988. "},{"Title":"The Best of Times, and the Worst of Times","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Right off, I will say that, yes, this movie is not a movie, but a 2-part episode. The worst aspects is the old, tired Star Trek theme of We Have Met The Enemy And They Are Us. The forced relocation episode had been done three previous times in the series (including the dreadful final Wil Wheaton/Wesley Crusher episode), and was the entire theme of the Maquis/Cardassian conflict.This is one of those movies where the action sequences slow the film down. Being chased by tiny little devices that fire transportation tags? The Riker Manuever? It's all tired and over done.Another repeating theme is Brannon Braga's favorite obsession with exploring moments in time -- done much better in his All Good Things... script.Where this movie TRULY shines is the Donna Murphy character, Anij. She and Patrick Stewart have real chemistry, as do Marina Sirtis (Deanna Troy) and Jonathan Frakes (Will Riker). The Troy/Riker rekindling romance could have been tired romance, but somehow feels fresh and new. Frakes' boyish grin eerily echoes Kirk's in its playfulness. The movie does have some good jokes that play on the cast's well-versed characters of over 12 years. The question must be asked, though -- with two years to play with, was THIS the best they could come up with?The movie plays better on video. Treat it as an episode from the 8th season, and it works. Otherwise, prepare to keep glancing at your watch, waiting for the good sustained sequence that never comes.  "},{"Title":"See Star Wars, it's better...","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...way better. Sorry Star Trek fans but I'm sorry I went to see this movie. The TV series was good (I wasn't alive back then but re-runs) But this movie was a waste of money. (tiny spoiler ahead) what was the story with that whole singing part on the ship??? I almost fell asleep in this movie. Lets face it after 8 movies (this being the ninth) you start to lose ideas. Only see this if1) You're a devoted Star Trek fan 2) you have absolutely nothing but nothing to doDo not see this if 1)Star Wars is playing as well 2) The Matrix is playing as well 3)Any other movie is playing as wellSorry Star Trek fans my opinion. ** Out of *****  "},{"Title":"The first good Next Generation movie..","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It was bound to happen, and after two miserable attempts, Star Trek Insurrection delivers. Generations had an interesting story, but was rushed together.. making little sense and ended up being ultimately boring.. and First Contact well.. was a sad attempt to be an action movie in yet ANOTHER borg story. (read my review, I go into great detail as to why it sucks)But this one takes the best parts of its predecessors.. enough action and FX to satisfy (the shuttlecraft scene), a great story.. and the right mix of humor thrown in. Picard returns from his revenge quest (lame) and becomes the good hearted rational minded captian he always was.Data has some cliche lines (lock and load) but performs wonderfully. As does the rest of the cast. This is worthy of the name Star Trek, and is great for repeat viewings. "},{"Title":"Just moaning about how bad it was.","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm so glad I didn't waste money going to see this at the cinema. Poor attempts at humour (although the 'boobs' gag was vaguely amusing, to be fair), little action, and a plot which was as appealing as a puddle of cold tea and about half as deep.Yawn yawn yawn. Picard falls in love and - oh my word - look. His love can control time. Marvellous. Yes. We've lived that moment in time. It was waiting for the plot to thicken.Would someone kill Riker? Please. Really. Smug ba***rd.Data. Er, excuse me. I didn't know androids could put on weight.Oh and that child. Please. Pass me a bucket. Or a phasor. Or someone just lock him in a shed with an evil old man and force-feed him Werther's Originals until his teeth rot and he can't talk any more American-sweet homely drivel.Perhaps this would've made a good two-part episode. It certainly didn't make a decent film. It made a disappointing one. Nowhere near as good as the last two.Watch it if you fancy getting a few glimpses at some tarty ships and the Enterprise E, combined with a few loud bangs and the occasional whoosh. That's about as exciting as it gets.I shall look forward to taking the cassette back to Blockbuster.  "},{"Title":"Crew visit yuppy-friendly hippy planet","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  By far the worst of the Star Trek films.  Completely ignoring their target demographic the filmmakers aim for a Disney/family film audience.  Inept screenplay writer Michael Piller givs us the Baku in an attempt to sell us his idea of Paradise, a planet where retired yuppies can abandon their SUVs and laptops and bask in the exotic California sun living like hippies (but CLEAN hippies, no beards!).  Oh yeah, and they don't age (retired yuppies never do, thanks to cosmetic surgery, a technique the evil S'ona apparently lack).  The Ba'ku also possess uncanny hackysack skills and the ability to 'slow time' (an excuse to use a cheesy special effect which was already overused in TV commercials the prior year).  The story is cobbled together by stealing from the worst Next Generation episodes.  Virtually nothing in this film is original, surprising or even vaguely interesting. If it's tired Next Generation cliches you want, this one has them all the corrupt Starfleet admiral, scenes set in those hokey cave sets, embarrassing special effects, ridiculously oversimplified ethical/political issues, a reduction-to-the-absurd mano y mano lifestruggle between Picard and Ru'afo, Geordi briefly regains his sight, Data befriends a kid, the list goes on... The jokes are sophomoric and painful (including a musical number, Worf gets acne and the first Star Trek use of the word 'boobs').  "},{"Title":"Enchanting","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I came away from Star Trek Insurrection enchanted. The humour was spot-on, the whole movie was filled with a sense of fun, and I've never seen Patrick Stewart (Jean-Luc Picard) so relaxed in front of a camera!From the very opening of the movie I was enchanted, it was like I was a kid again and I was watching something quite magical. The music and the visual effects complimented this mood perfectly. It was romantic, funny, and suffered only in that it needed a B-plot.But I didn't care that some of the plot stumbled a bit, it was a wholly feel-good movie that I would happily see again and again. This is Star Trek grown up, and yet also wonderfully child-like. I expected to see the name Disney pop-up at the end, instead -- Paramount Pictures.If you've never seen a Star Trek movie before, watch this one. "},{"Title":"This movie felt like a very bad episode","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have been a Star Trek fan since 1989 and have seen much better Star Trek  Next Generation episodes than this, This movie felt like a boring two part episode rather than a big rousing movie. Why does Crusher and Troi keep coming back to this movie, those two women never played much roles in the Star Trek movies, I guess Mr. Riker doesn't want to kill them off... I think they should get killed off then come back in another movie or.. not. How about a little more emphasise on other characters rather than focus on Data/Worf/Picard all the time, Please put more focus on Riker/Troi/Crusher/Laforge/or other characters. I want something huge and spectacular.. not some.. movie that's made to empty pockets of Trek fans.  "},{"Title":"How many people does it take, Admiral ?","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've been a moderate Star Trek Fan since the original TV series. Back then, Star Trek asked the difficult questions that no other TV series dared to touch (Veit Nam, War-Peace). However, now with Episode 9 of the movies series we finally bounce off the bottom of the Ethical Question Jefferies tube. It seems the question in this movie is Do 600 people have the right to deny the healing effects of their planet to the entire universe ? Should 600 Baku' remain on their planet and thereby thwart the Federation-Disney plan to build a age reversing Spa Planet for billions ? Duh Yes, of course, says the movie.HUH ??!! We arent talking ethnic cleansing here folks.This isn't Kosovo vs Serbia. Ethics is always about context and attitude. Not about strict, mindless adherance to legalistic formulas. Example Thou shalt not kill. is the legalism, but is it ever really followed literally?  No. Is a jay walker a criminal in the same sense that a car thief is a criminal ? No. So, what the problem here folks ? We arent talking 19th century American west, US Army vs the Apache, et al. But, I may be missing the point. This movies isnt really about the plot. The plot is only a device for Trekkers/Trekkies to mingle and quibble. Its a chance to get out of their High School AV Depts and swap Internet Porno site URLs.No girls invited.It's a Boyz only club meeting. Actually, teasing aside, this is a far superior view of the future then we get from the Star Wars franchise marketing android. Patrick Stewart is superb, as always.The tenor and tone is first rate. A good, solid movie ! I loved the Gilbert & Sullivan song especially. May Star Trek Baku' resist the assimilation by the Star Wars Sona-Borg. Restrained Bravos all around.. So how many people does it take, Admiral, to get past the fuzzy thinking and onto the more biting, socially disturbing questions of the original series and by pass the Star Wars quick buck allure ? I dunno',but lets hope their ejector assembly still functions with the next episode(s).  "}{"Title":"The Best Star Trek movie.","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hello. First i apology for my poor English but i am a French man and i don't write English very well. I'm a Star Trek fan and i consider that this movie is the best! Why ? Because there is in the same time  action, comic, seduction and very very nice star-ships (especially the Enterprise NCC-1701 E; it's my favourite).I think that Star Trek 9 is most dedicated to the fans than the others. Indeed The type of the story, of this film , is the same that we could see in the series The Next Generation. Long life and prosper ! "},{"Title":"This film rocks!","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having seen Insurrection several times, it definitely lives up to expectation after the delights of First Contact. Again Frakes does an excellent job as director, and the whole cast does the film justice. Roll on the next adventure! "},{"Title":"goofy...","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  well... did anyone notice.. the size of the lake? how much water you have to get rid of to see that size of vessel? how small the gate is Data opens? and.. that after the cloak-thingy appears, that they are standing at the same shore, looking at the SIDE of the ship? and the boat is nicely tied to the plank? and that the waterline on the far shore is exactly where it was before? HELOOOO????? Does that joystick in the enterprise have Force Feedback? or hasn't Microsoft come around to support Photon Torpedo backlash in that century? nicely goofed, mr. frakes... "},{"Title":"Great all around Trek movie, but hardcore fans may be less forgiving.","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ST Insurrection, from the hardcore Trek fan perspective is simply better than 1, 5, 4, 7, and 3,  equal to 6 and 8, but no 2. It has a good episode type story with good action, adventure, and humor, but the background stories (Troi-Riker, Picard-Data, how slick the new Enterprise is) could be covered a bit better.For the no nothing moviegoer standpoint It's a great movie! Plenty of action, adventure, humor, romance, and just enough Sci-fi to be all around entertaining! Grab a friend and see it again!     "},{"Title":"Even STV was more exciting.","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes I'm a great Star Trek fan.  I've seen every TV episode and movie several times and that includes DS9 & Voyager.  I found Insurrection to be funny and the SFX great but quite frankly it lacked one vital ingredient Adventure. It has to be my least favourite of all the nine films.  Bad as it was, STV was more enjoyable for me.  "},{"Title":"Star Trek Insignificance","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nothing really is significant in this movie except the brilliant acting by all the cast members.  I feel that they know their parts so well, it's believable to watch them.....BUT, I'm disappointed with Paramount.I was displeased a little by this Star Trek movie.  I was completely confused by the plot and did not care about the  inhabitants of this planet, nor did I care for the new villains.  If this is supposed to be a franchise Star Trek;  I would suggest that Paramount include more of current and past stories into future Star Trek movies.  There were no tie-ins to the previous Star Trek series, i.e. Deep Space Nine or Voyager. What about all the problems with the Dominion?  What ever happened to the Romulans, what about the Romulan reunification that Spock was working on 7 years ago?  Those are much stronger stories than what Star Trek Insurrection had to serve up.The best, by far of the Star Trek movies, were the Wrath of Khan and The Undiscovered Country.  Because each one of these movies stayed true to stories of past Star Trek episodes and you, as the audiance, cared for the characters because you understood the situations and problems surrounding the story.Paramount needs to stay true with its target audience and not try to meet the demands of over-zealous, but, brilliant actors.  I understand that Patrick Stewart had a lot of say in this movie.Please Paramount give us something more solid instead of trying to put a weak film out every 2 or 3 years, that could best be seen on TV. "},{"Title":"Something was missing!","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watching the trailer of Insurrection, I was really impressed, but when I got to the theater, I was disappointed.  Star Trek Insurrection lacked that certain something.  To me, what was lacking was the finely tuned interplay between the main characters.  They seem to stand up, say their lines and fall back.  The story line was weak, and the action dragged. I used to think I was intelligent, but after watching this movie, twice, I never understood, what the bad guys really wanted to do. How can the villains want to kill their own family. That didn't make much sense.I enjoyed Data's role, but where were the others.  Maybe I expected to much from this film. . .as I think back to the Wrath of Kahn! This was by far the classic Star Trek.I've watched Star Trek since it's inception in 1964, and kind of grew up with, so to speak. It took a while to adjust to TNG cast, but . . .after two years, I relented, and found the cast to be worthy.  That's what was missing in Insurrection, no cast interplay, or a minor amount.Who ever wrote the script, should go back to writer's school. Who knows, maybe the movie will stand up better on video, in the home. .where we have a great sound system.  Most who say this was a great Star Trek feature haven't paid any attention to the numbers.  Most people, like me, are disappointed. J. Frakes has done better.  Perhaps he was handicapped by having to produce a two hour feature.This movie will not gross over a 100 million, which should tell you something. Come on TNG, you could have done better, a lot better. "},{"Title":"A disappointment to fans world wide!!!","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After First Contact a selection of my friends and I waited in patiently for Star Trek Nine. Then, on the first showing we rushed into the cinema as fast as we could. Then the film started. The beginning was actually quite impressive, nobody knew what was going on, only that Data was behaving rather strangely. Had he gone mad? Had his emotion chip made him evil like his brother Lore? These were the questions we were asking ourselves. But, no, he had malfunction and was repaired in no time. This is the point I when I started to give up. Then the film got worse and worse. The special effects were impressive if not frequently used and the story line was very good. But everything was poorly used. The special effects were viewed very rarely and the story line was not made use of. Then, then the gun fired. The final blow was struck against the audience. Riker took control of the enterprise with what looked like a replica of an old Spectrum 48k joystick. Let me ask you is it at all likely that this highly evolved race would control a huge state-of-the-art starship with a childs home computer joystick. No, Insurrection is possibly the worst star trek film in history and Mr Frakes is going to have to try very hard to make a film that is worse. But, I`m sure he will give it his best shot. "},{"Title":"Disappointing return to the past.","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie depends on tired inside jokes and dialog bits rather than good writing. Gone again are the fast paced, gritty images that made First Contact the best of the Star Trek movies. There are no unexpected turns or events in this one. If this were intended as more of a character study rather than an adventure movie more attention should have been paid to the rough edges and imperfections of the cast. Instead the viewer is subjected to long set-up shots that seem to be used more to fill time than advance the story. Once again there is too much harmony for these characters to be real people with real stories.  "},{"Title":"Best Comedy 1998","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As Star Trek movies go, Insurrection could have been, I feel, better, the initials opening sequences were not clear as to what was going on.The Film, directed by 'Riker' seemed to give him the best bits - no spoiler but the bath scene was steamy.Is 'bastard' the first swear word in Star Trek history?Don't get me wrong, in the UK there was a lot of press regarding on Trekkies would like the film, that is not true, it had all round appeal.It seemed to have a lot more comedy that other films, and this helped non-trekkies.I would recommend this to anyone and have voted 7/10.   "}{"Title":"Not great, but very good","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not a huge Star Trek fan, but I know enough of the universe to hold a conversation with your average Trekkie. Which means I know enough of the universe to get into Insurrection, and I did get into Insurrection. It is a really fun film!! It's good to see a bit of humour injected back into Star Trek. Generations was a bit heavy and First Contact was quite dark, so to see Data, Worf, Riker, and Troi cracking some gags (some of which were actually very funny) was a refreshing change.Although Insurrection fits perfectly well into the Star Trek universe, unfortunately I don't think it stands up as a film in its own right. First Contact stood up a lot better in this respect, as it was a lot more self-contained. Insurrection also lacked a really good space battle (as do all Trek films excluding First Contact). The one it had, while good, was all too brief. It would be great to see perhaps a Deep Space 9 film that details the war with the Dominion, and they pull out all the stops with the space battles.I saw this film with a Trekkie friend, and he loved it. I don't think Insurrection will gain the Star Trek franchise any new fans, but should keep the current fans very happy. "},{"Title":"Could have been better...","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sunday, 1 P.M., second week of the movie in Berlin. Only about 15 people in the cinema, about 130 seats are free. Well, I expected more visitors, but at least I was not disturbed by any laughters. Laughters? In fact the humour of the film did not meet my expectations, although Paramount insists on the opinion, that there are many gags. The story? Well designed. But not really new or something for eternity. The Special Effects? Excellent, although sometimes exaggerated. We know, that Worf is a great fighter, so it is not necessary to show him killing about 10,000 drones in detail (This is exaggerated, too.). Suspense? Medium. Like the whole film Medium. If you are a Trekkie (like me), you do not have to read this, because you will watch the movie no matter what anyone says. But if you are not - you will probably find better ways to spend your money. Live long and prosper.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as...","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a person who has seen all of the TNG episodes and motion pictures involving this cast, I think that Star Trek Insurrection is JUST O.K.! While I found it entertaining enough, pace wise it was a bit flat, no suspense building climax, (First Contact was better) and no good old fashioned swashbuckling heroics.  They can and have done better, with the exception of Star Trek V, nobody could do worse than that shocker...but in Australia it wouldn't be Christmas/New Year if we didn't see a Star Trek or a James Bond movie - Long Live Familiarity. "},{"Title":"this is the funniest Star Trek I have ever seen","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  it was not as good as First Contact, but it was also not to compare with the last one. FC was an action-film where you could see who were the bad-boy for first second. the new one was not so clear. here you could see an old federation which is tried to take the planet for the own good, if there were not Captain Picard and his team from the Enterprise who save 600 people...the film was very funny and romantic and had the best soundtrack i have ever heard in a Star Trek film. 10 points for Director Jonathan Frakes, for Patrick Stewart and for the music. GREAT EXPERIENCE ! "},{"Title":"Disappointing, plotless rubbish - and that's from a fan.","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a travesty. I guess I had to see it on the big screen, just in case it was a classic - but just reading the plot on IMDb a few weeks ago put me off. What was Frakes doing turning this pitiful script into a film?  "},{"Title":"worst of the STTNG films, but still pretty good","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek is a good movie that starts with a lot of action, then adds some humor, and then finishes with a good bit of drama.  Unfortunately, I was writing about Star Trek First Contact.  Star Trek Insurrection starts out with attempts at humor, adds some pretty good action, and finishes weakly (that kid's advice to Data was straight out of Mr. Rogers).  I actually think that the order of these things makes a difference.  In First Contact, the humor was made even more fun because it was in the middle of a tense situation.  The humor here was sort of thrust upon us at the beginning.  The action and plot build up, however, is exciting enough to make this an enjoyable film - for STTNG fans.  Pretty boring for others.  "},{"Title":"great movie, is a must to watch for every Trek-fan","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie really shows the philosophy of Star Trek, though it is against force and supports the Prime Directive. Jonathan Frakes really did great work, he managed to present the characters and their relationships instead of nouse spacefights and force without means. This movie is a must for every Star Trek Fan. "},{"Title":"Good story plagued by bad jokes, bad effects, and no action","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection is a half-decent movie, due mainly to the good storyline (the Federation helps bad guys to steal a planet from good guys, and Picard puts a spanner in the works) and the high moral values upheld by the crew of the Enterprise. Despite my following negative comments, the movie is good overall - it's just that there are so many places where you cringe and feel like saying cut!Where Insurrection falls down is in the execution of the basic plot line. The writers seem to have tried far too hard to be funny - my fellow movie-goers and I were constantly groaning at the awful jokes made in the movie, including some very ordinary lines from Data. The effects were also lacking somewhat. Whilst the space-based CGI (computer generated images) were spot-on, many of the on-land effects were rather dodgy and reminiscent of old Dr. Who-style effects. Bad blue-screening and unimpressive explosions are just two of the problems seen when the goodies are attacked on land by flying drones.Finally, and this I think is a problem with Star Trek qua futuristic fantasy rather than Star Trek qua a sci-fi film, there is no real action in the film. Try as they might, the film-makers can't make flying a zillion-dollar computer-controlled mega-ship look scary. A shout of Shields are down 60% here, shake the camera there, but that's about it. And at one stage, Riker takes full manual control of the Enterprise using only a single joystick! Hmmm...Overall, an enjoyable film that could have been a lot better, but is nonetheless worth a look-in. First Contact, of course, is far superior.  "},{"Title":"It's the curse of the Odds...","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek films MUST be more than simply a double episode, and so the question needs to be asked - What can one do in a film that can't be done in a double episode? The answer is simple. The things you can't do in a double episode are1. Dazzle us with effects, visuals and sounds we haven't seen or heard before (including sets, camera usage, lighting, locations, space battles...2. Tell stories VISUALLY - you've got more time in a film (notice how IX only runs for 90 odd minutes!), and so use that time to FILM the story, not NARRATE it as is so often the case these days3. Explore major power or relationship shifts (sometimes this is done in double episodes as well, but not often).Star Trek IX is just a double episode, and fails to give value for money. There are no new visuals, the story is clumsily told (subplots are started and then thrown away, for one example), and no major power or relationship shifts occur.One only needs to view GREAT Trek to see how when all these things come together, you get a film and NOT an episode. I was so disappointed with IX that I went to my video store on the same night and hired VI and IV to cheer myself up - now THOSE films are GREAT Trek. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but could do better.","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having seen Insurrection, I feel that this was an enjoyable movie with some excellent moments, but overall not quite in the same class as First Contact. Maybe I was expecting something a bit more ground breaking and what I got was an above average T.V. movie, Cinema Films I expect more of. The acting was good with Patrick Stewart in particular, excellent. The effects were superb. The plot was O.K. but with the films an extra something is needed. Something like resolving what has happened to Spock on Romulus or bringing in the DS9 crew to deal with the Dominium threat. ( Rick Berman please take note!) I hope that the film is successful enough for a further installment to follow, there is now enough background for a film to rival anything else in Science Fiction Cinema,(including Star Wars) "}{"Title":"Enjoyable and appealing to Trekkies and non-trekkies!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a so-called non-trekkie I wasn't looking forward to seeing this film... particularly after being dragged along to First Contact and not being too impressed. However, this was easy to follow and really quite enjoyable!  The light comedy element certainly made it more accessible to the non-trekkies like myself! And it's good to finally see some references to sex/relationships in space! I know I only have a limited knowledge of Star Trek movies and on the TV but I still understood all that was going on, and will never admit this to my husband... but I might just want to see this one again! "},{"Title":"Viagra Meets Big Bopper","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In this okay sequel to other sequels the story is reaching out for a new audience--The middle aged & the teenie-boppers.  Data seems to be the only one who knows what is going on here and he isn't talking. It's like the whole crew breathed in multitudes of Viagra and suddenly realised their unfulfilled horniness.  With their new found youth and no warp drive to get home on I imagine lots of interesting things were happening on the Enterprise after the movie ended. And then of course there is the cute little boy throughout the film which should attract the Bop Magazine crowd. But go see it anyway.  It's worth a few bucks.  But go with a sense of humor. Pretend that you are Crow T. Robot and Tom Servo and you'll have a great time.   "},{"Title":"Corny and lackluster","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me first temper this review by stating that I am not a huge Star Trek fan. I have, however, watched the films and the original series, and some Next Generation.I enjoyed First Contact and Generations, and I quite like the NG cast. But I found this movie to be corny, a little contrived, and fairly geeky and mincing. Several times I was saying to myself, That's ridiculous, why wouldn't they just ....On the plus side, the climactic scene would have to go down (for mind) as a great moment in film. Absolutely sensational. My skin was tingling. It was totally out of place in an otherwise bland movie. "},{"Title":"Star Flop","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After reviewing content at the official website, including clips, I was as enthusiastic about seeing this release as I have been for previous issues. The storyline, the effects, and the new characters seemed on par with those of Generations and First Contact, which I now consider to be among my favorites.Afterwards, sadly, I must say that I was very disappointed with this film. Like some websites I frequent, there was just way too much content to compress into a mere 110 minutes. In the process, everything suffered Subplots that never developed, pointless effects, and a dialogue waisted on one-liners.With Generations and First Contact, I was compelled to enjoy the big screen experience again...and again.  With this film, however, I'm not so inclined. "},{"Title":"Holding My Nose","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sadly, that was a bad Trek movie.  So they mention that there was all of this interesting stuff going on with various wars and such, but decided to instead to concentrate on something touchy feely and quite boring at that.The story was boring, the print I saw was horrible and choppy (the sound even went out at one point), and the campiness was something I really didn't want in a Trek movie.  What I would really like to see is a damned serious trek film at some point. This obviously wasn't it.I had many issues with the story, but won't put them here for fear of spoiling the movie for anyone else.  "},{"Title":"An average film","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have just seen the preview showing of Insurrection, and I thought it was merely average. I am a fan of gigantic space battles, of which there were not enough in the film. The plot was also a bit light. Outer space special effects were good, though not amazing, but the effects on the planet I felt were quite poor. This film was definitely not better than First Contact, a film which I thought was so worth it that I have already bought the DVD, even though I do not own a player as yet!!! I sensed the audience were not too impressed either. They didn't   laugh at many of the jokes and there wasn't any cheering or applause (things which happened a few times during First Contact). Overall, I would say merely an average Star Trek film, and one that I would not pay to see a second time.  "},{"Title":"Glad I waited for cheap night!","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you're not a trekkie or trekker or whatever they call themselves these days, steer clear!  Forced humour, a plot more worthy of a TV show than a major motion picture, and, to top it all off, a Commodore 64 joystick that saves the day.  Anyone else notice that the running time makes it just about right to slot into a two hour TV movie?Thee guys shoulda stayed on the small screen. "},{"Title":"AWESOME","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rank Star Trek Insurrection with Star Trek II The Wrath of Kahn, with regards to acting, direction and plot.  Although, I felt the humor was forced and did not come all that naturally. Maybe because I am not used to flagrant TNG humor.  Overall a 9.99 rating.  Also there was a goof, when Counselor Troi kissed Commander Riker and said, Yuk, I've never kissed you with a beard before.  This not true, in episode 150, entitled Second Chances, Counselor Troi kissed the other Will Riker, who was sporting a beard.  Just thought you'd like to know. "},{"Title":"Good Movie.  Nice Characters.  Lousy Ship.","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Picard in one of his best roles.  Also, it was good to see Troy migrate more toward her human side rather than Betazoid.  But they never should have destroyed the Enterprise D.  Enterprise D looked like it might be real.  She was spacious and well lit.  In contrast, Enterprise E looks too much like a cartoon, and after two movies, we have yet to see very much of the ship's interior, and what we do see reminds me of the inside of a Klingon Bird of Prey -- cramped and dimly lit.  Frankly, it's depressing. "},{"Title":"Light hearted fluff...title suggested more however","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I needed more excitement...but I am thankful for the moment in time Picard's love interest afforded him and me as a viewer. Easygoing...next time out engage me with more please. "}{"Title":"Immortality 1, Technology 0?","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With some irony, Star Trek - a show of the future, finally ventures into the issue of immortality in a positive way, as if it's a good thing afterall.  Finally!  You would think that people still dying off around 100 years old in the 24th Century is a gross example of medical neglect.  However, this  immortality is won not by embracing technology, but by shunning it.  What is Star Trek trying to tell us this time?  I enjoy this movie's venture into the wisdom and beauty capable of people who've lived centuries, but I'm very disappointed at Star Trek continuing its long charade of humanity remaining stagnant amidst tremendous technological capacity.  Not only is this illogical as Spock would say, but is evidence once again, that Gene Roddenberry's humanistic legacy continues to hold this show back from its TRANS-humanist potential. "},{"Title":"Forget it!","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Perhaps it's just my cynicism, but this entry in the Star Trek series looks like the product of a bad committee in a big hurry to cash in. The film looks like a terrible cut-and-paste job. For example, the opening half-hour or so of the film is spent on the Data Goes Bonkers episode, which has absolutely nothing to do with the film's plotline. It just got thrown in for no apparent reason. The central plot of the film is preachy and weak and there's too much that's left unexplained For example, Why the heck do the bad guys look like mummies anyway, and why do they go through that skin-stretching routine? The film goes to great lengths to show us this stuff, but never even attempts to explain it.In addition, most of the usual cast of characters are little more than window dressing. They throw off the occasional quip, fire the occasional phaser, and then simply fade into the background.All in all, Star Trek Insurrection looks like a badly thought out, badly executed rush job. If this is an indication of things to come, let's put this Paramount cash cow out of its misery and stick to the TV reruns and far better films in this series. "},{"Title":"Would have been a so-so tv show","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I started worrying about this movie way at the beginning when Picard and Worf devise a clever plan to stop Data by ...singing. Huh?As the show rolled on, you could see scene by scene where the actors had negociated for screen time or character development. Data wants to be a child, Geordi can see a sunrise, Picard has a love story and Riker rekindles with Troy. Yada yada yada. Naturally, by the end, nothing is concluded, everything is left on a might be note. At least Kirk got to be an admiral before he got demoted to the status quo.All the plot twist happen courtesy of techno-babble. The Enterprise will survive only if we reset the shield harmonics. Oh No! Will they pull it off, you think? We endure long soulful walks at night and when we finally se the Enterprise gearing up for battle cut to a mountain scene! Or quick, we're running under budget so we'll go into one of our tv-series-ready-made cave set.While we're on the subject of sets, didn't a lot of those come from Voyager? And let's not talk about those villains. Like we're real scared of some flying droids that explode at the first shot. Didn't they do that already on the tv show? The villains sure had a clever plan too transport them to another planet. Hello? You really think they won't notice?By the end, I had to apologize to my girlfriend for bringing her to this. Even I couldn't follow it. Who's interested when everything depends on technology that not only doesn't exist, but makes no sense?A good movie for people who went to the trouble of learning Klingon, but for intelligent and educated trekkies? No way. "},{"Title":"Disappointing, but amusing.","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I basically agree with what a lot of others have said - there were some good things in this movie, but way too many cliches.  For example, the one-on-one Picard must succeed! battle at the end was almost exactly similar to the end of Generations, and the oh, no, my cute animal! scene where the child puts everyone else in peril has been seen in every made-for-TV movie. Also, the dialogue was much worse than in the previous two ST TNG films ... there were so many groaner lines, and Riker came across as some sort of Don Juannabe.  Neither Riker nor Picard actually did anything romantic in most of the movie.  The humour was great - especially the joystick - and the idea of Data's back-up morality system was really interesting.However, all in all, I thought that the writers substituted cheeze for characterization, and gore (what's with the skin stretching?) for actual suspense.  Not nearly as campy as Generations or as thrilling as First Contact, the movie was more of a stroll down memory lane; it was kind of fuzzy, kind of amusing, but pretty disappointing, and left me with the feeling that you can't bring back the past, no matter how great it was. "},{"Title":"The Star Trek Franchise is Alive and Well (Finally!)","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed Star TrekInsurrection immensely, but it brought a recent conversation to mind.A friend and I were watching the December repeats of the James Bond movies on WTBS, and noted how the vagaries of the James Bond franchise are similar to those experienced by Paramount's Star Trek franchise.  We saw that just as the Bond series' controlling personalities (Ian Fleming, Albert Broccoli, Sean Connery, Roger Moore, John Glen, etc.) affected the up-and-down quality of 007 films over the years, so the controlling personalities of Star Trek (Gene Roddenberry, William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, Nicholas Meyer, Patrick Stewart, Jonathan Frakes, Rick Berman, etc.) have followed the same pattern.And it is during periods of transition, when the old guard fails to depart in a timely fashion, that bad films (or bad sub-plots) get made.  Notice how poor George Lazenby got caught in the middle between Bonds-major in 1969's `On Her Majesty's Secret Service.'  Many 007 fans contend that Lazenby was a terrible James Bond, but that had more to do with uneven support from the controlling personalities, plus a plot--Bond gets married--that was a total departure from the rest of the series.  Additionally, the last two (or three) Roger Moore films were flawed because at fifty-plus years of age, he was forced to use quips more than fisticuffs to defeat his enemies.  These 007 outings also had problems because controlling personality Sean Connery's decision to make 1983's `Never Say Never Again' indicated a desire to compete with--and therefore not give his approval to--Cubby Broccoli's efforts with Roger Moore.  Loyal 007 fans felt torn and did not know who was the `real' James Bond.We've seen similar dilemmas in the Star Trek franchise.  For example, it took SEVEN films for Kirk/Shatner (why quibble?) to resolve his mid-life crisis.  Recall how he elbowed aside Deckard for a command in `Star TrekThe Motion Picture.'  And remember how he bullied his way into the director's chair for the truly abominable `Star Trek VThe Final Frontier'?  No wonder they brought back Nicholas Meyer for `Star Trek VIThe Undiscovered Country.'  Kirk/Shatner's resolution (surprise!) was to go out with a bang, as he should have done ten years before.  Nimoy, too, had to resurrect his character, whose death in `Star Trek IIThe Wrath of Khan' provided the most poignant moment in any of the original Trekkers' films.  As much as I love Spock, he should have stayed dead.  Or simply directed.The past two-and-a-half Star Trek films, using the vastly more talented actors of the Next Generation cast, have blissfully concentrated on ADVANCING THE PLOT, leaving character development riding shotgun.  Or--who woulda thunk it?--making character development a necessary facet of the plot itself.  Recall how, in `Star TrekFirst Contact,' Picard's reluctance to give up his ship stemmed directly from his previous trauma with the Borg. Making plot a priority also helps in those scenes when it is necessary to have long passages of dialogue, those conversations needed to support the story.  The most brilliant use of this notion in the recent `Star TrekInsurrection' was the scene in which Riker has a comlink conversation with the duty officer (which advances the plot), but does it all while in a bathtub with Counselor Troi (which pumps some life into the character development).Even in the worst of the films, Star Trek audiences will enjoy the minutes-long glory shots of the Enterprise, the endless, meaningful glances between characters, and the mellifluous cadence of pseudo-science in Main Engineering, but they will ultimately prefer the movies that put plot first, push the characters ahead, and always keep the franchise moving forward. `Star TrekInsurrection,' around a mere hour and forty minutes, ends with a swift beam-up and a shot of the Enterprise peeling away, and avoids arduous moments of contrived character reaction.  And this is how it should be. "},{"Title":"I was strangely unmoved by it all","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not a bad flick as Trek goes, but there were a number of troubling points. The humans on the Briar Patch planet had been there for over 300 years, but there were only 600 of them? How can this be? We saw children in the village. Did they thin the herd every few generations? And just what was the motivation of the younger ones who went off into space? Why did they develop such a hatred for their own people? How did they manage to build such huge, powerful starships by themselves with no industrial base, heavy machinery, or factories? The movie had its moments, but I thought the story was the weak link. "},{"Title":"Getting tired...","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was really a bit of a retread. Recycled idea, not very interesting, kind of pretentious.  Big disappointment.. Maybe it's time to put Star Trek to rest. "},{"Title":"One thing keeps bugging me...","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Now, agree or disagree, this was a reasonably good movie. I genuinely enjoyed the banter between crew members. It was the human touch that these films have been missing since Star Trek IV, in my opinion. However, here's the thing which bothers me. None of these TNG films have LOOKED as good as the original crew. The high key lighting is bogging down any power from the scenes. The interior of the Enterprise looked great, but everything else was way too hot. Lighting is crucial to creating anxiety, and it's just lacking. Good script, good plot, but visually I have been disappointed every time. They really ought to bring back Nicholas Meyer. That guy can direct an intense film. "},{"Title":"Middle of the Road","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This isn't a horrible film, but it's also not excellent.  Right away, there's the storyline  same tired old plot about a planet where no one gets old, and a bunch of bad guys want that eternal youth for themselves.  Sound familiar?  There's nothing new here, folks, just a little tongue-in-cheek humour of ST Generations type thrown in with a bunch of half-decent SFX.The villain of this movie is not quite, well, villainous enough to make you glad when he kicks the bucket.  Bland acting from all of the cast, including the veterans who should know better.  Oh yes, some new things like Picard's new love and Riker and Troi's rekindled flames, but these are not developed well enough to make the audience care.  Most crew regulars get 5 minutes to tell us something new about themselves, except of course for Dr. Crusher, whose talents are once again pretty much ignored.The plot plays out without anything really interesting going on, with holes big enough to fly a starship through.  Completely predictable space fights, and a climax you can see coming a mile away.  Fans should see this only to judge for themselves, and maybe get a few chuckles out of the more ridiculous parts of the story.  Non-fans?  Wait 'till it comes out on video, and only rent it if ST First Contact is all out.I give it the exact middle of the road, 5/10  "},{"Title":"TV-like episode, as usual","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Morlock from Orlando was right on target, on all counts!The current Star Trek producers couldn't be cinematic to save their lives, apparently, either in story or photography.  The opening credits of Insurrection provide one example of the latter, the long continuous pan of the Ba'ku complex--an unwarranted and overlong pan (it reveals nothing), this shot was a poor artistic choice for inclusion in the opening credits.To compare films, Insurrection does feel a wee bit more visually opened up and cinema literate than First Contact.  But really, can they not afford a cinematographer?To speak of story flaws, the movie totally lacks a denouement, a conclusion. Boy, is that a glaring technical problem!  You don't just turn up the lights and call that a conclusion!  I could tell the people in the audience were discomfitted by the sudden and inconclusive end to the movie.  Kind of a collective low laugh.I still would like to propose a boycott of this movie.  I posted a suggestion in this forum to boycott this movie, before I had seen it, just judging by a negative Houston Chronicle review I had read and the lame tv ads I had seen.  But then, of course, I went and saw it on the second day. I'm weak!!!The only reason Paramount, or any other studio, keeps cranking out mediocrity, is because they know they can make money.  How do they know they can make money even with a mediocre Star Trek movie?  Because Star Trek has a built-in audience.  That is to say, us suckers.  But we have the power to change that via a boycott.  If we change the money part of the equation, maybe they'll change the quality part.  And I'm not talking about post-production.Yes, the ship is a dud.  Visually uninteresting.  Fake-looking because it is all computer generated.  Guys, go back and look at Star Trek II to see what the Enterprise is supposed to look like.  Use models, for God's sake, and real explosions, like Morlock said.I can picture Rick Berman screaming like the character of Ru'afo in the movie, after reading all the reviews for Insurrection.  Or maybe by this point he has become a cynic and doesn't care, just like the studios. "}{"Title":"Pretty amusing","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the course of this movie coming together, it was rumored tohave about 10 subtitles before they settled on Insurrection.Among them were Rebellion, Prime Directive, and Defiance.I think that if they used The Comedy it would have been justas well. This is by far the most fun Star Trek movie I have ever seen,and one of the most enjoyable movies I've seen this year. Asidefrom being the newest Trek movie, this latest adventure of theNext Generation crew is quite a departure from the previous 8films. It has drama, the plot is excellent, the special effectsare superb as usual, but the humor is unexpectedly outstanding. This time, Captain Picard and the crew of the Enterprise-E (whathappens when they run out of letters?) find themselves fightingto preserve the home planet of the Baku, an alien race (who ofcourse, look human and speak perfect English) who inhabit aplanet with a special power. The villains, an alien race knownas the So'na, are a dying species who the Federation wants tohelp out by removing the Baku from the planet and making use ofthe secret power. The power in question involves perpetualyouth, which has an effect on the behavior of the Enterprisecrew throughout the movie. Their antics are to say the least,bizarre. Without spoiling the surprises, one crew member experiences theeffects of puberty again, another regains one of his lostsenses, one walks into their quarters and starts dancing toMambo music, while two others engage in a steamy bubble bathsession. These scenes, while unusual in a Star Trek movie, area much welcome break from the obligatory We've lost phasers!or That's an order! dramatic sequences that are required to bein every Star Trek film. Anyone familiar with the regularepisodes of The Next Generation television series could recallepisodes where crew member behavior was just as unusual or evenmore bizarre than in Insurrection. Some which come to mind arethe episodes where some were turned into cavemen and fish, aswell as the ones where some of them turn into 12-year-olds orget inhabited by aliens and commit mutiny. When they complete the 15th or 16th movie in this series, (StarTrek Retirement Age) Insurrection probably won't be regardedas the best ever, but it will most likely have its place inStar Trek lore as  "},{"Title":"not brain surgery but still good","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This Star Trek film was funny and relaxing.  It was not filled with a heavy plot, but a fun time.  It had a moral, but didn't beat you over the head with it.  A person needed to be a fan of the show to understand ALL the jokes, but was not a requirement for enjoying the movie.  "},{"Title":"Horrible Craftsmanship in some scenes","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What about that first guy that died when Picard, Data, and Anij first went on the Holoship.  Slow mo death sequence was cheesy enough but then you can see the landing mat pop up in the background when he lands.Also I felt that the ship animations looked really poor.  Babylon5 is great for TV but some of the effects were just horrible.Otherwise I had a blast.  Anyone else think Frakes is beginning to look like an ageing Shatner?Jason "},{"Title":"A fun movie to watch, but has its problems.","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Overall a good showing from TNG cast and a movie well worth watching. As a Star Trek aficionado, I was not disappointed. I was surprised at the opening, which starts out unlike all previous films on an Earth-like planet with children playing and people working. After the beginning credits role by, the film becomes apparent that it really is Star Trek after all. The film has several very good action sequences, the space sequences were very well done (the THX is DYNAMITE!) but there is one very slow scene that I thought seemed to go on forever.  The romance between Riker and Deanna was portrayed with more depth than is expected in a 'Trek' adventure, but it was not out of line with the plot. Picard even gets a crack at the old male-female thing, but I couldn't imagine it lasting through more episodes (neither could the film!). Speaking of plot, it was well done, but very formula. There were no real surprises. The film even gives itself away a couple of times. We have, however, come to associate the characters in this series with resourcefulness, and it shone through in this episode as well. It is always interesting to see how the characters will figure out how to get out of their no-win situations. As long as they keep making Star Trek movies, I will keep watching them.     "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not a bad movie, but would be very confusing to none Trek fans. First Contact was much better. "},{"Title":"Not What You Will Expect","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fans of the Star Trek TV and Film Series will find that Star Trek Insurrection does not live up to their expectations.  It sure didn't impress me.  This film was a drama that evolved into a love story that splashed in an anti-climactic finish with a minimal amount of real action.  I was expecting much more action as the previews indicated.I give this movie a rating of 5 which I feel is very generous because it never grabbed me or any of the other people in the audience for that matter. There were some funny moments as the filmmakers tried to make the most of their fountain of youth vs. old age theme.Patrick Stewart provides another fine performance as Captain Jean Luc Picard.  Brent Spiner continues to steal the show with his comic and naive desire to be human. In this case, he wants to know what it's like to be a child.  It's good for a few good laughs.  Another fine performance is provided by Donna Murphy who plays Anij, Picard's romantic interest.  I was, however, disappointed that the filmmakers spent the duration of the film developing this romance between Picard and Anij without Picard making a single attempt to even kiss her.  What was the point?  What we have here is a dramatic love story that never physically materializes.As for action, there was very little.  The crew of the Enterprise gets to shoot their guns and get shot at and chased across the galaxy by the Soma, a desperate band of old men who need their skin stretched and seek to steal a planet from the Bacu.  The action scenes are very laid back.  I felt very relaxed as both sides took aim at each other.  This movie, however, falls way short of the intense, edge of your seat feeling the Star Trek First Contact offered.This is not a must see movie.  However, if you're desperate for action entertainment and you're not interested in seeing one of the kiddie movies that seem to be dominating movie theatres across the country these days, go see it.  You just might like it.  Then again, rent Star TrekFirst Contact....it's much better. "},{"Title":"A Great follow-up to the Action-Packed First Contact","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Historically speaking the Star Trek movies have done bad when they were an odd numbered movie (or at least not as good as the even numbered movies have done.)  However Jonathon Frakes has finally broken this chain of event with Star Trek IX Insurrection, he has given us a movie that has great villains with great ships, and besides all that has a really good story line.  This movie has some of the best lines of all of the movies.  It has been given an equal balance of comedy and action.  And proven beyond a shadow of a doubt the Frakes with helm the Trek films into the next decade and beyond.  Way to Go Johnathon. "},{"Title":"Almost....but not quite","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection, the 9th installment of this franchise....as we all know 9 is an odd number and the odd numbered movies in this series do not match up to the even numbered films...this one almost gets there.  The plot basically is this....outer space baddies want to move a race of people from a planet so that they themselves can reap the benefits of said planet...Picard and the Enterprise crew find out and won't allow it to happen.  Director Frakes gives this one all he has left after the superior First Contact, and it almost has enough to break the curse.  While at times a bit overly silly, and others a bit predictable...it basically delivers a good enough story to lift it above the other odd films in this series.The special effects are first rate, and most of the characters quite believable.  I could only find one goof, and it was when the Enterprise first enters the Briar Patch...if you've seen it you know what I'm talking about...if not...watch for it, it's very apparent.All in all, this 9th film in this fabled series is good enough...and it wipes the highly disappointing ST5 out of my memory.  "},{"Title":"An over all quality film.","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found this movie to be quite thrilling, but not as intense as First Contact. Perhaps it's because the Borg are so intimidating. Or maybe the characters seemed a little more laid back in Insurrection.I only wish the movie could have been another fifteen minutes longer. There were several mini-plots that could have been more developed.After the movie, I asked my eight year old daughter what her favorite part was. She told me that the scenes on the planet were her favorite scenes. She didn't seem to care for any of the outer-space scenes. I guess you can't beat the old tried and true chase scenes. I tend to agree with her.Although the shots of the Enterprise were spectacular, they seemed to be rushed and cut short.I would have to say that my favorite parts were the comedy scenes. It would appear that Mr. Frakes used his director influence, to add as much comedy into the movie as the old series had and The Voyage Home. An excellent touch.The movie flowed freely without being choppy and the opening sequence gets you hooked. Mr. Frakes has proven to be a fine director and I look forward to seeing him direct again.Hopefully the next movie will have Starfleet in a better light and a little less vulnerable. From what we have gathered on Deep Space Nine and Insurrection, Starfleet is on the verge of collapse. Enough already, please. "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you liked the series, that's the one!! It's back from the dark side (BORGS, which was excellent too), but this one has exactly the mood of the TV series...Great jokes, and still a good story... "}{"Title":"Breaks the bad odd numbered trend","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection breaks the bad odd numbered trend. It has a good plot, good acting, and some very funny scenes. Parts are predictable, both plot and dialogue wise, however this movie lives up to the precedent set by Star Trek First Contact. "},{"Title":"The best Star Trek movie ever.","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The best Star Trek movie ever -- dethroning The Wrath of Kahn as our favorite.  It embodied the essence of Star Trek and wove the best characteristics; action, humor, romance, integrity, and special effects into one great movie.  No characters were short-changed.  We will see it again! "},{"Title":"Back-to-basics, warm and familiar like your childhood blanket.","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The classic Trek recipe TNG officer meets planet population, discover evil plot by opposing conspiracy, TNG gains trust of  underdog population, TNG gets in trouble with Federation superiors, Away team takes action to save planet, Bridge team battles Enemy starship, everyone is happy and the Prime Directive is upheld.It's warm and fuzzy, with great sets, great artistic and special effects, lots of humor, memorable one liners for your email taglines, classic group poster poses, and a hint of rediscovered romance between Troy and Riker. It's just what I wanted, just what I hoped for, and just what I got.Star Trek feature movies have proved to the world that you don't have to be written as a bad sequel ... in fact you don't have to be a sequel at all.  "},{"Title":"best one yet","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really like the new style that they started with First Contact (and I guess with the TV shows as well) , with the comedy and the fact that the whole family can watch and enjoy it. I laughed all the way through this and except for the awful scene between Admiral Dowerty and Ru'afo towards the end it keeps true to it's PG rating. The only thing keeping it from being completely family-safe is the larger and louder than life action scenes (which of course would be fine at home on tape). Some may want more from their sci-fi movies, but I for one enjoy the lighter style of show and these movies (okay, I'm a little partial to Captain Picard) and it is one of the few movies that I would actually go and see again. "},{"Title":"Star Trek Insurrection is a Great Movie!!!!!!!!!","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think that this movie is great.  In keeping with the tradition on ST TNG, this movie has a lot of character interaction between the Enterprise crew. It isn't just the Picard and Data show, as in ST Generations and ST First Contact.  It has just about everything in it comedy, drama, action, suspense.  It is real proof that the curse of the odd numbered star trek movies has been broken.  This is a movie for all ages and for all people. It is not just limited to trekkers, as they call them.  I recommend this movie to anyone who is in the mood to see a good movie.  Also, I would give this movie a ten out of ten or four stars out of four.  Definitely go see this movie, you will not be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"To badly go where so many have gone before...","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like practically every odd-numbered Star Trek film (and all the 'Generation' films), Star Trek Insurrection suffers from many weak elements.The same team that brought us three decent TV series based on the Star Trek lineage have thus far failed to translate that magic to the big screen.  All of them keep missing the target of being a film instead of an extended television story.  This is especially true with ST9 (Insurrection), which feels the least cinematic, both visually and story-wise.As part of a greater franchise, this film should have dealt with issues common to at least one of the already established threads, not a totally isolated incident with no bearing on the rest of the series.  Also, there are plenty of established alien races who have never been fully developed (e.g., the Romulans) without creating a totally new race whom we will never see again.This film once again contains a flaw that all the ST films share the Enterprise is the only ship in the entire fleet that can save the day, and it just happens to be there when needed to do so.  It makes one wonder how capable the other ships and their crews are, as well as what they're doing during all of the Enterprise's stories.Speaking of the ship, the Enterprise is no longer a character in the movies, just as the current TV shows' vessels are not.  The Enterprise in the original series and through the first four movies served as an additional character with its own personality and presence.  Now, it is merely a means of conveyance that can be battered, bruised, used, and abused at its masters' wills.  There's no respect for the name (exemplified by Picard's line in ST8, There are plenty more letters in the alphabet), the technology, or the history anymore.To appropriately craft an installment to a franchise as successful and popular as ST, one must look to the internal history of the series.  Which films were the most popular and why?Like any of the ST films with highly conceptual sci-fi devices as the story's focus (1,5,7,9), this film fails to engage the audience and keep them interested in its characters' actions.  In fact about halfway through the film, the pace actually slows and concludes with a very lackluster finale.  The strongest ST films have been those that deal with character- and/or situation-specific plots (2,3,4,6,8).Also, it's important to get away from allowing those skilled in the craft of television production to also create the films, regardless of how talented they are.  With the exception of ST7 (Generations), all of the 'Generation' films have felt like extended television episodes claustrophobic and non-epic.Regarding the special effects, I am saddened to see the complete abandonment of models, miniatures, and explosives to fully rendered computer graphics. Don't get me wrong.  I'm a big proponent of CGI, as a tool, but even I don't think it looks as good or realistic as models do.  Unfortunately, both ST and Star Wars have made these transitions.Though Goldsmith's internal score provides an adequate and melodic background, it still fails to become a presence unto itself like Horner's score did in ST2 (The Wrath of Khan) and ST3 (The Search for Spock). Personally, I am tired of hearing the same score for the films' main themes, as well as the Klingon music every time Worf performs some feat.Speaking of Worf, his inclusion in this film, which was conveniently unexplained, made even less sense (and had even less impact) than his inclusion in the last one.  If their only reason for including him is because he used to be part of that crew, then they need to cut the umbilical cord.  They don't spend enough time as it is giving the other characters (e.g., Crusher, Troi) unique, personal roles.Until the creative team responsible for the ST franchise starts thinking about the films the same way they do about the series--not as isolated episodes but as a continuing saga--the audience will have to weather weakening plots whose success hinges on grandstanding and forced comedy. Regarding the latter, this films harkens very closely to ST5 (The Final Frontier) in both its out-of-place, almost slapstick humor and cutie-pie mentality.  I could have done without the singing and dance segments.Wake up, Rick Berman.  It's high time for some outside blood because your creative inbreeding has already begun to take its toll. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is awesome.  Great humor, great character development, great plot, great special effects.  A must see for Trek and non-Trek fans. "},{"Title":"The Best Star Trek TNG Movie","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the absolute best Star Trek TNG Feature Film! If you never watch any other Trek movie this is the one to watch. This film was the most true to Gene Roddenberry's concept. Superpowers trying to move defenseless people of off a world with a great natural resource. Trampling on the natives rights,greed, moral principals. But also the importance of taking time to stop and enjoy life, friendship, romance, comedy, action. This movie has it all and definitely pulled TNG back to the moral center with great hope for the future. This movie was a 10 if that is ever possible with a film. You absolutely watch this one again if you either haven't seen it in a while or have never ventured to the world of Star Trek. "},{"Title":"It Would've Made a Better Episode than a Movie","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1996, Paramount recovered from the less-than-stellar GENERATIONS with the action-oriented FIRST CONTACT, and it appeared the franchise was finding some solid ground with the Next Generation cast. Two years later, the studios looked back on everything that worked with it's previous film and decided to ignore it, and lo...INSURRECTION was created. To ensure action and fun were kept to a minimum, the film centers on a race known as the Ba'ku, who live on a planet where the radiation in it's rings acts as a fountain of youth. The Federation has partnered with another race, the Son'a, to relocate the Ba'ku from their planet to acquire it's youth-giving properties. The Federation, represented by Vice-Admiral Dougherty (Anthony Zerbe), seek to use the planet's powers to aid billions of other people in the galaxy while the Son'a, led by Ad'har Ru'afo (F. Murray Abraham), have their own motives. Captain Picard and the crew of the Enterprise find themselves caught in the middle of this moral quandary and soon side with the Ba'ku, going against Federation orders to see to it the Ba'ku remain on their planet.There really isn't a lot to get excited about with this film. As I'd mentioned, the story finds Picard and his crew faced with a moral question previously approached in STAR TREK II and STAR TREK III do the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few? Whereas II and III made an exciting multi-feature adventure out of the topic, INSURRECTION gives us two hours that feel as if it could've easily been compressed down to an hour and used as an average episode of the series. Credit is due for the fantastic special effects that continue to evolve with each film, and the space sequences in this movie look better than ever. Some of the ground-based effects don't hold up as well, particularly the Son'a drones used in the middle of the film. One thing can be said for the franchise...they know how to cast a villain. It's one thing that nearly every STAR TREK film (even the bad ones) can seem to do right. F. Murray Abraham, who I'm surprised even agreed to appear in this film, is great as the leader of the Son'a who manipulates the Federation into assisting him in his personal quest against the Ba'ku. Anthony Zerbe does an equally good job as the Starfleet Vice-Admiral whose intentions are good but fails to understand that it's wrong to force an entire race (even if it's only 600 people) to relocate.From the moment the opening credits began rolling, I knew this film was going to be trouble. Whereas the credits of previous films in the franchise have epic music and great visuals as the vast is introduced, the opening credits here look cheap and tacked on as if the budget ran out before they were considered. I was also bothered because the film took on such a light-hearted, goofy tone. Goofiness is all right if used correctly; FIRST CONTACT had some humorous moments in the Cochrane portion of the plot. Here, the laughs are practically center-stage. The film is loaded with corny moments as the crew begins to feel the effects of the planet's radiation Worf has a zit, Riker and Troi act like horny teenagers, and Picard does the mambo. And when the film isn't trying to make us laugh, it's focusing on a romantic subplot between Picard and Anij (Donna Murphy), a 300-year-old Ba'ku who reminds Picard what it is to feel young again. This movie really is a little more than an hour and a half of fighting and fleeing, with a couple good adrenaline moments tossed in to ensure people aren't getting too bored with the movie. I suppose we as the audience earned a space battle for sitting through Picard, Data, and Worf singing a musical number from Gilbert and Sullivan. Speaking of Worf...why is he here? I realize the filmmakers want to try and preserve the full cast of the Enterprise-E for the films and that, with Worf now on DS9, they need to find reasons to cram him in, but they didn't even try here. In the beginning of the film, Picard asks Worf why he's on-board and he begins to explain but it's quickly cut-off and never mentioned again. The screenwriters were too lazy to even come up with a valid reason as to why Worf is on the ship...It's not a terrible film, it's just a major let-down. The story is pretty boring for good portions of the film and the ending isn't exciting enough to make me leave the film with a sense of awe. Everything about this film reeks of episodic television, right down to the bland flat lighting in just about every scene (at least GENERATIONS had some creative lighting from John Alonzo). I hate that Jonathan Frakes, who did so well directing FIRST CONTACT, went out with a fizzle on this movie. The studio could've at least given him a chance to redeem himself again with the next sequel. This film is doubtful to attract any new fans, but it shouldn't run off any die-hards either. It's engaging enough to sit through but certainly not memorable. "},{"Title":"Star Trek Insurrection","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first film Generations was fine, the First Contact is the most acclaimed, and this was the third film from the team of Star Trek The Next Generation. Basically Lt. Commander Data (Independence Day's Brent Spiner) was on a mission to observe the race of Ba'ku, and he may have just malfunctioned. After Captain Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart) and his help manage to get him back to normal, they decide to explore the Ba'ku as well, finding that they are a race that regenerate and live in peace and harmony, rejecting technology, and with long lifespans. The Son'a are also studying the Ba'ku themselves, but leader Ad'har Ru'afo (Amadeus's F. Murray Abraham) has a nasty plan to abduct them and take them to an identical but unreal planet without them noticing. It seems to work and the Son'a have their plan to regenerate themselves may just work, but Captain Picard and the Enterprise crew have their prime directive to stop them. Also starring Jonathan Frakes (also directing) as Commander William T. Riker, LeVar Burton as Lt. Commander Geordi La Forge, Gates McFadden as Doctor Beverly Crusher, Marina Sirtis as Counselor Deanna Troi, Donna Murphy as Anij, Licence to Kill's Anthony Zerbe as Vice-Admiral Dougherty and Gregg Henry as Gallatin. I will be honest, as I didn't know the meaning it is probably the least memorable title, the whole film could almost be as I din't understand much, but it was an alright science-fiction adventure. Okay! "}{"Title":"As Smooth As An Androids Bottom","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the third outing of the Next Generation in a film. The film has expensive special effects along with some cheap but old reliable ones. Jonathan Frakes (William Rikker) directs this one. Overall, while I think this movie is OK, it has some things it should have done better.While the effects are top notch, & the males in the cast get a lot of action, the women seem only to be there to look at except one. Rikkers attempt to rekindle an old romance with Counselor Troy comes off as a bit flat which is unfortunate as I wished I was seeing more of her on camera during this sequence and the whole movie.The plot itself is OK, but in my opinion the whiz bang special effects take too much away from the acting. The script for the actors relies too much on the action too. While it is a decent film, it is not good enough at pulling in & engaging the viewer to make it a better effort. With the good talent this cast has, I think it falls short because of a weaker script. It is not the worst Trek film ever, just a little weaker than I expected. "},{"Title":"This movie will not extend your life!","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There seem to be a lot fans of Insurrection even though it's the poorest of all the Star Trek films. If this is a 10/10, then what would you give the Wrath of Kahn or Nemesis? Objectively, here are some points to consider.1) Film Stock It was shot of video and has the look and feel of a television episode.2) Cinematography The cinematography is poor and there was a good reason why the Oscar committee missed this one. Much of it could have been shot by your local film crew with tight closeups and uninspired pan sweeps.3) Special FX The CGI here is straight out of universal's boiler plate for the TV series. The CGI is cheap and uninspiring, especially for a feature film.4) Dialogue The dialogue is horrid, from the goofy reaction of Worf thoughts on breasts to Data's completely out of place comment on beards. Clearly Data has obtained no sense of style so why would we expect him to comment on it? 5) Story Premise The plot premise of having to remove the planets inhabitants to get access to the life extending radiation is absurd. It's a sparsely inhabited planet and has room for everyone. There would be no need to even settle next to the current inhabitants. Also, if you know about the radiation, why couldn't you reproduce it? Also, we have to believe that the Federation is complicit and that there is little honor among it's ranks. That's a completely cynical break from the whole history of the Federations prime directive and moral superiority. Shame on the writers and the audience who sucked that up without thought. If Picard is the last honorable officer left, then he might as well be Maqui. We might as well toss the whole Federation of planets. Firefly would be an example of a universe with a misguided and corrupt Federation. What makes Star Trek special is its optimism, something not found in most of this cynical plot.6) Screen Play Oh wait, everyone's safe, but we have to go back after the kid! I seriously got nauseated at this point. Was this written by a hack or did they run out of plot and need to talk on 15 minutes? So for all of you that enjoy baloney instead of steak. Eat up! But since there are so many better movies on the shelf, why take two hours off your life with this one? I can't get those two hours of my life back and I'm holding that against Jonathan Frakes. "},{"Title":"Sorry, but at this point, the franchise was pretty much spent (that is, they were boldly going where they'd gone before)","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I will say that pretty much any Star Trek flick is an entertaining one, but I didn't derive that Star Trek Insurrection offered anything new. It seems that by this point, they'd gone on just about every adventure possible, so what more could they do? Truth is, I always considered The Voyage Home their most cerebral movie and got the feeling that there couldn't be anything better in their franchise.Still, I can't deny that there are some neat scenes (especially the Gilbert and Sullivan stuff). Reprising their roles are Patrick Stewart, Brent Spiner, Jonathan Frakes and LeVar Burton, while the new character here is F. Murray Abraham. Worth seeing maybe once. "},{"Title":"Excellent Star Trek movie","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the dismal First Contact, Star Trek returns in good form for its ninth cinematic adventure. This time, Picard (Patrick Stewart) and crew try to save the idyllic Baku from the Federation, which wants to move them elsewhere. This movie is really about the responsibility of a citizen to use his own morals and question the wrong things the government does.There's very little action this time (leaving more time to focus on the characters), but the special effects are very good. ILM really did a good job on natural-looking CGI effects here. The music is also breathtaking.This time, Picard has a relationship with Baku woman Anij. Their scenes together are truly beautiful, with sensational music and some nifty slow-motion effects. But the best part about this aspect is that she teaches him how to appreciate life's every moment.Like in First Contact, there's some intentional humor; however, it's actually funny and doesn't make you cringe this time. Another good thing is that this doesn't give Stewart any dramatic moments to ham up, like in the previous two adventures.In short, this is an all-around good Trek film. You have adventure, character interaction, comedy, drama, romance, space battles and significantly less exploitation of gore than First Contact. "},{"Title":"2nd best","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The second best ST film after First Contact. Great book, great cast, great development, great score, and great action. The ending climax is a bit weak but still good. I was hoping for a bigger bang at the end or actually a reunion with everybody that would have been a writing challenge. But still one the best ST films. Too bad they didn't use the same formula for Nemesis, which is among the worst films (it's a cheap and bad copy of the Wrath of Khan, (same subject same plot, same threat same siht!) third best ST film). Frakes seems to be a good director for the big screen. I love his input and his creativity. Not thrilled with Riker and Troy getting back together. Would have love to see Warf get the girl at the end. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The Sinister Side Of The Federation","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  By 1998, Star Trek had been running in one form or another for 32 years. For seven years, it had been running in a sea of questionable credibility. With the original series creator Gene Roddenberry having died around the time that the sixth film rolled out, it would have been nice if they had just let the Federation ride off into the sunset. Sadly, Paramount and Viacom seem flatly determined to ride Star Trek and all associated with it into the ground.The rest of this comment might give something away regarding the plot.Insurrection, at its heart, concerns a planet where a strange type of radiation keeps the populace young. The Federation keeps a hidden research station on the planet to observe the effects and determine if this strange planetary feature can be used for their benefit. Elements within the Federation want to move the natives to a new place and seize this planet for themselves, regardless of the cost to said natives. I hope you got all of that, because the plot is virtually unrecognisable apart from those elements. At 103 minutes, Insurrection is the shortest Star Trek feature film to date, and it doesn't cope well with that. Padding a story is never a good idea, but then neither is telling a story that needed 120+ minutes to make full sense in 103. It isn't because the scenes are so long that they restrict their own ability to make sense (are you listening, Peter Jackson?). It's because the scenes are clipped to the point where cohesion and transition take a back seat to special effects and uninteresting battles.To the film's credit, the sequences with the refugees being pursued by drones has great dramatic tension. However, combat with warriors that have no personality can only take the impact so far. There is a human face on what Picard and company are fighting, but since it never leaves the starships in order to stand toe to toe with the heroes, it delivers little, if any, real impact. Compared to X-Men 2, where Patrick Stewart and Brian Cox make their sides painfully tangible simply by standing in the same room and having a conversation, Star Trek Insurrection, feels hopelessly flat.Another stretching of credibility on the part of the Star Trek screenwriters this invisible research station is sitting mere feet from the civilisation of these natives for an interminable amount of time. How long do you suppose it would be before a particularly curious or maniacal child climbs it, falls off it, and prompts his elders to start asking questions? To call Data's interference unnecessary is an understatement.The enemy in this film is barely quantifiable, so the battle for paradise seems more like a police action against insurgents. It is mainly for that reason that I felt Star Trek Insurrection, was worthy of a two out of ten. "},{"Title":"Star Trek Insurrection is great addition to the great series!","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The latest installment of the Star Trek feature films, Star Trek Insurrection boasts action, some humor, and emotional moments. The Next Generation crew is at their best in my opinion and F. Murray Abraham played an excellent part! A great performance by the veteran actor! The special effects with the bird and ships and the planets are superb! Jerry Goldsmith`s score is magnificent that is unbelievably clear sounding! Star Trek Insurrection is great addition to the great series and I can't wait for Star Trek Nemesis to come out! "},{"Title":"I was not impressed.","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was a bit of a shambles.It had some good lines,but the charecters wer'nt very impressive or interesting.The story was a bit ponderous and unfocused.Star Trek is'nt what it used to be.These days ,it seems to cling onto the most disperate plot elements to gain the effect of an overall movie. I guess you never can beat the classics. "},{"Title":"Odd curse broken","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The odd curse is broken. Though it never existed in the first place. Full of action, adventure, story, special effects and the TNG cast, Insurrection is a winner. "},{"Title":"It's a Crowd Pleaser - The Crowd I Was With Was Pleased","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  And really, what more can you ask?  It's basically just part 3 of the Picard & Data Show (Sirtis and McFadden in particular seemed poorly used, which has been a constant throughout all three Next Gen movies).  There is the requisite humor, more so than in its predecessor, First Contact.  There's a big-screen villain as F. Murray follows in the steps of his predecessor, Malcolm McDowall.  There's lots of ooh-wow F/X.  And there's a stultifying romance.  The latter in particular suggests that a lot of stuff got left on the editing floor.  We never see Picard and Anij kiss - what's up with that? Ditto for the humming bird motif that isn't so much dropped as never appears.There's lot of nit-picky plot holes - how long _does_ it take to get back and forth from that planet, anyway?  Okay, the Feds make a deal with the Son'a despite their dubious activities...but why mentioned such activities as Ketricil-White production in standard datafiles?  Why are the Son'a undergoing constant face changes despite only having been away for a hundred years?  What's behind the whole duck blind thing?  Why do the Feds care, and why bring along Data, who will be going back to Picard anyway and probably later blab the whole relocation scheme?There's enough one-liners to insure general audience satisfaction, and enough techno-babble and Picard/Data stuff (and the requisite minimal amount of screen-time/character development for Riker, Geordi et. al) to please the Trekkies  But as someone else noted, it just seems like a committee movie.    There's no real surprise, no real suspense, and there's some inevitable danger moments thrown in (the cave-in doesn't really advance anything, and just shows that Picard can do in 2-3 days what it took Anik centuries to master).It just seems...well, hollow somehow. It's not really moving, and it doesn't really grab you.  It's a workmanlike effort, but nothing like a classic. "}{"Title":"Put it to bed, already!","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The series continues to get dumber and less interesting. This ninth (!) episode in a mediocre franchise bugged me mainly because, although Patrick Stewart is a fine actor, the rest of the cast gets worse with each new movie. Paramount keeps banging 'em out, though. I guess it's cause Trekkies will pay to see any piece of junk with the Star Trek name on it. Sitting through this thing, only one thought went through my mind HOW MANY DAYS LEFT UNTIL THE PHANTOM MENACE COMES OUT?? "},{"Title":"Tonight, on a very special episode of Star Trek...","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Star Trek Insurrection' screams TV movie. And it should've been. Yes, it suffers from the odd-numbered so-called failed 'Star Trek' outings (evens are better than the odds) and rightfully so; this adventure has to be the most bland of them all. Terrible, no, not really, but nothing great. Extremely little excitement, too many unsuccessful attempts at humor and too deep of an old American Indian relocation outcry. Still, it wasn't horrible, aside from the downright hilarious outbursts from the (I can't believe F. Murray Abraham won an Oscar and was reduced to the) bland villain and the oh-so-cute CGI pet of the child star. Again, Data takes center stage as the rogue android that disagrees with the Federation that both secretly spies on and plots with an alien race against a group that found the Fountain of Youth planet. Is the alien race that must continually pull back their skin evil? Selfish? Do they plan to do harm to the ever-living group on the never-dying planet? And though the mystery isn't hard at all to solve, we have Picard shoving it down our throats that it isn't right to relocate a group of people for the greater good. Yes, I realize in this very country this has happened, more than once, and we also had separate drinking fountains for different people. Sure this paints a very dark and ignorant past, but saying this is wrong is like saying Wait, why are you smoking? That can't be good for you. Granted, I have not seen every episode of the seven year TV run, but I can imagine this to be just like any low-key two-parter, and not even a good one at that. Certainly not even a season finale. Still, it's watchable and has some good cinematography. "},{"Title":"Not a great plot but watchable","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Data is on a remote planet as part of an covert exploration mission when he malfunctions, attacks his colleagues and exposes the mission to the small group of natives on the planet.  The Enterprise is called in to help capture him and, when they do, they find that he was protecting the inhabitants for some reason.  Picard investigates and uncovers a plot between members of the Federation and the aging Son'a's to move the Ba'Ku off the planet and harvest it's age defying effects for themselves.While it is 100% fact that the odd numbered Star Trek films are not as good as the even numbers, this film will not help to dispel the theory.  While not the worst Star Trek film, it does have plenty of problems that stops it being better than it should be.  The main weakness is the plot which, at the start, is morally difficult.  I mean &#150; why wouldn't it make sense to move the Ba'ku and allow them to share the power of the planet with many millions of others and not just keep 500 alive forever?  This is nicely forgotten when the film decides it needs a bad guy and gives things over to the Son'a &#150; a good move in terms of creating a more action packed climax but a poor move in terms of plot logic.  The action is so-so allowing for battles in space and on the planet, but it is not as dramatic as I hoped with the planet based stuff taking away from the film and not being as dramatic as it could have been.The script does allow some witty moments but too often the dialogue is a bit ponderous, and there are no great lines or really memorable spells of dialogue or interaction.  The romance between Picard and Anij is a bit of a distraction, as is the stuff between Riker and Troy &#150; points of the film feel a bit more like a space soap/romance rather than sci-fi as I think of it.The cast are average.  Most have the odd good line or scene but really the majority of the group do not have much to do.  Stewart has the lion's share of the film, despite the romance slowing things down.  Frakes has some good scenes but is a far second, seeming happy to direct.  Abraham does an OK baddie and the rest of the Enterprise cast basically do what they are accustom to doing weekly and they don't really rise to the film occasion.Overall this is an average film and keeps the trend of `even good, odd not so good' Star Trek films going nicely.  The holes in the plot are a bit of a pain no matter how hard I tried to ignore them &#150; it would have been nice if the debate hadn't been side tracked by a more traditional plot. "},{"Title":"The Most Disappointing Trek Movie Ever.","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometimes in the history of a huge franchise like Star Trek, there is sloppiness in the form repetition of plot themes, or discrepancies in continuity, and that is forgivable. But this film seems to be have been made solely in the name of churning out product to keep the franchise going, and as a little vanity moment for Johnny Frankes.It is very hard for me to write this review as a devout Trekkie, but when I try and think about what I liked about this movie, I keep arriving at nothing.The film's moral (if there is one) eludes me. It's even more poorly thought out than Star Trek V The Final Frontier. The very title of the movie is misleading, as there is no great rebellion in the Federation, it's merely a few corrupt Admirals being exposed, as has happened time and again in STTNG.In fact, the whole thing feels like a very badly written episode of Star Trek The Next Generation... Except that it is so bad it is unforgivable. "},{"Title":"Definitely Not A Trek Classic","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't suppose Star Trek will ever die - and I hope it doesn't! I love the series (at least the original and the Next Generation; Deep Space Nine and Voyager have never done much for me) but I can't help wondering if this thing hasn't been milked dry. Insurrection is simply not up to the quality of most of the Star Trek movies put out so far.The inconsistencies in the plot are so gaping you could - well - pilot the Enterprise through them. Let me just point out the one that bothered me the most. The Baku - this wonderful, peace-loving people, who have such a strong cultural anathema to technology of any kind and who have gone to great lengths to avoid technology - certainly don't seem to have any moral dilemma about accepting Federation technology (replete with weapons and transporter inhibitors, etc.) when it suits their purposes. This culture gets shown to be hypocritical in the extreme. (If that was the point, I'd say it was well done, but I think Rick Berman and the screenwriters really want us to think of the Baku as anti-technology.) The movie would have had a greater sense of drama if Picard et. al. had had to fight against the wishes of the Baku themselves to try to save them (akin to what Kirk did on Organia in the original series.)And speaking of Picard, since when is he a lover of Latin music, to the point of dancing around in his cabin to it? This guy likes classical music and Shakespeare!The only really interesting part of this movie (which I'm hoping gets followed up in the next one which is surely coming) is the hint that the Federation is an old and tottering empire, besieged on all sides by enemies, and seeming to run out of steam to the point at which it seems willing to sell its soul and give up on its most cherished values.I'm tempted to say that this is a movie that only the fans will love, except that I'm a Trek fan and I didn't care for it! So, all I can say is - watch at your own risk! "},{"Title":"One of the Worst Trek Films","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The problem with Insurrection is that while it would have been a mildly entertaining episode of The Next Generation, it didn't have the gravitas to be a motion picture.Like many episodes of TNG, they start out with kind of a silly premise. You have this whole planet with life saving radiation, with only 600 people living on it, so your solution is to fool the people living there into being relocated, and then demolishing the planet to harvest the supposedly beneficial radiation. Never does it occur to anyone that the simple solution would be to simply build a spa on the other side of the planet, and send anyone who needs treatment there.Another weakness of the movie is that like all the TNG films, it doesn't take advantage of the excellent ensemble cast the series enjoyed. Once again, half the characters appear in the movie, but they don't do anything more important than a b-lister would have done.Finally, you have F. Murray Abraham as the villain. Now, here you have a guy who can act. I mean, he won an Oscar for Amadeus. Instead, as leader of the Joan Rivers Aliens, he seems to only be interested in making a lot of menacing threats.I'm not really sure how a couple hundred geriatric aliens could conquer two other races of Foreheads of the Week, but there you are.Now, despite all this, I really love Star Trek. It is one of the fondest memories of my childhood. But this film, like most of the Trek produced after 1993 or so, shows the signs of running out of new ideas. "},{"Title":"An Ordinary Film in the Decline Mode","Date":"24 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the third of the Next Generation efforts. It doesn't add all that much, other than a big budget to make things more spectacular. This one involves a confrontation with a rogue starship commander and the prime directive (which, of course, is the taboo against causing harm to an extant culture). However, it brings up the classic dilemma of the greater good versus the rights of a small minority. It helps that the adversaries are driven by revenge and have become evil and inflexible. There are some silly clichs. At one point, the boy (a really tiresome, self centered brat) risks everyone's lives, including his mother's to go back into a cave to retrieve a sort of guinea pig pet. Of course, Mom goes after him and consequences follow. There are a couple of scenes where Riker earns his stripes when faced with what seems a hopeless situation. Picard is, as usual, a moral man, although he must remove himself from his Star Fleet responsibilities to confront the bad guy (Salieri to his Mozart). He also falls in love with the mother who has aged incredibly well. Data has been given a lot of screen time, still looking for fun and a sense of real human feeling. All in all, it's sort of fun, quite breathtaking visually, but it adds little that is memorable to Star Trek canon. "},{"Title":"Rising up against the faults of the last entry, Insurrection is a commendable reprieve for its maker and a solid adventure film.","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" To a personal extent, Star Trek Insurrection felt like a list of small, blank boxes on a plain piece of white paper gradually being filled out with a series of ticks. Let that not sound like a criticism, for it was not so much a film running through of any sort of formulae that induced this reaction; rather, it was the sense I got as to how distant it felt to that of the last entry 1996's wholly disappointing First Contact. For the record, First Contact was the first in this line of Star Trek films I did not especially take to, nor observe much therein to warrant a recommendation; but what director for that film and this one alike, Jonathan Frakes, has done is to correct each and all of both the problems and issues I had rear up in First Contact so as to allow for an enjoyable entry rich in mystery; adventure and that feeling one needs in films such as these that different worlds, times and the-like are actually being explored and engaged with.Granted, the opening sequence for this 1998 entry is straight out of Blue Velvet in tone and general aesthetic, but for all the meek complaints about how familiar it may or may not look, one cannot argue there is more of a sense of cinema at play in those opening few minutes than there was in the whole of 1996's aforementioned damp squib. Secondly, and where I was not at all fond of how Frakes created 2060's Planet Earth in First Contact (at no point did we get the feeling it was unfolding in an age of post-Nuclear War), amends have been made as to Insurrection's authenticity in that regard a genuine feeling that things are playing out on a planet we've never before seen featuring swaths of people undergoing their own cultural possessions authentically and defiantly. Gone too are the lousy Borg villains led by someone who looked more suited to being in Roger Vadim's sci-fi monstrosity Barberella, replaced by proper antagonists this time with principals; political motivations and actual menace. Like the best Star Trek films, this is about the adventures to worlds which exist within the minds of science fiction writers, although are quite fun to think might actually exist out there in the universe when we glance up at the sky on a clear night.The film depicts the on-going adventures of the new Generation of Enterprise commandeering folk, folk who took over from the crew that laid the foundation in the form of Shatner's Kirk et al. We begin with an appetiser featuring android of the series Data (Spiner) running amok during routine observation missions on a charted planet yet to fully bloom into a race of inter-planetary travelling people, events which will eventually lead to stalwart Picard flying out over there with his crew and check the place out. Initially, Patrick Stewart's Jean-Luc Picard is stuck in a procession of having to attend formal functions with other space creatures; forced into adhering to their strange cultures and coerced into being as polite as possible, even if it means donning odd clothing and having to learn alien languages he's never heard of. We used to be explorers, he mutters en route to yet another nullifying, humiliating evening of standing around and holding a glass of whatever in that way that's supposed to make you look cultured.In true Search for Spock fashion (still my favourite entry), after hearing of events involving his close non human-being counterpart that might very well affect their well-being on a grandiose scale, he slinks away illegally and off to the aforementioned planet to check things out. Once there, one of StarFleet's own in Anthony Zerbe's character says all the right things but leaves enough to be doubted, while F. Murray Abraham's bizarre creature Ru'afo reiterates said sensation out of the fact he just looks weird. Picard sticks around, and sure enough uncovers a fiendish plot to do with the eco-makeup of the planet which allows for certain fantastical things. Granted, the film has its roots in cinematic pop-culture (what with the scenes involving Picard and the natives striking us as Dances With Wolves-esque), while the overlying tract about certain people putting aside technological phobias and embracing machines too often reminds us of James Cameron's Terminator 2. Observe, if you will, the film's scenes between boy and machine and how they echo Furlong's own with Schwarzenegger's titular robot. Additionally, recall Sarah Connor's reaction to actually being granted the opportunity to destroy the allied T-800 in said film. Stopped by her own son, she comes to realise (epitomised by that handshake nearer the end) that there was indeed a place in their plight for this machine and that he served his purpose and served it well.In lining these up against First Contact's cinematic roots of inspiration (a sort of poor man's sci-fi Die Hard with a little bit of what constituted as an Alien sequel back then thrown in for bad measure), we observe plateaus of inspiration that are of an ilk requiring substance the bond between a man and a woman; the recognising of technology (or modernity) as an item one can fall back on, and not Grab the gun, run around, defeat the monsters. Frakes atones for the monstrosity that was First Contact with Insurrection, something he does so well that we forgive him for casting himself in a role that sees him get a spaceship dogfight manoeuvre named after him. The film is an enjoyable entry, authentic in its sets and setting; never bogged down like the last one often was and comes complete with a set of decent villains &#x96; recommended. "},{"Title":"Too 'PC' for My Star Trek","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- 1998, Captain Picard gets orders to go on a secret mission. The first action sequence is invisible Starfleet personnel chasing an invisible Data because of his logic circuits damaged on the space hippie or 'spippie' planet. Invisible Starfleet personnel have been secretly and stealthy studying the behaviors of the planet's inhabitants for many years without their knowledge or consent. This film is about a 'spippie' planet colony were the planetary forces make you immortal and forever young. These hippies have found this special planet with the odd life giving multi-phasic radiation. They're 'spippie' because, they once had Warp drive capability spaceships and advanced technology, but gave it all up. They want a 'green' pre-industrial life. Another race is planning to take the planet away from the space hippies.*Special Stars- Star Trek The Next Generation crew. Jonathon Frakes directs.*Theme- StarFleet always saves the day.*Based on- Roddenberry's Star Trek TNG universe.*Trivia/location/goofs- The spectacular filming locations were in the Californian Thousand Oaks area and Convict Lake regions. Data's underwater lake sequence required the actor to have a special waterproof uniform, makeup, and electric hand props.*Emotion- A somewhat unremarkable Star Trek film. After a action packed film opening, the movie suddenly devolves into hapless mediocrity. The 'spippie' are so insufferably smarmy and overconfident that I did not care about the sinister plot to relocate them and to steal their planet. "},{"Title":"Something to watch once","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Oddly titled film is in a weird way Lost Horizon in space. The plot has to do with a planet that regenerates anyone who stays there so they don't get old. An evil race wants it and some members of Star Fleet seeking to stop their own aging are willing to go along with the take over plot. The Enterprise and its crew of course will not allow it to happen.Good, but really unremarkable and ultimately little more than a TV episode stretched to feature length (Okay fine nitpick, a two part episode). ts nothing anyone who has ever watched any of any of the series for any length of time hasn't seen before. Actually add in anyone who's ever gone to the movies or read any number of books. Its not bad, but it is the sort of thing that you can see it one and then never watch again. I think this maybe the one film I've seen the least number of times.Its neither the best nor the worst of the series, though it is probably the blandest. "}{"Title":"Most Entertaining, Least Substantial in the Series","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" On a planet inside what is known as the Briar Patch, the Federation watches over a people called the Ba'ku to study them. But after Data's (Brent Spiner) programming short circuits, the Enterprise crew quickly realizes that the Federation's plans aren't purely academic -- they wish to trick the Ba'ku into leaving in order to take advantage of the planet's natural anti-aging properties. Picard (Patrick Stewart) and his crew aren't ready to succumb to Vice-Admiral Dougherty's (Anthony Zerbe) orders.While Insurrection is a decent movie, and possibly the most enjoyable Trek film up to this point -- not the best, but most enjoyable, there's a difference -- it feels more like an extended episode than a movie. Especially with Next Generation's habit of doing two-part episodes, there was nothing particularly epic about getting them to have one more mission, no more life-threatening than any other. (No Borg, no Dominion, no Malcolm MacDowell.) With the show over, though, the movies allow us to get updates on our favorite Trekkers, with direction from Jonathan Frakes. Riker (Frakes) with no beard again (showing how whipped he is)? Data's further quest to be human? Geordi (Levar Burton) with no visor (although one still wonders why blindness can't be fully corrected in this time period). I'm thankful for all this, and Nemesis... if they made another film, I'd be there quickly.Like many of the episodes, this one had an interesting question -- is technology harmful or helpful for society? I think the approach is rather black and white. One people have denied technology and another embraces it. But I wouldn't say one is better off than another. Not wishing to have bombs is one thing, but technology as a whole is only as good as those who use it.Insurrection will be enjoyed by the Trek fans, but it may not be the next step forward. Nothing really changes... in fact, you could skip this film and go to the next without having missed out on any plot. It's nice to see Picard with a romantic interest, but it doesn't really last. Worth watching, but not essential. "},{"Title":"Same old 'Trek's.","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take A decent, above-average odd-numbered 'Trek'If you aren't much familiar about the big-screen Star Trek franchise, here's the most important thing you need to know The odd-numbered curse. It's been some sort of an asset (call it a curse) to the big-screen franchise that most odd-numbered Trek films are usually weak and unsatisfying, or at least fall short of the even-numbered one's that either preceded it or follows it. I wouldn't actually agree that all are bad (STAR TREK III THE SEARCH FOR SPOCK, which was one of these odd-numbered films, actually is among the very best in the series). But many of the films have been affected by this curse. Indeed, STAR TREK V and STAR TREK GENERATIONS, the latter being only disappointing but still.STAR TREK INSURRECTION is the 9th entry in the series (making it the 4th odd-numbered Trek), and the second directorial attempt by star Jonathan Frakes (STAR TREK FIRST CONTACT). And the signature shots of success from FIRST CONTACT are quite visible here. Frakes is still in control, and he still knows what made his previous Trek a wild success. INSURRECTION registers as another enjoyable action-packed entry in the franchise. The special effects, whilst not quite as convincing the likes of STAR WARS, are terrific. The action scenes are enjoyable, there's some decent acting, the scenery and photography are classy and good-looking. What the film lacks, however, is a more cohesive storyline.The plot, whilst confusing at first, turns pedestrian then on. A peaceful planet inhabited by a race of humans called the Ba'ku, living peacefully as an immortal race, is threatened by another alien race called So'na, led by its leader named Ru'afo (F. Murray Abraham), who wants to 'evacuate' the Ba'ku from their planet so that other systems can benefit from the planet's Fountain of Youth. Capt. Picard (Patrick Stewart) leads his crew and risks his career to try and save the Ba'ku from extinction. But the threat itself, the villains, aren't especially as threatening to say the least, not exactly as good as other villains (previously the Borgs from FIRST CONTACT) in the series. There are also a fairly weaker batch of characters that are rarely memorable nor special.Of the series, INSURRECTION is one of the weaker entries in the already long-running series, or the series that could follow. But, although mediocre, STAR TREK INSURRECTION is not without its pluses. Summer audiences could do no wrong with the action scenes and special effects, even of the film boldly goes where every summer audience has gone before. It's weak, but worthy.Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Time to call it a day","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I suppose Paramount should be commended for seeing the franchise through nine movies, but INSURRECTION is pretty bad. The plot is creaky but OK elements from the Federation and an alien race wish to take over a planet with special properties. To do so, they must remove the planet's peaceful, agrarian inhabitants, even if it means killing them. Picard and crew decide to defend the planet, even if it means a court martial, or worse, for everyone. Jonathan Frakes' direction is flat and his blocking is awkward, plus the action sequences lack zing. Also, the crew is showing its age, and the frequent closeups don't help any. And it may not be Frakes' fault, but some ST regulars have very little to do in this one. They mostly stand around. The makeup on the evil aliens is laughable they look like they're wearing brown lunch bags pulled tight over their heads. And everything that happens in this movie has occurred before; there is nothing new to latch onto or feel a sense of awe or wonder about. Everything just felt so tired. For ST fans only. "},{"Title":"ST FILM NINE A Reinterpretation of the Prime Directive","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The follow-up to First Contact and actor Frakes' 2nd directing job, following the pattern established by actor/director Nimoy on the 3rd & 4th Trek films. There are intriguing plot points early on involving Starfleet's and the Federation's attitude towards relocation of colonists, an obvious parallel to our 19th century approach towards American Indians. It's another take on the oft-used phrase 'the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few' (or the one), and points out that the Federation is still far from perfect even in the 24th century, riddled with bureaucracy and policies based on expediency. I'm not sure this is what Roddenberry had in mind when he conceived the whole Trek universe, which seemed a bit more evolved in comparison to our current approach on the political front. There are also brief references to other problems plaguing the Federation of this time frame, related to the Borg threat and the Dominion war. These are nice nods to continuity but, again, creates a very unpleasant picture of what we used to think of as a solid framework for near-utopia and the grand notion of exploration. Even actor Stewart's character Capt. Picard addresses this briefly, when he wonders out-loud on whatever happened to their status as explorers. What, indeed.Instead, we are treated to what amounts to a double-length episode of the TNG series - just another standard mission - and not a very exciting one, at that. The plot revolves around two sets of peoples introduced here the pleasant Ba'ku and the unpleasant Son'a. The Ba'ku, which number about 600, have really lucked out they settled a planet about 300 years ago whose planetary rings have extraordinary properties in terms of halting the aging process. Based on the exposition, these Ba'ku kind of sound to me like people who escaped Earth's 3rd World War in the 21st century. They have knowledge of advanced technology such as holograms but choose to spend their time in pre-industrial farming techniques; it's basically a return-to-nature scenario. The Son'a, on the other hand, indulge in grotesquely extreme plastic surgery to fend off advancing years and are understandably temperamental due to all the skin stretching. Their technology is, in some ways, even more advanced than the Federation's and they covet what the Ba'ku have (naturally nice skin). At least one Starfleet admiral agrees with the Son'a that the benefits of these planetary rings should be spread around more and so, an underhanded plan ensues. There's an unintentional amusing tone to this set-up, dark as it is, slipping nearly into satire, almost as bad as the silliness in the 5th film, The Final Frontier. Of course, when Picard learns of this unscrupulous plot against the Ba'ku, he will have none of it, and this at least puts us all back on track in terms of Federation principles and the well-known honor of the TNG crew. There are some nice bits related to the crew becoming somewhat rejuvenated while on this planet, some of it amusing (Worf), some poignant (LaForge's eyes) and some satisfying (Riker & Troi). Some other stuff is just too silly - the extended scene of Picard & Data singing an old Broadway tune (stop, please, stop). There are also very clich sequences - Data's developing friendship with a Ba'ku boy; the entire 'boy-goes-back-for-pet' scene, resulting in jeopardy for the adults who follow him. Taken together, these add up to a ho-hum adventure, as if the writers were simply caught without any really new ideas. I really wish these Trek films would've concentrated on something unusual and extraordinary happening to the characters, rather than following the week-to-week pattern of an episodic series. Since way back to The Wrath of Khan, the Trek films had pretty much avoided the central theme of the original and Next Generation series, that being seeking out new lifeforms and civilizations. Unfortunately, though there is a limp attempt at this here, what they found here was nothing new, but more of the same. It's a nice, pleasant revisit with the crew, as well as a retread of the issues presented in the original series episode The Omega Glory from 30 years prior and TNG's own Journey's End in its last season. "},{"Title":"sweet and funny and different","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" while at first you have t wonder why such an idea ever became a star trek film, i mean star trek are action rite?, it becomes clear that while this id different it still contains sum of the action and is a refreshing change from the heavy handed story lines that sometimes appeared in the kirk era. after the action packed previous two next generation films this soppy moral is well needed and well done. the idea that the machine wants to save what the humans have chosen to ignore is quite depressing but when the crew rally round to save the needy Baku you have to wonder why its always your hero's that help the fleet but in the need your just glad you got to see the captain of the enterprise sing a song about pirates. it does of course as all films come together in the end but as usual there is the battle beforehand - and this time were treated to two simultaneously! the visual effects are stunning. by far the best bits of the movie are shot on Baku, Geordie and his sunset, picard and his bird (in more ways then one) are probably some of the best. and watch out for data's new friend - somebody give that kid an Oscar! "},{"Title":"Acceptable, but far from decent","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When comparing all ten films made in the Star Trek genre, the majority will probably agree that the finest films of this series are numbers II (1982), VI (1991) and VIII (1996). When considering the essence of these films, a certain degree of formulation can be constructed in regard to the perfect film. Irrelevant of which crew, whether Picard or Kirk led, the truly great films are those which have action, a decent plot, banter amongst the crew, enough scenes involving the ship and an amazing enemy. In Star Trek II The Wrath Of Khan we had all of these points, the same being true of The Undiscovered Country and First Contact. With this ninth encounter however, we are given a film full of crew banter, a decent plot and action, but for the majority of the time the story is set on a planet and the enemy is actually rather pathetic.In Star Trek Insurrection, Captain Picard travels to an area of space known as the Briar Patch to retrieve Commander Data. Data, who's actions are eventually explained, has gone berserk attacking a Federation outpost as they study a supposedly Prewarp society. When Picard arrives however, he is confronted with a conflict between Federation Orders and a peaceful society which simply wishes to exist. Forced to choose between duty and morality, Picard chooses the obvious answer and sets forth to protect the peaceful Baku from the evil Sonar.If the previous formula of plot + banter + ship + enemy + action decent film is correct, then the only way to analyse Star Trek Insurrection is to consider whether it fills these categories.Firstly, this film succeeds because it actually has quite a decent plot. By considering the moral implications of an action and having the Federation being on the negative side, it succeeds in making us support Picard's rebellious tendencies. At the same time as this, we are presented to Riker and Troi's blossoming relationship as the two accept their mistakes and link up again. Returning to where they were when the very first episode of the series was shown, these two characters have always meant to be together and this episode's actions lead on nicely to the wedding in the next film. Finally on a plus point, for one brief spell, the ship and action combine themselves well in the assault by the Sonar. Whilst this scene is slightly ridiculed by Riker's use of a joystick to control an enormous ship, in general the mammoth fight scene with the Enterprise being attacked is monumental in that we finally get to see the ship in action.This film has a decent plot, a lot of banter and the occasional bit of action and starship combat, that's a plus side. Sadly however, Star Trek Insurrection has some key problems.Firstly, and admittedly this isn't on the formula for a successful film, Insurrection is just too nice. The Baku live in a form of paradise, and the way Picard stands up for them is brilliantly written. At the same time though, it feels like they need a dark side. When considering the film viewing audience, everyone loves a hero. We all love that this person will risk their neck to do what's right. At the same time though, we like the hero and the culture they fight for, to have a negative point to them. If you consider films like Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom (1984), the plot is destroyed by the fact that the people Indiana saves are ridiculously nice and appear to have no flaws. In this film the problem is the same. The Baku are a warm, friendly, intelligent, artistic community, but we never learn of their flaws. We never learn of how they were once fools who made countless mistakes and learn from them. Instead of this, we hear that the Baku are just really nice people who want to live a simple life and enjoy themselves. The point is that nobody would deny a happy life to anyone, but it's always nice to hear of a perfect persons failings. If the Baku, or anyone for that matter, is too nice, they just sound pretentious and the viewer looses a sense of connection and develops a desire to kick them in the teeth.Another problem with Star Trek Insurrection is that, as an enemy, the Sonar are just not that good. These whining babies, who have a secret past, spend their entire time trying to steal from the Baku in the meanest possible way. The Sonar remind us of the bully in the school ground who beat up the weakest children out of spite for their parents treating them better than the bully's parents have. They just aren't appealing.To summarise Star Trek Insurrection, it doesn't quite fit the formula. Whilst Rick Berman (writer) has noticed the beauty of the banter between cast and crew, he never really gets the film right with the enemy. If we were to use the potential formula for Star Trek films, then this film has a decent space battle scene, a lot of banter between the crew, and a decent plot. On a downside however, the enemy is a pathetic, waste of space, who needs to grow up, and the Baku, the people Picard tries to save, are just far too nice to really be attached to. Like so many episodes of Star Trek Voyager, this film's peaceful Baku give the impression that they paint their walls pink and ignore the fact that anything bad happens in the world. Star Trek Insurrection could have been good, but it falls hideously short of standards. "},{"Title":"To Boldly Go...Nowhere...","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  STAR TREK INSURRECTION could easily compete for the Worst Film of the Franchise award with STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE, STAR TREK V THE FINAL FRONTIER, STAR TREK GENERATIONS, and STAR TREK NEMESIS, and isn't it a sad state of affairs when virtually half of a series of films are that bad?Perhaps the combined responsibilities of guiding both the film series and Trek's television dynasty were too much for Rick Berman; perhaps 'the well had gone dry' after his 'dream' project, FIRST CONTACT, reached the screen; perhaps over ten years of involvement with the 'Next Generation' cast and 'Trek Universe' had taken a toll on his creativity. For whatever reason, INSURRECTION 'feels' like a minor television episode of 'ST The Next Generation', and is that most unforgivable of faults, a totally forgettable experience.Reviving the old chestnut about the search for 'the Fountain of Youth', the film further erodes the frequently-ignored Prime Directive, as the Federation, influenced by dermatological-challenged alien, Ahdar Ru'afo (F. Murray Abraham, nearly unrecognizable), moves ahead to evict a nearly immortal civilization from their homeworld, just to provide a select few an opportunity to enjoy the planet's unique gifts. A happy, contented species living at peace in a 'Walden'-like setting has always unnerved the Galactic Overloads, ever since the original 'Trek' series of the sixties (as Kirk used to put it, A Society without Ambition will stagnate and die...) Of course, our stalwarts of the Enterprise end up on the planet, with the expected results; Picard gets a girlfriend, Data bonds with a boy, Worf gets zits, Riker and Troi get frisky (and he decides to shave off his signature beard), and Beverly Crusher enjoys her newly swelling breasts. That the characters still look the same as all this is happening might tend to make one feel that the changes are more psychological than actual, but this is an concept we are not supposed to consider. As the 'truth' about Ru'afo is revealed, his nefarious plan becomes obvious, and Picard and Company must stand against the Federation, and protect the inhabitants...which gives the film it's title, but little in the way of dramatic impact. Yes, another Enterprise is trashed and lives are threatened (Riker on a joystick, controlling the remains of the starship, brings unintentional laughs, and Data's butt comment, embarrassed ones), but the end result is neither suspenseful nor exhilarating. This is the kind of film where you check your watch, to see how much time you've wasted...not a good sign for ANY film, and disastrous when viewing a 'Star Trek' movie.As fans again pointed to the 'Odd/Even' theory of 'Star Trek' films, there was the hope that the next film, NEMESIS, being even-numbered, would be great, and renew the series' vision...but this was a standard that was about to collapse... "},{"Title":"Star Trek Orbit Continues to Degrade","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection is a weak entrant in the Star Trek cycle. It's not alone in this category; the movies often don't live up to the promise of the TV series. The story, about the forced relocation of the peaceful inhabitants of an idyllic planet, is almost entirely lacking in drama. The characters, most of whom we know so well, are undeveloped and two-dimensional.  Captain Kirk and crew mined the film's moral concepts of non-interference, situational ethics, and non-violence often and more successfully during the first TV-series. Actually, the movie feels like a two-part TV show, for which it would have been better suited. For trek fans, well you've already seen it. For those who haven't, there are much better science fiction films around and I recommend you look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Not the best in the series, but a close contender","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not the best Star Trek film in the series, but in the top three. The sentiment of the original Star Trek films makes a welcome return, not unlike the highly praised Undiscovered Country, but with new found boldness. The story seems to race through, almost cramming too much in, too quickly. Despite this speediness, the performances don't suffer. The story focuses on Picard and a new found emotional side of his character, yet still retaining his old series qualities. It may not be the best, but it's well up there at the top. "},{"Title":"Maybe it's time to retire the series","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  STAR TREK INSURRECTION possesses all the negatives that NEXT GENERATION brought to the franchise, while missing most of the positives.  Johnathan Frakes is a dull enough actor without  giving him so little to do.  Gates McFadden's character might as well as been phoned in.  By the way, McFadden has aged better than Marina Sirtis.  Why didn't anyone conjure up a reigniting of the romance once suggested between Stewart's Picard and McFadden's Crusher?  That might have produced a more interesting movie.  Stewart's Picard has always been pretty much of a cold fish anyway.  Of the Enterprise crew members, only Data (Brent Spiner) really makes much of an impression.The pacing of the film betrays Paramounts stinginess with the budget.  The earthboard (relatively low tech) sequences just drag, while the spacebound sequences are abrupt and confusing. Sadly, just the addition of a few establishing space shots would have raised the quality of this movie significantly.  There is also a scene in the very early stages of the film, a brushoff by Picard of an alien whom, it is suggested, has the solution to the film's chief conflict.  This subplot goes no where.Maybe it's time to retire the series, at least until someone at Paramount stops trying to kill the cash cow that is the STAR TREK franchise. "}{"Title":"Here we go again!","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  EESH. Nothing more than a bloated episode of the mercifully terminated TV show, filled with the same technical jargon and neverending moral dilemmas that made the series intolerable. The only effect this film had on me was that it reminded me of how excellent Star Treks 2 and 3 were, and how badly I wish they were available on DVD. "},{"Title":"Widely considered mediocre, but much much more...","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to see Insurrection with all of my friends who aren't much of Star Trek fans and they didn't like it but I thought that the way the cast members interacted is really great. I thought the increase in the amount of comedy was a nice touch and the villains were excellent. F. Murray Abraham is a very good actor and Anthony Zerbe portrayed the guilt-stricken, torn between right and wrong Admiral Dougherty fairly well. When I saw Ru'afo kill Admiral Dougherty, i was like Whoa! He really is evil. The romance is a given and was pretty good. Patrick Stewart was just fantastic, and you could tell how much fun he and the rest of the cast had making this movie. It was definately the best of the odd Star Trek movies (not that 1,3,5, or 7 are much to compete with) and I give it a solid 8/10. "},{"Title":"The future of the galaxy and the survival of a race...","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Insurrection is my fourth favorite Trek film, ranking under First Contact (#1 fav.), Wrath of Khan (#2 fav), and Voyage Home (#3 fav.). The special effects are amazing and the jokes are good. A must see. "},{"Title":"Could have been better, needed to have more plot.","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was indeed a better film than First Contact (but I liked Generations better), however I never got interested in the movie. The plot seemed to be pretty much entirely lacking, and the story was somewhat dull. The only interesting part of the entire film was when Picard learned how to truly experience the joys that time presents us in life. The rest of the film, while entertaining, I found to be rather bland. The effects were very well done, and (unlike First Contact) they remembered things that had happened previously in the movie, such as the warp core was gone, so they didn't warp away at the end of the movie. Overall, I simply didn't see any kind of climax to it, and was relatively uninterested. "},{"Title":"The Odd Number Curse.","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm glad to the say that the odd number curse is over thanks to Jonathan Frakes, Rick Berman and Michael Piller. Rick Berman and Michael Piller did a terrific job on the story! The Star Trek movies just keep getting better and better. I have to say I was a little worried at first. "},{"Title":"Better than First Contact and all but STIV. Tied with ST IV!! Both are the best Star Trek movies ever!!!","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is extremely well put together. It has none of the plot loose ends that First Contact does, and the introduction especially is so much better.You aren't thrown into the story, each element builds on itself much better than STFC, and the story is very flowing. It has all or more of the charm as far as being down to earth as STIV does (without the actual planet Earth being anywhere in the movie).None of the plot elements are left not making sense, it's easy to understand why EVERYTHING happens, (I don't mean right away!), and the plot altogether is just absolutely excellent!And, Oh Mother...the Special Effects can't compare to First Contact by 70,000 Light Years!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!ONE LAST NOTE If you can still save yourself, DO NOT READ THE PLOT IN ADVANCE. Oh, how I wish that I had not, but alas, it was August, and I broke down and read it...Again...DON'T!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!There are so many great surprises and PLOT TWISTS that you will RUIN in the plot, that I recommend EXTREMELY STRONGLY against reading it, AT LEAST NOT BEFORE SEEING THE MOVIE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ...See Insurrection in Stereo...the sound is UNBELIEVABLE too!!!For comparison My own Star Trek ratings (on a 1.0 to 30.0 scale)Star Trek IV 29.8Star Trek  V 11.0Star Trek VI 22.0Star Trek 7   Generations 19.5Star Trek 8 First Contact 25.5Star Trek 9  Insurrection 29.8Yes...It Is That Good!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Frakes has broken the odd-number jinx!","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was by far the best odd-numbered Trek!  In fact, it was just plain good!  You can see that Frakes knows Trek and has broken the curse.  This movie has less of the Federation-at-war flavor of recent years and more of a feeling of pure Next Generation Trek, a refreshing change from Dominion, Dominion, Dominion.  Don't get me wrong, there are still plenty of explosions, warp core problems, Ryker's tactical genius and the Captain's sleeveless shirts.  But there is also Gilbert and Sullivan, light-hearted humor, ethical questions, stirring Picardian prose, you know, the whole nine yards.So.  Go see it.  You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"The best odd-numbered Star Trek Film","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Insurrection is definitely the top candidate to snap the dreaded odd-numbered curse that seems to plague all odd numbered Star Trek films (e.g. VII was sub-par, I and V were terrible).  Villian Ru'afo (F. Murray Abraham) leaves a bit to be desired and the starship fight scenes are not quite up to the First Contact level, but the story line is sound and the theme  inspiring.  Picard and crew are forced to confront a crisis of conscience as they stumble upon a federation approved ploy to force the relocation of a small colony from their paradise world.  The special effects are no less than sensational, but the true charm of Insurrection lies in the character interaction.  On the character interplay level, I found the film to be superb.  Focus is spread from the Data/Picard emphasis in the last two films, and we get to see some of the long lost TNG gems re-emerge (The pre emotion-chip Data, Riker/Troi relationship, etc).  Overall, I felt the film made the most of a seemingly less earth shaking storyline (borg invasion, death of Kirk) and in doing so returned us to the softer and more humanitarian side of Star Trek that many have come to know and love.  Make no mistake, though, those who are looking for another action packed, effects-heavy film will find plenty to love in Star Trek VIV. "},{"Title":"Star Trek 9 lives and counting....","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  DULL!! DULL!! DULL!!Lord what an inconsequential movie. It seems at times to be leading up to something, but it never does...oh gee, they stop an 'invasion fleet' of 3 ships, peopled by F. Murray Abraham's old farts. Yay. What is it with these guys, can't they come up with something that Moves, or that you care about? Star Trek 8 was at least Kinda interesting(Borg stuff usually is...)but this...they go and save a bunch of over aged Boy Scouts in the mountains. So what? Episodes of Space 1999 had more resonance folks...My thinking is that they should just Let things go for a while, drop the series and films for about 5 years, come up with some New ideas, producers, writers, etc. and then give it another whack then. As it stands right now, it is a tired series, about done its run...what made Babylon Five good was that thew knew when to quit, 5 years, and Trek just won't. And its Showing its age guys, big time; better bring it to a halt before we get another travesty like Star Trek V.... "},{"Title":"pretty much like an extended episode of STAR TREK TNG","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The above comment really wasn't meant as an insult. While this film is not a great Star Trek film and quickly fades from your mind after you see it, it is still a well-made movie and is worth a look--especially if you've already invested your time in seeing the other films of the series.In this film, the Federation, very uncharacteristically, makes a dirty deal with one race from one planet to wipe out another on another planet and colonize it for themselves. The crew of the Enterprise is shocked this could have occurred, but since they are the ultimate arbiters of the Prime Directive, they come to the aid of the beleaguered natives.It's nice to see Anthony Zerbe in the film. He was a perennial slime-ball character actor from the 60s and 70s that hasn't been seen very much in recent years. "}{"Title":"I wish they'd stop letting these @#$%! TV writers write movies!","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Once again the ST faithful are subjected to a fair-to-middling two-hour television episode. I wish to God they'd stop letting these TV writers write these movies. The movie takes no chances; not for one second do I feel that anyone is in danger. Ugh--I give this one a begrudging 5. Better than Generations, and about as bad as First Contact.At least I'm glad I paid matinee prices. I'd hate this movie a lot if I had paid eight bones to see it. I'll never pay to see it on video though. I've paid my Trekkie dues to keep the franchise going one more time. But I swear, if I smell another TV episode coming in the next one, I won't bother going. "}]