[{"Title":"Magical Fun","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"57 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a fun movie, surprising and funny but much more for adults than children- it's too scary and graphic for little ones.  Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman give star-powered performances- both deliver the goods here and you'll enjoy it whether you're fans of them or if you're not. They're simply charming and as much as people may want to dislike Kidman for being Ms. Cruise, she again proves she's a star in her own right.Forget the critics and the Be-faithful-to-the-book drones, this is a good movie- hip, edgy and sometimes spooky.  If this was a movie made by two unknown actresses, it would be a gem critics would recommend to audiences, but for some reason with Bullock and Kidman, it gets reviewed on a different scale and ends up short for people.  Forget all that- it's great entertainment with yes, two pretty big stars- but they can't help that so get over it and enjoy the movie for what it is- a real gem. "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"35 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Normally I don't care for chick flicks, but I can't seem to stop watching this one over and over again.  I was surprised that so many others didn't care for it.  I just loved the sets, the costumes, the women and their relationships, the real magic in the film, the special effects, the child actresses.  This was stuff that women could relate to better than men.  Aidan Quinn was the only boring part of the movie.  I wished they'd chosen an actor who was more into the role.  He seemed bored and made his part in the film more boring.  (Also, he mumbles.  Someone should give him elocution lessons.)This movie wasn't meant to be heavy.  It was meant to be light, fun fluff, and that it is.  The characters weren't meant to be deep, but I felt the relationship between the two sisters was deeper and well performed by two skilled actresses.  In spite of the fluffiness of it, I enjoyed the two scenes in which we got to sit and relax to the sound of Stevie Nicks' Crystal.  So what if cars weren't crashing and guns weren't shooting.  They weren't supposed to be.  I felt the camaraderie of the moment as the two sisters and their aunts got drunk on midnight margaritas while dancing to Harry Nilsson's Lime in the Coconut.  It was just plain light fun.  Also, women can enjoy the vicarious satisfaction of watching these women destroy the evil, bullying man who tries to destroy them. The end of the film was rather Disney-kiddie-flick-like.  Another ending might have worked better, but it was tolerable because it reminded the audience that the film was all in fun, and not to be taken seriously.I usually prefer deeper films, but I thoroughly enjoyed this piece of fluff.  Sure it was silly and campy, but it was fun.  A film doesn't have to take itself seriously to be fun.  Bullock, Kidman, Channing, and Wiest are beautiful, charming and wonderful to watch in this flick, and I love watching the four of them over and over again. "},{"Title":"In favor of this movie!","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Reading the reviews of this movie is like being on a teeter-totter. One hates, the other loves, one hates... I LOVED THIS MOVIE.Maybe it's because I come from a family of 6 sisters.... The bonding and care between the sisters and the Aunts, standing against the rest of the town's distrust and dislike shows family strength.  When Sandra is weeping over her husband dying, I cried with her. I thought it was a fabulous moment for her in the movie.If you want a movie about a woman getting revenge on an abusive husband, rent The Color Purple (ALSO a fave of mine)  This movie was playful, at times slightly spooky... Hello? It's a Witch story... it should have SOME spooky stuff in it, and I don't feel the special effects were too over done.As far as them inviting the women of the town in to help, I loved that whole sceen as well. The flash backs to the sisters as children and not wanting to let the other go... all of it. Each time that sceen pops into power mode, it makes me want to call every one of my sisters.  I haven't read the book, so I understand there might be some disappointment from those who HAVE read it. Movies rarely pack the punch of the written word they're based on. (Like EVERY King movie EVER put on film!)But I adore Practical Magic.  I saw it in the theater, and bought it as soon as I could. "},{"Title":"The Witches of Eastwick with a twist of lemon . . . .","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"39 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked Practical Magic a lot. I didn't think I would because it was about two sisters and seems to be a chick flick. However, there was a lot more to the movie than the relationship between Gillian and Sally Owens. For example, Gillian is possessed by the soul of her cruel mate after Sally accidentally kills him with too much magic. Also, the Owens curse plays a pivotal role in the movie. I was surprised by the movie and I know it should have made a lot more money, but the timing of the release was probably wrong. Good actors, and good direction. I bet the book is good too.  "},{"Title":"Way better than the score would indicate","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"30 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Light and easy, suspenseful in parts, funny, charming. How you'd expect normal ladies to act if they happened to be witches. I spent a pleasant Sunday afternoon with this film. Best part is when they use the PTA phone tree to recruit a coven. Watch it, you won't be sorry "},{"Title":"A Wonderfully fun movie","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorites - I love watching it.I have to agree with the remarks by AshIsTheGal and Warlen. Nicole Kidman had never been one of my favorite actress either, but I loved her in this movie (as I did Sandra Bullock). The real standouts though were Stockard Channing and Diane Wiest - watching them perform was almost worth the price of admission itself! They are wonderful.I don't see this movie as being about magic or witchcraft, the romance between Sally and Gary Hallet or even Jimmy Angelov chasing Gillian (which is a huge catalyst - but not really any more than that). For me, this movie is really about the relationships between sisters and women (the Aunts Franny and Jet, Kylie and Antonia, the Owens' women and the townswomen and of course, between Sally and Gillian - both young and adult).All of the actresses had a great chemistry, but I couldn't believe how well matched Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman were. I felt that their bond was very believable and I loved watching their relationship to each other (and themselves) grow and mature as they went from being children to adults.I certainly don't think that this film will appeal to everybody, and I can see why so many people don't get it, but if you watch it more for the relationships between the women and not so much for the romance angle or the magic I think that you will really enjoy this movie. I thought that the romance and magic were handled very well, I just saw them as being secondary to the real story. Also - it has a wonderful soundtrack.I read the book after seeing the movie, and while there are many changes between the two, I really enjoyed both. I thought that the changes made to the movie made for a better movie overall.All in all, a very enjoyable movie. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Deliciously Wicked....!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Finally.....Through this autumn's movie mediocrity, comes a fresh, fun and deliciously wicked movie by acclaimed actor/director Griffin Dunne.  I must first point out that I did not read the book... and also that I am male (drawing attention to this fact since most of my male friends would not be caught DEAD in a male-bashing, chick flick dark comedy that reeks in the celebration of womankind!)Sondra Bullock and Nicole Kidman are devilishly sexy as the spell-casting sisters doomed to be single for the rest of their natural life... and Stockard Channing and Diane Weist are also enchanting as their aunts that have raised them on chocolate cake and midnight margaritas!  Aidan Quinn rounds out the superb cast as a detective determined to find out the truth behind the disappearance of a wanted killer.With a terrific soundtrack and an equally impressive musical score, Practical Magic will surprise and delight many a filmgoer who delves into the fantasy and fun of being bewitched! "},{"Title":"What I think...","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"33 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Although this film received a lot of negative feedback from the press I think it is one of the best films I have seen! The acting, settings, etc were all spot on and the characters easy to relate to. This also received a lot of bad press from Wicca Organisations - I am interested in the craft too and found the film to relay the information in a suitable and exciting manner - Excellent!!! "},{"Title":"A fun movie, despite a few weak points","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It appears that director Griffith Dunne tried to keep this film from being as powerful as it could have been.  The movie fails to fully develop the town's overt fear of witches (missing only slightly), the full foreboding of something wicked this way comes with Jimmy (although the script lets them get away with it), and the magical love bond between Sally and Gary.  A few small changes, such as more supportive background music, would have made these points support and counterpoint the lighter parts of the flick.Bullock and Kidman are very good as the central characters, very believable as different-but-bonded sisters.  Kidman is a little too flaky at times to be a fully credible witch, but this characterization runs well enough in context.  Channing (whom I rarely enjoy) and Wiest are excellent in major supporting roles, outdone only by Webb and Wood (Sally's daughters) who show their abilities by *not* overacting their potentially cutesy roles. Instead, they do a great job in stating variations on their mother and Aunt Gilly.Overall, I think most aspects of direction and production could have used one more iteration of quality improvement.  Still, the movie is quite enjoyable, and worth watching again some time. "},{"Title":"Sweetly enjoyable.","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm sure I'm not the only Magick User to review this movie, but if you're interested in a pagan view, here it is. If not, have a nice day.There is no devil in the Craft. How wonderful to hear those words come out of Sandra Bullock's mouth! I was simply delighted.I'm not going to sit here and waste your time with the plot. The movie's been out since 1998 and most of you already know it. If you haven't seen the movie, the rest of the reviews gives you the plot, ad nauseum.Nicole Kidman's character, Gillian Owens, is played wonderfully as a seductress. It was a bit stereotypical (remember the flighty Wiccan in Blair Witch 2?), but well played by Kidman.I did not like the use of Belladonna, as it is used in the movie. It portrays a dark intent, which is something anyone in the Craft will tell you is strictly against the rules. However, it is a tendency in Gillian's (Kidman's) character to be drawn towards the dark path, and was therefore fitting.And who can't identify with Sandra Bullock's Sally Owens wanting nothing more than to be normal? Who IS normal? WHAT is normal? Love is normal. And that's all she wants is to love unequivocally and receive that love in return. And then there's The Owens Family Curse. We all have ours. Some bald early, some have the unbelievably spacious nose inherited from Uncle Elmer. My family curse is the lack of child-bearing women in My family, hence I am the last of My mother's family. She had only Me and I have bore no live children. At least she didn't put the usual curse on Me. (The I hope you have a kid JUST LIKE YOU! curse.).The idea of Sally (Bullock) owning/operating a botanical shop, I manufacture bath oils, is spot on. Many Magick Users long to do something along those lines.Sally and Gillian's bringing back Gillian's lover (Goran Visnjic) from the dead (?!) We don't do that. (Dianne Wiest as Auntie Bridget Owens) That spell book would have had to have been passed down from at least 5 generations, if not more to even HAVE a spell like that within its bindings. That having been said, those in the Craft don't do that. Most CAN'T do that, and those who can...well...shouldn't. Necromancy is of the Dark Arts, and is no part of the Craft. And finally, the ending.The ending was quite fantastic and over the top. Insanity, if you ask Me, but ... no one did.Jumping off the roof of their house, in full witch regalia complete with pointy hats, bucked shoes and red and white-striped stockings, and floating down to the ground safely and slowly, FLOATING! down like that...put a fantasy-styled ending to what otherwise would have been a big boost for Pagans in the mundane world.It's a very entertaining story, and contains great portrayals by.... Sandra Bullock .... Sally Owens Nicole Kidman .... Gillian Owens Stockard Channing .... Frances Owens Dianne Wiest .... Bridget Owens Evan Rachel Wood .... Kylie Owens Alexandra Artrip .... Antonia Owens ...right up until the ending. But the ending doesn't negate the entire movie. It just degraded its value far more than Pagans would have liked. It still gets a 7.2/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"fish tosh!","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"30 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Fish, tosh to those who didn't enjoy this movie. I guess the old saying is true you can't please every one. I don't get it. This movie is light as a feather offending no one. It has the best beginning of any movie I have ever seen. What other movie gives you a laugh in the fist 30 seconds? When Maria Owens jumps off the hanging ramp, snaps the rope and scares the hell out of 38 people and the dove even flys away as quickly as he can. That's funny! It's easy to follow all through the movie and I really like that. This movie was a laugh academy all the way. So so many laughs. The best one was when Sally mouths out I don't know When Gary has Jimmy's hand go into him and he's outside the look on his face is priceless. I could go on and on about this baby. It was great with a great cast, great acting and of course Sandy Bullock and Nicole kidman. How can you beat that? Those two are a sheer delight. I think you get the picture. I love it! p.s. Nice po po in the garden scene of SANDY. I also don't want to get in the way of Sandy's left hook. Joe Frasier would go down. "},{"Title":"A very unique film, full of magical surprises...","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A couple of months before Practical Magic came out in theaters, I read the novel it was based on by Alice Hoffman, and loved it. So when I went to see 'Practical Magic' the movie, I didn't know what to expect, since most movie adaptions from books are very different and disappointing. But, while this was very different from the novel, I was pleasantly surprised. 'Practical Magic' is not your average romantic comedy or your average witch movie. Instead, it mixes the 2 genres together and creates a sparkling film that never gets boring. Even though some scenes are a little far-fetched, the acting, relationships and storyline keep it from getting too weird.As for the cast, I don't think it gets much better. Sandra Bullock pretty much plays her usual character, but she plays it with a well-acted sensitivity and you definitely sypathize for her. Nicole Kidman, is brilliant--very wild-child, but not so trampy that you hate her--and probably the most interesting character ( and the best performance) in the whole movie. Dianne Weist and Stockard Channing are extremely well cast as the eccentric aunts, and their on-screen presence is breathtaking. Aidan Quinn is also very good, playing Sandra Bullock's 'perfect man'. So what's my final outlook on 'Practical Magic'? Excellent. Sure, it's not a flawless, Oscar-worthy, masterpiece, but it's fun and one of the most interesting films I have seen in a long time. So, if you're looking for a well-acted, well-written, unique film, I definitely recommend 'Practical Magic'. And don't forget to read the book!  "},{"Title":"There's a little witch in every woman....","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I remember watching ''Practical Magic '' with 12 years old in a movie theater, after all, since I was very young, I liked a lot movies with magic and witches. I am surprised to just now notice that Evan Rachel Wood is in this movie, in the role of Bullock's kid, as well as Dianne Wiest, the 'Lucy' from ''lost Boys''.. I think it is nice to know that one of my favorite scenes, the one where Gillian, Sally and their aunts are drunk, was a true and honest scene, since ''the actresses actually got drunk'',as the trivia's says...The plot Sally and Gillian are sisters and are both witches, like her mother, her aunts and the women of their family. But they carry on a family legacy,that only leads the women to tragedy and sadness all the men who get close to an Owens,eventually dies.(The women in the family never give birth to boys, by the way.) Many problems start to happen when Gillian's boyfriend dies and Sally stays in love with a detective. "},{"Title":"Lazy evening bubblegum movie","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Saw this last night, and was looking forward to watching a film with both Nicole Kidman and Sandra Bullock.As for the witchcraft aspect of the film, it looked all OK to me. Nothing was too wrong or inaccurate, after all, there are as many incarnations of witchcraft practices as there are shades of green. That is to say that any portrayal is not necessarily wrong, as there are no set teachings in what is right and what is wrong when practising the craft. So to the person who said it was totally incorrect when the bird is stabbed with the needle as Wicca doesn't do it, no. Your practice of wicca doesn't but other's might.My main complaints about the film are script and production inaccuracies. The first is when Kidman is saying that her boyfriend is from Bulgaria close to Transilvania... he's got the whole Dracula-cowboy thing going on. Please. Transilvania is a region in Romania - a totally different country. Even from the border of Bulgaria and Romania to Transilvania is at least a couple of hundred miles. The 2 countries are different in language and culture. I really hate when films from the USA get such basically simple but fundamental things such as geography wrong. It's not hard to get these things right! The second thing in the film, which is more of a goof... when Sandra Bullock had to go and rescue Nicole Kidman, the aunts were going to take the kids to the Solstic Celebrations. There are solstices a year. One on 21 June. The other on 21 December. The film was supposed to be set around the December solstice. There was no mention or indication of Christmas (or anything to do with the Christmas season) in the film. OK, witches may not necessarily put up a tree, etc. But in the scenes with Kidman in Arizona, or wherever, surely the motel would have had something Christmassy - from experience in the USA, 4 days before Christmas, everything has lights and decorations.I'm tired typing. But these were the 2 main issues which bugged me about the film since I saw it last night. "},{"Title":"Hard to describe","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Possible spoilers throughoutI'm not sure if I liked this movie or not. The premise was good. The acting was good. The special effects were excellent. Because I know several pagans, I can say that the magick aspect of it was fairly accurate (more accurate than most of the witch movies out there now, and, as a ghost hunter, the banishing was really well done.)Having said all that, I still can't pinpoint what I really didn't like about it. It's like the movie couldn't make up it's mind if it wanted to be a comedy or a drama; a modern fairy tale or a true to life tale.The end came too quick and the answer to the problem seemed too pat and too easy. I didn't buy it. The townspeople changed their minds too easily. You don't get over 300 years of prejudice overnight.It was enjoyable, but not my favorite movie. "},{"Title":"Watch it for Nic and Sandra","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The two ladies are simply amazing! If sexy legs and cleavage and up-all-night sisterly cuddles are your idea of good-natured fun (not without a bit of funky twist of the supernatural), then this movie will do you justice. Mmm.Personally, I've never felt such intensely contradicting emotions during the course of one movie. Most of the times I'm grimacing for better plot development. That is, can the story dump the cliches with more confidence and truly explore real-life issues of women such as abuse --- instead of using it as a stepping-stone for sexy actresses to get wicked and 'bewitched'?!) The stock characters of the female townies, always adversary to the sister-witches, are truly embarrassing.The film remains superficial precisely because it touches on, rather than develops, very complex phenomena like fear of witches (read powerful women), competition among women, abusive relationships, women's cinderella dreams, fitting in, female ambitions (examplary housewife or wild slut - your pick), etc etc etc!!!! Instead these issues are *exploited* for a *greatly* uneven film a hodge-podge of romance, black/family comedy-drama, suspense, crime story, science fiction...We CAN still have a fun and exciting movie with a story that focuses on, respects, and gives its all to one or two of these topics without using them for their surface/shock values (really!)It's highly possible that the film started out with a solid good script based on the book and gets tampered with by the studio for maximum appeal later on. The most horrifying aspects for me? The flying witches at the end (oh GAWD!) The strange cut from the sexual passions of the main romance to a weird-and-weak confrontation with the supernatural undead boyfriend (as if the effects people are itching to drop a load of Hollywood eye candy - even at expense of awkward development!) And the overall stereotypical typecasting of women.The only enjoyable elements left of the film are the two female leads. I have to admire their courage and creativity in some of the absolutely ludicrous moments (midnight magarita, flying as witches, one nibbling on the other's ear...) And that atmospheric opener with grandma-witch who got knocked up by an unfaithful member of the male species and is crying up a storm toward an open sea?....just fastforward to Nic and Sandra. Or pop in Witches of Eastwick for a more acceptable film of a similar theme just don't expect it to be as sexy;)  "},{"Title":"Fun, fast-moving, interesting picture","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The term Chick Flick, is applied as a word to belittle a movie in my view. This film features females in the primary roles, and males in secondary roles.  I was reminded of Thelma and Louise,  and Boys On The Side.I am ready for as many of these kinds of films as the director and producer will create.  This film tells a story.  No car crashes, no machine gun bullets, no explosions.Right on! "},{"Title":"The first good Pagan-oriented movie I've seen.","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Let me start by saying that, overall, this was a pretty good movie. I'm usually not that interested in romantic comedies, but this is one of the better ones.  I think the more important aspect of this movie, though, is how it presents modern Paganism (Wicca, in particular).Coming from a Pagan point of view myself, I've been waiting for this movie to come out with many mixed feelings and misgivings.  I was hoping that it wouldn't be another typical witch movie and I must say that I was really pleasantly surprised.  It did glamorize the workings of the Wiccan Craft quite a bit, but that's to be expected. How many movies are there that don't do that to their subjects? Take X-files...I'm positive that there's a lot more paperwork than action in the FBI, but you can't make a movie out of filling out forms.  If you look past the flashy stuff that was put in to draw audiences and make the movie appeal to the general public, you find a well-researched representation of what Pagans do day-to-day.  So even though it wasn't totally true to today's form of Paganism, I must say that it was a step in the right direction of overcoming all the negative PR that Pagans have had to endure all these years.  This is the kind of thing that is needed to convince the mass populace that we are not better or worse or dangerous, but just different.  So, please, support this movie as part of the on-going campaign to get all of us out of the broom closet. "},{"Title":"Witches' Brew of Mismatch Genre","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Sally (Sandra Bullock) and Gillian Owens (Nicole Kidman) have been told by their aunts (Stockard Channing, Dianne Wiest) early on about the family curse. Their ancestor Maria Owens was hung as a witch, but she survives. She was exiled to what is now their home Maria's Island in Massachusetts with her unborn child. She casts a spell to never fall in love. The curse has endured killing all the men that Owens women love. Gillian is the wild child and she wanders away from home. Sally stayed home. Against all odds, she falls in love with her husband and has two girls. Everything seems fine until the curse strike her husband dead. Then drunken mess Gillian calls one night for help. Gillian's boyfriend Jimmy (Goran Visnjic) takes both sisters hostage. Sally tries to dose Jimmy with belladonna but an overdose kills him. So they bury his body in the yard. Police detective Gary Hallet (Aidan Quinn) comes investigating the missing Jimmy. Only Jimmy's spirit is now haunting the sisters.This movie is a witches' brew of mismatch genres. It wants so desperately to be a rom-com. But there are some really dark fantasy elements that would probably be better off as a thriller. And then there are real slices of horror. It's a wildly inconsistent mess. For so much of it, director Griffin Dunne is using such a delicate light touch to the tone that all the murder and mayhem seems weirdly fake. Bullock and Kidman are great actors who has good chemistry together as sisters. However, the chemistry between Bullock and Quinn is questionable. The main reason being that the love may be spell induced. I just don't know what to do with this mess. "},{"Title":"A dark comedy, chick flick style","Date":"22 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I hate using labels like chick flick, but one look at the IMDb voting demographics shows that this is literally a chick flick. As of the time I'm writing this, females rate it nearly 2 points higher than males, and in the under 18 group it's even more exaggerated.Well I'm a guy, and I dug it. If you're flexible enough to appreciate the macho man cheesiness of Commando (like Arnold Schwarzenegger riding on the landing gear of a Boeing 747) as well as the chick flick cheesiness of Pretty Woman (like Richard Gere riding on the sunroof of a white limo) ...both of which are equal in amounts of cheese but from different perspectives... then I think you can have a fun time watching Practical Magic. Why? Because it seems to hit us with both extremes.On the surface, the story seems to be brewing a sinister dark comedy the Owens women just can't seem to keep men long before they kick the bucket. Tons of potential for a slightly demented Beetlejuice kinda story, or even Heathers. But instead of going in that direction (i.e. treating death as crazy joke), Practical Magic takes it quite seriously and is not afraid to get pretty sentimental on the subject. In other words, it takes a very morbid guy flick story but treats it with chick flick sensitivity.And that's just the beginning. We haven't gotten to the other dark themes of wife beating, alcohol abuse, sexual promiscuity, murder and re-murder. So, you ask, if it has all these disturbing themes and refuses to make light of them, how the heck can this be a comedy? The answer is that the leading ladies, not just Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman but also their crazy aunts played by Stockard Channing and Diane Wiest, act their roles with playful humor and endearing wit. It reminded me a little of Sex and the City, the way the stories can be downright upsetting, but the humor comes in the way the characters behave despite it all. Practical Magic doesn't rely on a silly story for its laughs but instead lets the acting pave the way for levity.Roger Ebert gave this movie a mostly negative review, saying the movie doesn't seem sure what tone to adopt, veering uncertainly from horror to laughs to romance. But I think Ebert failed to see that the film's charm is the fact that the characters can indulge in laughs and romance *despite* the horror.Ebert also criticized 'Practical Magic' is too scary for children and too childish for adults. Who was it made for? The answer is it's made for adults who can indulge in childishness. Basically if you get the gist of my review, it's the idea that this film is an unexpected blend of opposites. I have to admit it caught me off guard for a while, but I eventually figured out the rhythm and had a fun ride.Do NOT expect a sinister, dark comedy. Do NOT expect a totally light-hearted silly romp either. The best way I can describe it would be to compare it to some of the 80s horror-comedies like Fright Night, Vamp or even Gremlins but with a dash of Thelma & Louise. Throw em all together in a giant cauldron and have some fun. "}{"Title":"I really enjoyed this film.","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" As much as I hate to admit it, I really liked this film. A little on the subject matter, first. It was all pure hooey. That said, there were a few accuracies woven in their somewhere on the subject of Wicca, but alas, Hollywood seems stuck in the dark ages concerning the ancient philosophy. So it didn't dispel any of the time honored myths, it just riffed on them, but to often hilarious and often entertaining ways. Best of all, it made fun of witchcraft, rather than burned women at the stake for it, which it worked particularly well&#x97; not demonizing something is always a good thing. But especially surprising was the passionate tryst between Bullock and Quinn, which was so hot that it practically peeled the paint off my walls. Who knew that Plain Jane Bullock could actually conjure up some sexual magic of her own on screen? All in all, great fun and well told, all done tongue in cheek. Just go for the pure, dumb fun of it and you may just fall under its spell. "},{"Title":"Practical Magic &#x97; A soft movie about witches and woman power","Date":"18 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Practical Magic is very much a woman's movie which is very different from a chick flick that essentially tries to capture the attention of female viewers by playing on their desires. This picture is about women for women and mostly made by women.Everything has a soft feminine touch to it, even the violence and the action. In this piece, witchcraft simply represent women power. The scenario is built around what it means to be a strong woman, how it can set you apart, and the danger associated with this strength.It has sweet moments, some tearful moments, some funny moments, and a certain dose of intrigue to pique our interest. Now, you can't jump into this movie and expect a big bang, like what you usually get out of most Hollywood movies. No, you'll get entertained, but delicately.It has a few flaws, but small ones, and the acting is not stellar, but very good, and sometimes just average. So, it's not perfect, but if you want something more gentle, it's excellent.You don't want fireworks, and still want to spend a good evening, this is for you. "},{"Title":"A magical and fun fantasy that would be perfect if it weren't for one big problem","Date":"19 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It's not easy making a successful fantasy film. But there are many examples of the genre that have done just fine. Films like 'The Wizard of Oz,' 'Labyrinth,' and the recent 'Lord of the Rings' trilogy have delighted those who love to be taken to magical places for years now. Others like 'The Neverending Story II The Next Chapter' and 'Legend' didn't fare so well, though they still have their fans. When trying to blend fantasy with other genres you have to be careful to not let one overpower the other. You have to create a balance. 'Practical Magic,' based on a popular book, is one of these films and for the most part it works because of the talent behind and in front of the camera. But it's not quite perfect.Pros An awesome cast that seems to be having a blast. Also there's such a great camaraderie. Good sense of humor. A real sense of fun and magic. Has a lot of heart. Beautiful shooting location and the main house is a dream. Also the costume design really stands out. A nice score and soundtrack. Swift pace.Cons The film can't quite figure out what it wants to be Comedy, fantasy, romance, all three? I blame the writing. Not that the film is poorly written, it just needs focus.Final thoughts Aside from a script that's kinda all over the place, this is a really fun movie. There's no pretension about it, it's purpose is to entertain and put it a smile on your face and it does just that.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Sandra and Nicole are a whimsical match","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Although it's quite simple in its approach and it doesn't really contain much depth, Practical Magic is entertaining as a lighthearted fantasy-comedy.Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman are Sally and Gillian Owens, two beautiful orphan sisters who were raised by their eccentric aunts, who happen to practice witchcraft.Now all grown up, the sisters finally part ways and the audience gets a glimpse at both of their interesting lives. One runs away to find adventure and one falls hopelessly in love. Everything seems perfect until a dark series of events brings the Owens sisters back together...When a malevolent force threatens to kill Gillian and begins terrorizing Sally and her children, the sisters have to dig up their magical backgrounds and dabble with dangerous spells and curses.The movie is never too serious and Sandra and Nicole shine in their roles, each giving a touching and comedic performance. They are a charming match, clearly a lot of effort was involved and they play off of each other as if they were real sisters. The most amusing characters are the wacky aunts (Stockard Channing and Dianne Weist). "},{"Title":"A practically magical film...","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I watched this movie for the first time years ago, when I was quite younger. I watched it again recently, and I'd like to say that I really liked the way the theme (witchcraft) was presented and used. Mixing modern and traditional elements, natural and supernatural, the film is suspenseful but romantic, including witches and common people, concerning past and present. This variety of characteristics is, I believe, the greatest plus of the movie, along with satisfying performances by S. Bullock, N. Kidman, S. Channing, D. Wiest. Practical Magic is a must for paranormal-lovers, or for people looking for a drop of everything fantasy, love, fun, suspense... in this interesting mixture by G. Dunne. "},{"Title":"Simple, Fun, No Harm","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay so it won't make the Oscar line-up but so-what.  This was simply a fun, feel-good, light-hearted film.  Nothing more, nothing less.  I couldn't figure out if the movie was a love-story, a comedy or horror story but that was why it was so much fun because it was a bit of everything.  You critics need to lighten up.  There are many more serious movies out there for you to bash.  Leave this one alone!!!  "},{"Title":"Fun film that doesn't stereo type the Craft.","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this film was very nice. There was action, some romance, drama a bit of comedy and all without sacrificing Witchcraft.  The Witches were shown to be nice folks often misunderstood. The only thing I did not like was a ritual in which a bird was stuck with a pin.  As a Pagan I can say that we don't do that kind of thing.  Animals are often considered sacred and are friends.  Other than that,the movie presented Witchcraft in a fun light which I much appreciated.The characters showed some depth, but I got the feeling that there were some good scenes left on the cutting room floor to limit the time.  I would have liked to have seen some magic and a better close up of the leading man's eyes so you could tell they were different colors...   "},{"Title":"It surprised me!!!","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I read the book first and was expecting to be disappointed by the movie, but I wasn't. The movie strayed from the book but still managed to carry its own weight. I liked the twist of adding the possession into the story.  "},{"Title":"Haven't I seen this somewhere before?","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie had so much potential, but never quite found its groove. Sandra Bullock character was one she plays well, but one we've seen from her often before, most recently in Hope Floats.  Nicole Kidman's portrayal of the wild child sister bears a remarkable resemblance to Meg Ryan's portrayal of Pamela in The Doors.  "},{"Title":"An Enchanting Movie About Romantic Witchcraft","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Practical Magic is among the best movies to come out this year.  It's a grown version of the best of Buffy The Vampire Slayer and Ally McBeal with magic.  This movie's fun humor and serious drama make for a wonderful emotional roller-coaster ride with some frightful moments and some hilarious moments and some poignant moments.  This movie is more about all manner of human relationships with witchcraft as a background setting and it succeeds in a spell-binding fashion with a great soundtrack that fits perfectly into the movie.  Unlike all the critics who said this movie couldn't find its center, this movie hexes those critics and displays its own enriching manner of plot and movie direction under Griffen Dunne.  It has its own charm that sets is own agenda instead of catering to critics' love for simple movie genres. "}{"Title":"Super!  Nicole Kidman is hilarious!","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Practical Magic is one of the most unusual chick-flicks I've seen in years. It deals more with the relationship between sisters Sally and Gillian (Bullock and Kidman) and how they deal with their magical powers than with the romance part of it.  Nicole Kidman is hysterical as the promiscuous, fun, yet not as magically gifted sister.  Sandra Bullock is wonderful as the serious sister not willing to use her magic and wanting to live a normal life.  Any fan of either Kidman or Bullock must see this movie.  They are both back in rare form! "},{"Title":"a very good time","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  While it will be labelled as a chick flick, which it undoubtedly is, Practical Magic is a good one.  I am a nineteen year old male, and I really liked the movie.  It isn't a great movie, but it's very enjoyable and a lot of fun.  Kidman and Bullock have excellent chemistry and are both gorgeous. Bullock's daughters are a delight and the supporting cast is great.  One main sub-plot is weak, but it doesn't destroy the movie.  I would definitely recommend it. "},{"Title":"Sexy actors fail to save over simplified adaptation of novel.","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Alice Hoffman's novel is a light and lyrical story that spans over 20 years. It is full of romance and humor with just the right touches of the fantastic and horror.  On film, the story is simplified to a core romance with an evil force menacing the central characters. The film has a light humorous touch in the relationships between the two sisters Sally (Sandra Bullock) and Gillian (Nicole Kidman), who have rarely looked better, and their two aunts, played by Dianne Wiest and Stockard Channing. The warmth and support of their family is a joy to watch. Less successful is the romance with leading man, Aidan Quinn. I think a few more romantic scenes would have helped build chemistry. The spooky stuff could have been handled with a better use of atmosphere and less special effect tricks. See it if you like the actors, but don't expect the depth of the book. "},{"Title":"This has always been my favorite movie.","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Ever since it came out, Practical Magic has been my favorite movie, and I was only like 8 at that time. As a pagan, I can tell you that it is NOT offensive, and the relationships in it are great, especially between Sally and Gillian; They remind me so much of me and my sister. And the soundtrack is fabulous. And the cast is great, everyones character is portrayed so perfectly. The setting is also great, and it all fits perfectly together. Certainly a highlight in Nicole Kidmans career, as well as in Sandra bullocks.It appeals to a wide audience because it relates to so many people, in so many ways.I have only good things to say about this movie "},{"Title":"Give this movie a break!","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie had no profound message, no deep spiritual meaning, nothing!  And I think it's great!  It's refreshing to have a movie that has no greater purpose than to let the viewer have a good time.  And it is.  Nicole Kidman and Sandra Bullock are two of the greatest actresses around today (see Kidman in The Hours for proof) and in this film they are just having fun.  Dianne Wiest and Stockard Channing are fantastic as the crotchety aunts (I wish they were mine!).  Aidan Quinn and Goran Visnjic are entertaining as the polar opposite male leads - one good, one evil.  All told, this is an entertaining movie that can be watched over and over just to be charmed. Another plus this movie presents the most mature take on witchcraft and paganism of any movie in the whole of film history.  Kudos to Alice Hoffman and Robin Swicord!10/10 (for sheer fun) "},{"Title":"It's Not About the Magic.","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have read through more than half of the reviews that have been posted for this film and have been amazed that no one seems to have caught on as to what it's really *about*.It's NOT about the Magic.  It's NOT about the witchcraft.  It's NOT about the romance.  It's about the power of numbers.  In particular, it's about how women grouped together have power to fight the physical abuse of womankind, when a lone victim, with or without one or two relatives or friends, does not.  On a lesser level, it's about how women who are not prone to being victimized can help rescue those who are.  Everything else is just for flavor.  Is a pumpkin pie about the spice?  Is a dish served flambe about the alcohol?This movie contains much food for thought.  Comments about whether it does or does not accurately portray the practice of Wicca are so far off the point as to be meaningless.Superficially, yes, it's fluff, and meant to be fun, and not meant to be taken seriously or as a work of art.  But dig a little bit deeper, for goodness sake, and see what's underneath that puffy exterior.  There's a lot there! "},{"Title":"Best Magick Movie Yet","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Being involved in Magick /Wicca for some time this movie is the best so far. Even though some of it is not correct (you may not harm animals) it is the first movie I have seen where witches (Wicca) is not portrayed as evil or bad. It shows that people don't have to be afraid of us and I love the end where the people of the town do learn this. The interactions of the characters was very good. I loved the aunts. Several of my friends watched this movie with me and it gave them a fresh perspective of my religion.  "},{"Title":"Should have stayed closer to the book...","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Having enjoyed the Alice Hoffman novel, I looked forward to the film, as the casting looked to be excellent (it was).  Knowing that no film can cover all the ground of a novel, it was nevertheless extremely disappointing to experience the departures the movie made from the book.  It was especially aggravating that the love interest for the Nicole Kidman character (not the zombie; it came after that part) was eliminated from the movie, and this was by far the more engaging of the romances in the novel.   The special effects were annoying and the exorcism scene was cliche-ridden.  However, the movie is worth seeing if only for the aunts (Dianne Weist and Stockard Channing). This could have been a great piece of entertainment - opportunity lost.  "},{"Title":"huh???","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you haven't read the book, you'll be lost (I hope if you read the book you'll get it).  We watched it and had no idea what was going on half of the time...very badly edited and/or written!  And this is NOT a comedy, as the ads would suggest.  Be careful when renting this one!!! "},{"Title":"Made me want to read the book","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, I haven't read the book, which seems to be better, but I liked the movie. I agree that it was pretty inconsistent, and the end could have been done better, but overall, I liked it a lot. I even liked Nicole Kidman in this movie, which says a great deal because normally I can't stand her. What can I say? Romantic comedies appeal to me. Not the best ever made, but enjoyable. "}{"Title":"The sound track got more attention than the plot.","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is just a little bit off.  Nothing is wrong with it, but nothing is right either.  The sound track overpowers the story in some places, and you have the feeling that the producer was planning to make money on it. "},{"Title":"While I normally HATE chick flicks, I'm glad I watched Practical Magic","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Practical magic is a girly movie, no way round that. Guys (in general) only like this movie because they want to please the girl they're watching it with, or because they get to look at Sandra or Nicole, or some combination of these things. But WHO CARES? Trish says DELIGHT in the chick-flickishness of this movie. It's such a great blend of comedy, drama and girly-girl sap that it's totally worth watching. Goran Visnjic is completely ab-fab-ly dreamy in this (the whole dark dangerous thing WORKS for him...works for me too, can you say amen!), Sandra Bullock is pretty much her usual bubbly vivacious self, and she even spared some charm for Nicole, who usually only grates like cheese. Stockard Channing and Dianne Wiest wore their characters and their hair extensions well, the kids were great, even Aidan Quinn was charming. I guess I shouldn't say that like it's hard to believe...I've seen plenty of his movies that I liked, I was just always kind of surprised that I did.The plot of this movie is a new twist on basic themes that were done to death loooooooooooooooooooong ago, so it's refreshing to see that they got a bit of a zazzing-up. It's a nice contemporary spin on the concept of witchcraft, and the house is really great (too bad it's not a real house).The flick is fragmented enough that some stuff comes out of nowhere and isn't really even a part of the story, and in context with the movie I would have sincerely only believed that the ladies that worked in Sally's shop with her would be the only ones to show up when the phone tree was activated, and it wasn't explained away very well.And Sally wanting to explain to Gary what crime was committed and how, and he (the officer of the law) would rather get all mushy about her letter? Gag.BUT! When compared to some of those horrible, implausible movies that are supposed to be based on non-magical circumstances that you see on Lifetime and Hallmark Channel, Practical Magic is truly a diamond in the rough. I liked it a lot.Trish "},{"Title":"Inconsequential Magic","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Maybe this is a perfect rental movie, something that's been out for almost ten years, has lots of recognizable and appealing actresses and actors, requires very little thinking, is moderately scary in places, has girl issue-stuff for the girls, and Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman for the boys.It's strange, but I liked Practical Magic more than my wife. She thought it was too spooky (but she covers her face with Murder, She Wrote) and just listened to the second half of the flick. I thought the movie had great potential and the power never got written into the screenplay. It's strangely ordinary and inconsequential because the emotional issues of sisterhood, bigotry (this time, against witches), and love just aren't that deeply explored.For me, it was a chance to be just entertained. And what entertainment--although Kidman is given a very secondary role, she is visually delightful. There's something very appealing to the lizard at the back of my skull with Nicole Kidman in a mini-skirt.But Practical Magic gave me a chance to rediscover Sandra Bullock, an imperfectly beautiful woman who exudes desire and decency at the same time. She's all elbows and kneecaps, with lips so pressed together that you're afraid she'll start shooting out steam from her ears and an ability to convey more than hurt and anger--disappointment and frustration are better--with her eyes.It's not prurient that I mention Bullock's breasts. Thank God she never went, as far as I can tell, for augmentation; small is just fine, thank you! When she wears a spaghetti-strapped top and no bra, she's not trying to wow you with headlights, but say that it's too damn hot to wear anything more when you're rooting around in your garden.Now, this may sound sexist piggy or psycho-pervo for me to go on about Bullock boobs, but she can get away with it. Bullock isn't a bimbo. She looks real, and that's why I've always liked her and her work.Once again, I liked Practical Magic, despite its flaws. It didn't get overwhelmed with special effects, wasn't over-the-top feminasty, and, on a side note, the girls' aunts, Stockard Channing and Diane Wiest, were delightfully similar to my wife's aunts.I say, Rent it!And stop staring at Bullock. The one time my wife turned around to watch some more of the movie, there's Sandra all pointy, and my wife says to me . . . Pig! "},{"Title":"Feminist empowerment","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I remember I watched this as part of a triple feature along with A Night at the Roxbury and Rush Hour back in '98. As would be expected of A-list headliners, both Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman are very capable in their starring roles and they are backed by supporting players who have since increased their profile like Goran Visjnic (The Deep End). I guess the story was fairly perfunctory the two sisters and their ancestors have always struggled to overcome the curse of their 'practical magic' the premature deaths of their lovers. I remember a classmate argued that the film was really a feminist empowerment parable bent on demonstrating the power of independence resourceful women could enjoy in an unconventional family structure. The witchcraft and the unconventional family structure were said to be a challenge to Christian attitudes toward witchcraft and the Bible's concept of family. "},{"Title":"What I liked . . . and what I didn't like . . .","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Or, what was strong -- and what was weak.  What was weak was 1) the relationship between Bullock and Quinn was not believable; nor was (2) the women of the town coming to their aid during the possession crisis.  However, I really liked all the witch women/girls their performances, and what an attractive family coven!  The locations (in Washington state) were marvelous!  I think this young director shows promise, and will likely get better as he goes. The soundtrack was very nice, and have placed it in my shopping cart.  This could have been a better film, but it was not a bad film, and there were certainly moments of good craftsmanship. I didn't quite understand the black hair/red hair multigenerational thing -- but I liked it!   "},{"Title":"What are you talking about?!","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of the most bizarre mish-mashes of a film that I have ever seen. It wanders from being a girl-bonding film to a romance to witchcraft with each segment popping up like one is reading a magazine with one part following another with no real cohesion between them. The basic idea is that Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman play witches, and Sandra can't have a normal romance with a human because she is a witch.We learn this early on and from this point on the film ambles through plot lines and ideas, each with about fifteen minutes till it moves onto the next idea which last for another 15 minutes. Each moment is so disconnected from the rest that you feel no real passion for the characters and no distinctive connection to the story, if you can call it that.If you're after a good chick flick with magic see Stardust, if you want a good chick flick in general see Bring it on, but for pity's sake please avoid this one. It's got Akiva Goldman's name on it and is from the same school as Batman and Robin. Don't say you've not been warned. "},{"Title":"Miscast Spell Miscast Spell","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.The first rule of screenwriting if you are going to try something quirky, or ironic or a synthesis of genres, you have to tell the audience where the ground is. It is not true that you have to have a clear focus, in my mind. Lots of film dance about and try on various tones. The viewer can handle it if they have some sort of an anchor. Doesn't take much, but that is missing here.Oh well. At least it has--One of the best boogie to music scenes I can recall.--A pretty good house. These are surprisingly rare. Look around your next few films to see what I mean.--It has some pretty poor filmmaking, but at least one delicious scene. Where one of the sisters (Bullock I think) is driving to see her sister, we see her in her car with the scene changing to night and then back. Its pretty original I think and very, very effective. If there were more like this, the movie would have been magical.--It has several redheads. I've become fascinated with how they are used in film. Few things in film are by chance and even fewer mean nothing. Here we have three generations of sisters and each consists of a brown and a red. means something. I'll figure it out and get back to you.--Speaking of Nicole, she's wasted here. But there is one `actor's moment.' Actors like to act characters that are actors, or are retarded, or are possessed. hat's because they can explicitly play two levels at once. Toward the end here, we have a possessed Nicole, and for that brief moment when he/she is enticed with a bottle, Nicole's talent comes through. The rest is all boogie, though. Hard to believe just four years later that Sandra Bullock gets billing over Nicole.Ted's evaluation 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Decent but boring","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Practical Magic is the type of movie that would be categorized as a chick flick.  While the chick flick genre can't be specifically defined, it is open for anybody to watch.  There are some parts of this movie I liked, and many parts I disliked. For example, I really liked the scene where Gillian and Sally tried to bring Gillian's boyfriend back to life.  It was very funny and creepy.  But the final scene where they tried to exercise the spirit out of Gillian, was probably unnecessary.  The movie moves at a vary slow pace, but the plot is decent and not too complex.  It's worth a look if you're Sandra Bullock or Nicole Kidman fans. "},{"Title":"Practically Awful - big stars, lousy script","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This truly has got to be one of the *worst* movies I've ever seen, and I definitely would have expected more from Nicole Kidman and Sandra Bullock. The movie has an awful script, and is often hard to follow. It's filled with plot elements that go nowhere, symbolism that doesn't make sense, and funny moments that aren't. And even though this is supposed to be a romantic comedy, there is a complete lack of chemistry between Sandra Bullock and Aidan Quinn. Top it off with an anti-climatic and unlikely ending (complete with cheesy, early-90's special effects), and you've got yourself a big waste of time and money. The big name stars completely failed to save this movie. Don't waste your time; do yourself a favor, head down to the library, and read the book instead. "},{"Title":"what about a sequel?","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I read the book a few years after seeing this movie, and i HATE the book! It's dark, depressing, morbid! BORING! The movie on the other hand is witty, charming, and lovable! Seems the people who read the book first, love the book. Those who saw the movie first, love the movie! I've not found anyone who loves both.I saw this movie when it first came out! LOVED IT! But, the DVD and VHS versions are not complete. Too much has been taken out compared to what i saw at the theater! I should know... i saw it a total of 13 times at several different theaters! I'm still waiting for the full length version!!!!! I've asked politely, and still have not received it! How about a 10 year anniversary theatrical release special DVD!My thought is, see the movie... forget the book... and lets hope for a sequel! SANDRA, work your magic and make me another... please! And, when it comes out onto DVD (or whatever viewing medium is next), make it the theatrical version! "}{"Title":"Women become witches because men are jerks or far too nice. Take your pick.","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A fabulous foursome of award winning actresses couldn't save this amoral view of the dark side of the gentle sex, minus the morality and right over wrong viewpoint of The Witches and Hocus Pocus. Veterans Stockard Channing and Dianne Wiest are the eccentric spell casting aunts who take in orphaned nieces and turn them to the light side of the dark side. Growing up to be Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman, they end up in bad relationships thanks to an ancient curse where any man who marries into their family will die a tragic death. Of course, Bullock ends up with two daughters (obviously no sons allowed), and the pattern threatens to be repeated.Sweetly filmed, there is still nothing that hides the fact that this really is spiritually ugly. Even in the two films that I mentioned, as well as 'The Witches of Eastwick, there was no denying the fact that the witches actually were up to no good. Here the two older aunts are presented as fun- loving Auntie Mame types, and the two younger women are presented in such heroic aspects that it is difficult to see past the fact that they are involved in dark forces. A scene where Channing and Wiest meet with a client determined to make a man fall in love with her just gives the insinuation that a woman has to turn to the dark side in order to find love in her life, and that is a very disturbing precedent, especially in a film that has such a family air about it. One of the major issues with this chick flick is that it doesn't really do any service to the advancement of women and any reason to take stories like this seriously. Certainly, Bullock's ill-fated marriage to a really nice man is emotional, but the one dimensional lover that Kidman ends up is written with absolutely no redeeming values. Aidan Quinn, as a detective on the sister's trail, is believable with a variation of qualities, but his sudden transformation under a witches spell falls short of believable. The gathering of local women in the conclusion is very anti- male, and the very final scene proves that this was just an attempt to sugarcoat what the witchy women of this family was really all about. While I can enjoy films which tackle horrific, supernatural or macabre subject matters, I strongly believe that the movies have a strong obligation to present certain ideas in a moralistic manner. There is nothing moral about showing unnatural ways of controlling another human being, and certainly any kind of magical spell to control nature is wrong. I'm guilty of adoring Channing and Wiest too much to judge them, and the fact that I liked them so much in this was very disturbing to me. They ain't no Rosemary's Baby type coven, and certainly not getting the come-uppance of the three sisters from Hocus Pocus made this questionable as to the motives of the filmmakers. And when they say that there's no devil in their craft, the only word that I can think of in response is, Bull! "},{"Title":"Practically Works With Leads and Visuals.","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Practical Magic (1998) Dir Griffin Dunne / Cast Sandra Bullock, Nicole Kidman, Aiden Quinn, Dianne Wiest, Stockard Channing Black comedy that may be referencing Sandra Bullock and her practical daily living or her instructions to her children not to use magic. It can mean love, which is much more powerful than magic. Bullock and Nicole Kidman are sisters plagued by their mother's curse after dying of a broken heart. It is said that any males they love will surely die. Bullock is married and has two children until her husband is struck by a truck. Kidman hangs loose until her boyfriend becomes abusive. Held at gunpoint Bullock accidentally poisons him. Bullock states that there is no devil in magic. She obviously obtains her's out of a box of Lucky Charms. Witchcraft is treated as a game as oppose to dangerous. Director Griffin Dunne bypasses predictable storytelling with exquisite visual elements. This is an improvement over his previous film Addicted to Love, but neither films clash humour and their dark elements very successfully. Bullock and Kidman survive the hocus-pocus bullshit with fine chemistry but Aiden Quinn as the investigating officer is standard. Dianne Wiest and Stockard Channing play their crazy aunts. Despite its seemingly free spirit attitude, this film is not for children. Interesting yet unfocused, which fades the real magic. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Something of a Precursor to American Horror Story","Date":"11 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The wry, comic romantic tale follows the Owens sisters, Sally and Gillian, as they struggle to use their hereditary gift for practical magic to overcome the obstacles in discovering true love.I have to give this film a 6 rather than a 7 or 8, because it seems like it was trying to go in different directions, which made it never strong enough as any one genre. It could be fantasy, but it's not. It could be PG-13 horror, but it's not. It could be romantic comedy, but it's not. There should have been something more here than what we got.What is interesting is the inclusion of music from Stevie Nicks, the White Witch. This makes me think the film had to be a strong influence on the writers of American Horror Story. The hereditary witches, the mixing of potions, bringing the dead back... and Stevie Nicks. This can't just be written off as generic witch stuff. "},{"Title":"Kind of a let down","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Practical Magic is a 1998 comedy film starring Nicole Kidman and Sandra Bullock. This film is about the 2 stars trying to escape a curse set by their ancestor on any man that loves an Owens woman. The movie does have some pretty cool looking special effects, and there is very good chemistry between all the characters in the movie. Although the film's plot seems a bit jumbled and unfocused. The movie's comedy falls flat many times even though the characters are likable. At a few points I was confused as to what the movie was actually about. Dianne Wiest and Stockard Channing gave good performances as the two aunts that take in Nicole and Sandra as children after both their mother and father pass away. Like I said, the movie seems a little bit confused and some people might become bored with the movie, as I did at one point. Really the only thing I enjoyed about Practical Magic was the characters played by some of my favorite actors and actresses. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Did not coalesce into a good movie","Date":"30 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It's hard to put my finger on exactly what went wrong with this movie. Many critics said things like it doesn't know what it wants to be or it is mixing genres. I don't really see anything wrong with mixing genres. It can make a film more original and less formulaic. It just seemed that most of the cast just lacked chemistry with one another. This is odd because these are very talented actors. Nicole Kidman and Sandra Bullock just didn't ring true in their roles as sisters. Neither did Aiden Quinn or Goran Visnjic. The real chemistry was with the older sisters, the crazy aunts, played very well by Stockard Channing and Dianne Wiest. In spite of some good stuff, it did not coalesce into a good movie. "},{"Title":"love it !","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is so far My favorite movie of all time ) although its just 4 years older than me but the magic, the actresses, the story and everything makes me happy and enthusiast. I simply love it ) The magic in this story is so simple and UN-harmful its just pure and sweet. The acting of Sandra Bullock was amazing and the hair of Nickole Kidman was definitely the best in all of her movies (their clothes too) The story of Maria is good. The first time I saw this movie I was almost 14 and it got me D ! Till now i f I'm really sad, I just try to search for this movie and Puff ! My mood is completely changed. So I recommend this movie along to potion of love or the ninth potion. I don't really remember Also the first movies of Sandra Bullock to those who want to change their mood ) "},{"Title":"Not the best Sandra Bullock movie but still OK","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" SO this was on ITV 2 last night and I was switching back and forth as I wanted to watch Little Fockers too so I decided to check out Practical Magic because I didn't see this movie since I was a kid.The movie is about two witches played by my all time favourite actress Sandra Bullock and Moulin Rouge actress Nicole Kidman who's ancestor cast a spell so that if they ever fall in love with a man he will die as this black beetle shows up. SO Bullock marries and has two kids and has a loving husband,but when Bullock(Sally) saw the black beetle she freaks out and gets a premonition that her husband has died as he got ran over by a lorry. Meanwhile her sister Gillian(Kidman)is in love with a bad boy who turns out to be a alcoholic and she poisons him with sleeping pills crushed. He dies too only to control Gillian's body. Will Sally save her sister against the evil spirit of her sister's evil boyfriend??Overall if you love witches and if you are a fan of Bullock or Kidman than check it out. Not too bad but not the best film I have ever seen.Keep an eye out for Stockard Channing who plays a witch in this movie and irish actor Aidan Quinn as Bullocks new love interest. Channing btw was in Grease as the pink lady chick from the pink lady squad. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I love this movie! It combines everything I love. I love witches and this movie isn't your typical witch movie. It shows the good and the bad sides of magic. Magic causes death but it also causes love. The cast is fantastic. It's probably the only movie I like of Nicole Kidman's career. Sandra Bullock is always amazing. Stockard Channing and Diane Keaton are my favorite. They have great chemistry with each other. I don't think the movie would be as good without them. I really can't see how people don't like this movie. It's funny but serious; it has love and magic. It has a really good soundtrack too. What's not to like? "},{"Title":"Hands down one of the best movies ever.","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A great movie is one that covers the important things in life. Family, love, acceptance, and challenges. Practical magic covers all those things. It's a movie where you learn to accept those different from you, you learn about family, you learn about love, and you learn about magic.Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman shine as sisters, Sally and Jillian Owens. They were born into a family of witches. Stockard Channing and Dianne Wiest star, as they're eccentric but loving aunts Aunt Frances and Aunt Bridget respectively. The girls are sent to live with their aunts after their parents passed away. The Owens women are under a curse, it happens when they fall in love. The man they are in love with will die. One night while watching their aunts cast a spell for a woman desperately in love, Jillian decides to take a chance on love, while Sally decides to cast a spell to protect herself. Jillian leaves home from their small Massachusetts town, while Sally stays behind with their aunts. Before Jillian leaves, they cast a promise to each other, using the blood of their hands. It's one of the most touching scenes in the movie where you can see just how strong their bond is. Sally ends up falling in love with Michael, a produce salesman in town. The curse strikes again leaving Sally a widow, and a single mom of two daughters. Jillian finds herself in a bad relationship, and one night uses their bond to call on Sally when she's in trouble. Sally shows up and accidentally kills Jillian's boyfriend by using too much magic. But in a twist, he's not really dead and haunts the sisters until their family, and town come together to stop him. A stranger rolls in to town to investigate and finds himself strangely drawn to Sally. Would she take a chance on love again? Will the curse ever be broken? The end of the movie will leave you speechless. This movie is one of the greatest movies because it covers everything. The cast shines, the set and town where they chose to film set the scene perfectly, and the beginning gives you a clear picture of how the Owen women came to be. I would recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"The Second Half is the Best","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I've seen this show many times growing up, it was one of my mother's favorite movies. I think it had a great cast and some of act 1 and act 2 part 1 have some great scenes that are very cool. At the same time, the second half of the movie is really the part to watch because it is the best that that movies has to offer. I give it a 3 of 5 (or equivalent) because it wasn't the best movie on earth and it isn't something that I personally want to watch all the time. I enjoy magic and the movie had more Wiccan features in it than most movies, it wasn't something that was fully for show and fancy special effects which is a plus if you like true to magic movies. "}{"Title":"Thanks for movie","Date":"19 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Fun movie surprising and funny it's I can say scary. I like it good graphic for 1998. Any way I want to say Thanks for movie I have good time ) This is an idea I had ages ago and have been tinkering with on and off for quite a while - basically a website which shows you a series of options, and you choose the best one. Sometimes they'll make sense against each other (IMDb, Microsoft or Google) other times they won't.(The Beatles or Back to the Future), but the end result should be a) a list of the best to worst things ever, and b) a bit of a laugh. It's still a work in progress, but please visit http//www.warlockbook.com cast some votes, submit new options, and let me know any thoughts you have on how to improve it Practical Magic. Thanks! "},{"Title":"silly, but unforgettably sweet supernatural romance","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Any film with Sandra Bullock is going to be nice, and whilst I don't generally think Nicole Kidman is that great, I really like her in this film. Great supporting cast with Diane Wiest, Stockard Channing, Aidan Quinn and Goran Visnjic, it's well acted, as a drama rather than a fantasy (which can often be cheesy) but this has a lot of tenderness, suspense and love; both romance and sisterly. It's also funny - Bullock often brings humour in her delivery - and entertaining and watchable. It is a bit Hollywood and predictable but that is part of the charm as of course you want a happy ending.Essentially about a family of females who are witches, and generally hated by their community. They've never had luck with love and generations of women have ended up alone until fate deals them a hand that allows them to love and be part of the community. It's not a fabulous film as it is what it is, a fantasy chick-flick but it has a lot to endear it with good performances/and a nice story. "},{"Title":"Lovable Romantic Magic Story","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I've read quite a lot of negative commentaries on this lovable romantic comedy. Come on, guys, did you lose your sense of humor and your sense of wonder somewhere else? I have never read Alice Hoffman's novel, upon which this movie was made, but I liked this movie a lot. This is fresh, upbeat, very sweet work, and it is very humorous, quick, very romantic in a true sense, and never drags. The scenery is pretty beautiful, and hey, the house is a real wonder here, you just feel like wishing you'd be living there! The script is nothing very difficult to grasp and this is the very mixture of various genres that makes this movie so endearing and ultimately watchable. I enjoyed the excellent performances of Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman - they did a very good job here, and they never forgot to be funny and even clumsy when necessary. Great and refreshing soundtrack made the watch even more exctiting and cool. There are several unanswered questions within the plot, but maybe the novel answered them, and I was just a bit perplexed. But this is a minor misdemeanor, in general, this is a very good Sunday night watch! "},{"Title":"Decent!","Date":"2 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Bullock and Kidman are very good as the central characters, very believable as different-but-bonded sisters. Kidman is a little too flaky at times to be a fully credible witch, but this characterization runs well enough in context. Channing (whom I rarely enjoy) and Wiest are excellent in major supporting roles, outdone only by Webb and Wood (Sally's daughters) who show their abilities by *not* overacting their potentially cutesy roles. Instead, they do a great job in stating variations on their mother and Aunt Gilly.Overall, I think most aspects of direction and production could have used one more iteration of quality improvement. Still, the movie is quite enjoyable, and worth watching again some time. "},{"Title":"Great story suffers from Hollywood chick-flick syndrome","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Alice Hoffman's Practical Magic is an eccentric little novel centering on the misadventures of two sisters with a talent for benevolent witchcraft. It would truly make a great movie...this is not it.Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman are cast as Sally and Gillian Owens, two polar opposite sisters who hail from a bizarre family where the females are noted for their mastery of hocus pocus and their bad luck with men. Naturally, the community scorns them and their borderline batty aunts, played by Dianne Wiest and Stockard Channing, which causes the sisters to strike out on their own with varying degrees of success. The cautious Bullock happily marries, but finds hubby number one stricken by the family curse of early demise. The free-spirited Kidman gets saddled with abusive whack-job Goran Visjnic. When the sisters finally come together, Bullock's efforts to rescue Kidman go awry with a supernatural bent.Where Hoffman's novel was whimsical, the tone of the film is sledgehammer with flourishes of TV sitcom. The screenplay does not seem to want to take the time to set up the sister's travails and their successes in life and wants to rush everything to its own disadvantage. Whimsy is a hard quality to capture and maintain on film, but the fact that Practical Magic does not even try and pitches everything to the lowest common denominator says it all. Instead of amusing, insightful and deliciously off-kilter characters and situations, we get a truck-load of overly familiar chick-flick nonsense - including the by now too familiar and embarrassing women lip-synching and dancing around the kitchen routine.The latter third of the film gets bogged down in a completely wrong-headed subplot which finds Kidman possessed by the evil spirit of Visjnic and requiring the assistance of the aforementioned nasty townswomen to perform an exorcism. It is a development that never appeared in the novel and it comes out of left field in the film. One can only imagine the writers gabbing amongst themselves about what a great twist this would be. Unfortunately, we never believe that Kidman is truly in any danger, the townswomen far too easily throw aside their differences with the witches and start spouting nauseatingly precious bilge about sisterhood, and the whole thing degenerates into equal parts misfired special effects show and cheesy female empowerment monologues.The only thing that prevents the film from becoming a total loss are the lead actresses. Bullock is vulnerable and winning as the level-headed sister. Kidman is sexy and funny as the wilder sister not afraid to shake things up. Unfortunately, a prime plot from the novel that gave Kidman a genuine romance that would have really showcased her range has been omitted to favor the foolish exorcism plot here. Both actresses are so far better than the material that they are handed that it seems a real tragedy that they have not yet been given an opportunity to play opposite each other in better material. Wiest and Channing take the stock roles of the batty old aunts and ground them enough to make the clichs seem more charming than they have any right to be. The men have it rougher. Visjnic is sexy, but not especially menacing as the bad-guy plaguing Kidman. Aidan Quinn shows up late in the film as a police officer and new love interest for Bullock. He looks bored and so will you be. Mark Feuerstein has some nice early moments as Bullock's first husband, but the film does not have much use for him.Unfortunately, despite the best efforts of the leads, this ranks as another example of a promising novel robbed of any originality or insight on its way to the screen. If the screenplay had not stooped to so many of the tiresome chick flick clichs and had trusted its target audience to embrace something a bit different, it would only have been for the better. Instead, we have a whole lot of something that might have been, but sadly isn't. "},{"Title":"Nostalgic with a healthy dose of the arcane","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I love this movie for personal, nostalgic reasons, one of them being that I saw this when I was around 9 years of age. After watching it many (MANY) times as an adult with a much better trained eye, I realize that, while its script is actually well written, there are a number of editing errors that are very noticeable (which you can either read about or see for yourself). The score, written by Alan Silvestri, has a touch of the Renaissance to it, with many well developed themes, and supports the movie well. The setting is quaint, but relatable. The supporting characters are not average by any means, but are still lovable in their own magical way. The main characters, Sally and Gillian, stand out as strong women deeply involved in their quest for normality while being drawn deeper into the things they fear most a life less ordinary; complications of their current lives with their backgrounds; and the chance that they will never find love. While unrealistic in a few places (you'll see what I mean when you see it), most can be put toward the mystical qualities inherent in the main family of characters. I love this movie in spite of its flaws, most of which are incidental to the actual story line, and am glad to share my views on it with you all ) "},{"Title":"Heartwarming and better than the Book.","Date":"5 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Saw the movie and loved it. It inspired me to read the book because books are usually better than the movie. Ha this time it was the other way around.The story was heartwarming about two sisters even losing touch with each other and reuniting when ones time of need touches a nerve with me or most likely anyone who has sisters. The acting from all the actors were done great. The female leads did a spectacular job.The backdrop and the special effects weren't tacky or distracting. Over all the plot was well done and you can feel the magical feeling which I felt was lacking in the book.Also... I LOVE that house. "},{"Title":"Magical","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This popular, mass audience romantic fantasy casts a bit of magic over the whole family comedy movie with dramatic elements. Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman along with veteran actresses Stockard Channing and Diane Wiest with a strong supporting role from Goran Visnjic form a delightful, lighthearted romp in witchcraft. At the same time dramatic and horror elements are carefully and smoothly introduced that balanced this overall entertaining movie. While this isn't' some serious dramatic endeavor nor a script that is award-winning, Practical Magic is a strong contender for a permanent place in children's and adolescent bedtime viewing just like bedtime stories were told by their mothers decades ago. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Light and entertaining","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Sandra Bullock, Nicole Kidman, Stockard Channing and Dianne Wiest indulge in some Practical Magic, a 1998 film directed by Griffin Dunne. Bullock and Kidman play sisters, Sally and Gillian, both of whom are witches. One (Kidman) is free-wheeling and out in the world, and Bullock is a widowed mother with children who refuses to have anything to do with magic. One of their ancestors put a curse on any man involved with a woman in her family, and the curse lost the sisters their father and Bullock's husband. Her two aunts, however, Francis and Bridget (Channing and Wiest) still practice their spells. When Gillian takes up with the wrong man (again) (Goran Visjnic), she calls Sally. As a result of Sally's help, they find themselves in a lot of trouble and have to take drastic measures. Things don't work out as planned.I'm not sure what the problem is - it appears that some people on IMDb expect every film to be Magnolia, and if it isn't, they reject it as junk. This movie is what it is intended to be - light, with some suspense, some scares, some fun, lots of warmth, and great characters. If you read the book, disappointment is more understandable, and I feel your pain.The acting is excellent, with four top actresses as the stars, and the relationships between them are excellent as well. As others have mentioned, the best part of the film is when they start calling neighbors so they can have a coven.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable - in a bad way.","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film was very unconvincing, however it's very difficult to pinpoint why. Bullock and Kidman give relaxed, convincing performances, but I think the problem lies in the writing of the characters. I felt that they were strict character types, and totally lacked subtlety and nuance. The same could probably be said for the rest of the film actually. Everything was very black and white. Total evil or perfect love. Worst enemies or best friends. Complete confusion or utmost certainty. I felt that it was all very inhuman, and I was never fully sutured as a result. This film may have been full of magic, but a grounding in reality is important. Life just isn't that clear cut, and people who have been in bed for days never look that perfectly groomed. With a little more dirt in its pores this movie might have been interesting, or even moving, but I couldn't stomach it as it was. "}{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was spectacular! The story and actors were great, but the visuals were the real star. I haven't read the book, but this is a really good story. The set design really took you to the places in the story. Some what creepy, but some what beautiful; quite amazing to watch.No Oscar winner, okay, but the perfect pop in a DVD and cuddle on the couch feel good movie. Nicole Kidman is really amazing, and Sandra Bullock is her lovable self. The Aunts are show-stoppers here to. Really funny Margarita scene....Great, great movie. You can't go wrong with this one. I own the DVD and watch it monthly... "},{"Title":"It's a great movie..I love it!","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I love this movie! It's one of my favourite movies of all time! It is sad, but has comedy in it too. It is beautiful! I like that Nicole and Sandy are in the same movie, they're a great team. Also Goran as Jimmy and Gary are very good. The acting is good..the story is good, not too dramatic, not too light. It has a happy ending, which i like a lot.. It's a feel good movie. I can always watch it when i'm down, and i'm always a lot happier after it d I'm a big Sandra Bullock fan and i think her acting in this film is again fabulous. Nicole Kidman is great too of course D I really recommend this movie to anyone who likes a drama with a little humor. "},{"Title":"Very good film","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I think this movie is very good and cleverly written. It describes the life of two sisters, Sally (Bullock) and Gilly(Kidman) who have opposite personalities who become involved in the murder of Gilly's (Kidman) boyfriend and try to hide this when a police officer (Quinn) comes hot on the case. The special effects are very interesting and intensifying with some grusome scenes! The storylines really make you interested in the film and the twists from a very early part in the film. You can feel how the characters are feeling and really get to learn what they are like as a person. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Transylvania,Bulgaria,Romania,Goran.........","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In film Nicole Kidman said to her sister that her boyfriend James (Goran Visnjic) was from Bulgaria, Transylvania.  Transylvania is not in Bulgaria but in Romania. I do not expect that ordinary Americans know that fact, they are so infamous for their ignorance about the rest of the world, but script-writers should check something like this in the map. It takes only a minute. According to legend Transylvania is where Count Dracula lived in his castle.I guess by mentioning Transylvania they wanted to add more mystery.This film was on our TV last night. I wanted to see it because of Goran Visnjic and two famous actresses but maybe expected more.But if you want only a light entertainment this film is good enough, I certainly wasn't bored. As for Goran Visnjic role better see him in Dubrovnik Summer Festival as a Hamlet if you have a chance.  "},{"Title":"Four stars (out of four)","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw the movie several times before i read the book and when I read it, it was so different from the movie that I couldn't finish it. If I had have read the book first, I'm sure the opposite thing would have happened. Just looking over the other reviews on this site, I saw the term 'chick flick' several times, and it is one, and a good one at that. The screenplay was good, it offered wonderful performances from all of the very well-known cast members, and the special effects were almost believable. This movie is on my top five list, and I'd recommend it to anyone. Also, it is best seen late at night, in the dark, and under a blanket.  "},{"Title":"Fun & Entertaining","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie had a pretty interesting story. The acting was good and the aunts are a riot. It is simply fun and entertaining, but not much more than that. I would say it is definitely one of Bullock's better films to date. I recommend it for at least a one time viewing, however, once you watch it once...you might just find yourself wanting to see it again sooner or later. ) Rating 8 "},{"Title":"It's not that bad","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The majority view on this site is that most people hated this movie, yet for the life of me I cannot see why.  Alright, it's not going to win any major awards, but for what it is it's OK. Firstly let me make it clear that as a general rule I am not a fan of romantic comedy, generally I find it insipid and it bores me to tears, however, I found this film quite enjoyable.  The fantasy and horror elements took the movie away from the routine rom-com mush and moved the movie nicely.  There were also some very touching scenes, the one with the sisters on the bed, with Sally crying for her(SPOILER)dead husband nearly set me off.  The two aunts added some great moments (I've always been a Stockard Channing fan), and the two daughters were great.  Obviously Sandra Bullock & Nicole Kidman were looking damn hot which helped this movie from a male perspective. Overall this film is light fare, fairly entertaining and rarely drags.  If you see that it's coming on TV and you haven't anything planned, kick back, have a couple of beers, make a few bacon sandwiches, and enjoy it for a couple of hours.  "},{"Title":"Muddled Fun","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  There'se enough plot in Practical Magic to fill three movies (or, perhaps a television series).  That's the problem.  So much is going on, everything happens with minimal impact.  Though physically unconvincing as sisters, Nicole Kidman (terrific) and Sondra Bullock (fine) emote fine chemistry.  Far less effective are all of the male actors, whom seem to be there as plot devices and nothing more.WARNING  POSSIBLE SPOILERWithout doubt, the weakest element of the film is the resolution of the family curse.  The exorcism is unconvincing, requiring previously unsympathetic characters to become nice.  Worse, we are ask to believe the uniting of the women has somehow lifted the death curse without showing us any evidence to this truth. This plays to even lesser effect, since the main male romantic lead plays no part in this climactic scene.Even if somewhat lacking in the prerequisite magic, Practical Magic is muddled fun.  See it for the Midnight Margarita sequence, if nothing else.  "},{"Title":"A Personal Top Ten Movie","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie, though I might be a little biased because Sandra Bullock is my favorite actress, but even though this movie is not exactly like the book(like any movie made from a book is!) it is still a awesome movie. It follows the Owen's sisters, Sally and Gillian, from when they go to live with their aunts after the death of both of their parents up to when they are women trying to find love for themselves. The 'witch' and 'magic' factor bother them when they are children being harrased by the local neighbor children and in their adult lives when they can't get too close to the men cause of the family curse, which says something along the lines of no man may get close to an Owens woman or he will suffer an untimely death. Sally is the sister who just wants to be normal and Gillian is the party animal, a leader who doesn't care what people think of her as long as their tall dark and handsome. As the sisters are brought back together years later after Sally and her two children go to live with her aunts again after her first husband falls two the curse and Gillian comes back to town cause she having problems with a Cajun that just won't go away...see how they deal with breaking the god-awful curse find love lie to cops and KILL JIMMY TWICE! A great movie everyone should see! "},{"Title":"Best movie ever","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I purchased this DVD sight unseen and it was the best buy ever.  I loved the plot and the acting.  The soundtrack was also terrific.  It was very emotional for me and I would recommend it for anyone who has friends and problems.   "}{"Title":"excellent, brilliant","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  slight SPOILER ALERT this is one of my favorite movies by far. SandraBullock and Nicole Kidman do a wonderful job of showing what realwitches are like. i am a Wiccan myself, and though i cannot lightcandles by simply breathing on them,(i wish i could) ;) i can see what alovely job they have done creating some truth!....... "},{"Title":"I LOVED THIS MOVIE!","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm not the biggest fan of romantic movies and would prefer action and thrillers. This movie doesn't dwell too far into the actual romantic parts - which suited me fine! It is however a chic flick. I consider this film as being one of the best of '98 (and I do not care what the critics thought of it!). "},{"Title":"Very well filmed movie.","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an excellent family movie.  The plot line was simple but enjoyable for people of all ages.  Even my pre-teen daughters love this movie.  The way the movie was filmed was the best I've seen in a LONG time.  Everytime I see it I want to move to the town it was set in.   I think there was an obvious chemistry between Sandra Bullock & Nicole Kidman. They acted like sisters.But the best part of the movie was the music.  First time we saw it, we ran out and bought the soundtrack.   How many kids now a days have heard Put the Lime in the CoconutThe only real downside to the movie was towards the ending.  I thought bringing in all the non-witch natives was stupid.  "},{"Title":"light, enjoyable entertainment","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  While this is definitely not the best movie ever produced I did enjoy it very much for its humor, sound track and excellent performances by all of the magical ladies. (I still can't believe I'd be able to include Sandra Bullock in a statement to that effect...) On the musical side I found Faith Hill's This Kiss kinda breathtaking - and immediately bought the single. "},{"Title":"More entertaining than I thought","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Practical Magic was something of a surprise really, that had a far more enjoyable middle to the film than the  beginning and ending. It's most captivating aspect was the cast who were all extremely good, Kidman, Bullock, West and Channing were a magical combination and all seemed to get along very well.The story was too predictable though and the final scene was extremely corny. However, I enjoyed it more than I thought.7/10 "},{"Title":"Love is a power even a witch can't control","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Falling in love can be easy, but what if it meant the death of your lover? For the Owen's sisters this is a curse they have to live by. Packed full of emotion, spells and lots of magic this is a treat for even those non-superstitious. "},{"Title":"A Very Pleasurable Movie","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Is it the greatest movie about magic ever made?  No, of course not.  However, this is a nicely fun movie about love, magic and relationships.  Great performances by Dianne Wiest and Stockard Channing, as the aunts, and Nicole Kidman (especially in her possession scenes).  A great movie to watch with the spouse, especially for the eye candy on both sides. "},{"Title":"Absolutely incredible","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie varied a bit from the novel, but it brought it's own light to the story.  The special effects were not overwhelming; I thought they were even a bit necessary.  And those who stated that Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman were not at there best, were sorely mistaken.  Sandra's character, Sally, was not playing a 'weak woman' type, she was portraying Sally as an honest person who couldn't lie to the man she was meant to love.  I absolutely loved the movie and I watch it again and again.  The relationship between the two sisters is incredible and moving.  I find myself in tears at the exorcism scene.  Okay and whoever said that there spell or whatever wasn't accurate-- What in movies ever is absolutely a mirror of everyday life. HELLO... don't kill a movie because it has all the aspects of a typical movie.  I thought it transcended its expectations and brought the novel to life... a few details were omitted; that just makes both more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Romantic Comedy","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought that this film was funny with a witchy twist. Stockard Channing did a wonderful job as the funny yet witty aunt. She was delightful. The story was romantic but twisted. The aunts gave the story a bit more comedy. They spiced it up. All in all I gave this movie an A+ just for the wonderful performances by the supporting roles. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Romantic Comedy","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought that this film was funny with a witchy twist. Stockard Channing did a wonderful job as the funny yet witty aunt. She was delightful. The story was romantic but twisted. The aunts gave the story a bit more comedy. They spiced it up. All in all I gave this movie an A+ just for the wonderful performances by the supporting roles. "}{"Title":"Good, if you like magic","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I thougt the movie was rather good. I expected it to be a little more dramatic but it was good. It was nice to see that two sisters can be so good friends. It really touched me when they said. I have always been open minded, and  I love films about magic. It's about the two sisters Gillian and Sally and they are living with their aunts because the parents is dead.   I can recommend this film to everyone that likes magic!!!  SEE IT!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A simply ridiculous movie!","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was expecting much more from this movie when I rented it. After all, a film with actors like Stockard Channing and Dianne Wiest should be a good one. However, it was just a piece of trash, a pointless and silly movie. The direction is poor and so is the acting of Bullock and Kidman. I just can't imagine how good elements (like fine actors and a great novel) could turn into such a dreadful and idiotic movie. Zero !!! "},{"Title":"Definite Disappointment","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A huge fan of the book I was expecting more from this movie.  The story instead disintegrates into a battle of good versus evil with no doubt as to who will win.  Beautifully shot (Nicole Kidman and Sandra Bullock both look fabulous) major components of the story were left out.  At the very least, there needed to be more scenes developing the love story between Aidan Quinn and Sandra Bullock.  Casts an adequate spell for a slow night when you don't have much else to do. "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  So, maybe there's something to be said about dancing skyclad under the Full Moon.  As long as you have Margaritas to go along with it. Practical Magick was a light-hearted movie with a serious message...don't mess with stuff you don't understand.  Let's go girls, let's create that dream man...and if you have any doubts on how to do this...Practical Magick is the movie for you.  One blue eye, one brown eye - maybe that's a bit far-fetched, but Pratical Magick teaches you if you believe in it, you can have it.Okay, so maybe it's just a movie, but a fine one at that. "},{"Title":"Charming...","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Unlike my predecessors, I enjoyed this movie immensely.  I have not read the book, perhaps this is why.  I loved the little anecdotes and jokes that came along the whole length of the film, keeping it interesting.  Granted, the story isn't the deepest in the world, and the special effects are just adequate, I think that in this day and age of 'Blockbuster' and 'Impact' and 'High Concept' films, this one is a little, charming gem that just warms the heart.  Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman are great as the main characters and the 'aunts' and little girls are awesome as well.  I would (and am) recommend this movie to all my friends and you, too.  All in all, just charming... "},{"Title":"Poor film","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film has everything to be good, the actors, an idea. Unfortunately, it becomes rapidly boring and everyone is desperately waiting for any action along the film. The two sisters could have been more psychologically positioned and seem to be just twince even if they are completely different. Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman have a poor role in a poor film. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise...","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Personally, I thought this film was pretty good. I'd gone to the cinema expecting it to be a bit poor. The actresses, Nicole Kidman and Sandra Bullock, normally make top class films, but I wasn't expecting this to be much. However, I was happily surprised! The storyline was very sweet, and the acting believeable, considering the story wasn't. I liked! "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film.  I found it funny and sexy! I myself, am a practicing Wiccan, so I found this movie very appealing. It is the kind of movie that you can enjoy watching over and over again. "},{"Title":"Great Soundtrack","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Beatiful actresses, dull special effects and light plot. Anyway it's ok for a sunday afternoon. Buy the soundtrack! "},{"Title":"unbelievable fun","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  For anyone who likes this genre will be delighted by the warmth, respect and fun shown to portray a story about a family of witches and the way they interact with each other. All the actress gave applaudable performances, but Stockard Channing and Diane Weist stole the show as wise old sisters. "}{"Title":"It's a great story of a family with a little bit of romance.","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Definitely a must see for siblings!  It is a very touching story about two sisters.  More family oriented then anything else though there is comedy, drama, and romance in it.  I was highly impressed with it, even though the very end is a little corny.  Overall I highly enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Magical","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, I haven't read the book--although, I plan to after reading some of the remarks here.  But I really enjoyed the movie and was not disappointed in the least.  I agree with the person who said Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman have never looked better. In addition, I think the movie succeeded in creating a magical *and* romantic tone.  The music was wonderful; the cast perfect (especially Stockard Channing and Dianne Weist) and the look of the movie was outstanding!  I was even moved to tears during a few scenes.  I liked the suggestion that magic is a part of our every day lives, and I've certainly dreamed of a love that even time will lie down and be still for. I couldn't ask for a better chick flick.    "},{"Title":"Absolute Drivel","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It seems that the director over-used the concept of the word thin as it was applied to the story line,character depth, suspense,humor, credibility. The acting and scenery were tolerable. The best was the closing credits.  "},{"Title":"Uneven and flawed, but nonetheless amusing.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Practical Magic doesn't know what audience it is catering for.  There is precious little magic, and having seen the trailer, it certainly isn't the comedy that was advertised.The film is significantly darker and more dramatic than that, but still manages to pull some laughs.I think it was the script that accounted for that, all of the main characters get some great one-liners, but the rest was uneven.  It couldn't decide whether it was a romance, a comedy, a tragi-comedy, or a horror.  One scene late in the film of the excorcism of a the ghost of a serial killer is VERY out of place, and for some reason is played with almost a comedy atmosphere.  Doesn't work.It is still an enjoyable film, and one of the odd category that I have discovered  You watch the film and get absorbed into it, although noticing glaring problems like the excorcism, then step out from the theatre and immediately many more holes appear.Its not as bad to watch as it is to read peoples accounts of the flaws, let me put it that way.  The experience is better than it sounds, despite problems.It had elements that could have been made MUCH creepier, but which were smoothed over, especially the line There's a man under the roses.  They grew over night...Ah well.Sandra Bullock actually acts quite well in this, because the character is not allowed to be perky and cheerful, thus forcing her to act.  She does this quite well.  Nicole Kidman and the aunts are all colourful and interesting.A definitely watchable film, but be prepared for some flaws in the finish.  "},{"Title":"Not what I thought it would be","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was expecting a lightweight comedy, Instead it dealt with some heavy issues such as abuse and death.  Good but be warned, it is not the comedy it appears to be. "},{"Title":"So what were you expecting?  Shakespeare?","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When every movie you see tries to belt you over the head with some 'vital' social commentary, it's nice once in a while to kick back and watch this kind of funky, sweet entertainment.Practical Magic is a movie that doesn't pretend to be anything but what it is - gentle fun in a melange of styles that, while they don't work together seamlessly, still manage to keep the viewer's interest for the length of the movie.  The solid performances from Bullock (predictable, but charming) and Kidman (not so predictable, and quite well played) kept the main core of the plot from unravelling, while the back-up support of the aunts (played brilliantly (IMHO) by Wiest and Channing) and the kids imbued a quirky humour that is this movie's main grace.I do have some gripes - I found the main romance to be somewhat unconvincing, but then, that could be just me )  And the theory of much of the witchcraft seemed to be made up wholesale - surprise, surprise.  I sometimes wonder if Hollywood ever does its homework on these things.As I said, it's not Shakespeare.  But an overdose of the Bard can be too much of a good thing.  This is a pleasant way to pass a couple of hours, and the nice part is, it doesn't pretend to be anything more. "},{"Title":"I agree with Mr. Koch's appraisal","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I didn't read the novel, so I can't comment about the differences between the book and the film. I did enjoy the film; it was light-hearted and touching with just enough plot and character development to keep the viewer interested. The denouement, however, smacked of oops, we ran out of ideas, so let's wrap this up; I imagine the final confrontation was handled better in the novel. As for catharsis, I was left with more of a Huh? Ok, and this is happening why? feeling, as the viewer is left with a few too many unanswered questions.Overall, though, an enjoyable film....and I love Sandra Bullock. ;) "},{"Title":"Practical Moviemaking Magic, that is...this has it all!","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great film with a little bit of everything. From drama, to horror, to comedy, to romance, this movie covers all the bases! We seldom watch a movie more than once before returning it to the video rental, but in addition to watching it a 2nd time, we also decided to purchase a copy of our very own. Wonderful performances by the whole cast. I highly recommend this to anyone for a fun evening with their friends. Have your blender & margarita fixin's out while watchin it... as you'll feel inspired during a really fun section of the flick. Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"two **","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Unfortunately, like a few too many films that come out, Practical Magic seemed to fall short.  It was a way to spend an afternoon and certainly not the poorest film one has seen in the past year.  Making a truly entertaining film that is as good as one hopes it will be can a difficult endeavor. Still, Hollywood continues to strive for this and a good box office return. Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman are the best parts of the film.  I wish each of them well.  "},{"Title":"A nice and fun movie","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Well, as someone has already said,this movie will not be among the best in '99, but it certainly gave me what I paid for a funny couple of hours watching Miss Bullock in an interesting role. I didn't like much Miss Kidman\Cruise (?). The aunts are interesting too and girls are fine.Weak are Aidan Quin (strong accent)- and Sally's husband. A real surprise was Maria - the soon-to-be-hung witch in the first minutes..she is very beautiful. Of course this movie is not to be taken seriously, for witchcraft is something deeper than most Hollywood films could ever get into.Worth to see. Specially for Miss Bullock. "}{"Title":"Excellent feel good chick movie","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sandra Bullock is my favorite actress and always seems to play a single girl looking for love.  However, in this film she starts off being happily married with two children until her husband dies early from the 'Owens' curse.  You can't help but feel totally sorry for her as the love of her life is killed.  However, you just know that she will meet her ideal man and then live happily ever after again.Nicole Kidman is also exceptional in this film although you do feel that she probably got what she deserved meeting someone like Jimmy Angelove.The film is excellent is you are feeling down and need cheering up.  Well worth watching and definitely 10/10. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable pap","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film failed to make any lasting impression but was an enjoyable way to spend two hours. If only the plot could have stuck together a lot better. Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman were gorgeous as ever, trying to make something of somewhat shallow characters. The aunts, Channing and Wiest, were fun.Overall, a disappointment. But then again, I did just see it for Miss Bullock.... "},{"Title":"Magic Picture","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A wonderful cast really do this film justice.  The cinema trailer didn't do this one any favors.  It is a lot more that just a soppy love story.  As with the last few movies I have seen in the past few months I was pleasantly surprised at the quality of movies coming out of Hollywood at the moment. "},{"Title":"Schizo plot, but mildly entertaining in spots","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Me  Practical Magic is showing; want to go see it? Tricia  What's it about? Me  Hmm...only saw one preview, but I think it's about a family of witches and they're unhappy because any man that falls in love with them dies. Tricia  Oh...is it pretty heavy and serious, then? Me  No, it's supposed to be a romantic comedy.Toss in a dash of just about any other genre you care to name, and you've pegged what was most disappointing about this movie.  The romance storyline was also really predictable (without any chemistry to back it up), and the pacing was way off throughout the entire movie.I did get a kick out of a few scenes, though, and I liked the aunts. "},{"Title":"To be forgotten, but who cares?","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What a nice movie! It will be forgotten soon, but who cares? Specially nowadays, when you start to forget a movie even while you're watching it. And what's the matter if Sandra Bullock is nor a superstar neither an outstanding actress? As long as she does her job very well, which you can see in this Practical Magic, no more virtues are necessary. Thank God she's not some kind of personality, sometimes all you want to see is someone who can play normal characters properly, even if it's a witch; because, beyond being a witch, Sally - Bullock's character - could be the girl next door.Nicole Kidman is Sally's sister Gillian, she has some magic skills too, but prefers to live like a tramp, while Sally tries to live as normally as she can. Their parents died when they were young because of a curse that lays over their family and so they are raised by two nice and gentle witch aunts (Diane Wiest and Stockard Channing, fabulous as always). But a great problem will occur and they'll have to gather strengths to resolve it.Griffin Dunne said he started directing because he was tired of acting and producing; he made a correct work, supported by an excellent cast. Let's hope he'll continue this way... "},{"Title":"Too many....","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to see this with my friend and we both laughed through some places and sighed at the others (I wished for you, too. comes to mind.), but as we left the theater, we both expressed a feeling of mild disappointment.Practical Magic is a nice, entertaining movie.  But don't think about the abundance of plot lines or the questions they raise too much, or you'll be more baffled than entertained.  I wasn't ready for the movie to stop, simply because I had too many unanswered questions.Few of the numerous relationships in this film are even halfway developed. I thought they were going to concentrate on the sisterly bond that the could have shown from a child's view, an adult view, and an older view.  But they didn't really, which disappointed me.  That would have actually been a novel idea, putting two beautiful actresses on screen and focusing on their relationship as sisters?  Unheard of.Overall, there were just too many unanswered questions, too many plot lines, and too many under-developed relationships.  But other than that.... "},{"Title":"on a scale of one to ten 5","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Ever since I saw the preview for Practical Magic, I couldn't wait till it came to theaters so I could go see it with my friends.  So despite what bad reviews I heard regarding this movie, when it came out, I decided to go.  I dragged my two friends and we set out for the only theater in our small college town.  Had I know that it was more about witchcraft than a romantic comedy, I probably would have waited to rent it on video, but once in the theater it was too late.  And when the movie was over, I hate to say it, but I was sadly disappointed.  Luckily, at this small theater we only had to shell out $3.50 for a Sunday afternoon matinee, anything more would have been a crime. Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman work wonderfully together on stage as sisters, Sally and Gillian Owens, who are raised by their two aunts, Frances (Stockard Channing) and Jet (Dianne Wiest), as young children, after the death of their parents.  The girls come from a long line of witches, and the sisters, especially the younger, Sally, have received this special gift of magic.  The girls grow up with their aunts in a carefree environment having fun and learning spells.  The only problem is that years ago, a curse was put on all Owens women, saying that all men they truly love will die before their time. The sisters, as young adults, both try to escape their magical background in different ways.  Gillian, the wilder of the two runs off and spends her time with different men, while Sally searches for a normal life.  Sally, with the help of her Aunts, marries and has two girls of her own, which have a striking resemblance to her and her sister.  But their magic free life changes when Gillian meets one man whose presence brings on a chain of events that the sisters must handle together.  This results in the addition of a new character, Officer Gary Hallet (Adian Quinn), who enters not only the story, but also the hearts of the characters and the audience alike. This movie has all the elements of a four star flick; talented cast, good themes, great music and fantastic cinematography.  Love, romance, relationships, friendship, family values, acceptance, and murder are all thrown together with a little witchcraft to create the story.  And the movie probably would have been a success if it were not for one thing the script. I have not read the book, but I feel that many of the details of the story were missing and that questions were left unanswered.  This is because too many sub-plots were going on at once and as soon as the audience got involved in one, another would arise and there was no closure to the previous plot. Some of the aspects of the book should not have been included in the movie; it was just too much. I would have to agree with the critics on this one, Practical Magic is not worth your time or money.  Unless you are a die-hard Bullock or Kidman fan, wait till it comes out on video.  "},{"Title":"Fun date movie","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to the movies with the hopes of seeing One True Thing but found out that the movie had been phased out and was not playing in my area (I was visiting PA).  So I decided to go to the movies with my mother and see a fun movie that would not make us depressed. I found the movie to be funny and charming.  I thought that Sandra Bullock and Aidan Quinn made a cute and believable couple.  I thought that Bullock did a much better job than Kidman and thought they could have chosen someone else, I can't decide who right now. I also thought that they took too long to introduce Aidan Quinn. Despite the movie being a tad long at first it was worth seeing.  I definitely recommend the movie for couples to see because it shows that every romance has obstacles but that love can overcome anything! I give it three stars. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable experience","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to see this film with my mother and two sisters.  We all thoroughly enjoyed the movie.  The cast was stupendous.  We did not go out to see a historical film nor did we go out to see anything heavy or new age we went out to bond and bond we did.  Through the generations the sisters showed their love for one another and that was refreshing. "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  My husband and I saw this movie, and we both were delighted.  The main characters did an excellent job of showing us the pros and cons of being a witch, all while throwing in a good dose of humor.  The story had some tense, supernatural scenes, without becoming a horror flick.  Although more of a chick-flick, men may enjoy it also if they have a good sense of humor and are willing to see more than a bang-bang, shoot 'em up movie.  All in all, a refreshing movie that is a great change of pace from the usual Saturday night at the movies. "}{"Title":"Amusing, in a silly sort of way","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This was an amusing way to spend a Friday, but I think if you must see it it will be better on video. Though a much more positive portrayal of Witchcraft than usual, I probably would have liked it better if I didn't know what witchcraft was actually all about. "},{"Title":"Practically TOO Cute","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  LIST FOR Making THIS MOVIE Take two young hip/sexy women of the 90's, Take two wonderful actress who are better than the script, A sexy Leading Man, Magic/dead bodies/weird stuff, One non-wonderful script, Mix until Box Office hitYou get Practical Magic! A somewhat strange idea for the movie. Two poor young witchs under the curse of some dead great great <too many greats> grandmother. The storyline/plot is not wonderful, but the book is always better anyway. The actresses try to pull this movie off with a script that just doesn't pull you in as much as it should. Details are very few and far between..with background story and what is going on. Dunne tries to bring out the best of the two leading ladies, but they just don't seem real. Good sister and bad sister just over play in this the movie. The love story is not strong as it should be. The end is somewhat weak..and makes this more about sisters than a love story. Still it's a cute flick to see with a bunch of friends on a Friday night   "},{"Title":"Not what it was advertised to be.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie was enjoyable but certainly was not what it was advertised to be. Maybe it was me, but I thought I was going to watch a cutsie movie and it was anything but, except for the few advertising clips.  Still not bad but also not great. "},{"Title":"A fun movie...recommended to all!","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  How can Nicole Kidman and Sandra Bullock not be a good combination. The movie was extremely entertaining and a lot of fun. Take it for what it is, just plain fun. Not serious, don't read anything into it. They are both beautiful and did a great job. Loved it. "},{"Title":"GO SEE MOVIE","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't care what the critics said, this was a GOOD romantic comedy.  Its worth the full price and take your daughter, you will be able to talk about love,the meaning of love, family, prejudices, telling lies, and hope. It is a really entertaining flick. "},{"Title":"Two Thumbs Up!","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a pleasant change from the typical movies you see out these days. Nicole Kidman is a knockout! "},{"Title":"practical entertainment","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you want to go see a movie that will make you laugh and that is worry free, Practical Magic is the movie. I was warned  over the week-end by a zillion of critics spitting their poison on this charming little movie. I think that some movies are made to just be funny and entertaining not too win prices. It is true that the story could have been a bit deeper but you can only do so much in 1 and 1/2 hour. That movie succeeded in making me laugh and making me forget my problems. Have a fun night! "},{"Title":"Certainly not practical and not all that magical either.","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Practical Magic is the kind of movie you hope gets made properly. Unfortunately, all the elements weren't there and the cauldron didn't bubble.  Bullock and Kidman are a great combination, almost as good as Channing and Weist who you wish had larger roles in the film.  The story itself scratches far too many interesting points on the surface, leaving everything unexplained and the audience unfulfilled.  The film is worth a look if you're in the right mood, you'll be swept away by the theme and ignore the film's flaws.  Someone will re-make this film, and when they do, it will be magical and what we all hoped this film would be.  Director Griffin Dunne's sophomore effort fell short of his last (Addicted to Love) which, though flawed in itself, showed Dunne's promise.  Hopefully Practical Magic was just an aberration...maybe he was under the wrong spell. "},{"Title":"Diane Weist & Stockard Channing - Wonderful!","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Saw this movie on Friday, 10-16-98, date released.  Found it to be funny in part, sentimental in part, but the scary or spooky scenes were kind of corny.  Some of them were good though.  Ending was good; however, left you wondering if a specific relationship would last or not.  Nicole & Sandra - a good performance, but the above were the best!  Love Diane & Stockard! "},{"Title":"A Magical Movie.","Date":"8 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Do not pay any attention to the critics of this movie. I recently read a review from a very noted critic who payed more attention to the music and floorboards than the actual story. Forget him and everyone else who downs this movie. This is such a good film and always a treat to watch.The actresses are amazing and they come off really believable as sisters. It is always a pleasure to sit down and watch it because by the end of the movie you will be smiling.I love this movie. I think that it is entertaining and the music is just right for it. The orchestrated score is magical and will give you just the right feel for witchery. QUIT DOWNING THIS MOVIE!!! "}{"Title":"This film just tough me with something deep inside my genes","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I completely fall in love with this story and the problems this witches/gifted is born with. I enjoy this movie so much over so many years that i completely forgot to bay my own DVD/VHS. at this time i just have big problem in lokaded where to bay my own DVD/VHS. my o my this is a nice, full of feeling and caretaking movie. It really has my absolutely recommendation's.And it is actually based on facts regarded to magic. And the responsibility this infect for the next generation.I just love this film, and haven't come down yet. the actresses is doing a great job expressing themselves into there's characters. Most of all, this movie can be seen together with small(8-) kids too, because its entertaining and cozy.it has MORAL, KINDNESS, awareness of cruelty we might just don't now anything about. But they stick together and fairytale comes true.. in the end... Just Practical Magic ) "},{"Title":"Awesome film about Witches, that's really entertaining, with a great story, Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman are absolutely wonderful together!","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is an awesome film about Witches, that's really entertaining, with a great story, Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman are absolutely wonderful together!. All the characters are awesome, and I found the second half to be just as good as the 1st, if not better, plus Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman are simply amazing in this!. It's extremely well made and written in my opinion, and it has a perfect mix of thrills, Romance, Fantasy and Drama/Mystery, plus it's unpredictable throughout!. The child actresses are surprisingly excellent as well (especially Camilla Belle and Evan Rachel Wood), and Stockard Channing and Dianne Wiest are brilliant as the two Aunts, plus I thought the ending was just perfect!. The finale is full of surprises and suspense, and it actually has a couple of cool possession scenes as well, plus Goran Visnjic is especially great in his creepy role. It's also very funny at times, and I loved the music in it as well, plus the setting was really cool too. This is an awesome film about Witches, that's really entertaining, with a great story, Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman are absolutely wonderful together, and I say it's a must see!. The Direction is awesome!. Griffin Dunne does an awesome! job here, with wonderful camera work, great angles, adding good atmosphere, and using a great setting, plus he kept the film at a very fast pace. The Acting is terrific!. Sandra Bullock is amazing as always and is amazing here, she is incredibly gorgeous, extremely likable, had brilliant chemistry with Nicole Kidman, was vulnerable, and played the good girl of the two, she was amazing! (Bullock Rules!!!!!!!). Nicole Kidman is also amazing as always and is amazing here, she is incredibly gorgeous, mysterious, very likable, and was especially good in scenes when she was possessed, she played the bad girl of the two well, as you will care for what is happening to her character. (Kidman Rules!!!!!!!). Stockard Channing and Dianne Wiest are brilliant as the Aunts, they were just too cool, and were very funny, I loved them both!. Goran Visnjic is great here, and is extremely creepy, he had a really cool character, I dug him lots. Aidan Quinn is good as the love interest and as the investigator, I liked him. Evan Rachel Wood and Alexandra Artrip are good as Sally's kids, and were both surprisingly very likable. Camilla Belle is also good as a young Sally. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall a must see!. **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Aunt Frances Curses Gillian... Did you catch it???","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have seen this movie several times and just recently discovered that Aunt Frances accidentally curses Gillian.In the town village scene right before Sally meets her first husband, Sally is reading a letter from Gillian and she says Gillian just goes right through these men, then Aunt Frances says Hopefully one day she will meet a man that will go through her... right after she says those words a tree behind them starts shaking mysteriously. Later in the movie the spirit of Jimmy Angel actually does go through Gillian during a possession. Coincidence... don't' think so. "},{"Title":"10 Reasons to watch Practical Magic","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" 1. It has something in it for every one. 2. It totally contradicts the general opinion of witches and makes you wish that you knew such nice people. 3. It gives you a warm feeling inside. 4. Every time you watch it there's something that you missed before. 5. Sandra and Nicole work so well together. 6. It will make you smile, regardless of the state of your day! 7. Its a great convocation starter. 8. It brings back your faith in make believe. 9. The music in it gets you moving every time. 10. Its amazing and even if you don't go for that kind of film, i promise that you will at least aprechiate the magic (no pun intended) behind it. Enjoy, i always do. x x "},{"Title":"very intriguing and mystical","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" this is an excellent movie, I have it in my collection and when I'm feeling a bit down, I watch it and it lift's my spirit's. The plot was laid out carefully and Played with the utmost importance of the how the old way's are still alive to this day!True love does, eventually, end up coming you're way and this movie prove's it all the way.All of the character's seem to have been born to play these role's, they are natural's when it come's on acting.It say's I have to have 10 line's.I don't know why!I have to have 10 Line's.I just wanted it to be,short and sweet. "},{"Title":"sweet, solid, and compelling","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" don't listen to those anything non chri$tian is wrong bigots. practical magic is a solid, well-told story with stellar performances from even the children involved. it is compelling in such a way as to drag you in and make you involved in the story. nicole kidman is delightful as the enchantress sister, giving a seemingly natural performance all the way through. even when things get sticky, kidman's character stays focused and in character. sandra bullock has the lead and does an amazing job. you can believe the shop owner side of her character, but you also believe the mother, the witch, the heartache, and the love her character endures. the direction and production quality were tops, and it shows. this was a most enchanting movie which i watch again and again. i highly recommend giving it a good look. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie very much and after watching it only twice, I went out and bought the DVD. Everything was top-notch and I have nothing bad to say.The acting was extravagant, the storyline was intriguing, and the quality of the film was awesome.Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman gave wonderful performances that had me on the edge of my seat all the way to the very end. It was believable and made me want to view the movie all over again. Stockard Channing and Dianne Wiest did extremely well as the aunts and they had me laughing like no other. Aidan Quinn and Goran Visnjic were unlike anything I've ever seen before and they portrayed their characters better than I could've imagined. Evan Rachel Wood and Alexandra Artrip were adorable as the little girls and made me feel like a young kid again. And the movie wouldn't be complete without the performances of the others cast in this wonderful film.Overall, I say this movie is definitely one of my faves and something I'll be watching for the rest of my life. I give this movie a 10 out of 10. I recommend that you go out and rent this movie. One of the best I've ever seen!!  "},{"Title":"certainly not awful but lacked a certain something.","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I can't say I hated practical magic but I wasn't all that crazy about it and I thought I would be since I'm a moderate Sandra Bullock fan and a MAJOR Nicole kidman fan. This is a movie that had me confused at the end of it. I still didn't know what my feelings were when it ended, only that something was missing from it to make it a truly wonderful movie viewing experience for me. This is certainly not awful but there are a few reasons why it didn't do all it could have for me.I've seen movies that movie way to slowly. That wasn't Practical magic's problem. Rather, the opposite. It went from this- to that- to the other so so quickly there was almost no specific order to anything, just when you think the movie's about one thing off in another direction it goes. I had no problem following it but didn't know what I was supposed to be following. Is it a romance? a film Noir, witch style? a drama about two sisters and family? a black comedy? a straight out horror? I wasn't sure(until the end frankly) what this movie was supposed to be about, it jumped around so much and there was little buildup to anything. I just felt, if there is such a thing as a movie moving to QUICKLY this was a prime example.Another problem was the music. Although I love the use of music in movies, to capture certain scenes and elements of a movie, I felt the music choices were a bit wrong here and didn't really add anything to the movie as a whole.That's not to say I didn't enjoy the captivating cinematography or amazing acting-Bullock and Kidman were good choices, they lit up the screen.Aiden Quinn is perfect in everything he does and this was no exception. The special effects were beautiful and amazing and The last scene in particular was wonderful.But I really didn't enjoy this all that much at all. I probably would not watch it again. It was cute, it had it's moments. It rates to me about a 5.5. But the lack of a specific organization to the storyline and the fact that I felt many scenes just fell flat prevented me from really getting into this, though it's not a BAD movie at all. My vote is 5.5 of 10. "},{"Title":"Do you believe in magic?","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Dianne Wiest, Stockard Channing, Micole Kidman & Sandra Bullock. When it comes to acting we're not talking about chopped liver here. I saw this movie when it was first released and thoroughly enjoyed it. Since then, I have read every book by Alice Hoffman and loved all of them. She is a storyteller without peer who creates wonderful characters. The stories often go beyond the ordinary and into the magical but are always believable because you become so caught up in the characters that anything becomes possible.I would like to see more of her novels brought to the big screen but, to date, this is the only one. Give yourself a treat and read another of her stories because the imagination is a wonderful theater too. I don't think you'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Good acting; good actors; poor script; good direction","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I've just watched this film, PRACTICAL MAGIC. My perspective is the following Having not read the book, but having read a number of 'user comments' who have, there's no doubt that the script veers considerably from the thrust of the book.  Perhaps this explains why there were considerable leaps from reality, hoping the viewer would not mind the 'jumps & jerks' from what was supposed to be a realistic 'peek' at the unique world of 'witches' even though they be of good heart and purpose.  Just look at the conclusion (one user/viewer said it was somewhat like Disney's approach) as an example. There no doubt is a 'dark' side to witchcraft, as well as a lighter side, both of which produce their own consequences, which it seemed this story line was trying to present.  The romantic side for some reason, was unconvincing, which I'm not sure was Aidan Quinn's problem; this was likely caused by the script. Stories such as this fail to bring in other religious perspectives such as, IF THERE ARE WITCHES, ISN'T IT LIKELY THAT THERE IS GOD AS WELL, supposed to be the ultimate supreme power and being?   Wether you are Jewish, Christian, Muslim or any other who believes in an ultimately supreme being, dealing with any form of supernatural power without including 'the supreme being' in the formula of the story, really is quite without credibility.  I gave it a 4. "}{"Title":"Worth seeing once.","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is definitely worth seeing once, but that is about it.  It is cute, but unfortunately also forgetable.  It does have it's moments, but it is not Witches of Eastwick.  I really did like the old house, however. "},{"Title":"WARNING... CHICK FLICK.","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was talked into actually paying my hard earned cash to see this mushy slush by my girlfriend and her friends. I was in for one of the biggest mistakes of my life.Every moment in the film is full of grating MUSH. I tried to keep my groans (which I omitted at an average of 30 second intervals) to a minimum. Even my girlfriend hated it. The whole thing was choreographed like a commercial for canned soup. Kids dancing around the place, 'feel good' garbage and 'man of your dreams' romantic rubbish. All the components of a cliche visual laxative.It is films like this one who give the western world delusions on how romantic relationships between people should be, and make half the world feel like they've missed out on something which doesn't exist. How people could enjoy and pay money for this crud is beyond me. If you see it in the video store, complain to the boss. It is a health hazard. "},{"Title":"Delicious, charming film","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I read most, not all, of the book around the time the film came out in theatres. Loving the book, I went to the movie. I never finished the book for whatever reason, but I'm gonna go back to it now. Because I love both the book and the film. While they're both different, they're both strong for what they contribute to this charming story. I had only seen the film once while in theatres, and didn't see it again until a few weeks ago. The night I watched this I happened to be in a fragile, emotional mood and the beautiful, emotional score composed by Alan Silvestri made me literally cry. The film eased my worries and depression somewhat and made me feel better. Now I own the film and am glad I do. The story between the two sisters as well as the aunts, the townspeople, and Gary Hallet is a warm and charming story, and looks kindly upon the craft of Wicca (Witchcraft). I will never completely stop being frustrated by the endless amount of ignorance that surrounds the subject of witchcraft. People assume it's evil and buy into the ignorance of those who claim it's evil while really knowing nothing themselves about the actual craft. If they actually opened a book on the subject they'd know it's an age-old religion (religion's actually a wrong word) that has been around since the time of the ice ages, and is ten times older than Christianity and is a beautiful SPIRITUALITY that worships the earth, the sun, the moon, the grass, the bark on a tree. It worships the power of the human being and the power of the animal. Funny how such a beautiful craft could get tangled up in bad media and be labeled as evil. The main reason I love this film is for the scene between Sally and Gary in the greenhouse, when she says There's no devil in the craft. Bingo. One of the books i have on Wicca lists the rules involved in representing Wicca. The number one rule is Harm none. And the book goes on to explain that there is, literally, NO DEVIL in witchcraft. Witches do not even BELIEVE in a devil. Then she goes on to take out his badge and explain It's just a star. Your talisman. It can't stop criminals in their tracks. It has power because you believe it does. The cross in christianity holds power because of the power placed upon it by its believers. A pentacle in wicca, which is a symbol of the earth and life, has power because wiccans place energy and power upon it. Just like eveything else in life that holds any power for anybody of any belief. And Practical Magic exlains that wonderfully. It's a delicious, charming, and yes, magical movie. "},{"Title":"A REAL SHAME-HOW DID IT GO SO WRONG?","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  i hate to give this a bad review,as it is at the base-a harmless-comedy?drama?horror? thats its problem-what is it?sandra bullock is brilliant as always,but support is lacking ,nicole also gives a good performance.it ends up as a self-interested mess,that really couldent of made a bigger hash of it. the end is tacky ,silly and cheesy.the film is quite frnakly overly long -did the cutting room floor not get used at all me thinks not otherwise this mess,would of been slightly better if it had all been cut and thenh re-filmed * out of 5 "},{"Title":"Practically no magic...","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Slight romantic comedy that wont become a classic. Whats good about it are the themes which saves this movie from being completely forgettable  Witchcraft as something positive, womens friendships and being outcast from society for being different are rare elements in American films.But it doesnt grab ahold of the viewer and theres certainly no magic going on between the leads. Sandra Bullock is a capable and bland actress and its totally unbelievable that shed be sister to the smoldering Nicole Kidman. She deserves the guy she gets in the end because hes pretty dull too. Aidan Quinn always looked tired but here hes absolutely sleepwalking! All the children didnt help either making the movie a cute Disney family picture.I did like the soundtrack, the house, the lighting and the supporting cast with the underused Stockard Channing, Chloe Webb and Dianne Wiest. If Shelley Duvall would have been in it, it WOULD have been magic! "},{"Title":"Love it.  Absolutely.","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have it on tape, yet whenever I see it's showing again I get a little happy!  Granted it's not for everyone--men won't like it, people who mind a little lack of reality in their movies won't like it, either.  And my mother & her twin think I'm a little nuts (though they do like the house--just none of the magic mumbo jumbo--and they find the villain too disturbing and dark. (Isn't that what a villain should be?)  However, to me, it's charming, utterly charming.  Clearly, the cast of women had a blast making it, and it makes me so wish I had a house full of female relatives for midnight margaritas.  There is a sense of the strength of women and of the bond of family, told via a very unusual vehicle.  A treasured favorite!  Very worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Movie did not make sense","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  *MAY SPOIL A BIT* 'Practical Magic' is one of those films where in the first portion of the film you may be going Huh?  This plot is NOT making sense.  Oh well, hopefully it will be explained throughout the movie and it will not be a disappointment. Well unfortunately, most elements in the plot leave you feeling like you missed something, and all your questions are unanswered in the end.  Did they ever explain the moon with a circle around it?  Or why Gillian had to go back to that car to get a 'tigers eye'? What was the deal with them getting drunk?  Ummmm, how come the toad spit out the ring?  Plus much more, maybe i didn't pay enough attention, but I mean cmon!  The only stuff I DID understand, was way too predictable.  Especially the 'green eye blue eye' thing (He was even wearing sunglasses the first time we see him, wouldn't want us to find out!!!).  I could've been doing many other things for 100 minutes, but I chose to watch this film.  As a warning, do not see this movie no matter what, it is a complete disappointment, and the questions you have afterwards will not go away. "},{"Title":"This is my new favorite movie...","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie so much I bought the DVD and the Collector's Edition video!  I loved the story and the relationship between the characters.  I really can't think of anything about the move that I didn't like!  My favorite part was when Gary told Sally that he had wished for her too, it gave me the shivers!  I gave this movie a 10 because it is a real feel good kind of movie, in my opinion that is.  "},{"Title":"Good movie for kids and for the kids at heart. Nothing serious, just hocus pocus!","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Executive Producer Denise Di Novi (The Nightmare Before Christmas, Little Women, Message in the Bottle) keeps bringing all those fun to watch movies. Although Practical Magic does not have all the creative ingredients of  The Nightmare Before Christmas which was very creative, the movie brings in its own magic. Cute! I believe that kids would like this movie more than adults, because kids love to get spooked and the movie is less predictable to them. I like Sandra Bullock and try to watch her movies despise the critics, or the average star rating from any magazine. I like to come up with my own opinion about things in general. In many instances a movie that is neither big box office nor a big Oscar winner is more fun to watch several times than the three and a half hour of serious acting Oscar winners. It all depends what we are in the mood for. I enjoyed these movies especially when the special effects started.  Favorite Scenes Those moments of love between the two sisters. Favorite Quotes Gillian  Is he nice? SallyIn a penal code sort of a way! Sally What would you do? Gillian What wouldn't I do for the right guy? "},{"Title":"This movie sucked, big time!","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  After going on and on about the book, and hoping that the movie was half as good, I had to apologize many, many times to my husband for making him sit through this film.  I won't go into the differences between the two, as many others have gone into that far better than I can, but I just have to ask Why does Hollywood insist on taking a perfectly good book and changing the plot until it's almost unrecognizable?!  It's so disappointing to go to a movie, highly anticipating it on the basis of the book, only to find that the only recognizable part is the title.  I also found this to be the case with the movie Moll Flanders (also co-starring Stockard Channing--- coincidence?).  I think I've finally learned my lesson.  Next time I see that a movie has been based on a favorite book of mine, I'm running in the opposite direction!  "}{"Title":"How to waste your life for 100 minutes...","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is simply... BAD. Too bad it had wasted such incredible talents like Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman. It looks like the script tried to mix comedy, drama, romance, and even FX.. But what do you end up with?A waste!! I try to like this movie but it just doesn't work. All the mixing makes a very confusing plot. Also, there one thing that just doesn't make sense... Why does the town ladies got easily persuaded to join the ceremony? I thought they hate witches to death! And the final scene where they all wearing the 'witch' uniform in halloween night is very unnecessary.I hate it, my sister despise it, my neighbours disdain it, even a girl friend of mine fall asleep...!! Hell, I think 'Godzilla and 'Avengers' combined is better than this! Oh, I want the 100 minutes of my life back!!  "},{"Title":"zzzzzzzzz","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Is there some Hollywood rule that says leading men and women must be involved in gratuitous smoking scenes in most movies?  The number of smokers in the US is going down, yet most every movie shows the star sucking a cancer stick.  I get pretty tired of this and wonder how much the cancer industry is paying Hollywood for each smoking scene.  Add Nicole Kidman to the list of those with ashtray breath.  Yummy.  Aside from that - this movie bit the big one.  Yawn. "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I just wanted to have my say. In my opinion Practical Magic was a brilliant Movie. As my one line summary suggests, I loved it. I wouldn't really see it over and over, however. The storyline was definitely original to me and the acting was rather well done. It was comical so as to relieve tension in certain situations and rather ironic in others. Not always predictable though some things you could see coming. Overall a GREAT night out.In the religious respect, Practical Magic did not show too much ignorance on the topic of Witchcraft. Naturally if it was entirely bound by 'realistic witchcraft' then the movie would not have been as enjoyable. The movie was educational to non-Witches such as friends of mine who now defend witches when they are thought of as demon worshipping hags. Great movie, go see it!  "},{"Title":"Far Too Lightweight to be Magical","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What a novel concept! - a film that has no idea what it's supposed to be. Practical Magic sells itself as a romantic comedy, but isn't funny enough; includes dramatic Thelma and Louise style elements, but the material and acting isn't heavy enough; and features the undead, but isn't scary.  What is going on!  Bullock and Kidman are the only attraction of this mish-mash of a motion picture, and work as best they can with the material, especially Kidman using the whole range for an exorcism scene.  But Aidan Quinn is wasted as Bullock's love interest, sparking zero chemistry.  It's a shame that stellar casts with a solid track record (well, except for Bullock. Speed 2 anyone?) that a film fails to ride high on its magic broom.  This film isn't bad, but aside from the leads, there's little to sink your teeth into.     "},{"Title":"What a waste of time","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was awfully boring. What is it with Bullock these days picking all these soppy good script films without absolutely no thrills or originality. This film was just a basic merger of Thelma & Louise and The Craft giving no laughs or food for thought.Between the two I thought Kidman just stole the acting credibility, but that didn't make up for what was a waste of six months to make and my Sunday afternoon to watch.If you're thinking of watching this drivel take my advice and rent one of these two1. Speed (Reeves/Bullock) 2. Days Of Thunder (Cruise/Kidman)Far more interesting "},{"Title":"A spellbinding film!!","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This drama was definitely fab.  If you like Nicole and Sandra, you'll LOVE, Practical Magic.  I did.  Do the previews make it look dull? Well, don't believe until you see, a fantastic, movie, about witches, and love, and good acting.  This movie will, keep even the most pessimistic person alive.  It's great, perfect, SPELLBINDING!!!!!!!!!!11 "},{"Title":"The Longest Two Hours since Congo","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Upon viewing this work of inane stupidity, I came to the conclusion that I am Pro-Witch Burnings...starting here.  The latest offering from Ms. Quality Script Sandra Bullock, and Ms. Negative Charisma Nicole Kidman is, at best, bad.  With a plot about two witchy sisters looking for love, it gives one a migrane trying to fathom how such crap can get made...this is lame, American MEDIOCRITY at its finest.  The Performances are lessons in Bad Acting 101 with such memorable moments such as Sandra looking skyward, and smiling, and Kidman strolling into a room, warning all the ladies to watch out, or she'll steal their husbands, OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT...nonetheless, this is a work of certain disrespect to people that enjoy something of (oh, dare I say it?!?) Quality, and Substance, and insults the intelligence in ways Kenny G can't even dream of.  "},{"Title":"Responsibility is key","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved how the Aunt's said Let them clean up their own mess. Witchcraft is religion that people shouldn't dabble in so to speak, it is attractive and mysterious to many looking for alternative avenues to explore their spirituality. But watch out, tampering (even with good intent) be ready to accept responsibility for your actions. I sound like a parent telling my kids to be good. but really I'm just a good witch trying to promote a good name for a religion that is soooo misunderstood. Please educate yourself before you judge. A good book to start with is The Truth About Witchcraft Today by, Scott Cunningham. Thank you. "},{"Title":"Aren't they cute?","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I haven't read the novel, but what I can say about Practical Magic is that it's a perfect example of a very well edited trailer that was highly successful in its goal of making the film look cuter, smarter, sexier and more entertaining than it actually was.Nicole Kidman and Sandra Bullock were fine, though it might have been interesting to see them cast against type in reverse roles - Sandy as the Bad Girl, Nicole as the Good Girl. They are both best in this film when they are flirtatious, sarcastic, drunk and hungover, but I think one emotion which neither one of them is terrific at expressing is fear (Bullock's a little better in this department).  Unfortunately, because the film is trying to balance light comedy with dark forces there is call for a lot of gasping and swooning that is highly unbecoming to two such talented eyelash-batters.  And most of the gasping and swooning is done with a complete lack of humor.Also - a contrived ending in which all the women in the town who have previously taunted the Owens sisters for 20 years with cat-calls of witchery and projectile garden vegetables are suddenly interested in coming over to their house to help them perform an exorcism.  Why the sudden change?  It's insulting to sum it up with there's a little witch in every woman. Hundreds of years of fear cannot be overcome by a single telephone call. It's absolute silliness to watch these women prance around, embracing witchcraft when they have expended so much energy denouncing it.Overall this is a fluffy, erratic and unorganized movie whose success is wholly dependent on the attractiveness of its two adorable stars (both, in this case, well-heeled in the latest neo-bohemian fashions).  "},{"Title":"Overall, I liked it","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A cute film with some odd turns (everything shifts to an homage to the exorcist for a bit).  Stockard Channing is wonderful as one of two spinster aunts (Diane Wiest plays the other, more sober one); Sandra Bullock doesn't seem that different from anything else she's done -- brain candy.  Nicole Kidman (whom I generally dislike) isn't offensive, although her character is only half-drawn.Aidan Quinn seems to have put on some poundage, but gives a reliable performance as an investigator/love interest.There's also Chloe Webb in a small part -- a nice treat for fans of the actress. "}{"Title":"Why did they bother to make it??","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Acting was OK considering quality of stars but plot (if there was one) was very weak. After seeing it I wondered who would finance a script like this & expect to get a return. "},{"Title":"Just as disappointing as you've heard it is","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I decided to ignore the negative comments that this film has received and just make up my own mind. After all, witchcraft is always an intriguing subject and films with two strong female leads often interest me...but I'm sad to say, this is one of those occasions where it's better to listen to what you've heard. Actually, for the first hour or so; Practical Magic isn't all that bad. It's not all that good, but it sets itself up well, and constantly seems to be hinting that better is to come. The plot revolves around two witches bringing one of their boyfriends back to life, and I thought that once this got put into action, the film was going to pick up more; but to my surprise, once the plot gets going; the film just falls apart. Throughout the film, we know that the family of witches is hated by the local community because they're different - yet once we get past the halfway point, the neighbourhood is coming round to help the girls cast a spell! This is just one of the inconsistencies of this film, and throughout I got the impression that Practical Magic doesn't think much of it's audience's intelligence.The plot revolves around two girls that are witches. They grow up into Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman; the former being happily married to a man she loves, while the latter has found herself in all sorts of trouble with a nasty boyfriend played by Goran Visnijic. However, a curse on the family means that any man they love will meet an untimely death, and that's what happens to Sandra Bullock's husband. Kidman's boyfriend dies too, only it's by her hands and despite trying to bring him back to life; he becomes an evil entity that haunts the sisters. It doesn't sound all that engrossing, and it isn't. The plot has the potential to give way to an interesting flick, but it's themes are all over the place and, as mentioned, the film becomes ridiculous after we get past the halfway point. The two leads are good, however, and give the film it's only solid positive element. Casting Diane Wiest as an aging aunt was something of a stroke of genius, as I cant think of anyone that fits the bill better - but generally speaking, any form of genius is something that this film is very much lacking. "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected, two sisters, good witches.","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a free DVD loan from my local county library, and was also one with lots of goofs listed, so I watched and studied it. First, by watching it I found a very nice story about two sisters who grew up to be played by Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman. Bullock played herself, but Kidman had a much more difficult role which she pulled of very well. All they really wanted to be was normal, and be accepted as such. By studying the scenes where so-called goofs were, I found that most of them are not really goofs at all, but various viewers drawing flawed  conclusions after a less than thorough viewing. For example, at one point Bullock is working in the garden, mud on her jeans, a goof was that when she got inside the pants were no longer dirty. In fact they are still dirty, it is clear, anyone watching it carefully will arrive at the same conclusion. Point being, the goofs sections often cannot be trusted, as people put perhaps 50% to 90% mistaken goofs in the goofs section.SPOILERS FOLLOW -- note for my recollection. Kidman returns bruised, bad boyfriend, he comes to get her, Bullock kills him with heavy pot, they use a spell to bring him back, is worse than before, they kill him again and bury him in front yard, investigator tracks his car to the house, gets suspicious, becomes sweet on Bullock, finds out old boyfriend was a really bad guy, comes to possess Kidman, dramatic exorcism takes place, with no evidence, investigator is told the truth, overlooks it, will everyone be happy now, finally??  "},{"Title":"Magic can't save this","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Alice Hoffman's Practical Magic isn't a very good novel. Hoffman has written about a dozen books better than that (The River King and Turtle Moon come to mind). Practical Magic -- the movie -- isn't even half as good as the disappointing novel. What was that cr*p? I thought after having seen the movie. They have mixed three or four different genres and the result is a mess. The movie's not funny when it wants to be funny, and it's funny when it's supposed to be 'serious'.Practical Magic is a complete waste of time! What are actors such as Wiest, Channing and Kidman doing in this movie? This is the silliest movie I have seen since The Mummy. (2/10) "},{"Title":"See it if youve got a few hours to kill","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie wasnt horrible, but it want great either. As much as i wanted to like it for some good moments, i couldnt get into it whenever it got cheesy. For example, the neighborhood kids chasing the witch kids and yelling at them. Why?, no reason for it! Also, the aunts annoyed me and the cactus shaped pancakes were just stupid. The movies only only saving point was with the hottie foreign guy whose name i cant spell so i wont even try. My verdict? see it, dont see it.... in the end it wont matter because ive almost forgotten about it already. If you want a good movie to give a bad review to see it. This movie's plot has holes you could stick your foot through. "},{"Title":"It had its moments...","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I think Sandra Bullock is a great actress and her character started off as a strong-willed, self determining one.  It seemed, however, that the development of her character turned her into an addle-brained, weak woman type.  She didn't use her powers to protect her sister from Angelov, she couldn't put two words together in response to Halleck's questions, physically she fought Angelov like a woman landing little love-tap like blows to his back while he was choking Gillian in the back of his car. Unwitchly and very un-modern woman.The witchcraft ritual performed to remove Angelov's spirit from Gillian was laughable.  First the name Hecate was mis-pronounced.  Second, why would the PTA women be interested in helping the witches perform a very powerful ritual when throughout the movie these people seemed to genuinely fear the Owens.  Not plausible.  The ritual itself seemed to be incorrect, the term is not to banish the spirit (as they said) but to exorcise it and that would not be done by holding Gillian and the spirit within the walls of a protective circle--the circle is usually used to protect the sorcerer or to hold the spirit captive.  So, ritually this scene didn't pan out either.Halleck came from Arizona to investigate the whereabouts of Halleck. Legally, he was out of his jurisdiction, didn't have a right to carry a gun, had no business questioning Sandra Bullock and she had no business answering him.  I laughed when he spoke into his recorder saying this is the testimony of Sally Owens. Its not testimony, testimony is given in open court under oath, this would not even have been a statement under oath.  So, from a legal standpoint, the whole premise is suspect and unbelievable. Some details included added nothing to the story, such as the mysteriously growing rosebush and/or why Sandra Bullock was cutting it down--the fact that Angelov's spirit was still around was already established by Sally's red-haired daughter who saw it.  Besides, Bullock was cutting the rose bush down with the wrong equipment, she was using a hedge trimmer!Frankly, if you're going to make a fantasy movie, the only way to get me to suspend by disbelief is to pay attention to details and that was not done in this movie.  It did have its moments for me however.  Diane Wiest and Stockard Channing did a superb job as the Aunts--they were far more witch-like and yet who wouldn't want them serving you chocolate for breakfast?Better skip this one I'm sorry to say. "},{"Title":"Surprised.","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was very surprised how wrapped up I got into this story. I give credit to Griffin Dunne, the director, and a very appealing cast. The musical score to this film, by Alan Silvestri, is very magical indeed. The story is well told by everyone involved. The special effects are subtle but effective to say the least. This is what Sandra Bullock does best in my opinion. She plays an innocent so well that when things work out for her, you find yourself emotionally involved in her story. The film is a little overlong, otherwise very entertaining.  "},{"Title":"A Disappointment.","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was really looking forward to see this movie. I went with my best friends and were hoping to spend a nice ladies day out. The first two minutes were great but then it just kept going from bad to worse and we couldn't figure out what kind of movie are we watching is it thriller, comedy, romantic or scene fiction. All we could figure out is that it was a terrible movie. "},{"Title":"Just don't inhale","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Well, I suppose we deserve this sort of thing, given all the male wish-fulfilment fantasy films going around - plot unlikely guy scores (i.e. sex) with fahbulous fox, via a series of unlikely events. It's only fair to have a few similarly implausible numbers where women (albeit fahbulously foxy ones) score (i.e. marriage) with dreamy, strong-but-sensitive, protective guys with whom they can Live Happily Ever After. And even the dangerous bad man is Goran Visnjic, whose only flaw is that he wants desperately to marry Kidman's character - with menaces if necessary. Fair enough. The male equivalents focus on equally infeasible breasts, after all.There are aspects that do make one think, though. I really don't believe this witch thing, for example, is healthy. A number of shows are currently pushing this particular fantasy. Perhaps it's no more dangerous than the male one in which Our Man routinely dodges surface-to-air missiles, but it seems that some gullible people really believe this stuff, and think they actually have magical abilities. Witch Power is the new Women's Intuition.(I note with alarm another review here which speaks darkly about Belladonna's supposed 'dark' powers lady, Belladonna is just atropine, a stimulant. It's just a chemical, like adrenalin, and nothing magical. Like most 'medicinal' plants, Deadly Nightshade is just trying to discourage animals from eating it, by dosing them with a substance that, inter alia, wrecks appetite.) I digress. In sum, this is not a very good film, but it's just wish fulfilment for those of a female persuasion and a certain age. Male viewers will probably have to derive what enjoyment they can from observing some very pretty and/or very talented actors, though in a far from ideal vehicle. "},{"Title":"OUTSTANDING PERFORMANCES AND A MAGICAL FANTASTIC FILM!","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When I first went to the cinema to see Practical Magic, I wasn't really sure what to expect, and I only went to see it because there was nothing else on. I left that cinema with a new favourite film! Practical Magic blew me away. Sandra and Nicole gave one of their best performances to date, while Diane Wiest and Stockard Channing added dramatic moments and hilarious comedy! The real star of this film was Sandra. She showed off amazing talent as the desperate-to-be-normal Sally. Nicole's possesion scenes were also very intoxicating. The music gave the finishing touch. The soundtrack (Executively Produced by Sandra Bullock) was not only touching, but truly inspirational, with a strong helping hand from Stevie Nicks and Sheryl Crow.Possibly Sandra's best movie since While You Were Sleeping, and a definate must-see! Watch this film with an open mind and a full spirit and you will be entrapped into the magical world of the Owens family.It's been a while since I've enjoyed a movie so immensly, and never has a movie been so deserving of praise. "}{"Title":"Send this to the grave","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Most of the bad adaptations this decade have been thrillers(like THE JUROR), but there have been others to creep through, like STRIPTEASE, a very funny novel made into a painfully unfunny movie, and this one.  I wasn't expecting to like the Alice Hoffman novel this movie is based on, but it's a wonderful work which lives up to its title; it's about magic, but less about the bubble, bubble, toil and trouble kind(though there is some of that) than the magic that is in everyday life, and everything is grounded in some kind of reality.  And all four main characters(Sally, her sister Gillian, and her two daughters Kylie and Antonia) are well drawn and ones you care about.The movie, on the other hand, is awful.  All the delicacy, subtlety, nuance, and especially the human quality are thrown right out the window.  Instead, director Griffin Dunne and writers Adam Brooks, Akiva Goldsman, and Robin Swicord(though Goldsman has by far the worst track record, so I'd like to believe he's the most responsible) substitute your standard witches story, and while they keep some of the plot of the novel, it makes no sense when thrown in with this rubbish.  The look of the film is all wrong; we even look like we're in a cheap horror movie.  You don't get much sense of the characters, or of them being capable of anything(in the novel, after her husband dies, and after she spends a year being miserable, Sally leaves; here, she just stays, why?  Cause it's the Idiot Plot).  And while Bullock and Kidman deserve credit for trying to mine something out of this(Bullock is the most successful here), Dianne Wiest is lost, Stockard Channing is uncharacteristically awful(she must have had some reason to channel Bette Davis, but damned if I know it), and Aidan Quinn looks like he'd rather be somewhere else(who could blame him?).  Plus, he does a lousy Southern accent. "},{"Title":"No magic found","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the most stupid film I saw this year ! I can't believe, that anybody likes this film. I have to lol when I see the words excellent and I love this film in the comments. The story has so much potential, but the film is only a mix of scenes from every genre you can think of. It wouldn't be worse if every scene of the film was filmed by another team at another location. Shame on the director. This film should go directly to the dustbin. Is it romantic ? Yes 5 Minutes Is there action ? Yes 5 Minutes Is there horror ? Yes 5 Minutes Is there thrill ? Yes 5 Minutes Is there magic ? Yes 5 Minutes But hey ! Sandra and Nicole are looking sexy ! Positive !!!! "},{"Title":"A truly dismal waste of money and talent","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a quite breathtakingly awful piece of film-making. The plot is so monumentally stupid and muddled that I still genuinely suspect that everyone was making it up as they went along. The characters are uniformly lacking in even the tiniest semblance of charm or attractiveness, to the point that the most enjoyable aspect of watching them is trying to make up your mind who is the most thoroughly revolting. Without Keanu Reeves and a speeding bus to mask her performance, Sandra Bullock is even more irritating than usual, and Aidan Quinn appears in this kind of rubbish regularly. But Dianne Wiest and probably Nicole Kidman should really have known better. It's almost worth watching this movie simply because if you've been moaning about THE PHANTOM MENACE or THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT or whatever, you'll realise they are better than CITIZEN KANE compared to the utter garbage that is PRACTICAL MAGIC.   "},{"Title":"Bad film","Date":"5 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film is completely crap. There is virtually no story and the parts there are a story it is completely unbelievable. For example, why would you cast a spell on a guy you killed because he tried to kill you to bring him back to life?Indeed a lot of the plot revolves around the misuse of magical spells and two dumb sisters who don't know what the hell they are doing. Stockard Channing is actually really funny in this film but she doesn't play a big enough role to raise this film rating. I would urge everyone to not buy this film as it is utter garbage and a complete waste of money to buy it on DVD. Indeed the only satisfaction I got from this film was when it ended and I then resold it for a fiver. "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable and at times thought-provoking movie","Date":"4 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" There are spoilers ...I just can't understand why many people didn't like this movie. It's brilliant. I haven't read the book. Perhaps that's a reason - is the movie markedly different? Well, I'll be reading the book soon.There's amazing chemistry between the four female stars and particularly between Bullock and Kidman. The premise for the story, well I don't know if that's very original or has been done many times before as I don't usually read books on this sort of theme, ie magic, and at the start of the movie I wondered if I'd like it. Was it going to be a tragedy? When Sally's husband is killed off and Sally is deeply depressed for so long after , I was upset, thinking oh dear this is going to be miserable, am I sure I want to watch any more of this and end up feeling utterly dismal at the end of it. I really don't like unhappy endings. Fortunately I carried on watching because I admire Bullock's work and wanted to see what she made of this story, and Kidman and the aunties were so intriguing. The story becomes wild as Gilly finds herself unable to control her sexy but nasty lover and what happens to him turns this for a while into a sobering sequence of violence towards a woman, but then a truly hilarious and inspired zombie movie, especially when nice, normal cop Gary finds himself confronted with and having to believe in what he can't believe in - that zombie! The witches' finale is perfect. The Happy Ending is all there. My one sadness is that Sally's first husband and father of her two children was killed off yet the implication seems to be her witchy aunties caused her to fall in love with the guy just to make her happy because she didn't want to be a witch - so was it ever really love and happiness or just a dream? Seems to me, since they knew it'd end in misery because of the curse, they'd have done better not to interfere - but then, would she have ever met Gary and would the curse have been lifted? I suppose it all had to happen as it did.Gary the kind-hearted cop who ends up with Sally, and the youngsters who play Gilly's children are excellent as well. To bring critical ladies of the town into the Magic House to help Sally and Gilly is the obvious answer to get them to understand how being different isn't a sin nor to be despised - on the level of being different resulting in being bullied, this is a splendid movie to show how anyone who's different but not wicked suffers needless cruelty sometimes just through not conforming with the crowd. Fortunately this isn't dwelt on too much, and the witches are mostly strong characters, but still the point is made.I liked the little touches from the town ladies such as I always wanted to see inside your house which shows how most of those who aren't different would be kind if they weren't afraid of appearing different by association.Don't be put off, it isn't sermonising, it's just what you'll notice as it goes along about misconceptions leading to misery for the victims.On the DVD I enjoyed the extras except I had a big problem with the commentary. The movie was showing in the background, but for so long as I could bear to listen, the commentary was nearly all the time the director and he talked on and on about how he'd planned and made the movie etc but what he was saying bore no direct relationship to the movie scenes in the background. This was infuriating as I'd expected him and the other commentators and especially Sandra Bullock to talk about the specific scenes as they came along. Not far into the commentary, the director starts talking about how he conceived the zombie sequence, but that comes near the end of the movie. It was totally cart before the horse stuff! I concluded this commentary was made divorced from the scenes on screen and since I was already tired of the director's near-monologue and had hardly heard anything from Sandra Bullock, I switched off the commentary. "},{"Title":"Excels in almost every way!","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pracital Magic is one of the best films ever made! Nicole Kidman, Sandra Bullock, and Stockard Channing made this movie! Without them, it probably wouldn't have been this good. Great teen movie with love, laugher, fiction, suspense, gorgeous people, and PERFECT acting. What more could you ask for? For those who didn't like this movie, go watch something political. The movie is fictional, not real! By the title any idiot can guess that. So, here is a question for those who don't like fictional movies, romance movies, or suspense movies........ Why the hell would you waste your time to watch the movie, much less comment on it? "},{"Title":"Practical Magic","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I would need to see it again to write a better review, but this is the basics and what I remember. Sisters Sally (Sandra Bullock) and Gillian Owens (Nicole Kidman) are witches, Gillian is the wild one with abusive boyfriend Jimmy Angelov (Ice Age's Goran Visnjic), and Sally is the home-loving one falling for detective Gary Hallet (Legends of the Fall's Aidan Quinn), who is trying to find Angelov. Also in the story are the Owens witchy aunts, Frances (Grease's Stockard Channing) and Jet (Edward Scissorhands' Dianne Wiest). Apparently this is meant to be a black comedy, but I don't remember laughing, so obviously seeing it again would help. Okay! "},{"Title":"Practically Delicious!","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Outstandingly entertaining. My Texas's hat is off to all the actors and Griffin Dunne who has proved to be an outstanding director as well as an actor. What an amazing cast and movie. I can't stop watching it. There are a few goofs, but what the heck? All movies are for entertainment unless they are documentaries based on facts. Sandra was the professional actress as usual, and for those of you who do not know about Dianne Wiest, may I suggest you look to see how successful her career has been.(?) Look for a light hearted comedy in this film. Don't be so quick to look upon it as a masterpiece. The actors portrayed their characters exactly how they should have! It's just great fun, and that's all there is to it! Accept it for what it is. Smile!! Thank you to the person who did not like my comment. It was not meant to be debated. This is MY opinion!!! "},{"Title":"Simply Magical!","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I love just about all films and books related to magic, and this movie is not exception. What I loved most about this movie and the clear line between being witches and being women. Instead of a classic story of happy witches who use their magic with ease, this film focuses on how life would be today for witches and especially those trying to find love. This movie had some funny parts and is overall a good time. Of course, when watching this movie you have to remember not to take it too seriously. It's a drama, thriller, comedy rolled into one. The film dives deep into the the practice of Wicca and you have to be able to take it with a grain of salt and just have a good time with it, instead of referring it to as a film for devil worship. "},{"Title":"Worth viewing, if just to figure out why it wasn't so good.","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If you are a manly guy who secretly likes a chick flick once a month or two - this might be for you.The men are all stereotypical one-dimensional evil sorts or McGuffins. The women are heroic intelligent survivors with sensitive sides. Hey --it's a chick flick. This is not Die Hard, and if it was Bruce Willis would be shot early on while trying to hide behind a group of nuns.Sandra Bullock plays a shy but blossoming Sandra Bullock once again, but Nicole Kidman stretches a bit and impresses as the somewhat slutty sister.Not a lot of surprises here but the story moves along, strangely losing it's quirky appeal as it progresses.Worth a look. You should be able to stay awake until the credits run. "}{"Title":"Girls night In must have!","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I LOVE this movie. I am stunned that so many people on here rated it so average. it seems people that read the book are disappointed in the movie. I never read the book for this but I will say that I have yet to watch a movie that did justice to a book. Lets face it books leave more to the imagination allowing you to develop the characters a little more firsthand in your mind. I think it is unfair to compare a movie to the book and it sets you up for disappointment. I encourage those disappointed souls to wipe the book out of their mind and appreciate this movie for what it is- a whimsical charming lighthearted romantic drama/comedy. Totally makes you wish you were a witch or at least lived on that beautiful island where they shot the film! Totally lovely. "},{"Title":"Not bad, see it sometime","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I really liked this movie.The sets were pretty, the acting was great, and the casting choices were definitely well done. It surprises me that so many people here didn't like this flick, I found it very enjoyable.The only complaint I really have is this it's a bit slow paced. Practical Magic is one of those movies that has more talk than action, with less smoke and mirrors than one may expect in a movie about magic. However, if you enjoy a good love story with actual substance, I recommend you see it. If intense action scenes and gore are your cup of tea, this one's probably not for you. "},{"Title":"Great movie or what?","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I absolutely love this movie! Nicole Kidman and Sandra Bullock did a wonderful job. Evan Rachel Wood (Kylie), also did an exceptionally good job, don't you think? I mean, she looks exactly like Nicole, so I think that Griffin Dunne was really talented in picking those two girls to play Sally's daughters. Although I love Sandra's character Sally, I feel that I relate more to Nicole's character Gillian. What about the rest of you? I have just seen another Nicole Kidman movie, so for those Nicole Kidman fans out there, if you haven't already, I strongly recommend watching the film Cold Mountain. That's all I have to say for now, but I will be posting comments on other movies as well as this one! "},{"Title":"Love It","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is my absolute favorite movie of all time! I am not usually into the whole magic, fantasy thing but I just adore this movie. I love Nicole, she is my most favorite actress ever. I think she is a truly amazing and inspiring human, not only as an actress but as a person, a mother, friend, sister, daughter and celebrity. I see all her movies when they are released in Australia and there are not many celebrities I would go watch just because they are in the movie. I would love more than ever to meet her one day. Back to the movie. I think the connection as sisters Sandra and Nicole give to Sally and Gillian is so good in this movie. They portray this amazing bond between each other. Sometimes throughout the film they are not 'best friends' but the love is always there. I am no actress by any means but I cant see as that being easy to do as as far as I know they are not that close. To act that brilliantly as she does with all her movies in just phenomenal to me. Nicole I congratulate you on your amazing talent, hard work and determination you have to become such an icon Thank you "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is my all time favorite movie. Truthfully, it's not for everyone, but if you like movies with a little bit of magic, sisterly bonding, and love, this is the movie to watch. The movie, which was based on a novel by Alice Hoffman, the best author to ever exist, flows together very beautifully. I especially love the connection between the two sisters played by Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman. They did a great job expressing Sally and Ginnie's close relationship, despite their black and white personalities. The two aunts you can't help but love. During the movie, they encourage the sisters to embrace what they inherited and let them realize that being normal is vastly over rated. Sally, on the other hand, wants to distance herself from magic as much as possible, but will soon realize that no matter how hard she tries, she cannot run from who she really is. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It's not so far-fetched if you know what I mean. There's no 'Abra cadabra!'. It's a story about modern witches who can stir coffee with their minds and make evil syrup...Hehehe.There's a curse on the family, that any man the Owens woman loves is doomed to die, so told by the Aunts (One of them is Stockard Channing). The two main characters (Sally and Gillian 'Jilly' 'Jilly Bean' Owens)grow up as two miserable little girls because they are outcasts as everyone knows they're different. Jilly and Sally go their separate ways and Sally falls forcefully in love with a man who dies because she loves him. Her little girls (Black and red haired) live with her. Jilly goes through MANY men and finally, she ends up with Jimmy. I'll leave it at that so that you HAVE to rent this movie to get the full picture. It's very enticing!There are a few gaps that could be awesomely filled in. Like the few minutes before the Halloween tradition takes place...*sigh*I love the effects of the magic, and I enjoy the scene of Jilly in her car, 'witching' herself to Sally in one night, but it looks like a few.You'll really love this movie! "},{"Title":"I Put a Spell on you..... * * * possible spoilers * * *","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Granted, this isn't the best movie on the face of the planet.... Not earth shaking or life changing in any sense.... But, it's a decent romantic-comedy-drama with some great performances and some fantastic lines....Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman portray sisters - WITCH sisters - from a small town in Massachusetts.... Very early on, a family curse takes their father from them, with only their mother to care for them. The mother disappears - never fully explained in the film - and the sisters go to live with their 2 old aunts - also witches - portrayed by Stockard Channing and Diane Weist - 2 of my favorites in supporting roles! Frannie (Channing) looks great with long hair and her expressions are priceless. Bridget (Weist) fills the role completely, offering her expressions and timely delivery to the tale.The 2 girls grow up in the magical household, learning magic as portrayed today by many Wiccans - by using some natural abilities with other natural ingredients, as well as some chants and incantations - to affect their lives.... They learn of the family curse - that any man that the family women love will die unexpectedly. The young Sally (Bullock) casts a love spell, asking for a true love SO unique that he could NEVER exist - with qualities that are rare at best. Gillian (Kidman) wants to revel in love, and goes from man to man to man, leaving them before they can love her or after they've loved her to death, as it were....The girls grow up into women, and Sally falls in love with a local man - a grocer - and tries to have a normal life - raising 2 girls along the way. Her husband dies tragically and she takes her daughters to live with the 2 old aunts. Now the true fun begins for the family....The story line can seem a bit slow at times, and the comedy is scarce, but the movie goes along at a good pace... One of my favorite scenes is the 'Midnight Margaritas' - something you have to see to believe....Channing and Weist are great as the 2 old auntie witches and Bullock & Kidman make a great pair on screen, as well..I give it an 8 out of 10....  "},{"Title":"Don't Knock It Till You've Seen it.","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really love this movie. It's very cute. It may be a bit clique but if you wanna see a cute romantic film with a spice of magic and great actors and a pretty good soundtrack then this is it. It is heartwarming. Even when all the worst things can happen and do, there's a shining light of hope which leads us back to where we belong. This movie holds a special place in my heart. I kept renting it and now i've finally bought it. Try it on for size; maybe you'll like it maybe you won't but at least now you have your own opinion of it. Me on the other hand, I'm always right there weeping happily at the end. ENJOY.  "},{"Title":"Ladies' show","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  There were quite a few movies last year in which the main draw was strong female lead, with the male lead or support relatively less known to little known. Coming immediately to mind are Possession, Sweet Home Alabama and, of course, The Hours.Practical Magic is one from a few years back that I recently saw, for the first time, on TV.  In addition to the double billing of Bullock and Kidman, there are also veterans Dianne Wiest and Stockard Channing.The movie was certainly not that terribly engaging, and didn't seem to be going anywhere for the longest time. However, on a lazy Sunday night, neither my wife nor I even bothered switching channels. The final quarter (apologies for making it sound like a football game) however was slightly redeeming as there was finally a couple of focuses. The movie became fun to watch. "},{"Title":"A learning experience for those ignorant about Witchcraft","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie shows a truer aspect of magic than most others out there. It's not about being evil or worshiping Satan, but about nature. There are those out there that claim to be witches and practice black magic, but they are not true witches. (I don't know if it's really possible to change words on paper, but it was a cute trick.) "}{"Title":"You'll forget it's Sandra Bullock!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a film with two pretty women... but a letdown plot! Sandra bullock plays a role you've never seen her before as and it doesn't even seem like her. She's the only positive part of this film, so i don't reccomend it.  "},{"Title":"It may lack depth, but it's still charming.","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Looking through many movie reviews on IMDB it occurred to me how often a film can be marked down if a reviewer feels it didn't portray the novel as well as they feel it should have.  For me though, I think that reading a book and watching a film will always be two very different medias.  When you read, you are lost in the world your mind creates.  When you view, it is a much more linear affair with much less room for self interpretation.So... having come to this film having never read the book I fail to see the holes that others may think it has.  To me, the film is simply a good film and one that I have returned to more than once.  You all know the ones, we all have them in our collections.  There are certain films that you always associate with a certain feeling.  Then you'll be sat at home and something will trigger a memory and you'll think I know, I'll watch (insert film here).  Well, Practical Magic is one of those films.  It doesn't take itself too seriously, but as a result you never feel you have to question it's motives.  It doesn't try to be something it's not.  It's more a film about the relationship of two sisters than a tale of two witches.  The magic aspect is secondary which helps to tie in with the whole point of the movie, that magic can be practical and doesn't necessarily have to be fantastic.I think the movie does a good job of conveying this and shouldn't be knocked too badly just because it doesn't create the same images as the book may have done for you.  Every person who reads a book will have a different idea of how the characters look and the world they inhabit.  It's impossible for a film to match everyones ideals.Just watch the film for what it is and you wont be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Great screenplay. Everything else, well, good enough.","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Practical Magic is a basic witch story about two sisters who are brought up by there two aunts and are raised as witches. The family have a terrible curse on them though, where if they ever fall in love, the man they fall in love with will die. The movie features okay performances from the cast involved but nothing too brilliant. The screenplay to the movie which is written by the brilliant Akiva Goldsman is the best thing in the movie. It's exciting, interesting and just plain great. Quite a good movie, overall.  "},{"Title":"Just another romantic story, but with much better results.","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The Best The leading actresses, the cast, the music, the script, the atmosphere, the ending... The Worst Aidan QuinnSally and Gillian Owens belong to a family of witches who have a terrible curse on the family each man, that falls in love with one of the, is doomed to die as soon as they hear the death beetle. The eccentric Gillian Owens, falls in love with the wrong guy, puts up some problem, poisons him with the help of her sister and kill him. The story is nowhere near original, it has been done a thousand times before, only this one time, it was made better, golden actresses, a great score, some great atmosphere and a very amusing adapted script all these ingredients fulfill all the expectations the producers were expecting for, despite it's underrated acceptance please the viewer who allows him/herself to be involved. Worth watching to spend a pleasant afternoon.8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"The life of witch girls and aunts in a family","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a really boring film from the very beginning. One is encouraged to see it when in the cast you find beautiful ladies as Bullock and Kidman, but the fact is that the film is like a bad book, it never tastes well. Sandra Bullock acted here more actively than Nicole Kidman, the rest of actors and actresses did an average work not to say sometimes bad. Better plot would have helped the film to be more amusing.        "},{"Title":"Charmless A Tale of Two Witches","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The single most striking thing about this relentlessly mediocre movie is the bizarre casting of the two lead roles. Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman as sisters? What parallel universe does the casting person live in? Both actresses are lovely and talented, but each are the other's antithesis. Glamorous Nicole is all pale skin and red hair, so cool and immaculate and you think her skin would probably be icy to the touch- not that you would probably ever find out, so untouchable is she. By comparison, dark, earthy Sandy defies the practice of calling movie stars 'glamorous'- she possesses beauty and sex appeal, but she also exudes tremendous warmth and accessability. The implausability of these two sharing blood would be easier to ignore in the movie if these cool/warm, pale/dark qualities weren't so dominant in them. As it is, I found the contrasts to be the most interesting aspect. Anyway, Sandy and Nicole are Sally and Gillian, the latest pair of sister witches in an all-female family doomed to have the men they love die. Trying to safeguard against this, Sally is determined to never fall in love. As a precaution, she casts a spell specifying that she will only love a man with a certain combination of odd traits. Nonetheless, she does fall in love- with a man her meddling aunts bring into her life. She bears him two daughters, but- alas- the curse is a real one, and he dies. Gillian, meanwhile, is the wild one and is off living the high life with her 'Transylvanian cowboy' boyfriend. When he turns abusive, she calls on Sally. Sally is already suffering a haunting- she is so distraught over her husband's death that she has forbidden her aunts to teach her daughters magic and refuses to do so herself, though she is far more gifted a witch than Gillian. The killing, resurrection, and re-killing of the girlfriend-beater obliges them to endure a more literal haunting and the arrival of a cop (Aidan Quinn) who possesses a certain combination of odd traits. Added onto this is the suspicions of the town and the determined interference of the aunts and daughters. All of this actually sounds better than it is. The story is played out in such an insipid manner, it inspires scoffing and eye-rolling in equal (and large) amounts. The worst part of the whole affair is the climax, which is never a good thing, but should not be construed to indicate that much of anything preceding it was much good anyway. "},{"Title":"Terrible, Terrible Film!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  My wife and I wasted 104 minutes the other night watching this rotten movie. The performances aren't that bad, it's the story and screenplay - which is simply ridiculous.  My wife loved the novel, and complained that the story was completely changed.  Anyhow, it tries to be a horror story, a comedy, and a romance! - but fails miserably on all levels.  I actually felt embarrassed for one of my favorite actors - Aidan Quinn.  And what a silly ending!Do yourself a favor, don't waste you time on this crap. "},{"Title":"Two trendy witches fight with or against their magical powers in order to secure a happy life.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the premise of Griffin Practical Magic, a film starring Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman. Orphaned at a young age, the two witch sisters move into the home of their two witch aunts (played by Stockard Channing and Dianne Wiest), where they are instructed in the art of witchcraft and taught about the curse they have inherited from a witch relative of the 19th century. As the two sisters blossom into two attractive young witches (with notoriously long hair, ideal bodies and enviable powers of seduction), so, too, do their desires to fight the curse now beginning to take effect.Struggling against the curse, which predestined that every man they love would die a sudden, tragic death, Sally (Bullock) and Gillian (Kidman) stretch the limits of their powers and their wits as they try to get rid of the wrong guy in their life (Goran Visnjic) and keep alive and near the right one (Aidan Quinn).In spite of the mysticism often associated with the powers of magic, which some scenes try so desperately to capture, Practical Magic is a light comedy that seems to hold no grounds outside the predictability --or rather, the boredom-- of an ordinary life of any spoiled child in search of petty love.  "},{"Title":"Absurd","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is completely absurd.  It consist of Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman going from here to there. It has no sense and even you can't laugh because it is no funny. It consist of to pull someone's leg. "},{"Title":"Slow-moving, but acting is good","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  	'Practical Magic' isn't a complete waste of money and talent, as it does have some entertainment value, but for the most part, it's not a very good film. It's too slow moving at times, and there isn't enough comedy, it takes itself way too seriously to be anything but a drama which wants to be something more. Though better than Sandra Bullock's other 1998 film 'Hope Floats', 'Practical Magic' still fails at grabbing the viewer's interest.	However, Bullock and Nicole Kidman do make a good team, and the support from Stockard Channing, Dianne Wiest, and Aidan Quinn help to make the movie at least bearable. The special effects and the scenes where magic is involved more the picture along, even if they are in the minority.	Don't bother renting this movie, unless you are a major Bullock fan, who seems to have gotten stuck in a lot of bad movies as of late. And keep in mind that there is no comedy here, no laughs or even a chuckle.4.5/10 "}{"Title":"Flowers and short sleeves in March","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie took place in New England in March.  (The scene when he's taking her testimony and she's speaking into the microphone, he states the date is March something.)  I live in New England and I've never seen flowers and trees in full bloom and people walking around in sleeveless shirts. "},{"Title":"Great movie for those who love magic","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I watched Practical Magic with my friend, Jay, and we loved it!  It has a great plot line, and I love Sandra Bullock.  For those who like Charmed, will love this movie even more!  My friend was under the blankets the whole time but in the end she said it's her fave movie.  Great movie to watch at night in a basement eating cookies!) "},{"Title":"What happened?","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really was disappointed at this movie and I watched it twice and could not figure out if it was the writing that was bad or the actors.  Since I like most of the actors I went with writing.  I could not believe what I watched. It was boring and confusing as well as so Hollywood.  I did not have any emotions while watching this movie.  Though it was the two Aunts in the film that save me from throwing it in the trash.  Their lines were good and they were funny.   "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really enjoyed Practical Magic.  I can understand why some people were disappointed about the movie being different from the book - I just did a project where I had to read a book and watch the movie, and I was angry at the producers/writers at taking out some important characters.  I don't think that the movie should be based on the book all the time.  Some of the actors in P.M. are pretty amazing. (Sandra Bullock is my favorite actress) It takes a whole lot of talent to actually make it into the movie business, and the cast has talent.  While Sally (Bullock) is the dark, motherly character, her sister Gillian (Kidman)is the one who has the most fun. And the daughters, Kylie (Evan Rachel Wood) and Antonia (Alexandra Atrip, are adorable and performed their characters well, being their age.  Goran Visnjic (Jimmy) gives a creepy performance while Aidan Quinn (Gary) is the man young Sally makes up.  All in all, I really enjoyed the movie, and I don't think that people should judge it on being different from the book. The acting alone should be judged. "},{"Title":"Could've been much better...","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I hate to see a good premise ruined.  It happens a lot these days.  Practical Magic doesn't quite 'ruin' it, but they don't exploit it to its fullest either.  And what the heck is it with Sandra Bullock?  She's gotta be the most 'undercast' actress; phenomenal actress, deserves more roles like A Time to Kill.  I'm always impressed.  Nicole Kidman is no slouch either though she tends to be the sexy, misdirected lead.  For the most part, you'll keep your attention on the movie, but if you watch it a second time...it'll be because you forgot it - not because it's great. "},{"Title":"Who's this for?","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Practical Magic got into trouble early. It was supposed to be, I'd imagine, a family comedy with a witchy touch but it quickly slips into one hell of a genre mess.How can you have a family comedy where one of the main characters is a slut (her family's term not mine), where a beloved husband dies in the first twenty minutes, where another of the main characters is a hateful serial killer, and where yet another suffers from domestic abuse?No amount of bouncy music, beautiful cardigans, cute houses and repeated displaying of Nicole Kidman's lovely legs can hope to overcome the fact that Practical Magic sure isn't a new Bewitched as many hoped it would be.It's even a bit too serious for The Craft market. And who knows what the witches amongst us might think of it?  But a concluding scene involving a coven of local housewives complete with the regulation broomsticks is not guaranteed to satisfy the truly religious.It's pretty demeaning for women really, considering the thousands of women who have died over the years having been accused of dabbling in the dark arts, especially when that was all mostly about keeping women in their place.No, in spite of a fine cast (Nicole Kidman, Sandra Bullock, Aidan Quinn, Stockard Channing and Dianne Wiest), Practical Magic is only mildly entertaining, in spite of Nicole's legs.  "},{"Title":"No magic at all","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  One would imagine that stars as Sandra Bullock and Miss Kidman would read a script befor signing the contract. Probably, they needed the money. I can't imagine any other reason to appear in this movie (unless you're a beginning actor accepting everything). This is typically a movie that you want to wait for until it appears in the fifteenth rerun on tv because only then you are old enough to be mindless enough to enjoy it (this even goes for the elderly).This movie is presented as a romantic drama. This is true. Unfortunately, the spell in the movie has spelled the movie itself; all efforts to create romance die, which is the drama of the movie. "},{"Title":"Reply to Robin G","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"   And, lighten up critics, we all need a little silliness once in awhile. You said it all, Robin.  A great silliness film.  Really entertaining and fun. "},{"Title":"good fun,easy watch","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this was a fun film and enjoyed it for that. I haven't read the book but from what I understand if it had followed it closer it would not have had the pg-13 rating and I could not recommend it to a friend to have a night out with her daughters. I do wish that there was a better close up of Adin Quinn's eyes so that you could really see one blue and one green,Even though you knew from what was happening. All in all I would purchase it on video because it was a fun, Romantic movie "},{"Title":"Enchanting","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Just saw Practical Magic with a girlfriend.  This movie will  not win an Oscar for best picture, yet it did give me what I came for, a lighthearted, easy tale.  The female chemistry is fun, the actresses all played their parts well and the scenery, (that house!), is awesome to look at.  Transport me please, in my next life, to that big old house by the sea. Stick some pruning shears in my one hand, a margarita in the other and a big floppy hat on my head. I'll be happy. And, lighten up critics, we all need a little silliness once in awhile. "}{"Title":"Steel Magnolias meets Witches of Eastwick","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you go in expecting only to be entertained, you won't be disappointed. The soundtrack will be a hit whether the movie is or not......The best scene.....OoOoolalaa Midnight Margaritas!Sandra Bullock pulls off the shy, intellectual, dependable Sally - but then she should....she's played it over and over - in Speed, The Net, While You Were Sleeping, etc  Nicole Kidman is incredibly sexy as the spacy rebel sensualist.  And the aunts!  *laugh*  I nearly died when I saw them. Reminded me of an old eccentric aunt I grew up with.The weakest parts were the male characters.   Sally's husband was non-existent  (did he even have a name??)  Then the cop & the bad guy - neither were believable in their roles - perhaps it would have been better to omit them, and just let it be a light funny chick flick.This would be a great video to rent for a slumber party or GNO (Girl's Night Out) and pretty soon everyone will be singing Put the lime in the coconut....... "},{"Title":"cute, funny, and scary in that witchy kinda way","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  OK, it's really not scary at all, but I thought Practical Magic was an EXCELLENT movie. Sandra Bullock is cute as always, and Nicole Kidman is the seductive wild child. As sisters, Kidman is the gas and Bullock is the brakes in this film. Tie in a dead boyfriend, a family curse, and a cute cop and you have yourselves a little kunundrum for a family of witches in the small town in which they live.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful, relaxing, good-feeling!","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie. A treat for the eyes (Kidman's as beautiful as ever), and something to enjoy, not analyze.It's worth seeing on the big screen, and it's on my list of movies to buy. "},{"Title":"I got exactly what I paid for-a fun night out","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Had plans to see Something about Mary with sisters and mom but got warned not to see it with my mother(thank goodness someone had sense enough to steer us away from that movie-saw it and was disgusted by it).  Practical Magic was a fun movie.  Nothing heavy or offensive.  Gee, I didnt have to block my eyes or cover my ears once.....great night out...what a concept a movie you could actually sit through without being embarrassed. "},{"Title":"Insightful","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is entertaining but it is more of a woman's movie. It is about love and relationships and of course witchcraft. The one thing it lacks is chemistry. This has been Sandra Bullock's problem with her last few movies. There is no chemistry between her and her love interest that jumps off the screen at you. "},{"Title":"Well done Halloween theme film","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sandra Bullock (Sally)is perfectly cast as the girl next door who just happens to be a witch. Her dark eyes and pure acting ability make her perfect for this role as the girl who likes everyone and does all she can for those she loves. Nicole Kidman (Gillian, Sally's sister) gave her best performance to date. She showed facial expression and a glare in her eyes in an amazingly wide range of emotion....from sultry to fearful to demonic and to pure loving. She won my admiration in this film as a great actress. Stockard Channing (Aunt Frances)dragged me right into the screen. I almost became her character. Her character is that of a loving aunt witch who teaches the greatest lesson by leaving the younger witches to fend for themselves.....only until her help is absoloutely required (the most challenging behavior for any parent). The sisters separate when Gillian runs off with an abusive man as Sally falls deeply for a local man and begins a fantastic family life having a wonderful husband and two daughters that resemble herself and her sister. There is trouble and this is where we begin to feel for the characters. Humor, family values, wild youth, abuse, love, hate, fear...it's all here in this great film. One fantastically fun scene occurs when the aunt witches appear to brew up some concoction for a spell when suddenly the nieces shout Margaritas. They all dance to The lime in the coconut and the entire theater is rocking with this fun time! "},{"Title":"BEWITCHINGLY POWERFUL!","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was absolutely fantastic! Stockard Channing and Dianne Wiest play their parts to perfection!  One look into Sandra's or Nicole's eyes, and you'll see why they fit the part of the Owens sisters.  There is power there, and it comes off in a beautiful display of fireworks!  Go see it! You'll go back to see it again.  "},{"Title":"One of the most interesting black comedies in a long time.","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Finally a movie about witchcraft that is not too dark, but sufficiently morbid to capture the attention of most moviegoers, and at the same time manages to weave a comic sub-plot.  The audience is captured and entertained by the performances of Sandra Bullock, and Diane Wiest.  Stockard Channing and Nicole Kidman give good support, but their performances stop short of believable.  This is like a fairy tale with a dark twist, a Halloween story for adults, with just enough authentic details of witchcraft thrown in to keep it interesting.  Some special effects are surprising and enchanting, and different enough to keep you on the edge of your seat. The movie is bizarre and eccentric...not academy award winning material, but great for a weekend out at the movies.Biggest plusses Unpredictable black humor and plot.Biggest minuses Too much of Nicole Kidman's skinny legs !  "},{"Title":"Enjoyed a humorous look at my religion...","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Some areas were a bit off base but did enjoy and took non witch friends with me to see a campy look at my religion... in a witchy sorta way "},{"Title":"Fun movie","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Read the book.  Loved it.  Saw the movie.  Loved it.  It's a rare combination to like both the book and the movie.  Sandra Bullock, Nicole Kidman, Stockard Channing and D. Weist all give good solid performances. Don't listen to what the critics have to say on this one.  They have tried to weave too much into what is supposed to be a fun, entertaining movie.  "}{"Title":"A very thrilling, mysterious, funny but yet uplifting magical love story all in one!","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Practical Magic was so much better and entertaining than the previews let me believe.  Although, the movie is about witches, its very lively, funny, serious, but yet has a magical love story throughout the movie.  Overall, Practical Magic is uplifting and possesses a quality which is only obtainable from a cast which works well together.  The selection of music is equally meaningful and enhances the entertainment value of this well directed movie.   "},{"Title":"A Great Cast but a Script Running Around With Its Head Cut Off","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is NOT so bad as I have been reading.  I had to go see this one twice because the first time I saw it a power outage happened and the whole theater went down.  Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman ARE charming in their roles and are genuine movie stars.  Diane Weist and Stockard Chaning are both genuine movie stars and Actresses as in thespians and they make every moment that they are on screen a joy.  Only at the times when they are on screen does the movie become what it was intended to be.  Almost all the acting talent in this film is good the scumbag boyfriend, the hateful townspeople, the sympathetic townspeople, and the child actors are all good. This brings me to the unpleasant subject of Aiden Quinn.  He seems to me to be about the Ray Liotta caliber romantic lead and spends too much time as a confused Darrinesqe character.  On the whole the acting talent is not to be blamed for any major flaws.  The writing talent however does not get off so easy.  The script has a logical continuancy problem that makes it seem as though ten different screen-writers, in ten different nations, through E-mail, had an illiterate person staple all of their ideas together in a completely random order, and then had the director do ten minutes worth of clean-up.  The only reputations that should be hurt by this film are those that rarely receive much notoriety anyway.-Frank "},{"Title":"Awful, awful, awful","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If not the worst, then this was as close to the nadir of movie making I've seen from serious people. The acting was decent enough (though Nicole Kidman came across as kidding when channeling someone late in the movie), and some of the cinematography was lovely. But the structure was jagged, like a misshapen jigsaw pieces with critical parts of the image missing. Even the charming Sandra Bullock was not enough to bring things home. The jerking and jumping in location and time left my family feeling as though it was lurching while sitting in the living room. There are such leaps early on that by the end of the film, where the time frame is restricted to a few days, the pacing is a staircase where you get to the top and place your foot down hard on a step that isn't there. It's hard to tell whether the direction was at fault or an exceptionally bad edit, perhaps driven by some studio executive screaming, It's testing too long! Cut! Somewhere on the cutting room floor they might have found the audience as well as shed scenes. "},{"Title":"Waste of film","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie, is nothing in particular, is not a comedy, is not a drama, is not romantic, is not scary. Is just a waste of film and money for those renting it.Actresses like Sandra, and Nicole must be more careful choosing there parts.Avoid it. "},{"Title":"Practical Trash","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I viewed this thing with the understanding that it was a comedy.One of my primary rules for comedies is that they BE FUNNY.This movie was not then, is not now, nor will it be in the future, funny.OK, technically it's a fine film.  The story (as deviant as it is) has a begining, middle, and end.  The acting is good, the score is melodius, it's well shot, and has all the basic elements of what should be a good movie.All but one; it's not good.No, I don't mean parts of it shine while others don't, and no, I don't mean it's bad because it didn't appeal to me.  Nope, none of those subjective applications are in play.  It's honestly a bad film.Part of the reason is that the director (and presumably producers) are trying their hands at a mixed genre'd film.  The kind of movie that cuts across several venues, and is supposed to be more at the end than the sum of all its parts.  Adventure films are good purveyors of this kind of cross pollinated genre attempt.  In adventure films we can sense that there're going to be moments of comedy, moments of drama, moments of heroics, and the like.  And in that vein one could label this as a kind of chick-adventure film, with the sales pitch-errr.... tagline being that it's an adventure of the soul, so to speak.  But even so the adventure falls flat because it never really goes anywhere.The humor (what little there is) comes in one of two flavors for this film; 1) the subtle cutesy gag that raises giggles from giddy school girls and their mothers, and 2) the ever so hilarious ex-dead-boyfriend joke (sarcastic tone on that last phrase).  The first type is welcome, if somewhat wanting because there are so few of these, and no large laughs backing up the smaller ones.  The second type is distrubing, as it follows a kind of vindictive mindset from which the humor is emersed; an either angry or apathetic psychology.  The kind of thinking generated by a servant whose adoring master has finally died; the servant is sad his/her meal ticket is gone, but is elated at not having to put up with the verbal beatings while in their master's employ.  Death is rarely funny.  Weekend at Bernies treats death with humor, and does so succesfully.  In It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World Jimmy Durante dies, but it's done in an a-typical funny way. In Practical Magic a rotting corpse is supposed to be the point of off color jokes, comments and actions from the main characters.  Which leads one to ask who would laugh at such story material.On a more Practical side this film doesn't even address the real aspects of practices like Wicca and so forth.  All the props are there, and perhaps even the characters, but the philosophy is only touched on, and the origins (be warned, they're X-rated and not very profound if you decide to do any research) aren't so much as hinted at.  For practitioners of witchcraft, and like beliefs, this film may have some appeal, but that's largely because such people will view this through rose colored glasses (as with all other niche audiences of all other genres).  But in a hard film-vein, this movie is sorely lacking.Yet, it's not all bad.  There are moments where I found myself smiling, and even chuckled every now and then.  I also like Sandra Bullock's work as well as Nicole Kidman.  Both of them do a bangup job in this film.  But like all films striving for greatness their performances cannot possibly sustain an ill-directed and ill-adapted screenplay.Technically well founded, yet abysmally executed.  Not funny, disturbing, and dull.p.s. I dontated my DVD to the local library, so no one will ever have to waste money on renting it ever again.  I've already done that for you. "},{"Title":"Wasn't too crazy about this one","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is probably the least entertaining Sandra Bullock film I've seen to date. All the witchery, spells, and chanting coupled with an exorcism just didn't work for me. Can't say I absolutely hated the show, but I never got real worked up over it either. Nice performances by all, good settings, pretty scenery - but just a blah story.   "},{"Title":"the best movie ever!!!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is my favorite movie,it's the best movie i've ever seen, i love Nicole Kidman, in fact i think this is Nicole's best movie, it's really great, Nicole is my favorite actress and practical magic is my favorite movie, you should really own this movie. -nora "},{"Title":"What a godawful movie!","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Yes, this movie is indeed godawful!  I'm just relieved that I didn't pay to see it in theaters.  Still it's a total waste of 2 hours and the 3 bucks rental money.I usually like Sandra Bullock movies a lot... so this movie was extremely disappointing.  I don't think the acting was all that terrible, so it must be the script.  And the male leads were just bad.  I can't believe they couldn't find some decent people to act opposite Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman.Do yourself a favor and stay far far away from this movie.  "},{"Title":"What the hell ????","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie the 30th December together with my girlfriend, and I must admit it was unique !! The only movie in 1998 of which I doubted to leave during the break. It is so, so bad ... Can anybody tell me what the hell it is about ? NOTHING ! Don't get me wrong, I like now and then a light entertaining movie ... but this one just insulted my intelligence. I normally even like Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman but now their performances were the same level as the movie. The worst part is probably that I stayed till the end since we wanted to see if it would get any worse ... It did!  "},{"Title":"extremely stupid","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Probably one of the dumbest movies I have ever seen. Director cant decide whether to make a comedy, romance, absurd comedy or horror story. It is less than bad, it is simply boring beyond belief. The only thing that matches the incredibly stupid story and inferior directing, is the lack of any visible acting as such. "}{"Title":"Laughably bad!!(Quite depressing really)","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I am afraid that this has to have been the worst film i have ever seen!!! I think that this is the first time that i have ever felt that i have wasted an hour and a half of my life because i have watched a film. It really was quite a bad film! Beware i have warned you!  "},{"Title":"HATED IT!","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Not only was this movie not what it was advertised to be (too bad movie goers can't sue for false advertising) but it was the worst movie I've seen in a long time...a total waste of money.  The editing was terrible, the story was chaotic and uneven, the romance had zero chemistry (I couldn't believe the characters even LIKED each other...let alone loved each other), the witchcraft was stupid and disgusting (I almost walked out after the bird scene)...and worst of all it was boring. Was there a writer? It looked like it was  pasted together with no forethought or planning. It makes Dumb and Dumber look like a work of art! What a mess! "},{"Title":"Why was this movie more than 20 minutes long?","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I never thought I would be dumbfounded by a Sandra Bullock movie, but I just sat staring at my TV screen after this movie was over wondering what in the hell just happened to me.  This movie was truly awful in every conceivable way.  The first hour of the movie was not necessary at all.  It had absolutely nothing to do with the final half.  Why was Adian Quinn in the previews, he had such an invisible role?  Are we to believe that all of the town people were scared and angry at the witches just because they had never been invited over for demon killin'?  Why was that margarita scene filmed? Why? Why? Why?  I haven't been this horribly amazed that a movie actually made it to the screen since Hush.  Griffin Dunne has done good work in the past?!  Sandra, take note, this is no way to revive a very short lived career -- how much money did you make on this? -- Shame on you for taking any of it -- you should distribute it back to the people who had to sit through this movie! "},{"Title":"Magical Sandra Bullock movie!","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Even though I haven't read the book, if you ask me, PRACTICAL MAGIC is a magical Sandra Bullock movie. At the beginning of the film, when Kylie and Antonia (Evan Rachel Wood and Alexandra Artrip) I wanted to slap the kids doing it. If you want to know why, you'll have to see the movie to see for yourself. Whenever a spell occurred, I was very impressed. It's hard to explain why. All in all, this is a magical Sandra Bullock movie. In addition, the soundtrack is really good, too. Now, in conclusion, if you like Sandra Bullock or Nicole Kidman films or enjoyed Alice Hoffman's title novel, I highly recommend this movie. You're in for a good time and lots of laughs, so see this movie today. "},{"Title":"DIANNE WIEST'S SQUINTY WITCH EYES SAVED THIS PICTURE!","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"                     Sandra Bullock(Sally Owens)(Murder by Number 2002) and Nicole Kidman(Gillian Owens)(Dead Calm '89) as sister's were fantastic in their acting skills together.  They both did dramatic roles, comedy and very sexy romantic roles, they made it look so easy to act in these rather difficult roles to play. It actually looked like they had a ball making this picture and I am sure they did!  Dianne Wiest (Oscar winner forBullets over Broadway 94' and Hannah & Her Sisters'86) was a fantastic Witch with her famous SQUINTY EYES which made her acting role very believeable.   This was a very funny and fast moving picture that does not need any criticism, just try acting out these characters on stage yourself!   Enjoy viewing this great film, it takes you away from reality and makes you a kid again. "},{"Title":"I enjoy the movie","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I keep a copy on my bookshelf. Every now and then, when it's quiet, I play it. It's a low-impact, nice romantic comedy. Witches have love lives too, and they can get very complicated. There seem to be a lot of negative criticisms regarding this movie. It's just like any other movie...imagination put into film. Nothing negative about that. The movie is what it is. I enjoy it. I'm sure a lot of other people do too. "},{"Title":"Every womans dream!","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I as one would love the power of being a witch and also think that is the same for every woman. I thought both Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman were very convincing as sisters as there was  such a closeness between the two of them. It was a nice brake to see Sandra Bullock not playing herself and also Nicole Kidman came across well. Aiden Quinn is gorgeous as always. The only downside I thought was it was not powerful enough and they never actually went through all the things Sally wished for in her dream man when Gary was on the scene.  "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was very disappointed in this movie. When I saw the previews for it they led me to believe that this movie was going to be a romantic comedy. In reality there is not much of either in the film. Unfortunately this was of those times where all the good/funny parts of the movie were in the previews so if you've seen the previews you don't need to go to this movie. "},{"Title":"Disappointed that the movie was so inconsistent","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a movie that doesn't seem to know what it wants to be at times an agonizing and depressing portrayal of an abusive relationship, at times a thriller/horror flick, and at times a delightful fantasy/romance. It is only in the latter types of moments that the movie is captivating and enjoyable, and its two co-stars are particularly enchanting. Sandra Bullock has never been more vibrant than in these scenes, and Nicole Kidman is radiant as always.The movie has other flaws as well. These include the selection of an annoying soundtrack that makes the depressing scenes even more so, and the director's penchant for close-ups in several instances when a slightly longer shot would have made the film much less jarring. My dissatisfaction stems largely from the fact that the trailers for this movie were so misleading, as they featured only the light-hearted fantasy/romance aspects of the story; had I known what this movie was really like, I probably would not have gone to see it. "},{"Title":"If this film were a person it would have a severe case of multiple personality disorder.","Date":"23 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" We are all familiar with films that feature magic and witchcraft in fairy-tale or fantasy settings. Practical Magic, however, is one of those films (other examples include The Witches of Eastwick, The Craft and Bewitched) which make use of magic and witchcraft in an otherwise realistic, modern-day American setting. Sisters Sally and Gillian Owens are two modern-day American witches. Besides the hereditary ability to perform magic, their family also live under a hereditary curse, placed on them by a distant ancestress. Any man with whom they fall in love is doomed to die young, but this does not prevent Sally from falling in love with, and marrying, a young man named Michael.And then one day she sees a beetle in their kitchen. Now you and I might think a beetle portends nothing more serious than time to call the pest control people, but to witches it is apparently a harbinger of death, so Sally rips up the kitchen floorboards in an attempt to squash the pesky critter before it can work its evil magic. Unfortunately, too late. It might have been a nicely ironic touch to have Michael come into the kitchen at this point and either fall to his death through the hole in the floor or to drop dead from a heart attack brought on by the sight of the devastation his wife has wrought, but the scriptwriters evidently lacked any gift for irony, and Michael dies in a road accident.Gillian is also experiencing problems with the man in her life, although of a rather different nature. Her Bulgarian boyfriend, Jimmy, is a violent and abusive thug. (Jimmy was originally intended to be a Texan, but the script was altered when the Croatian Goran Visnjic was cast in the role. No-one, however, could be bothered to think of an authentically Bulgarian Christian name, so Jimmy he remained). The sisters accidentally kill Jimmy while attempting to prevent him from beating Gillian, but manage to use their magic powers to bring him back to life. The resuscitated Jimmy, however, proves to be even more of a thug than he was before, so they are forced to kill him a second time. Being twice-dead, however, does not prevent Jimmy's spirit from coming back to haunt the sisters, and they are forced to call on all their powers to try and get rid of him for good. An added complication is that Sally finds herself falling for Gary, the young police officer investigating Jimmy's death, and wonders whether the curse will also claim him.Nicole Kidman is one of those actresses I am never quite sure about. She was a promising newcomer in her early Australian days (Dead Calm, Flirting) and has given some good performances in recent films such as The Others, Cold Mountain and The Golden Compass. During her Mrs Cruise years, however, she seemed to struggle, perhaps under the burden of trying to prove that she was something more than the beautiful trophy wife of a big name, the Bo Derek of the nineties. Even in a film as good as Eyes Wide Shut she failed to shine, and many of her other films (Far and Away, Batman Forever, The Peacemaker) were very dull affairs. Practically Tragic, however, must be one of her worst, down in the pits with the ghastly Moulin Rouge.Why do I hate this film? Well, let me count the ways. The film might deal with things magical, but there is little magic about the dull and turgid script. The plot is particularly preposterous, even by the standards of most films dealing with the supernatural, the ending being particularly nonsensical. Given that most people these days do not believe in magic, a fantasy of this nature can only succeed if the audience can be persuaded to suspend their disbelief, and that is something this film singularly fails to do. Neither Kidman as Gillian nor Sandra Bullock ever manages to make their characters believable, or even very likable. Many films about the supernatural- the Harry Potter movies are a good example- use magic as a metaphor for the human condition; the witch or wizard may have superhuman abilities, but still has the human knowledge of good and evil and the human responsibility to choose between them. There is no hint of that here; the film seems to take place in a moral vacuum.My biggest problem with the film, however, was that it just did not know what attitude to take towards its subject-matter, whether to take it seriously or as a subject for comedy. It is a hodge-podge of various film genres, borrowing something of the conventions of each one, and ending up as an unattractive hybrid, neither fish nor flesh nor fowl nor good red herring. Some of the time the film is played for laughs, but it is hard to regard as a comedy (except perhaps a very black one) a film which includes in an early scene shots of a young husband and father being mown down by a truck in front of his wife. This board describes the film as a Comedy / Drama / Fantasy / Mystery / Romance, which can be extended to Comedy / Drama / Fantasy / Mystery / Romance / Horror / Thriller / Feminist Tract. (The scenes between Sally and Jimmy read like a poor man's Thelma and Louise). If this film were a person it would have a severe case of multiple personality disorder. 3/10 "}{"Title":"Mild magic...","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman are well-cast as estranged sisters in the present day who reunite, only to become involved in a murder, covering their tracks while dodging an out-of-town cop who's hot on the case. After rocketing to stardom with her co-starring role in Speed, Sandra Bullock has struggled with her celebrity and the results on-screen have been mixed, to say the least (While You Were Sleeping was cute, but I barely made it through 28 Days, which felt like it). Practical Magic is a mild fantasy with dramatic and comedic overtones, admirably more of a character-study than a special effects-induced outing (which probably turned many viewers off). The attempt is certainly there, the production design is handsome, but the characters don't really come off. Bullock is truly appealing, though Kidman and Aidan Quinn have very little to work with, and the supporting actresses (Stockard Channing and Dianne Wiest) are forgettable, much like the film. It's a time-filler, leaving no lasting impression. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Good performances - dull, confused story","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sally and Gillian are raised as witches by their aunts Frances and Bridget.  Gillian moves away as an adult for a life of fun, while Sally stays in their small town and marries her true love.  However a curse on the family takes Sally's husband and she finds herself back with her two daughters living with her aunts. When Gillian is beaten by her boyfriend Jimmy, Sally helps her leave him but they accidentally kill him.  A spell to bring him back goes wrong and they bury him in the yard however his spirit remains to haunt them.This had promise - a good director, good cast and interesting premise.  However the story is all over the place - it wants to be a romance, a ghost story, a thriller and a comedy of sorts, but it fails at all of these.  The romances aren't given time to develop - mainly because there are no strong male characters to care about.  The comedy is very light and helps the film have a whimsical feel - but it's not actually funny.  The ghost story doesn't work because the mood of the film is too light and it's all too easily sorted out.  That doesn't leave anything to focus on in terms of story.However the film has a certain amount of charm, some of it comes from the mood of the film which is quite gentle but most of it comes from the cast.  Bullock is really good as Sally and carries the majority of the film, Kidman is not as good as Gillian but is still good.  Sterling support is given by Stockard Channing and Dianne Wiest as the aunts.  The two male leads Quinn and ER's Visnijic are likeable (in as much as Visnjic's character can be described as likeable!) but their characters are so shallow that they can only really play stereotypes of good man/bad man.Overall it's pretty disappointing - not having a good plot is a real downer - but a great performance by Bullock and Kidman and good support by Channing and Wiest almost make this worth watching.  Almost. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Gruel","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Typical of the sappy, touchy-feely, moronic, bland, stupid, formulaic, contrived, manipulative, and cliche-ridden movies that Hollywood shovels up for us to eat. Particularly tough to watch is the repulsive chracter Gillian, who I was desperately hoping would be killed off. Please, enough with these 'girls just want to have fun' movies, how about some intelligence?...does Hollywood really believe that 'girls just want to be dumb'?.  "},{"Title":"Promises way more than it delivers","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Flash, good cast, nice idea etc. The result is a total disappointment. Not funny, not scary just plain twee. If descriptions like Girl's movie or very American put you off, this is not the film for you.   "},{"Title":"NOT What I Expected!!","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie was not the romantic comedy that I expected (per the tv ads). In fact, when I did find something remotely funny, I laughed harder than I normally would, because I was so glad to have something cheerful to pull me out of the depression that I was sinking into.I didn't really have high expectations going in, but I certainly expected it to be a little more light-hearted, and to have a more cohesive plot.This movie is not worth full-price admission (or even matinee prices!). See it at the $1 show, and then only if you're a big Bullock/Kidman fan. "},{"Title":"Practically nothing","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If only I could conjure. I'd conjure this movie were never made. Why? Because in the entire duration of this film, nothing happens. Really. Absolutely nothing. At some point, I decided to switch to fast-forward mode, looking for a moment at which actually something occurs. But instead, I reached the end of the tape. Staring at an empty wall is just as exciting as watching this film.Rating from the Dutch judge 2 (out of 10).  "},{"Title":"This was an awful piece of work- save for Nicole Kidman","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Nicole Kidman was the saving force of a terrible movie.  Some sequences are far too long, and others way too unbelievable.  Sandra Bullock didn't do herself many favors by accepting the far less intriguing role.The one scene which forever haunts this film for me is the dancing around the table for upwards of five minutes while everyone gets drunk.  This, to me, is sloppy film-making when nothing better could have been put in, filler, to make the movie longer.Nicole Kidman surprised me with her performance, but one character a film does not make. "},{"Title":"A Failure","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It's a romance!  It's a comedy!  It's a suspense!  It's a horror!  This is a movie that tries to be a little bit of everything, and thereby fails to be much of anything.  What a waste of talent.  "},{"Title":"do not see this film, I repeat do not see this film","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If there was any practical magic in this world Nicole Kidman could conjure me back my 6 bucks.  The was a waste of my time and evening.  It was pointless hopeless and down-right drab.  What a waste of talent.  If somehow you take it upon yourself to see this film I suggest bringing a barf bag. UGHHHHHHH "},{"Title":"A novel best not dramatized...","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Ever so often you'll find a novel that has been maimed so terriblethat it is impossible to recognize it - even in a movie. This is such anovel. Fortunately it is not Sandra Bullocks fault. A word of Advice to Scriptwriters. Keep your fingers away from thegood stuff. Let the author do it him/her-self. "}{"Title":"Okay for the women, but the men are gonna need some caffeine to watch this one","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I recently saw this movie (or at least most of it) when my sister rented it.  My sister liked it, but I didn't care for it at all.  It's one of those chick flick films.  It focuses on girl friendship and it's pretty much like you're in a room full of women who talk about girl stuff.  It's quite similar to films like Clueless and Now and Then.  I recommend it to all you women out there, but we men had better stick with something with comedy/or action. "},{"Title":"A Waste of Money and Talent","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a disaster, a waste of money and talent.  The script, direction, even the soundtrack are dreadful.  Four of my favorite actresses....wasted...it's a sin.  Avoid this movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"Predictable, unlogical, laughable,and oh yeah, just BAD.","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't remember the last time I actually spent watching a movie that was complete GARBAGE.  Probably The Haunting.  It was actually hard for me to decide which was worse.  But I am going to give Practical Magic a close runner up. Where to begin  lets start with the cliches  brooms, potions, two old maids living together, dressed in 1800's clothes (WHY WHY WHY???). black cats, COME ON! the storyline  Where is the climax?  Where is the plot?  These are hard to find because-THERE ARE NONE. and why why why, would the entire town be so afraid of them for 30 plus years, and then magically turn best buds when it come's time to do a spell/ exorcism? (did any body else feel that way-at times I thought Kidman was trying to be Linda Blair!).  And What on earth is up with the Phone tree????? why would every body have to have a meeting about it?  Does that happen in your home town?  Are people REALLY that rude and narrow minded?  Did that town look suspiciously like the one Sandra was in Hope Floats???  Why did Sandra run towards her future husband and he was running towards her-with out saying one word to each other?  What was the point of her owning the store?  And why were there like 5 workers doing nothing, and no customers?  If you woke up, with some one playing with your face, and found your sister you have not seen in 7+ years, don't you thing you would be the least bid shocked, or happy?  I just don't understand.the characters  what can I say?  NO CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT HERE.  How can anyone watching this film have any feeling toward a character if they don't bring us one.  Sorry, none worth standing in this flick.  I did not care if Kidman (forgot her name in movie) stayed or went.  I did not care if Bullock feel in love or not.  I did not care if their aunt's came back, if they made margaritas or not (oh yeah-what a stupid scene, espically the direction, terrible.  Acting-non-convincing). CAN  WE SAY PREDICTABLE  everyone knows that Adian Quinn (don't know his name in movie-even used?) is going to have one blue  eye, one green, he can flip pancakes, and has a star.  WOW.  I never saw THAT ONE coming!  (oh, and the whole pancake scene, especially when he flips it up in the air-just cheesy.  I have not seen such bad direction with a camera since the late 80's).  By the way, why could he kill off Kidman's DEAD boyfriend with the star!?!?! Was he a vampire? I really don't mean to rip this apart (well, I guess I do, because I am doing it) but I just don't understand why any of the cast made this. How did it get past viewing audiences?  Why did Kidman take this?  (Sad to say that I expect this from Bullock).  This whole mess is COMPLETELY unlogical, predictable, and just laughable (the last scence practically had me on the ground).  I can't get over this. 0.5/10 stars.(the .5 because there was a song from BOOGIE NIGHTS in it-the only enjoyable part of the film). "},{"Title":"Practical Magic How Stupid Can We Get? 0*","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is beyond the pits.Stop already with the Salem witch trials, condemnation and the ultimate curses placed by witches that are inherited through the years.This picture was almost a dumb take-off of Hocus-Pocus of several years back.Hard to believe that great actresses Stockard Channing and Diane Wiest would play two relatively benign aunts in this horrible mess.The curse is that through the ages, a beetle comes along to bring the demise to husbands of the women. Their children are ostracized by others.Sandra Bullock tries hard but she has such ridiculous material to work with. Nicole Kidman doesn't even look like herself as she vamps around. How many times do you have to kill her boyfriend? 3 strikes and you're out in baseball. This hodge-podge of a movie shouldn't have even reached strike 1. "},{"Title":"Practically horrible","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  *WARNING  THIS MAY CONTAIN SOME SPOILERS*I actually thought this movie would be pretty good when I first saw the previews for it.  You know...it looked like a nice, enjoyable, family fun filled film.  I can honestly say that I was completely blown away by how bad this movie was.  I HATE all Nicole Kidman movies, but I liked a few of Sandra Bullock's films (now that I think about it I really don't...).  But it also had Diane Wiest and Stokard Channing, which I usually like.  This movie was supposed to be supporting the craft but instead was filled with an innumerable amount of cliches (e.g., the brooms, telekinesis, black clothing, long, pointy hats, black cats, etc., etc., etc.). e Most of the movie made no sense either.  Why was that stupid Tigers Eye so important to Gillian?  If Sally never wanted to be in love, why would she wish for all of those stupid things that she wished for?  Like a man that has a star and can flip pancakes?  Can you say cheesy?  If the aunts knew that was a curse, why would they make her fall in love with a man that she didn't even know and have to kids?  Why would they try to bring Jimmy back to life, only to kill him again?  Why couldn't Gillian just hop on a bus and go back home after she had drugged Jimmy? And then there is the whole margarita scene which was just horrendous.  How are the two aunts gonna be practically drop-dead drunk, and then as soon as Gillian smashed the wine bottle they became sober and completely serious?  They should have tied them leaving into something else.  And then when Gillian is getting exorcised, she comes back to normal because they do the blood sisters thing and hug?  No....Now lets talk about how atrocious that acting in the movie was.  Let's start with Jimmy (Goran Visnjic).  I might have possibly gotten the worst role in the movie.  So he dies so he turns into a ghost that can posses people.  Then there.  The characters that were REALLY bad in this movie were Sally's daughters, Kylie and Antonia Owens (Evan Rachel Wood, and Alexandra Artrip).  They were just too happy about every single thing that they did (e.g., when they were pouring out the bad syrup into the ocean).  And in the scene where they were crying, it sounded like they were laughing/choking on something.  I know that Evan Rachel Wood can do better than this, because she was great on 'Digging to China.'  I have never seen the other girl on anything...and after being in this movie, she will probably never get another role.  She was cute though...The love connection between Bullock and Quinn must have been strictly positional because there was no chemistry that would lead them to almost having sex in the movie...unless Quinn just thought Bullock was THAT good looking.  They barely spoke, and then they get married.  And of course that lifts the spell that couldn't be lifted in thousands of years.  The movie is just one corn fest.  Don't even waste 100 minutes of your valuable time watching this.  Because you will regret it. "},{"Title":"The first half is quite good, but the second half is just ridiculous","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was not expecting much of Practical Magic, but I was expecting to have at least fun. What I found was a silly and stupid movie. Sandra Bullock is bad as always. Stockard Channing and Dianne Wiest are good actresses but here they are very superficial as the two old witches. And Nicole Kidman... Oh, is she the same Nicole Kidman of Eyes Wide Shut? I can't believe...The first half of the film is quite good and has a nice story. But the second half is just annoying and ridiculous, specially the last 20 minutes.4/10  "},{"Title":"Complete Garbage","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If you hate men you'll like this movie. Movie is actually a complement to this heap of dung. The writers of this pile (Robin Swicord and Ariva Goldman) must have been those girls in high-school that never got asked out on a date, and as a result now, as bitter adults, they get to spew feminist venom all over the the silver screen. That's all this film is. A complete mess at that. It's billed as a Comedy- Drama but there is not a single funny thing in it, unless you think that killing an abusive man is funny. And of course; all men are either rapists or wusses, don't you know?A waste of time. "}]