[{"Title":"One of the Greatest Comedy Tour De Forces in Film History!","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"79 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" How could so many people miss this amazing performance? Bill Murray pulls off something that hadn't been done since the days of Harold Lloyd a character who always succeeds despite the fact that he thinks that everything is a game. Like Lloyd's blindfolded wanderings on suspended buildings many stories in the air where he never falls down or gets hurt, Murray triumphs as a super-secret-agent when he thinks the entire thing is a parlor game, a bit of 'real life theatre'. The twists and turns of the plot, the misunderstandings and misinterpretations by everyone around him just add to the giddiness of the whole film. I have rarely been so disappointed when I had to finally concede that it was the end of the story. Give this a second look if you dismissed it as just a silly movie. It's a classic, and one of my 10 best movies of all time. "},{"Title":"BRILLIANT and overlooked","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"58 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Although this movie is not quite as funny as What About Bob, I think this is probably Bill Murray's second funniest film, though I strongly doubt if it will be enjoyed as much by the average viewer. That is because, I hate to say, the average viewer often is a teenager or adult who likes their comedy very broad and simple. No, this will not appeal to fans of Porky's or Little Nicky because it requires the viewer to have a reasonable attention-span and the ability to enjoy a comedy that doesn't telegraph what will happen next (just how many movies these days are hard to predict anyways?).The movie is a screwy, difficult to describe spy adventure where everyone knows just how deadly the stakes are---except for Bill Murray's character. He mistakenly thinks everything that is happening around him is a type of performance art (sort of a Theatre of the Absurd). You MUST watch it. "},{"Title":"Excellent parody!","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"37 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Anybody who didn't enjoy this movie didn't get it... it was one of the most hilarious parodies I've ever seen.  But, perhaps the circumstances of my initial viewing overly influenced my opinion.  On a business trip to DC in 1998, I saw The Game with Michael Douglas and Sean Penn on the way out... great movie, but very heavy and deep.  However on the way back, this movie was playing.  Based on initial reviews I wasn't expecting much, but watching it was like someone purposely made a funny version of The Game, and I probably annoyed my fellow passengers as I was laughing so hard.  I thought Murray was at his best, not unlike Chevy Chase in the Fletch movies (shame they didn't make more of those), as they were both in their comical element.The coincidental (or perhaps not) pairing of these two films really added to my enjoyment of both.  On a cold rainy weekend, I strongly recommend renting both and watching them in the same order I did&#133; you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"First of all....I loved it.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"35 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First of all....I loved it. Simply put, this film was great. Talk about a story that could have been based upon true life incidents is not what this film is about. This is comedy at its best. Bill Murray's character is a man who manages a Blockbuster-video store someplace in Iowa. Murray decides to take a vacation and visit his brother in London. His brother (Peter Gallagher) is entertaining some important clients that same evening and sends his brother (Murray) out to participate in this audience-interaction play involving spies called the `Theater of Life'. Well, as the play begins, Murray accidentally stumbles into a real-life spy drama and takes everything that happens next as if he is just acting in a play. The result is non-stop humor which leaves the audience busting up outloud. You don't have to love Bill Murray to love this film...he brings to the screen the best parts of his roles in Scrooged, Stripes, Ground Hog Day and What About Bob...you just have to be ready to experience Bill Murray at his best. Bottom line, what might even be funnier than the film, is being part of an uninhibited audience, because once some people begin laughing, they will be at it for the next two hours. "},{"Title":"The Comedy of Errors, or nothing to do with Shakespeare, as interpreted by a Theater of the Absurd theater company","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"36 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jon Amiel's The Man Who Knew Too Little is one of the funniest movies that keeps the viewer in a laughing state all the time. Mr. Amiel shows an affinity to comedy as he takes us along for a fun ride into this amusing movie. The film is based on the funny Robert Farrar book, who also adapted the material for the screen.This film is a sort of comedy of errors in which an innocent man is drawn into an international conspiracy that he has no clue is going on around him because his brother, in order to get him away from his dinner party, decides to treat him to a performance of a play in which the viewer is part of the show.Little does Wally Ritchie realize what he has gotten into. That's the basic premise for the film, which works well because Wally doesn't suspect what he's involved in. So he goes along for the fun of it, thinking nothing about the bad guys that are trying to get rid of him, for real.Bill Murray proves he is one of the best comedy actors working today. The sequence involving Mr. Murray dancing with a Russian folk group at the hotel where something terrible is set to occur is just pure perfection. Mr. Murray is a likable actor and never makes himself obnoxious in any situation. He is a delight to watch.The rest of the cast is good. Peter Gallagher is Wally's brother. Joanne Whalley makes a perfect femme fatale. Alfredo Molina has some excellent moments as Boris, the butcher, the man who wants to eliminate Wally out of the picture.The Man Who Knew Too Little is a fun film to watch thanks to Jon Amiel. "},{"Title":"It's summer, it's hot, kids are home, time to kick back.","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"33 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  With my son out-of-school, it's a bit trickier getting time to see the films I really enjoy.  TRANSLATION  it's that time of year for a lot of rentals of films he likes and I can handle.  After a tough day of lounging by the pool, another viewing of The Seventh Seal won't fly.But Bill Murray in The Man Who Knew Too Little gives us that perfect summertime, late night film.  Murray stars as a bumbling, clueless American who pops into London unexpected and uninvited so his Master of the Universe brother can celebrate his birthday.  Trouble is the brother and his wife are entertaining visitors from Germany for a business presentation and Murray can't fit in.  His brother has to make him disappear for the evening. Which leads to the complex plot.  Given a ticket for a live, interactive, TV show without walls (or a specific locale), Murray stumbles into a plot by a top British spymaster and his Soviet counterpart to pull off a midnight assassination of two ambassadors, thus wrecking a treaty ending the Cold War (and their lucrative, paranoia-tinged careers).  Believing he's in a very big show, and with - of course - suitable and gorgeous female assistance he hits a lot of London (sometimes literally).A little dated, I'm not so sure we wouldn't welcome some of the uncertainties and stresses of the Cold War for the unfolding enigma of international relations today.  Hey, I shouldn't get serious and neither does Murray as he blunders about dispatching assassins and bystanders with ease.This is a very physical comedy, Murray's forte.  There isn't a serious idea in the script and the outcome is as predictable as May drizzle in London.  But my kid couldn't stop laughing and that's good enough for me.   "},{"Title":"A perfect vehicle for Bill Murray","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This poorly worded title is a wonderfully absurd farce. London is a perfect backdrop for Bill Murray to perform his shtick as Wallace Ritchie. The supporting cast play to their purposeful stereotypes and most importantly don't get in Murray's way. Peter Gallagher (of 'Orange County' fame) plays a very good straight man as Murray's brother, and Joanne Whalley seems to be playing her part and enjoying watching Murray's performance at the same time. There is a generous supply of double entendres, predictable, but well written and funny. This movie can be enjoyed by families as well as 'adults only'. Don't expect a life changing event, just enjoy a fun movie. "},{"Title":"Funny if slight","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Wally Ritchie flies from America to visit his brother in London for his birthday.  However James has a business meeting and needs Wally out of the way for the evening.  He books Wally onto a new murder-evening style experience where you get to play the character of an secret agent or the like.  However Wally answers the wrong phone call and is mistaken for hitman Spenser.  Following the instructions of the call, Wally becomes involved in a plot to start the cold war again by killing a mix of Ambassadors.  Blissfully unaware Wally sets out to foil the plot.This is one of those films that I'd kept meaning to see for ages but never got round to it.  So when I finally did I maybe had too high expectations for it.  So for the first 20 minutes I was a little impatient and was bothered that I wasn't really enjoying it or laughing very much.  However once I got past this I relaxed and started to enjoy it.The plot is mush and even if you take it seriously, all the pieces don't fit together and the plot doesn't make a lot of sense.  However ignore all this plot nonsense &#150; this is all about Wally stumbling from one misunderstanding to another lucky occurrence.  We're not in the realms of classic comedy here and it certainly isn't hilarious.  Rather it's funny and enjoyable &#150; in that, even when I wasn't smiling I still had a fixed grin on my face.Murray is the film's saviour.  He stumbles around so very well and makes even the most basic misunderstanding funny.  Gallagher is a passable straightman and Walley-Kilmer is decent but really suffers from having to share a screen with Murray.  A fleet of British faces make up the rest of the cast &#150; from Molina, Wilson, Woodeson to the sublime John Thomson and faces like Dexter Fletcher and `that guy offa Family Affairs'.  To be honest it's all a bit distracting having so many `oh, that's &#133;&#133;' and you do have to try and get past it.Overall this isn't the funniest thing you'll ever see, but it is enjoyable and will make you smile for 90 minutes, even if the belly laughs are less often than you'd like.  Murray runs the show and brings laughs out of the least inspired routines.  Well worth a watch if you're in a silly, undemanding mood. "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'The Man Who Knew Too Little'","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"23 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" HE GOOD - This was better than I expected, especially after reading some negative reviews on it. Bill Murray is perfect for his role. There are several scenes I just laughed out loud. He had some funny lines. The film moves well and the comedy is generally good. Joanne Whalley-Kilmer is usually nice to watchTHE BAD - The only weak part, unfortunately, was the last 20 minutes. Also, this is basically a one-joke movie and that joke can begin to tire after about 40 minutes. I didn't care for Peter Gallagher's role. OVERALL - Like Groundhog Day, a good vehicle for Murray's humor makes it an entertaining film, but I'd rent it before buying it. "},{"Title":"Joanne Whalley-Kilmer's really cool spoof.","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In the film Scandal, Joanne Whalley-Kilmer played the part of a high priced call girl who has affairs with British politicians, movers, and shakers, and most famously with the British Minister of War.  It was based on a true story and Joanne W-K's performance became the highlight of her career.  In The Man Who Knew Too Little, Joanne W-K once again plays this character but for laughs.  Kind of neat considering that the two films probably don't share the same audience (which is apparent since so far I am the only reviewer to pick up on this connection, despite the obvious spoof.) When she appeared on screen and I saw she was spoofing her Scandal role it was like actually getting one of Dennis Miller's intellectual jokes. If you have only seen one of the films you should see the other one too.  If you have not seen either start with Scandal, if not for chronological sake then at least to get the inside joke in the later (plus Scandal is a really good film and very timely considering the Clinton-Monica thing).  Bill fans (Murray that is) don't worry, he is here in fine form.  For movie buffs this film is but a series of spoofs of well-known, and not so well-known mostly film-noir flicks (think watered down Mel Brooks, circa Young Frankenstein, not so broad, not so obvious, but cool when you get it.)  If you're under the age of 35 you probably won't get them (my niece, part of the money demographic was shocked to find out that there was actually a movie called The Man Who Knew Too Much, which explains exactly why the film didn't do better box office.)  Most of all, the interest is Joanne Whalley-Kilmer who has brought back to comedic film the wonderful French Maid costume.  Once a staple of Vauldeville, Bob Hope comedies, and Pink Panther films, the French Maid's costume should be mandatory for all women endowed with great legs.  Oooh La La!  Even if you have not seen Hitchcock or British cinema, you never heard of film-noir (let alone pronounce it), and your knowledge of Cold War and foreign spy history is non-existent, there is Joanne W-K's killer bod and cool spoof.  And oh yes, Bill Murray's good too.  "}{"Title":"Classic comedic timing, hilarious plot, solid cast and good writing...yes, see it!","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Man Who Knew Too Little (1997)There are those who think Bill Murray can do no wrong, that he has an impeccable comic flair and intelligence that drive even mediocre fare. And I'm one of them.And this is relatively humdrum stuff on one level--though the basic idea of spoofing a spy superstar is as old and reliable as James Bond himself. (I mean, Bond spoofs were around when Sean Connery was still 007.) And the writing is really very witty here, giving two prongs forward in this mostly funny, always fast affair. That is--I laughed a lot! That's the goal. The cold war themes of the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. going head to head were old even in 1997 but of course not old for James Bond, and this does harken back somehow to the original. Murray plays a classic type--the hero who succeeds by accident. Often, it's the absurdity and illogic of this odd hero that makes him successful, surprising the professionals and seeming brazen and original. And so he is.The plot is simple--some bad guys have a bomb that's going to go off in five hours. We know that at the start, and so the rest is loaded with anticipation and dread as the deadline nears. We also know (in this sort of movie) that no harm will come to Murray's cheerful, doltish American type. So the race against the clock is a series of gags and spoofs and lucky twists, all good for laughs. Murray is the key to it all, playing the naive participant with that uncanny timing and innocent face too well, over and over. If it were only about Murry this would be a 10 star masterpiece. The rest of the cast, and the eventual inevitability of the plot, hold it back, though. So it is what it is, still a great romp.You want more than that? You won't get it. But why would you? Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Great overlooked comedy","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" He's a bumbling fool who's ungodly lucky. He's a brilliant secret agent, and he thinks he's part of a reality show. He saves the world, and he hasn't got a clue.It's a superb comedy concept, and one which Bill Murray was born for. What a crime that this did not turn into a series of multiple movies. And what a shame that many people probably don't even know this one exists. It's a true gem.Also featuring other great actors like the delicious Joanne Whalley (a favorite of mine since The Singing Detective), and the great, great Alfred Molina in one of his best roles ever, as the good-natured but hard-boiled Russian agent Boris the Butcher. Alfred Molina is fantastic. He can play anything; good or evil, handsome or ugly, dignified or foolish. The man is a genius.But as for Bill Murray; this movie is one of his best ones, and will certainly go down in history as a major comedy classic. When I noticed that the movie is based on a book, I tried to find it, but unfortunately it seems the book is unpublished. Which also means that there weren't any sequels... -(Anyway, we have this movie, and it is virtually perfect. Great fun. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest Bill Murray movies","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bill Murray is in his best form in this movie.  I bought the DVD version after seeing the VHS version.  Just yesterday I watched it twice in a row. I found myself giggling through many of the scenes.Murray stumbles his way through what he believes is a live-action on-location Theater of Life, but in reality is an international plot to assassinate Russian and Britain ambassadors and resurrect the Cold War spy game - by the very same high-ranking officials in Britain and Russia who whould oversee it.The dialog is full of double meanings, as Murray talks in terms of the theater, and everyone else around him is talking in terms of the real-life spy game going on around him.  He is unaware of each of his bumbling moves, yet each one is seen as the performance of a highly-trained master spy. The dialog alone is a tightly-crafted jewel.  After several viewings it becomes predictable, but Murray's performance admirably carries the entertainment value.   "},{"Title":"Bill Murray's one man show","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" That more than adequately sums up my feelings of 'The Man Who Knew Too Little'. It's his show. All the way. There is also no denying this is a rather stupid movie because it has to be. The only prerequisite is the situation must be completely implausible and the main character a complete bulb and on those terms this movie passes with flying colors. Wallace Ritchie (Bill Murray) is a man perhaps the furthest thing from ultra cool and sexy a la James Bond. I guess the fact that he is a forty-plus year old man working at Blockbuster is confirmation of just that.Coming to visit his brother, James (Peter Gallagher), you can see from frame one that James wants nothing more than to get rid of him. Yes, sign him up for some harmless fantasy role-playing and adventure. Where's the harm in that? He's supposed to go to a telephone booth and await fake instructions except when he picks up the phone, it's an actual spook relaying him to go to an address. Seconds later, the real assassin approaches the telephone booth, phone rings and picks it up. It's the game calling. Some man is pretending to beat up a woman across the street as we can see the window and corresponding sound from the telephone. The assassin without emotion calmly walks across the street and mechanically puts three shells in the male actor. A rare moment of dark humor in an otherwise over-the-top silly movie.The rest follows a pattern of Wallace stumbling around unaware of what he's really involved in and this illusion he can do / say / try anything without consequence of death is weirdly amusing. Of course, furthest from plausible, but having to be as such. If you can shoulder a sporting Bill Murray carrying the weight in order to save a threadbare story you'll find something to like here. Even though by the end, it had worn thin, I had a real good laugh or two and that's more than I can say for most comedies nowadays. A must-watch for Bill Murray fans. "},{"Title":"Laughter from Beginning to End","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's hard to believe that this movie is so little known, because it is Bill Murray's best to date.  It is so cleverly done and hilarious, even without the little sly jokes you may not get until the 2nd or 3rd time through. Anyone who loves non-vulgar comedy should watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Bill Murray's 'The Party'","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" For anyone who loves Peter Sellers you know that one of his best performances and least known films is 'The Party'. The movie itself if odd, but you love it because it is showcases the quintessential Peter Sellers.In a like-manner, The Man Who Knew too Little is Bill Murray in his purest form. It too is a bit of an odd movie - the main character is completely out-of-his element (whatever element that is). The more you watch the movie the more of a classic it becomes and the more intriguing the relationship between the comedian and the world becomes. It is the point at which art and comedy become one.Love it or hate it, The Man Who Knew too Little is brilliant. "},{"Title":"if you like Bill Murray, mysteries, fun, and unpredictable flicks","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bill Murray at his best, leading his fellow actors to believability! The genius of this film is that it is the inverse of Groundhog Day - where his character knew the day was replaying over & over & no one else did. In this film, there is European flavor, espionage, political intrigue, all the while everyone else understands reality, and because of trusting circumstances his character determines that they are all playing along to celebrate his birthday. He walks unscathed through truly dangerous scenarios, but brought to humor by the incredulity of it all!!! The dancing Cosack scene was a highlight! This movie is totally fun and as planktonrules says, very overlooked. A very special film on Murray's resume! "},{"Title":"Not his best film, but Murray made it work","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jimmy Ritchie has reason to be uptight  for his job in London, he is having Germans over to his house for dinner, and he must impress them.  So the last thing he needs is for his loser brother Wally to show up.  To get rid of him, Jimmy arranges for Wally to be on a reality show, but thanks to a mixup in a phone booth,  Wally ends up in a spy caper which is real, only he doesn't know it.  He believes all of the people involved are actors, and no matter how violent things appear, Wally thinks everything is being staged.  But these are dangerous people  one of the villains wants to restart the cold war.  A major treaty is being signed, and someone wants to set off a bomb as it is happening.Bill Murray is wonderful in this movie.  Wally comes across as so confident and able to cope with anything.  The situations are hilarious, even though people could easily get killed.  Al Molina was good as one of the villains, and I especially liked the incompetent Russians, though I never caught the names.It was a great effort, though I've seen even better from Bill Murray.Possible SPOILERS followThe dancing for the treaty ceremony was great.  Especially since Wally somehow found himself to be one of the dancers!And one of the highlights of the movie came when Wally, not realizing the seriousness of the situation, found himself with the bomb...AN EVEN BIGGER ********** SPOILER ***********  ... and ended up being the one who would have to disarm it--even though he didn't know what he had!     "},{"Title":"This is a classic comedy film!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film was a classic the moment it was put together. Bill Murray has never been funnier. He plays his character flawlessly. The supporting cast down to the extras are perfect. It brings to life a type of comedy that has faded in recent years. It is a perfect film. If you like Bill Murray, or the Pink Panther movies, or even good old fashioned comedy, this is the movie to see!  "},{"Title":"Contrived but brilliant with it","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Man Who Knew Too Little may have a contrived premise, but this hardly matters as once the plot gets going it is very very funny.Bill Murray has yet to give anything less than a hysterically funny performance in a film and although no-one comes close to providing as many laughs than he, Richard Wilson makes a very funny villain. It is sad that this film wasn't a big success because it deserves to be.  "}{"Title":"An Oddly Old-Fashioned Laughfest","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The script to The Man Who Knew Too Little is a throwback to  classic comedies by the likes of Danny Kaye and Red Skelton.  Murray's character is dopier than Kaye, Skelton, etc. ever were but his stupidity serves the situation well.  His character believes that he is in avant-garde theatre, and everything in the script (some of it very contrived) lends credence to this belief.  At worst, it drops to the level of Jerry Lewis buffoonery, but the script is also filled with brilliant touches, and all the plot-lines dove-tail extremely well.  Do not go into this movie with any expectations of seriousness or any connection with reality.  (In Murray's shadow, Peter Gallagher performs a thankless role extremely well -- don't overlook him!) "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable, lighthearted fare.","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In a similar vein to Spies Like Us (Chevy Chase and Dan Aykroyd), The Man Who Knew Too Little is offbeat and nonsensical a good little spy film in which Bill Murray gets to do his thing.  One of the funniest scenes is at the end, but I'll let you discover what I'm talking about.I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"Vintage Murray...","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have always loved Bill Murray ever since his old SNL days, and of course Caddyshack was nothing without him.  His unique wit and demeanor are great, and in this spy-spoof he really plays it to a T.  This flick must have passed me by when it first came out because I heard little about it, but am so glad I picked it up at the rental store.  Murray and a relatively obscure supporting cast pull off a mad-cap escapade about a goofball American in London on a whim who stumbles into an international spy/terrorist situation...  The movie was a bit predictable, but nonetheless was hilarious and had some great scenes of Murray doing famous lines from other flicks that hit the funny bone dead on.I recommend this one for a light night of video watching to anyone wanting a smile and a chuckle.  Especially if you're a Murray fan, you'll dig it! "},{"Title":"A vdery entertaining movie.  Bill Murray rebounds from the shocking Larger than Life flop","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It is very rarely that a modern comedy movie can hold my attention all the way through, never mind actually make me laugh.  This movie achieved both.Bill Murray is excellent as Wallace Ritchie the bumbling hero who spends the entire movie thinking he is on theatre t.v.  The plot provides plenty of opportunity for Murray to showcase his comic talents.  Look out for the time out I have dust in my eyes scene or the robbery takes and retakes in which Murray is at his best.Peter Gallagher is also good as Wallace's brother James.  Gallagher is the straight man to Murray's fool.   Whalley-Kilmer is also excellent.  She plays the female interest for Wallace.  She starts out as the intended hit and by movies end is in the arms of Murray.   She certainly has a certain spunk about her that makes her character attractive and tempting to the eye.Alfred Molina is also a stand out as Boris the Butcher.  His over the top acting of the Russian hitman is very funny.  As the movie goes on, Boris believes that Wallace is actually the greatest spy that exists, and a deepening respect is formed by him.  This is one of the better comedies I have seen in recent times. I gave it a 7/10 and as far as Murray is concerned, this is probably his best work since Groundhog Day and then way back to Ghostbusters.  Watch it, you shouldn't be disappointed "},{"Title":"Quite Simply  One of the Funniest Movies","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The thing is. After the movie.  I kept laughing.  I kept smiling and I was compelled to run to my computer and write this review.  What is wrong with me?  Quite simply  nothing.  I was just lucky enough to rent this movie.This is Bill Murray's comic masterpiece.  This is satire with an enormously large Capital S.This is one of the supreme examples of comedies of error and it's entire plot, delivery and acting are worthy of any Shakespearean work of the same genre...and I have seen them all.I think this movie deserves lauding to the hilt.  I am going to make a point of mentioning this movie to as many people as possible.  It pales in sheer brilliance to another very early vehicle, Ghostbusters. For a man who knew to little, I have become a man who knows it all now.  I have have experienced Murray's comic genius and this fantastic script.  A movie will never be funnier.  If you don't finish watching this movie with some old-fashioned guffaws, check yourself into the nearest analyst's couch.Thanks, Bill.  You're an OK kind of guy. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This a great parody of Secret Agent movies. Murry plays a dim wit who is given a chance to act in a crime drama but instead becomes involved in an assassination attempt aimed at starting up the Cold War again. Murry thinks that he is playing in an experimental drama while accidentally acting like a super secret agent. Alfred Molina (Doc Ock in the new Spider Man) the most under rated actor in movies today steals the picture as a Russian agent. Joanne Whalley plays the girl to a tea and Peter Gallagher is perfect as the brother. The acting is great and the story is a gem. Every things fits for both Murry and the idea that Murry really is a secret agent. If you are smart like to laugh and like Secret Agent movies you will love this movie.  "},{"Title":"The Screenwriter Who Knew Nothing.","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Man Who Knew Too Little (1997) Dir Jon Amiel / Cast Bill Murray, Joanne Whalley, Peter Gallagher, Alfred Molina, Richard Wilson Disappointing spoof of spy movies featuring a man totally unaware of the happenings around him. Bill Murray arrives in London to visit his brother but is introduced to a rare theatre experience. The participants will step into a phone booth where they will receive a call then he literally becomes involved in an act. He believes that he is to play a detective and that those around him are actors. Interesting concept falls into formula until arriving at a nonsense conclusion. Story is just a series of happenings in consistency. Odd choice for director Jon Amiel whose previous film was the dark thriller Copycat. Murray is often hilarious as the guy not quite in on the joke, and he is the one element in the film that holds strong. Supporting roles are not so interesting and often come off as buffoonish. Joanne Whalley as the mysterious woman is a waste because we are never really sure what her mission is to begin with. Frankly, she is nothing more than a potential romantic tease here. Peter Gallagher as Murray's brother overacts. He is basically there to entertain dinner guests and remain out of the picture. Other characters are about as useless as the screenwriter who failed to followup a worthy concept with something worthwhile. It is a satires of spy films that misses by much. Score 5 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"The Man Who Knew Too Little","Date":"4 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The title made it obvious that this film would a parody of classic Alfred Hitchcock style espionage thrillers, despite it being an average rating by critics, I was drawn to it by this and a good list of actors in it, directed by Jon Amiel (Copycat, Entrapment, The Core). Basically naive American tourist Wallace Ritchie (Bill Murray) from Des Moines, Iowa, who works at Blockbuster Video, has travelled to London, England on his birthday to spend time with his brother James (While You Were Sleeping's Peter Gallagher). James is happy to spend time with Wallace, but has business guests coming to dinner and needs something to distract his brother so he doesn't sour the evening, so he sets Wallace up with an interactive improv theatre business, the Theatre of Life, which promises to treat the participant as a character in a crime drama. But trouble begins when Wallace unknowingly answers the phone to a real hit-man and in is mixed in a case of mistaken identity, the criminals believe him to be a CIA spy, and he gets tangled in a plot to kill Russian dignitaries who will be signing an important peace agreement. Wallace is completely gullible and goes along with this, even when people are being killed, criminals are chasing him and newfound femme fetale Lori (Joanne Whalley) and a bomb is ticking down, he thinks it is all an act, part of his experience with Theatre of Life. Also starring Alfred Molina as Boris 'The Butcher' Blavasky, Richard Wilson as Sir Roger Daggenhurst, Little Britain's Geraldine James as Dr. Ludmilla Kropotkin, John Standing as Gilbert Embleton, Four Weddings and a Funeral's Anna Chancellor as Barbara Ritchie, The Fast Show's John Thomson as Dimitri, EastEnders' Cliff Parisi Cliff Parisi as Uri, Dexter Fletcher as Otto, J.E. Freeman as CIA Man, Maxwell Caulfield as British Agent, The Fast Show's Paul Shearer as TV Reporter, Going Live's Sarah Greene as TV Presenter and Top of the Pops' Mike Smith as TV Presenter. Murray is very convincing as the idiotic slow-witted ordinary man caught in the middle of a dangerous predicament, so much so that it almost becomes annoying, the supporting stars all do well being more amusingly serious, the bumbling dimwit formula does create laughs, but it does a little kick eventually, and the assassination attempt stuff wears a little thin as well, becoming slightly predictable, overall though it is a funny enough spy comedy. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Am I talking to an actor now, or a human being?.....","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Wallace Ritchie flies to England to spend his birthday with his brother, James. James has business guests coming over and must find something to occupy his brother until dinner's over. Wallace ends up taking part in the Theatre Of Life, which promises to treat the participant as a character in a crime drama. Trouble begins when Wallace is mistaken for a real spy and shoots a man. Now he's tangled up in a plot to kill Russian dignitaries on the eve of the signing of an important peace agreement. For him, it's all an act. But to the men who want a second Cold War, Wallace is public enemy number one......Less of a film, and more The Bill Murray Show......Live From London!!!, the film follows Murray as he is mistaken for a top agent, and him thinking it's all an act. Again its a high concept that's been done many times before, the mistaken identity farce, but here it's more of a who's who of British Thespians, rather than an all out silly farce.Firstly, the films way too dark for family viewing, talks of terrorism and our hero in peril makes for a pretty dark watch, if it were treated as a dark comedy, this could have worked, but it's too goofy in places for its own good.Secondly, there isn't enough character development. It's clear that the brothers are slightly estranged, but his never expands, and the fact that James' wife doesn't know he has a brother, or why he cannot be at the dinner, are balling, and in turn, annoying.So we are left with Murray looking bemused for the rest of the film, and seasoned actors like Molina, and Wilson subliminally rubbing their hands at the thought of their pay packet.If your a Murray fan, the sharp toothed, critical Murray you loved in Ghostbusters, Groundhog Day, and Scrooged, is sorely missed.As is this movies opportunity. "},{"Title":"funny for awhile but gets repetitive","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Wallace Ritchie (Bill Murray) flies from Des Moines, Iowa to London on his birthday to surprise his brother James (Peter Gallagher). James can't have Wallace in an important business dinner. James set him up with an improv group which places the participant in a realistic crime drama. However it goes all wrong when Wallace answer the payphone used by the improv group but it turns out to be a man hiring hit-man Spencer to kill call girl Lori (Joanne Whalley). The real Spencer answers the call from the improv group and kills one of the actors. Wallace goes along with the intrigue thinking all the while that it's make-believe.This is fun for about 30 minutes. Bill Murray is irreverent and stupid. However the one-joke movie gets a bit boring. It becomes rather repetitive and rambling. "}{"Title":"Very good comedy that might have been better","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The cast selection for various characters is one of the best things about The Man Who knew too Little. Bill Murray is very good as Wallace Ritchie, in his usual persona of witty one-liners and dry humor. But several others are over the top funny. Most notable is Alfred Molina as Boris the Butcher. The gang characters of Sergei and Dimitri are a hoot. And Peter Gallagher as Murray's flustered brother, James, is a riot. Joanne Whalley is very funny as Lori. Others of the cast add to the delicious mayhem of this film.The direction and plot are quite good, but I think a better script could have moved this movie up a notch or two. Here we have a perfect vehicle for Murray and company to have an audience rolling in the aisles. But we get a good one-liner, a funny scene, or a witty exchange, followed by some so-so action that begs for more -- another witticism, pun or goofy metaphor to fit in with the action. That happens throughout the film.This type of comedy cries out for more, more. I think it has the flow, and had the film-makers put more effort into the script, we might have had a rollicking funny film. As it is, it's good entertainment for a fun evening. "},{"Title":"A Movie of Mistaken Identities and Wrong Perceptions","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When I first heard of this movie I was intrigued by the title - it, in my own weird way, thought it was clever. It looked cute, and a few friends said that it was funny, so I could not resist watching it. One complaint though is that the video cover is not as good as the movie poster, where they had Bill Murry pointing an oversized gun out at you.The movie is about a naive man, Wallace Ritchie, who comes to London to surprise his brother, but must be occupied for the night as his brother has an important dinner. So his brother enrolls him in something called the theatre of life, where the audience participates in the action. Unfortunately Wallace picks up the wrong phone call and gets caught up in a cloak and dagger mission, which he believes is all acting.The comedy from this movie comes from two areas in one way it is slap-stick, but the real thrust of the comedy is the fact the people do not know something, yet assume that they do. They do not know who Wallace is and think that he is a dangerous spy, yet he is just an ordinary guy. What adds to it is that Wallace was mugged at the beginning so he has no identification, yet they think even more that he is a spy. What is even funnier is that Wallace thinks he is simply in an interactive theatre, and treats it as such. While all of this seriousness goes on around him, he seems to be having the time of his life. Even more, Ritchie's clumsiness gets him out of a lot of predicaments and makes the bad guys think even more that he is a dangerous spy.I really enjoyed this movie. Most comedies I do not find funny, but once in a while one comes out that is quite funny (though some are simply pure hilarity, such as Analyse This!). This is a humorous (though not outrageously funny) comedy. "},{"Title":"A silly comedy but entertaining.","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO LITTLEWell... this is not as good as I was hoping it was going to be, but I still enjoyed it.This comedy stars the legendary Bill Murray, which is the reason I watched it.The movie is about an American who comes to the UK to visit his brother, but he comes on a bad day so his brother pays for him to act in a reality show that night playing out some kind of adventure. The problem is, he goes on the wrong adventure, and the things that are happening to him are all real, but he doesn't realise it.There are some funny bits in it... I love the scene where Bill gets mugged but he thinks it is all part of the act and plays along. There were not too many laugh out loud moments, but the film was still very amusing.The casting was good, but the acting was questionable. But this is a spoof, so we can't expect any fantastic acting. It was what was expected really.The film stars Bill Murray as mentioned before, Peter Gallagher, Joanne Whalley & Mr. Victor Meldrew himself... Richard Wilson. I know what you are thinking... I don't believe it!The movie was well written and flows along nicely.I will give this film 6 out of 10.Not as funny as it could have been, but still a good film.For more of my reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"Phenomenal Comedy","Date":"11 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Man Who Knew Too Little is a movie based on a book by Robert Farrar, and it's one of those timeless comedies with phenomenal script and even better acting. I must say that Bill Murray was hilarious in this one, and this is one of his best comedic roles. The script is very original and unique, giving the director and actors enough material to create a comedy that has several layers and can be viewed as classical slapstick but also an intelligent comedy. Combining a serious spy plot with a hapless and accident-prone secret agent is something that now is quite popular, but back in 1997 was a genre less explored. Toying with the cold war, and stereotypes common for James Bond movies Farrar creates even more comedy, and a perfect example is Boris The Butcher, played masterfully by Alfred Mollina.Wallace Ritchie is a manager at a Blockbuster video store in America, and he has come to England to visit his businessman brother James. But this is a wrong time for a visit since James is expecting an important business partner at his house so he offers Ritchie a ticket to Theater Of Life a new kind of show where a viewer participates along with the actors in a show. All too happy, Ritchie accepts the offer, not knowing that soon he will be involved in a spy war of immense proportions. Thinking that this is still a show and that everything is supposed to happen like that Ritchie plays along, as he tries to save the world in his world and in real world...Check out my review site Rabbit-Reviews for movies that are worth watching, Rabbit out... "},{"Title":"Loved The Manicurist","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Maybe this was not one of the best movies, or best loved movies(I noticed it lost quite a bit at the box office), but I laughed almost all the way through this. Laughing, I found out early on is somewhat prohibitive in movie theaters, and of course the person next to you wants to hear what's going on. A lot is going on in this comedy, and I happened to like Joanna Whaley a lot in her French Maid. But, if you did not think the flick was all that hot itself, or anyone, an idea might be to watch the movie again and try to notice only Bill Murray. Think about it, he is acting in a movie where he assumes that he is in a contrived situation. The SNL actor is so completely believable, and his character and everybody else's character is supported by a pretty involved script. The whole comedy is worthwhile if you can watch in an unprotracted manner. I have a habit of seeing some highly acclaimed movies in parts. Yet I watched this all the way through without a break. The plot is not anything new by itself, that is the the plot the criminals have in the heart of London. But then the idea of this sort of thick but spontaneous movie rental employee being involved in there makes the picture unique. "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a quirky film that can't help being a small film, with star Bill Murray halfway between the more dignified actorly stage of his later career and the goofy mannerisms of his early prime. The plot is fun, but highly contrived -- Murray plays an American tourist in London whose brother (Peter Gallagher) tries to get him out of his hair by booking him into a live theater experience. Murray's character, Wally, is mistaken for a real hit man and finds himself caught up in an international conspiracy to bring the cold war back.There are a lot of good solid laughs coming from the situational comedy of Murray's predicament -- he never realizes at any point that it's not all a game, so he constantly puts himself in danger. Along the way he picks up the mistress of a government official (Joanne Whalley) and falls for her. Whalley unfortunately can't carry the kind of emotional weight they've put on her. Gallagher and Alfred Molina grab most of the unexpected laughs. The climax is a bit predictable and under-whelming.I found myself enjoying this one more when I first saw it in the late 90s. Perhaps the premise of the cold war situation is even more stale now than it was in 1998. Basically though I think this is a fun, light movie that works well for one viewing but can't really be cherished the way Murray's best comedies can. The direction by Amiel is uninspired and uninvolving (the only other film I've seen by Amiel is the disappointing heist film Entrapment). You have to wonder if the whole thing was just a frozen funds tax write-off for the company that produced it. There are enough laughs in the first part, especially a funny car chase and miscommunication between the two brothers. However the film doesn't fully pay off the viewer's investment. "},{"Title":"Brilliant. Quite simply the most underrated comedy ever.","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Man Who Knew Too Little has everything possible, not least Bill Murray. If you're a fan of Bill Murray this is the best! If you are a fan of British humour especially 1940s through 1960s, you'll love this one. If not you'll want to watch them after this seeing this one. The Man Who Knew Too Little rides the rail between spoofing and actually being part of that genre. A good movie is even better the second and third time, and this one does not fail that test. Bill and Joanne are great, the bonus is everyone else, especially watch for Alfred Molina as Boris!If you do like the feel of this movie and aren't familiar with the genre then you'll want to watch those old English drama-comedies like The Lavender Hill Mob, 1951,(the same director wrote and directed A Fish Called Wanda.) The Ladykillers, (that's the 1955 version. (Sorry Tom Hanks!)) and the Man In The White Suit were both directed by Alexander Mackendrick, same classic feel. In fact you'll find a gold mine in all those Alec Guinness films! Peter Sellers' Pink Panther series doesn't hurt as well, it fits quite nicely.For those who like their whiskey and movies humoured over peat then Whiskey Galore A.K.A.Tight Little Island is an early gem. "},{"Title":"a must-see","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is one that I am very glad not to have missed. It is one that you have to pay attention to, but the more you watch it, the funnier it gets!It has the kind of humor that you don't expect. You think that Bill Murray is going to act one way, but he doesn't; he does something completely hilarious.If you didn't get it the first time, you have to watch it again, because it has so much that has to be seen more than once for it to be truly funny.If you haven't seen it, you should sit and watch it, but you have to pay close attention to get all of the jokes. You have to listen closely to the words, and think about what you would do in that situation. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's disappointing that so few people have seen this movie. This the perfect vehicle for Murray's many talents. There are more than enough laugh out loud moments, making this a great movie to watch with friends who's attention span is more than 3 seconds. This is definitely one that can be viewed over and over. *** semi-spoiler alert *** The only part I didn't think was perfect was the very ending with the two agents. I thought it was a bit over the top with them crawling around on all fours acting like a cat and dog. A bit much. Other than that, this movie is a comedy classic, and everyone who loves this film should get as many people as they can to watch this immediately. "},{"Title":"vintage Bill Murray","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bill Murray plays goof-ball Wallace Ritchie in London to visit his brother Jimmy (Peter Gallagher) for his own - read Wallace's - birthday. Since Jimmy is having guests over, he knows that he needs to keep Wallace out of the way. The only problem is, Wallace accidentally gets mixed up in an espionage ring, leading to some embarrassing situations for everyone - mainly because Wallace believes the whole time that it's a play.As with most of Bill Murray's movies, the plot isn't totally important - it's an excuse for Bill Murray to act crazy. And he does just that in The Man Who Knew Too Little. Joanne Whalley co-stars as secret agent Lorelei. "}{"Title":"Ha!","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Saw this when it first came out, and now the second time as a free rental. Both times were funny.  The important thing to do is not expect a serious or probable comedy.  This is screwball slapstick at it's classic peak, edited to the tune of 60's spy B-flicks. Great way to pick up your spirits and not take life so seriously. "},{"Title":"Original Scripting made this a winner","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw the film a few days ago I thought that it was a little cooukie at the begging and was sort of a churn off type of film.  But once the film got underway I got really hooked.   All I thought when watching the film is what awesome scripting this was.  When I got to thinking I thought this actually could happen to someone if they were not really into the show, Billy Murray character was portrayed as the perfect type of person who would get to be in such a manner.My favorite part in the movie was defiantly at the end with the Russian dancers.  I am someone who is never really suspenseful but I could not stop laughing see white boy bill Murray doing these Russian dances.To sum it up the film is a great success and i loved it.  i give it a 8 out of 10 and a 10 out of 10 for the script.  very good movie  "},{"Title":"Please don't call me by my real name, it destroys the reality I'm trying to create","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The concept of mistaken identity and someone bumbling his way to unexpected results is certainly not new. However, this movie did a very good job setting up and executing such a concept. Of course, this coincidence-to-the-max sequence of events can only exist in movie, but it's quite entertaining. Worth watching. A 7/10. "},{"Title":"Underrated when released, actually a lot of fun.","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  While the main character is clueless and the plot will not hold up to careful - or even  casual - examination, the humor is often smarter than the material. It doesn't really  drag anywhere, and all of the acting is better than average. If you like movies with Bill Murray in them, you will like this movie. I recently picked it up on DVD for less than ten bucks (new!), and enjoyed watching it  again (and look forward to getting some of my friends to watch it). "},{"Title":"Better than you would think","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My wife picked up this film off the 5 dollar cheap dvd rack of a local store.  I first thought, Great, there goes 5 dollars down the drain. But after watching it, I have to put my foot in my mouth on that one.  Ok it's not an oscar winning comedy (but what comedy is?), but it is just plain funny, no stupid gags like Jim Carrey films.  I'd recommend it to anyone who wants a quick laugh! "},{"Title":"Movie to pass the time away.","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Pretty funny plot because of the fact it is so improbable.  The dialogue has allot of double meanings.  The story allows for several classic situations. I just saw this a second time and it held its own quite well. "},{"Title":"Clever and amusing comedy.","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In Groundhog Day, Bill Murray was the only person who knew what was going on; here, he's the only one who doesn't. And this movie, just like Groundhog Day, is not recommended to those searching for belly-laughs. You don't so much laugh, as you admire the cleverly conceived and constructed story, where almost every spoken word has a double edge. The ending is a bit overextended, though; after all, it IS an one-joke comedy. (***) "},{"Title":"One of the most clever comedy I have ever seen.","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Man Who Knew Too Little is a great movie. Too bad it is not that popular and you will not be able to talk to your friends about it. If it is so good why is it not popular? The critic didn't go too easy on it because the director make several bad choices. Bill Murray is an okay actor for the part (love him in other movies), but they could have done a lot better. As great as it is, it started out extremely slow. And the way they explain the story in the movie itself can be confusing. (the movie came out way before the whole reality TV invasion in America) The plot is simply about a guy who think that he is participating in a spy reality TV when in reality he picks up the phone a little too early and follow the plot line of the REAL spy situation. He of course, thinks that it is all an act and acts stupidly throughout the film. One time a girl he's with would cry and he asked her how did you do that? Are you thinking right now 'my dog is dead'? The woman think the main character is sick. But the main character think that the whole thing is just an act. The story is great. But the design itself (camera, lighting, acting, sound, etc.) has the quality of a porno film. If it had more budget in making it and in advertising, the world may not have overlooked this great comedy.  "},{"Title":"COMEDY CLASSIC FROM THE BARGAIN BIN","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A coworker of mine recommended this one to me a few weeks ago. Just last week, I happened to find the DVD at Wal-Mart for five bucks.This one is definitely a keeper. Bill Murray plays Wallace Ritchie,  an American vacationer in London who pays a surprise visit to his brother and his wife. Ritchie, with the help of his brother, gets involved in an audience participation theater event. Somehow, through a series of events that can only happen in a Bill Murray comedy, (if you've seen WHAT ABOUT BOB? you know what I mean), the fate of the world depends on this klutz.  This is one comedy that was made just for Bill Murray, and it was worth the trouble of digging it out of Wal-Mart's bargain bin where it was buried under a hundred or so other DVD non-classics that have long since faded into obscurity (kind of like foraging through a garbage dumpster for a valuable piece of merchandise, but it was well worth it).I highly recommend this one, so hurry over to your neighborhood Wal-Mart and start digging.And by the way, thanks a lot Anibal, for letting me know about this one in the first place.Rating ****1/2 out of *****   "},{"Title":"Better Than Powers","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A lot of people don't think this mistaken-identity film is worth seeing, and it might not be if you're not a fan of Bill Murray's smarmy, smart-ass, `I'm a coy little idiot' shtick.  But I happen to be, and thus, recommend the film &#150; I think it's funny and more than just a bit clever.Murray plays Wallace Ritchie, a guileless Blockbuster video clerk from Des Moines, Iowa, who flies to London to spend his birthday with his younger brother, James (Peter Gallagher) on the very night of James' high-profile dinner party with a German investment firm.  Hoping to keep Wallace out of the house for the evening, James buys his brother a ticket to the Theater of Life, a participatory theater experience, and the two head to the corner phone booth where the they receive the initial call to kick off the theatrical adventure.  As expected, the phone rings -- Wallace answers, takes down his instructions and sets off on the streets and back-alleys of London..  But guess what?  The call that Wallace mistakenly accepts is intended for a government-hired assassin.  Can you figure out the rest?The clueless Wallace bumbles through hitmen, call-girls, double-dealings, pay-offs, dancing Cossacks and cops ecstatically thinking they're all part of his little make-believe world.  Likewise, Wallace's pursuers are dumfounded by their adversary's fearlessness and Sybil-like rehearsals.The Man Who Knew Too Little is designed around Bill Murray's droll-delivering comic persona &#150; and that's a good thing (anyone see Larger Than Life or Quick Change?).  He's not as cocky as his Stripes role, not as high-brow as his Ghostbusters character, but just as funny as both.  And I for one, liked it better than the first Austin Powers, which came out the same year and was dubbed a comic masterpiece.	  "}{"Title":"Greatest Bill Murray Comedy...EVER.","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Okay, so its no Raleigh St. Clair from the Tenenbaums, but the innocence of this character make every single scene the funniest they can be. Bill Murray's decision to take this role was one of the best of his career, not for money, or exposure, but for important fans of comedy, like myself, to understand what he's doing. If he was willing to take that step, why would anyone put up with reviews suggesting that this was a sub-par movie, because its not...its not even par...its totally better than par. "},{"Title":"This is right up there with GROUNDHOG DAY i.e. Very Funny","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am a big fan of Bill Murray's films, and The Man Who Knew Too Littleis one of his funniest to date, I really don't think that any other actor could have played this particular role, this part was made for him.10/10 - Brilliant "},{"Title":"Cheerful, funny example of a lost genre.","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  They just don't make them like they used to. At least, if you haven't seen 'The Man Who Knew Too Little', you'd probably think that. Many bemoan the decline of that classic genre of film - the old-fashioned British farce. It seems they lost favour for being just that bit too calamitous, too bawdy and too self-indulgently ridiculous. This film is an attempt to recreate the laid-back, cheerful, innocent silliness of those old comedy classics - but how does it avoid those aspects of past farces that made them less palatable to modern viewers and critics? If this film has any failings at all, then it is maybe that it does not avoid the temptation to be just that crucial margin too unbelievable for the viewer. Admittedly, the humour can only work if Murray's character is as truly stupid as he appears to be in failing to grasp the reality of the situation by the end, and if no-one, not even his brother or the call-girl, informs him of it, but although it works wonderfully up to a point, in a way I was hoping he would twig eventually. But that's a minor point. What is more ridiculous still is, of course, the zany manner of his consistent escapes from danger. Now don't get me wrong. I'm not a killjoy and I completely recognise how ludicrous a film of this sort has to be in order to work. Indeed, the utter cluelessness of the lead was a delight to watch, and the comedy was slick, even if the budget was lower than the movie deserved and a few performances (even Richard Wilson, surprisingly) were somewhat wooden. But this didn't detract from a wonderful piece of sit-back-and-enjoy laugh-fest. Whatever its flaws, above all else it is impossible not to get a real feel-good buzz from this film, and a lot of laughs besides. The script manages to stay consistent, and does not - as would be very easy - slip up at all when holding together a quite complicated set of circumstances designed to delude Bill Murray's unlikely superhero. The scenes towards the end clearly owe something to 'Naked Gun', but that is never a bad thing - I thoroughly enjoyed watching this, and the one question you probably want to ask now is so why criticise at all? Well, while this is a beautiful example of the lost art of farce-making, it also represents a lost opportunity. To have been better still, this movie should ideally have combined the fluid innocence of the chaotic comedy with something newer - maybe make the whole 'cold war' plot idea advance a bit. While I thought the whole subplot that Murray has no clue about was ample for the purposes of the movie, and was suitably unserious, the audiences of today want something more substantial, on the whole, and maybe 'The Man Who Knew Too Little' could have been a box office smash if it had had something innovative like this. As it is, nothing new, not a whole lot you haven't seen before, but this doesn't matter - this film is the best of what the old days comedy had to offer, and it made me laugh lots. Really worth seeing - if only more would follow. "},{"Title":"Bill Murray's the man","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Sure it's a bit silly and a bit cliche-full but just because Bill Murray stars in it, this movie is golden. Murray portrays with comic genius like always, a confused American in Britain who is mistaken as an international spy. Say Murray turned down this role and it went to Chevy Chase, now dont get me wrong Chevy Chase is a funny guy, but he wouldn't pull off that Russian dance scene with such comic genius as Bill Murray, take that Griswald!  "},{"Title":"bill murray at his dumb best","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  there are two kinds of bill murray.  'smart and mean' bill murray (groundhog's day/scrooged), and 'dumb' bill murray (the man that knew too little, what about bob).  this is by far, the best 'dumb bill murray' movie, ever.  this movie gave him the opportunity to play the dumbest man in the world, and he just ran with it.  a great movie, overall. "},{"Title":"The sheer joy of innocence; one of Bill Murray´s best","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don´t want to comment a lot, but this movie is sheer joy. Bill Murray´s acting is one of the best in all his movies. The way he manages to act like he is acting is one of the best concepts in movie making I´ve seen.Definitely worth the time and attention. Don´t miss it.  "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS, If you're in the mood.","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bill Murray has a lot of fun with this movie and the timing works. Instead of vulgar, shocking and inappropriate scenes to garner forced laughs(well there is one of those too), Murray uses time tested methods combined with an innovative new twist.  If you are in the mood for a good comedy--not in a critical mood--The Man Who Knew Too Little really delivers the laughs. Throughout the movie there are successful bits and surprisingly the type of comedic scenes prevalent in the 70's and 80's still work today.This film proves that movies can still be howlingly funny without the new 'shock comedy' that is becoming so prevalent (new SNL alumnus films--Superstar and Jim Carry talking out his butt).For conservative folks this may not be a family movie (SPOILER--hotel room scene with old woman spanking her husband with a whip).  For ages 13 and up and parents though this is a very funny film! "},{"Title":"Simply too dang funny","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think I laughed too much, if such a thing is even possible, from the beginning to the end of this movie.It might be the most cerebral of comedies, but it was executed masterfully, none of the acting felt forced, none of the gags were a throwaway. Murray was fascinating and radiated an aura of honesty, dumbness and charm, all at the same time. Certainly all the actors deserve kudos for their work, but let me just mention the indestructible Richard Wilson; they couldn't have found a better actor for the role of the oldboy British politician. He was so classic!Interestingly, I had a very strong impression the movie was made in the mid 70'. It was so strange to see and hear mentioning things like end of the cold war or other references to this modern (end of/beginning of century), I tended to forget it right off and imagine I'm seeing a comedy made a quarter of a century earlier.If you haven't seen this movie yet, I advise you to go and enjoy it. The worst thing that can happen is that you die laughing. "},{"Title":"Just plain fun","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What an utter delight this film is!  Never mind subtlety or an underlying message; this farce is just plain fun, with laughs from start to finish. Bill Murray is perfect as the inoffensive man out of his depth but not realizing it, surrounded by a dependable cast of British actors (Richard Wilson, Alfred Molina etc).  Rent this video if you want to spend a couple of undemanding hours having a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Pleasant Enough Comedy","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Average Joe schmuck Murray arrives in UK to visit his brother, and lands in the soup. Something goes terribly awry, and he ends up knee deep in international espionage. The plot is more than a little far-fetched and familiar, yet Murray is so likeable and he does have a few great scenes, that one can't pan it outright. Definitely not an explicit movie, but it is amusing on the whole. Joanne Whalley is a standout as Lorelei. Recommended for the proverbial rainy day. "}{"Title":"Laughter is so healthy for you, watch this movie.","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've read all the other comments and ditto on the positive ones.  Poo-poo on the negative ones.  I generally wouldn't say that about another person's opinion but geez, it's just a movie, let alone one that is hilarious and makes you forget that you have rent to pay.  Bill Murray is one of the funniest Americans to this date, in his own right, no doubt. Wallace had an innocence and naivety about him that you don't see in too many movies, anymore.  I felt comfortable watching this movie and not thinking that it differed, dramatically, with my belief system.  I don't think there are too many movies these days that can say that. Anyhow, Viva la bill!  "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of Bill Murray's funniest movies, and that's saying a lot. Hilarious, and it gets better with repeated viewings. So many funny moments that it's hard to believe people didn't enjoy it. It's one of the silliest and funniest movies I've seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"Who Knew?  The Little Man","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Okay, so I didn't see this one until video.  Let's be honest, the trailers didn't look all that great.  So I said, Hey skip it, come back to it. Well, I am glad I did come back to it because I would have missed something.This movie is just wonderful.  It is charming and hysterical.  The first time I saw it I laughed.  The second time I saw it, I laughed harder because I realized how much I had missed the first time.  The humor is engrossing and if you're not careful, YOU WILL LAUGH!! So don't think about this one. Just let it take care of you and cure what ails you.  Whatever that means... "},{"Title":"The man who laughed too much","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Have you ever found a film that makes you so weak with laughter that you think you will pass out, a film so funny that you have to pause the tape to finish laughing? For me, this is that film. Maybe it's me, but Murray strikes me as the funniest man on the planet.  Apparently, some people hated this film, because it didn't get a very high rating, so maybe it *is* just me.  Granted the second half is less funny that the first, but overall, Murray's comic genius shines through in so many scenes, I would be surprised if you aren't  rolling in the aisles at least once.When I watch Murray's films, I don't laugh that phony adult laugh (oh haha, how droll), I laugh the piss-yr-pants laugh of childhood.  If I ever met Murray, I'd shake his hand, say thanks and hand him my dry cleaning bill.    "},{"Title":"Anti-Jamesian souffle?","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  You could call this trifle a continuation of the idiot savant American hero theme so popular this decade, epitomised by the masterly Forrest Gump.  In Bill Murray's case, you suspect that he feels only an absolute moron could possibly prosper in the modern world.You could call this souffle a response to Henry James's beloved fictional theme of an innocent American being corrupted by ancient, knowing, decadent Europe.  In this film, a brainless American saves the world from impossibly corrupt Europeans who want to plunge the world into another Cold War. Earnest students may very well write serious theses in the future, citing this film's expression of a pre-millenial terror.You could marvel at the complex real-life/role-play ironies of the screenplay.Or, sensibly, you could note that the film stars Bill Murray, and conclude that it is very funny.  Murray is much better as clever, horrible people, but he could make cancer funny, and is also quite moving here.  The script is never as sharp as it should be, and the set-pieces hardly threaten one's sides, but the film's air of good cheer is irresistable. "},{"Title":"Surgically funny.","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bill Murray is the birthday boy who decides to surprise his brother this special day.  For this he has to visit London, and winds up in a play where he participates as a master spy.  This play takes place in the streets, as opposed to a stage.  Through a coincidence or two, he winds up in a real-life adventure of intrigue, blackmail, and murder.  Since he hasn't a clue as to what is going on, he is the man who knew too little. Hilarious from start to finish, the director doesn't leave a loose end anywhere! "},{"Title":"the film that tried too little","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A surprisingly funny script and interesting concept rushes us past the half-assed performances and stock supporting roles.  A man buys his brother a night in an adventure murder mystery style theatre game.  Naturally, Bill Murray unwittingly stumbles into the real thing, thinking it's all a game. "},{"Title":"Top of the line comedy caper movie.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bill Murray brings his style to a non-stop comedy action movie. Fresh twists to the outrageous plot in almost every scene. It can stand proudly alongside the Jackie Chan movies, and maybe a head above some of Chan's recent vehicles. "},{"Title":"better than expected","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A definite must see for Bill Murray fans. If the sight of him makes you cringe, steer well clear, since this film is all about Murray wandering off the written script to keep things interesting.I didn't really laugh out loud at all watching this film but enjoyed it nevertheless. I was reminded of Austin Powers as the opening credits rolled, something that initially worried me because AP is a real stinker of comedy. Fortunately, Murray does a much better job here than Myers in his AP ego trip.PS. Before reading the earlier comments, I too made the connection with The Game and Inspector Clouseau.  "},{"Title":"Bill Murray at his best","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Like Quick Change this movie was unfairly panned by critics and ignored by audiences.  Bill Murray is simply wonderful, but it's not the sarcastic Murray from Groundhog Day or Ghostbusters, but the dim-bulb Murray from Caddyshack (with a dozen fewer blows to the head). The plot is contrived, but cleverly so.  Of course it's ridiculous, but this wasn't intended as a thriller like David Fincher's The Game, but as a low-key comedy like A Fish Called Wanda, The Lavender Hill Mob, and especially the Inspector Clouseau pictures - except this character's absent- mindedness is explained by the plot he doesn't realize this is a real cloak & dagger situation. Very funny, and every facial expression, physical gesture, and voice inflection is done perfectly by Murray in a nuanced rather than manic performance. Smart, silly stuff. "}{"Title":"Idiot savant","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bill Murray has made a lot of brilliant art, from Caddyshack to Rushmore to Lost in Translation. This, I think, is his funniest work. He plays an idiot savant who is fearless, who plays games of life and death because he thinks it's a game. What makes this whole movie seem like a high-wire act is whether Murray will discover that his life really is in danger. If he makes this discovery, his confidence will be shattered and he will fall to pieces. It's a hysterical and brilliant riff on male confidence and male delusion. It's an ode to the power of innocence. He is oblivious to all the bad in the world. He's unaware of his own vulnerability. Compare the sweaty James Bond to the cool and nonchalant Bill Murray. It's like zen for morons. It's hysterical when you watch it and brilliant when you think about it.Taylor Carmichael "},{"Title":"Bill Murray amazes me","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was looking for something to see with my son, so had no great expectations of a movie I had not heard of. I have not cried with laughter for years, perhaps the last time was when Steve Martin poked his eye patch with a cork on a fork! The story is good enough, but Bill is fantastic. Such a likable guy.The spoiler - the end was a bit naf, ie, I would have preferred him to have given us a wink, because for me the ending is a bit irritating. Surely he would not still be oblivious of the misunderstanding after all that? They carried the joke very well all the way, but I think it should have been dropped, perhaps the two guys at the end could turn out to be actors from London who cane on holiday with them, and they were just goofing around? I loved it regardless.Mark. "},{"Title":"You have to experience it...","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Great spy-spoof of Hitchcock's classic 1930s film (remade in the 50s) in title only involving an American tourist (Bill Murray) getting put in a fake spy program by his frustrated brother (Peter Gallagher), who only wants peace and quiet. The catch He gets caught up in a real spy scandal, mistaken for a top secret American operative working undercover in Britain.Having lived in London for most of my life, moving back and forth twice from England to America, this movie is a fun culture clash comedy that uses one of comedy's dryest, funniest personalities to its advantage. Lots of fun, slightly ruined by a madcap ending that, in retrospect, actually seems quite pleasant and enjoyable.4/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"A funny case of mistaken identity.","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bill Murray and Alfred Molina, two of the best movie comics. Set in London, visiting Murray thinks he is in a reality TV show when he answers a pay phone on the street, instead the phone call was intended for a shrewd crook and Murray gets involved in a big criminal case unwittingly, thinking he was actually in the TV show. So, of course, threats, guns, and other gangster habits do not faze him.This one polarized critics. Ebert gives it a very low rating, but gives an accurate summary. Berardinelli gave it a very high rating. I am in the middle somewhere, I enjoyed it, but after a while the gag got a bit old.  Was my weekly free rental from Bloodsucker. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece!!","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I absolutely LOVE this movie!! Murray is at his best here. I am a huge fan of Bill Murray and I try to watch as many of his movies as I can. I recorded this a few months ago when it was on TV, and I keep watching it over and over. It may not be the funniest movie in the world, but what amused me was Murray's character not knowing he was participating in a real-life crisis. That is what I liked most. This is the most original movie he has done (apart from Groundhog Day) and it is refreshing to see a movie of this quality shot in the beautiful city of London. Yes, I know I am biased, but more movies should be shot here. It's just a shame that most of the scenes were at night. Never mind. Oh, I fear I may not have put across just how much I liked 'The Man Who Knew Too Little'. I have two words for you. WATCH IT! "},{"Title":"Funny!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I loved this.  It reminded me a lot of the black and white gangster films I used to watch during the school holidays as a kid.  At least this one was meant to be funny!  Haven't laughed so much at a film for a long time. "},{"Title":"Funnier than expected","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  While this movie is neither unique nor intelligent, it is good for a chuckle. Murray plays a wonderful role as the good-hearted bumbler, and Joanne Whalley makes for a great femme-fatale. Turn down your brains (there is the odd witty bit) and enjoy a bit of a laugh. My vote 7/10 "},{"Title":"tgchan says YES!","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" www.tgchan.pl 21 minutes have passed and it is already good xDHilarious misunderstanding and I already can't wait to see more! Bill Murray has a natural charm in, such as these roles! It is a decent movie but there is no wow and oh moments in it, it just keep its pace without any greater ups and downs. I expected a little more from it... I don't think I would enjoy it, if it wasn't for Bill Murray. It wasn't bad... but it wasn't good either... There are lot of other better films out there. If you truly don't have anything better to watch or you merely desire to see Bill Murray go for it, if not... look for something else.tgchan's rating 5.5 /10 "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is great! It's funny, warm, and original. In a way, some might even find a philosophical context in it - we are sometimes truly effective when we look at things simply as a theater of life, and when having fun and being a good actor is more important than the outcome of our actions. Bill Murray is fantastic in this movie. My favorite part is a Russian dancing performance with him doing a solo, but there's much more. If feels like many scenes were not rigidly scripted but full of improvisation. It's easy to watch this movie multiple times simply enjoying the acting. I was pleasantly surprised to discover this - it is not a well-known movie. "},{"Title":"Funny and Extremely Clever","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Man Who Knew Too Little (1997) Review I finally got around to see this movie and here's my take.Bill Murray is PERFECT here. I mean it. He is Wally who on his birthday, takes a trip to Europe and visit his wealthy brother(Peter Gallagher) His brother finds something to keep Wally busy while he has a business meeting. Wally thinks he is in an act, but takes the wrong call and he becomes The Man Who Knew Too Little.This is a very funny and rather clever comedy. As I mentioned earlier, Bill Murray is PERFECT here. He is the best as Wally. I love his act. This movie delivers all. I gets better when danger is nearby and Wally thinks it's all an act and even tries to act while completely unaware of what's really going on. It works perfectly.Another thing is a funny car chase scene. This was so well done and we also have Alfred Molina as Boris the Butcher. Molina is uber-talented to say the least. The casting here was top-notch. The plot works, and the dialog is classic. Murray's acting here is the best. He is just being the average guy and he delivers.The Last Word Overlooked classic. The Man Who Knew Too Little is a hidden gem worth looking for. Easily one of Murray's best. "}{"Title":"I've seen worse","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's a funny render of the reality vs. non-reality that Hollywood has tried more than a couple of times. Has it good moments, but the plot and the script I found lacking. Bill Murray is really funny, as usual. Peter Galagher (I don't remember seeing him in another comedy besides while you were sleeping), but his acting is good also. The situations, the chase-scenes, and the clashing between British characters and American ones in regard of culture and language are OK, though a little subdued. On the not too good side of the movie, well, there is the implausibility, but this is a comedy, and not required to be too plausible. Some characters were not fully developed, and the plot seem a little too jerky.All in all, is a nice movie for a rainy weekend, to enjoy with some friends, providing you're not expecting too much. "},{"Title":"just alright","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I heard SO many good things about this movie. I heard I would be laughing non-stop, the whole time. I heard a congratulations offered to me when I told someone I was going to watch it over the weekend and told that I would LOVE the movie. HMMMMMMM ...... none of that happened. I didn't laugh the whole time, and I didn't love the movie. It was just alright. There were funny parts, of course, but it seemed so choppy to me. I found myself looking over at my husband countless times and we were both saying what? because it seemed not to be flowing very well. Having said all of that though, Bill Murray IS way awesome in the movie. He saves it if anything. I think the movie is funnier after having watched it and talking with others about it. Maybe you need to have a room full of people who are all in a silly mood to enjoy it. Actually, that's what I would suggest doing! "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Man Who Knew Too Much may not be very well made, and it may not be very well acted, and the plot may ,ake no sense what so ever, and it may be badly directed, and it may have only a decent screenplay, but it is still completely hilarious. You will laugh so much in The Man Who Knew Too Little that it will start to hurt. Bill Murray is so great and so funny in pretty much any roll. Peter Gallagher and Alfred Molina are both also very funny in their respective rolls. The plot to The Man Who Knew Too Little centers around a man(Murray) Who comes to England to visit his brother for his birthday. His brother is having an important meeting so he sends him of to do a new kind of TV show where people pay to be basically dropped in this fake dangerous situation. He is waiting at the phone booth to get the call to get all his information when he gets the call for a mafia hit-man and ends up doing his stuff while the hit-man goes in killing all the people working for the TV show. Everything goes wrong, he sets it right gets the girl and goes back to America. Hilarious film though. "},{"Title":"Another Murray Classic","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bill Murray is a genius...I don't use the word very often and NEVER with anyone from the cast of Saturday Night Live; however, it is a fact. He can do more with a lackluster premise for a movie than any other actor I have ever seen...Let's face it...a spy who doesn't know he's a spy is pretty much a single joke film. But, Murray, who can play the oblivious as well as the sarcastic, pulls it off. From the first scene where he is trying to figure out for customs how long he will be in England (Thanks...Which door is England?) he gives the view comfort that it'll all be okay...Of course, the dialog is contrived to be so ambiguous as to keep Murray in the dark...but, that is de rigor for a movie of this type. Additional comic performances by Isabel Hernandez as the brother's timid maid and the guy who played Doc Ock as the Russian assassin are priceless...This is a must see... "},{"Title":"Not as good as American Dreamer, but a pleasant diversion.","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Fans of Bill Murray should like this.  There are better screwball comedies out there, but this is worth checking out if only to see Murray in his regular comic actor mode doing slapstick.  Some of the lines are grown-inducing, but that is usually the case with guilty pleasures.  I don't know if this is worth going out of your way to see, but it is a pleasant diversion if it comes on TV or as a rental.JoBeth Williams made a similar picture in 1984, American Dreamer,  which I liked much better.  Her character was a real charmer, the dialogue and situations were funnier, and as a viewer I cared more about what happened to her.  Of course there's no reason not to see both, but if you've seen Dreamer first, this will pale by comparison. "},{"Title":"Bill Murray stumbles in flat, one-joke vehicle as the 'Man Who Knew Too Little'","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Man Who Knew Too Little, The (1997) Bill Murray, Peter Gallagher, Joanne Whalley, Alfred Molina, Richard Wilson, D Jon Amiel. Unusually flat Murray vehicle about an American dunce visiting his hotshot businessman brother in London, who gets rid of him for the evening by signing him up for an `interactive theatre' experience on his birthday. But he gets mistaken as a spy and obliviously gets tangled up in a real assassination plot, while he thinks it's all part of the act. Murray is always a treat to watch, but this isn't his finest hour. The movie stretches its one-joke premise to desperate and deadening extremes, where the ineptitude is simply not funny and loses steam pretty fast. Based on the novel, `Watch That Man' by Robert Farrar. Running Time 95 minutes and rated PG for sexual innuendo, cartoon violence, and mild language. **  "},{"Title":"I've seen better...","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love Bill Murray, but this movie was pretty lousy, mildly amusing at best-- there was only one scene where I genuinely laughed. Rent What About Bob again, or even Quick Change.  "},{"Title":"Dazzling at Heart !","Date":"18 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one enjoyable comedy for sure. A for that script. It managed to create a long chain of nice misunderstandings, including the many double-meaning words. And I liked intensifying all the hot events in about 2 hours of one night.The thing about the anti-James Bond is that he represents us; all the clumsy wanna-be heroes out there. So when the movie celebrates his always accidental victory, winning the respect and the fear from everybody, we feel so relieved, turning into heroes ourselves, since one of us DID IT, and purely by his / our clumsiness, to leave the movie a bit proud of our low capacities and sheer innocence, believing &#x96; even if spuriously &#x96; that someday we'll save the world as much as god is on our side, and some scriptwriters as well ! However, the script forgot to explain what the fact around the woman / the minster's mistress was ? What the need for those letters could be ? And I thought the relationship between the lead and his brother could have been rooted better, to present some kind of a meaning at last, concerning the importance of being careless and adventurous more than uptight and narrow-minded.Speaking about careless pushes immediately to (Bill Murray). I love such a guy. He plays everything with a trademark sweet coolness. Look at him fooling around as a Russian dancer who, by his axiomatic fun, excels the rest of the serious authentic dancers. No one I remember can do such a scene with a serene lovely sense but (Murray). He's the easygoing friend that everybody wishes for. So, another A for the lead actor. The minor parts weren't done as good. I mean (Peter Gallagher) as the brother ?! Where was (Jon Lovitz) for god's sake ? Then (Joanne Whalley) ?? She's totally miscast. I don't know how they didn't come up with any funny, any sexy other actress ?! It's only (Alfred Molina) who was great as the professional butcher; with the double meaning of the word !The movie suffers from a small size budget. With another sum of money this should have been more powerful and dazzling. And (Jon Amiel)'s direction didn't help much mastering a powerful and dazzling image in the first place. Well, this is a kind of James Bond spoof, so be at least a bit big or colorful instead of looking like something shot in a very tight rooms ! This is dazzling at heart movie. Because outwardly it's near to poor TV. But anyway, with that script and that lead, not much can go wrong. "},{"Title":"Comedy and Psychological Thriller That Keeps you Guessing","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Anyone loving mysteries will love this movie, The Man Who Knew Too Little. It is the comedy version of a much more serious story told in the Michael Douglas mystery movie The Game, which was released at the same time, 1997. In both, a brother wants to give his brother an exciting birthday present the giving brother hires a theatrical group to secretly entertain his brother on his birthday. Along the way, however, things go horribly awry from the planned script. Through most of the movie, the brother being entertained doesn't know exactly what is happening to him, except in Bill Murray's case, he was told that he would be dealing with a theatrical group, but winds up in a real spy story, thinking all along he is still dealing with actors. While in Michael Douglas' case, he doesn't know what is going on for sure. Follow along with Bill Murray as he thinks the bad guys are just actors, but are not, of course. I would watch both movies. They both are quite entertaining. "},{"Title":"Really bad Murray","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I can't claim to have seen every Bill Murray movie, or even every minute of this disaster, but I'll bet it marks the low point of Bill's movie portfolio.  It's really really not funny, and it must take a serious effort to make a comedy starring Murray not funny.  I suspect about 98% of the viewers tuned out way early with me, leaving the remaining 2% to finish up and write unbelievably positive reviews of this dog on Imdb.  "}{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"18 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've read quite many negative reviews abort his movie . After finally watching it I have to say &#x96; it's not bad . It's far from being a great movie , but The man who knew too little is kinda worth rental .As the title suggest it's a parody of Hitchcock's The man who knew too much. Also it's a parody of Bond movies (or any spy movie). The idea is simple &#x96; the main hero thinks it's all a game , while everything is real. It makes the movie a basically one joke comedy &#x96; all the characters are wrong about each other actions and motivations. Most of the jokes fall flat.The thing that makes TMWKTL watchable is the acting . Bill Murray is charming and charismatic as ever . He's very funny , when he's pretending to be Dirty Harry . Alfred Molina who plays the villain Boris The Butcher is also a joy to watch . Add to that lovely Joanne Whaley as sexy spy Lorrie and funny Peter Gallagher as James Ritchie -brother of main hero.Overall it's nothing great , but it's a fun fluffy entertainment worth watching once . I give it 5/10. "},{"Title":"Not Sure Who The Target Audience Was,","Date":"8 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Man Who Knew Too Little is an alright movie with a surprisingly clever story line and a great performance from Bill Murray,but a lot of the humor is very hit and miss,and probably misses more commonly than it hits,although I will admit when it does hit it is very funny.I was very confused watching this movie who the target audience was,because a lot of the humor was very childish,but what happens in the movie and a lot of scenes aren't very suitable for children,its probably meant for the family,but I would advise any overprotective parent to view this movie before viewing it with their children.Wallace Ritchie (Bill Murray) gets involved with spy's who are assassinating a private event,but Wallace thinks it is all a theater act and must stay in character. "},{"Title":"A Matter of Identity.","Date":"2 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Peter Gallagher is an ambitious businessman in London, trying to put together a big international deal to market his product. He invites his goofy brother, Murray, over as a guest and tells him he'll be taking part in The Theater of Life, which will consist of a series of auditions and improvised incidents that may lead to a part in a play. Something like that. It's like Michael Douglas' The Game turned inside out.This is a fantasy, built around a single joke -- Murray's belief that it's all part of a game. He continues to believe it throughout the movie, even to the end. The first inopportune occurrences are minor ones. Two British thugs attempt to rob him at knife point. Murray responds by chuckling and complimenting them on their ability to really get into the role.Then he's swept up coincidentally into a plot by British and Russian agents who long for the good old days of the Cold War, when all the spies were busy and the phones rang all the time. They plan to assassinate the Russian and British leaders who are about to sign a Friendship Pact. Murray is misidentified as a secret agent assigned to stop them. The contretemps pile up, one upon the other, and Murray blindly stumbles through it all. If a pistol appears, he's likely to say something like, Uh-oh, a sign of realism, eh? Very impressive. No, really. The caricature of reality resembles that of Peter Sellers' Being There, the story of an almost infinitely stupid ex-gardener who only knows what he's seen on television but is taken to be a Deep Thinker and winds up being considered for nomination for the President of the United States.Being There had its silly moments but was funnier because the lines were better and because it carried a certain sting with it. How stupid can you be before you are recognized as less than presidential material? Here, the jokes involve much more slapstick and the misguided premise itself is sort of worn out by the end. Murray winds up at a big party, dressed as a Russian dancer, jiggling a live bomb. The writers kept forging ahead although the story was going nowhere. Not that it doesn't have its share of laughs.I'm not sure the writers realized it but they've introduced a kind of psychological approach to therapy based on the life as theater model. There's no place to get into role playing. Anyone interested should Google Milton Erikson. I'll give an example of how taken-for-granted the scrips that we live are. It's a real example. A Los Angeles police officer pulled over a driver for a minor violation. The driver was African-American and it was a black neighborhood. As the cop examined the driver's credentials and busied himself with writing a ticket, a crowd gathered, slowly growing angrier at yet more police harassment of blacks. Soon the lone cop was surrounded by a muttering mob and the threat of violence hung in the air. The script at this point called for the cop to unclip his revolver and order the crowd to disperse. Instead, he turned and waved a copy of the traffic ticket above his head, shouting, You have just witnessed an exercise of law enforcement in the city of Los Angeles! While the crowd puzzled over this announcement (What did he say?), the officer got into his car and drove quietly away.Neither Murray nor anyone else knew quite was they were tapping into when they casually threw around terms like Living Theater and Life as Theater. It really IS, in many ways. For more of THAT, read Kenneth Burke or Erving Goffman. "},{"Title":"Clearly the best comedy that I ever saw","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The audience (fed up by the horrendous Hollywood crap), clearly was not able even to start appreciating the pure elegance of the movie. Bill Murray enjoys himself, camera man likes his work, Rusian spies are charming. Rest of the cast are on par.The very end is fishy, but thats a comedy after all!I just could not believe my eyes when I saw a 6.2 rating for the movie. The is the most French-like (i.e. frivolous, not pompous, not a hint of a usual dull American humor) American comedy I ever saw.Those who like the Ground Hog Day, will appreciate the irony, ease and elegance. "},{"Title":"Bill Murray is funnier than the movie itself.","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When you have a comedy with Bill Murray in the main lead, you just can't go wrong. His improvising style of humor always guarantees laughs, even when the movie itself is an heavily flawed and an even unfunny one.The Man Who Knew Too Little is not really a bad movie, just a bit of a ridicules one. The story is way too simple and doesn't always flow well. It also is a totally unbelievable one that is filled with unlikely comical situations. Yes, sure its good for a couple of laughs but it also at the same time prevents the movie from being a remarkable, or truly hilarious one. So, really basic the only thing that prevents this movie from being a disaster is Bill Murray, who makes most of the moments in the movie look funnier than they truly are.But the movie also has a solid supporting cast, with actors such as Peter Gallagher and Alfred Molina. Joanne Whalley is perhaps a bit obsolete and provides the movie with some lacking and awkward moments. Not her fault really, just blame it on the simple, lacking script.The movie certainly does have its moments and at certain points also is a quite original one but it overall is lacking and therefor the movie is a quite unremarkable one. It's of course still a watchable one but by no means a truly fully recommendable one. Just see this movie or don't, you wont feel any better or worse afterward.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Idea for double feature","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Anyone think about a double feature with The Man Who Knew Too Little along with The Game?  It's basically the same theme, only one a horror story, the other a comedy.  And Bill Murray is a great comic actor, who will finally receive credit this year with an Oscar nomination for Lost in Translation. "},{"Title":"The film that entertained too little","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Why is it that Bill Murray makes either Hilarious Movies such as Groundhog Day, Stripes andScrooged or absolute Turkeys like GhostBusters and this film ? He never seems to be in film that sit in the middle, films that are Ok or just alright. The man who knew too little really is bad , it's not funny (which must be down to the script as there is some very funny actors in it). It is one of them comedies where after 10 minutes you start to look down at the Video Recorder clock to see how long there is to go .This film is patronising to all the nationalities that are portrayed in it , which i could quite easily put up with if done in a funny manor but i'm afraid there is not one funny moment that i can think of. 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Bill Murray vehicle, pretentious,contrived. silly.I 'm not laughing  !","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A Bill Murray vehicle which is all over the road. Pee Wee Herman would have made a better secret agent. The writers pulled out all the B movie plots to write this. Bill Murray Secret Agent in London, falls into a secret plot to kill some Prime Minister.A Call girl to the British Defense Minister has secret letters that means absolutely nothing to anyone. Russian secret agents grab Murray and hold him for something.Scotland yard is looking for Bill Murray who are as competent as Pee Wee Herman finding his Bicycle at the Alamo.The British Secret Service agents are older then the Queen. There is a summit between Russian,British,German,American Embassadors and absolutely no security at a Hotel in London. Meanwhile Russian agents want to torture Bill Murray for some unknown and stupid reason kind of like the three stooges.Anyway an old Gezzer couple dressed in leather are performing S&M acts,absolutely hideous script.What moron wrote this movie. ?Why would any good actor agree to appear in this movie.It states that it cost $20,000,000 to make this movie. unless I read this wrong.It grossed like $10,000,000 worldwide. "},{"Title":"Lousy, absolutely lousy...","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" After fifteen minutes, I had the idea, that the title referred to the guy who wrote the script. After half an hour, I was completely sure. This movie (?) is lame, lousy and a complete waste of time. There's nothing that could be describes as direction, the timing is horrible, the acting as wooden as a log and the jokes... *argh* Everything is totally predictable and annoying. Even if you're a fan of Bill Murray - like me - you won't find it amusing at all.But to be honest, there's one excellent thing about this flick Christopher Young's score is funny, cool and simply excellent! My recommendation is, forget the movie and get yourself the soundtrack CD. It's really everything the movie pretends to be. "},{"Title":"A great title in search of a film","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jon Amiel directed the sublime 'Singing Detective', which, among many other things, was a spoof detective-spy movie. But 'The Man Who Knew Too Little', in spite of its great title, proves a thin and disappointing affair. The basic idea, of a man (played by Bill Murray) who enters a reality game, only to unwittingly get involved in a nasty slice of real reality, might support a half-hour sitcom, but can't really underpin a feature-length story. Although there are some funny moments, nothing that happens is remotely believable, there's a lot of predictable humour about differences between the British and the Americans, while the movie still lacks the redeeming, over-the-top grossness of 'Austin Powers'. Some people think that Murray only has to appear on screen to be funny. For the rest of us, this film is a sad bore.  "}]