[{"Title":"Better than evreyone makes it out to be","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"43 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A mediocre storyline (i.e. Titanic) can become a world class film with character development, believable dialogue, and, for lack of a better word, some Hollywood magic. This film could have been a blockbuster with less action, less noise, less effects and more humans being human. Look at 2001 A Space Odyssey, Jaws, Titanic and countless other films, and you'll see that the story was about as interesting as Virus, and the actors, equally talented. Virus failed to deliver characters that we could believe and identify with.I still recommend this film highly, as its interesting, it contains Jamie Lee Curtis (a hottie) and Donald Sutherland (a 20th century legend), lots of effects and action. In a way its sort of fun to watch quality actors attempt to make the best of horrible dialogue.A 7 out of 10 for storyline and casting "},{"Title":"Compilation of other genre movies","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"45 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Don't take this movie too seriously, and Virus is actually an enjoyable romp, that pays homage, excuse me, rips off many venerable movies from the same and similar genres.It starts of as an X-Files episode, turns into The Perfect Storm, Sutherland is clearly inspired by mad Quint in Jaws, then the movie becomes Johnny 2.0 meets Robocop and Alien II.The drawbacks are of course obvious - the Life Form behaves more like a space moron, than a higher form of intelligence. If it was the latter, it would simply have the entire crew set port in Australia and have taken it from there. Instead, the humans are viruses approach simply brings it down. Bummer. Billions of miles of space travel, and it gets bested by the motley crew of a tugboat with a demented skipper.Anyway, 21 years after Halloween, Jamie Lee still looks delectable with a perfect figure. The rest of the crew are funny and charming, in a forgettable way. Sutherland puts in the best acting he has in years, which isn't saying too much as he has been  phoning his performances in since JFK.Anyway, this movie is low on originality, but if you like the genres above, it is a pretty nice diversion. "},{"Title":"Come on, it isn't THAT bad!","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"29 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After losing their payload the ramshackle, sinking, ocean-going salvage   tug Sea Star takes refuge in the eye of a typhoon in an attempt to   make repairs. Whilst trying to find help the tug, captained by Robert   Everton ('Donald Sutherland' ), discovers a Russian science vessel   adrift in the eye. The crew believes their troubles are over and they   are set for life when the captain informs them of the value of   salvaging this apparent ghost-ship. However, the navigator Kit Foster   (Jamie Lee Curtis) and the chief engineer Steve Baker (William Baldwin)   are not convinced that it will be that easy. Once power is restored to   the ship strange things start to happen and the crew mysteriously   disappear one by one. It isn't until the discovery of the last   remaining Russian crew member, the chief science officer Nadia   Vinogradiya (Joanna Pacula), that the crew realize the enemy ranged   against them isn't the Russians but something far more malevolent.   While I'll admit that the plots is hacked from dozens of other (Mostly   better) films, 'Virus' is no where as bad as others have made it out to   be. Jamie Lee Curtis is likable in the lead and the special effects are   terrific! The film is an entertaining and fast-paced sci-fi horror   movie. It was gory too.    I enjoyed it. 6.5/10.    ABOUT THE DVD Universal has done a terrific job with the release of   the virus DVD. The crisp looking 2.351 wide screen transfer looks   great. There's little to no grain, sharp colors, solid blacks and   realistic flesh tones. The Dolby digital 5.1 audio is very effective. I   loved them gunshots! Gotta have your gunshots! Extras are great, too.   The commentary, provided by the director, John Bruno, select cast   members and the composer is an enjoyable track filled with   behind-the-scenes stories and is quite informative. Next up is a very   good 17-minute documentary, Ghost in the machine, covering everything   from special effects construction to cast interviews. Next up are a   collection of 4 deleted scenes (Shown in there rough-cut form), which   are pretty enjoyable in there own right. Next up is a tiny 6-minute   featurette, which is really just a rehash of the documentary. Also   included are production notes, DVD-ROM features, a trailer, and really   cool animated menus. Nice! DVD ratings "},{"Title":"Not as bad as its reputation suggests.","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Terminator meets The Predator and Alien, and what we get is this routine but moderately effective horror thriller, which isn't quite as bad as its reputation might lead you to believe. Sure, it lacks substance and (except for a few details)originality, but the energetic direction, the fast pacing and some impressively filmed explosions keep it painless. Effects aren't particularly outstanding, though. "},{"Title":"Good entertainment","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"34 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie will probably not go to the history as one of the greatest. It will probably not even be remembered a couple of years from now. But it is a good horror/thriller movie with some decent effects. It's been a while since I actually jumped more than three times in the chair. Ok, the tricks to make you jump is kind of common, but they obviously worked.Apart from the end (that is very strange) this is a good movie. The weird thing though is that right after Kit Foster and her boyfriend ejects from the ship the storm goes away. Hmm... Of course you can't compare this with milestones like any of the Alien movies, but it is well spent money, and two hours killed time. "},{"Title":"I liked it anyway","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've heard people trash this movie left and right yet I found that it kept my attention for the duration of it's running time and all the technical aspects were top-notch (especially Tippett Studio's CGI realization of Goliath).  The characters weren't great and weren't bad either.  Sure, we've seen it all before in other films but I have little hope of finding a film that's completely original.  Frankly, I got about what I expected out of it - motion picture fastfood.  You enjoy it as you take it in and digest it and forget about it after you leave the theater.  It's just entertainment and not bad for what it is.  Unlike LOST IN SPACE or BATMAN AND ROBIN, this film isn't boring.  It moves at a quick enough pace to where you don't find yourself checking your watch all the time.  I'm not sure what the deal was with Donald Sutherland's character who displays no sense of logic whatsoever.  Had they dropped the stuff with his character, it would've helped the film.  If you're bored, check it out.  It's worth at least one viewing. "},{"Title":"*** out of ****","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"40 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What I noticed about Virus is that ANYTHING can happen to ANY of the characters.  They actually get the crap beaten out of them, even Jamie lee. The special-effects are fantastic for this film and the robots are actually menacing.  The characters aren't too interesting but they suit the film.  I was surprised at how the movie wasn't as predictable as I thought it would be.  Virus takes a new direction.  Instead of having a bunch of aliens or monsters running around, killing people, they have robots.  It's an original idea that hasn't been tackled that often in this type of genre.  A good movie.  "},{"Title":"Salvage, salvage","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Say what you want about this movie not meeting expectations of the 90's but it was very entertaining and thats most of what I expect from any good movie.Bad aliens, greed, bravery, bravado, science gone bad and survival all play major parts in this flick.Strong women, brave men and treacherous men are a good mix for any story and this movie has them in abundance.The aliens seem to want something from humans and its not in the best interest of these humans to meet their needs.Try not to be comparing this movie to other sci-fi and just enjoy an interesting twist on the genre. "},{"Title":"This is what I always imagined the BORG to really be like!","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After reading less than favourable reviews, I was concerned this movie would not live up to the potential of the plot scenario. That is, an Alien entity arriving on Earth and fusing humans, or parts of humans, with mechanical technology to further it own existence.Fortunately, the movie lived up totally to my expectations. We start off with a BANG! and than it's non-stop, sit on the edge of your seat stuff until the end. Anyone who watches STAR TREK knows the BORG. This movie makes what we've seen of the Borg look like a stroll in the park. Whilst extremely graphic in nature, VIRUS's depiction of this Aliens handiwork is as it would be...gruesome! Without giving away the plot, you have a claustrophobic situation reminiscent of ALIENS with Jamie Lee and Bill Baldwin & crew being hunted down one by one. Chase scenes involving a multitude of half human/half machine monstrosities keep coming at you like Arnie in TERMIMATOR. The special effects and art concepts are original and really make this movie stand out. Interestingly you'll see Mr. James Cameron thanked in the fine print of the credits. The mechanical marvels are certainly up to his standard. I loved the movie and now on DVD its straight into my collection. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you might think","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK, by the half way mark Virus is turning into a pretty typical aliens are here to destroy us movie, but till then it's a reasonably suspenseful, not badly written, well cast and well acted film. Jamie Lee Curtis looks remarkably normal playing a sailor, Donald Sutherland delivers another good villainous performance, and new actor of the year Cliff Curtis (Three Kings, Bringing Out the Dead) is excellent. This is a good popcorn movie, much better than most genre films.  "}{"Title":"I must be insane","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS.I was still recovering from the fallout of 'Bruce Almighty' (why God, WHY??) when I sat down to watch 'Virus'. That might have had some bearing on my opinion of this film; after all, after watching a Jim Carrey film leaves me with certain demands. Namely, entertainment. I don't really consider that an unreasonable demand from a film, but unfortunately 'Virus' did not succeed that well in delivering.Anyway, I sat down to watch 'Virus'. I went in with a few pre-conceived notions. Firstly, I thought it was set in space. Of course it wasn't, but I can understand how I got to that conclusion. When I hear a story about an extraterrestrial virus I don't immediately shout sea ship! but that didn't detract from the film. Okay, we're in the ocean. I can deal with that. Secondly, I thought this would be good. However, it wasn't. And it's main problem suffers from a phenomenon that I have dubbed The 90s However, I'm sure somebody reading this review will steal that from me like the filthy b*****ds they are.I won't go into the plot in detail because, to be honest, you've heard it all before. (and it's based on a comic. Wow, betcha didn't see THAT one coming!) In short, MIR space station contracts alien intelligence that zips it's way down to Earth and stays on a Russian vessel. Enter Donald Sutherland and his merry men who want to claim the now abandoned vessel and claim a profit on it. Or something.Now, I must bring up Donald Sutherland here because his delivery of Captain Whatever is laughable. Not that the character he plays is given any depth, but still. The man looks totally out of his tree. I guess he was just breezing through 'Virus' to pick up a healthy check at the end. And who can blame him? He evidently forgot who he was supposed to be playing by the end seeing as his accent completely metamorphs. So does the Russian woman, but I won't go into her.I said earlier this film's main problem was the 90s How this essentially translates for 'Virus' is a complete lack of scares or horror or action or whatever genre it was trying to fit in to. How does it manage to do this? One anacronym CGI. For a film that follows in the long proud tradition of 'Alien' rip-offs, it's sort of troubling to realise it has absolutely no idea how to be as horrifying as the film it tries to emulate. 'Alien' uses quick glimpses of it's creature to utilise the collective imaginations of it's audience to create something far more horrific than ANY film could deliver. Much like the 'Blair Witch Project', that came out the same year as 'Virus'. (at least, I think it did. I'm not going to check though. I'm in far too big of a rant now to start fiddling around with details) In that way, 'Virus' is almost the antithesis to 'Blair Witch Project'. The unknown is infinitely scarier than a CGI robot tramping around in full view.Actually, that's another preconceived notion I had about 'Virus'. It was actually going to be about A VIRUS. Now, an intelligent bolt of lightning is certainly an interesting concept with many avenues of story that could be pursued and tellingly, 'Virus' is far too lazy to go down any of them. Instead we are treated to Cybermen clones, Borg wannabes and Terminator inspired robotic nasties. None of which are particularly scary or impressive. Also, there are, presumably for comic effect, little spider scuttler things that fire nails at people. I actually owned one of those as a kid. They were called ZOIDS. You'd assemble them and wind the motor and they'd go walking off for a couple of feet. And 'Virus' actually shows these as if they're the worthwhile portrayal of an electrical alien intelligence. You'll even see them ambling along in all their non-fluent glory as they lure some character (I don't care, should you?) Into a vent. Now, bear with me because I think this scene is worthy of note. The guy is in a spooky old derelict and sees something dragging wires into the darkness of an shaft. Now, he is holding a weapon (something revolutionary for this genre, methinks) but, what's this? He is EXCHANGING HIS GUN FOR A TORCH. And of course, he goes in the shaft and promptly gets captured by lots of sentient wire cables. Serves him right.Another interesting scene is where Donald Sutherland's character decides that the good and proper thing to do, after witnessing the above character come back as a Borg drone, is to offer himself up to the Virus. Now, uh, why? We get the feeling he doesn't like his crew, but what the f*** is he thinking? Absolutely nothing is made of this and it's a shame because had the film given the captain even two dimensions it would have been an interesting character twist. As 'Virus' presents it, however, Donald Sutherland is assimilated (surprised they didn't use that term in the film) comes back to spout some rhetoric and is dead within two minutes.Yet, despite everything I've said about 'Virus', I can't give it anything less than four stars. You see, even though it has boring effects, wooden acting, cliché characters and a story based off a comic based off an entire genre, it's still entertaining. I mean, this film isn't God-awful or anything. It's not 'Showgirls'. There is some entertainment to be had at how hopelessly flawed it is. There are some (deliberately, I assume, although it could be the writer's attempt at a severe character-turning moment) hilarious moments, especially when the token black guy exclaims Spare parts my ass, man! Ho-ho, how I laughed. That one is sure to become a catch phrase, I reckon. In fact, I can't remember how many times I've been trapped in the middle of boring, pretentious conversations at stuffy late evening engagements, only to exclaim Spare parts my ass, man! And have the entire room suddenly erupt in laughter. Then, strobe lights come down from the ceiling, Scatman bursts over the speakers and strippers fly in through the windows.I gave this film four out of ten for sheer entertainment (I should probably revise my first paragraph) 'Virus' is a disappointing film with an interesting premise that it ultimately wastes when it realises it is in danger of becoming a halfway decent horror film. Basically 'Event Horizon' at sea. Hopefully you read this bloated review and now will feel no compulsion to see it.Oh yeah, Jamie Lee Curtis is in it. I think she plays a mannequin, or something. "},{"Title":"Great popcorn movie!","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Saw this one on DVD last night and I really liked it. It was a fast paced comicbookaction popcorn movie with scares that made me jump the chair a couple of times. The story is nothing new. We´ve seen it numerous times before. Like Alien. But nothings original these days anyway. The FX where great and I liked the frankensteinish look of it. It rates high on my popcornmovie chart. "},{"Title":"I felt violated","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What in the name of all that's right and good were the people involved in this movie thinking? Someone spent $75m on this?It was the worst written, worst acted, worst FX-ed movie I've ever seen in my life, and doesn't even have the excuse of having untalented actors/actresses involved.What movie were the reviewers watching who compared this to Alien or Aliens? Is there another Virus about an alien-infested ship out there with Jamie Lee Curtis and Donald Sutherland and the stupidest Baldwin in it that I somehow missed??All I can say is, walking out of the cinema after seeing this I overheard a guy saying I feel violated... I know exactly how he felt.Don't waste time with this movie.Take out all your old, bad photographs where everything's out of focus or people's heads are out of shot or you can't tell which way's up and you don't recognise the people in them or can't remember where you took them or why and they make no sense, and whilst looking at them, repeatedly hit yourself on the head with a baseball bat. For 90 minutes.You'll have lots more fun. "},{"Title":"AWESOME SCARY MOVIE!","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Because of the poor reviews I wasn't expecting too much when I went to see Virus.  Boy, was I surprised.  Pleasantly suprised.  Virus is one of the best Science Fiction/Horror movies I have seen in a VERY long time.  The acting was good and the special effects were great.  Jamie Lee Curtis was good and Donald Sutherland was hilarious.  If you are looking for a good time, GO SEE THIS MOVIE!!!   "},{"Title":"Hi-tech sci-fi/horror at sea","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Okay, I know, this movie borrows so many elements from so many sci-fi/horror movies that I'm not gonna bother making a list of them. The setting, plot development, characters, ending,... are all far from original but the premise of this movie sorta is. Instead of monsters or cyborgs running around killing people, we now have an intelligent alien life-force in the form of electricity from outerspace invading a big Russian research-ship in desolate ocean waters. The life-form takes over the ship's computers and electronic circuits and is determined to wipe out the one virus it sees as a threat Humanity. When the crew of the small salvage-ship Sea Star finds the abandoned Russian vessel dead in the water, the fun starts.The acting is okay, but the characters are badly written and full of clichés, with Donald Shutterland's character, Capt. Robert Everton, being the worst (and therefore the most fun). He handles in an irrational manner all the time. In the beginning of the movie he wants to kill himself by blowing his brains out 'cause he's depressed over losing his cargo. Then he's happy 'cause he thinks that salving the Russian ship will make him a millionaire. When things go wrong again, he claims himself being the superior life-form and tries to make a deal with the alien force. Needless to say this is the last dumb mistake he'll ever make. Jamie Lee Curtis and William Baldwin play the only 'normal' characters on board.But we don't watch these type of movies for character-development or logical plot-twists, do we? The suspense and action leading up to the climax are well dosed and the special effects are rather excellent. They start out small and turn grotesque near the end, like it should be. We have small spider/bat-like robots operated by animatronics, puppetry and humans with metal parts sticking out of them for the visualization of the symbiosis between man and machine, and in the end they switch to solid CGI for the massive über-robot. I just love the whole using humans for spare-parts-idea.I must say (sorry for the spoiler) that there is a survivor (though easy to figure out, I'm not gonna tell who it is), but the way he/she escapes the ship is a bit ridiculous, probably doing it for only one reason to make the ending look spectacular. Just jumping overboard would've been as effective and less dangerous. But we don't wanna see that, huh? Bottomline This flick is fun! But make sure you leave your brain at the door when you see this, otherwise you'll end up needing spare-parts yourself. You might even have yourself a treat by organizing a triple-feature Ships Of Horror-night, by watching VIRUS, DEEP RISING and GHOST SHIP. Because there are far more worse horror-flicks involving ships out there. If you don't believe me, then check out UNINVITED, DEATH SHIP or (sorry, Jason-lovers) Friday THE 13TH, PART 8 JASON TAKES MANHATTEN (instead of what the movie's title might lead you to suspect, almost 70% of it takes place on a cruise-ship!).If you like the robots vs humans-concept, you might wanna check out more obscure similar titles like SATURN 3 (starring Harvey Keitel) or MOONTRAP (starring Bruce Campbell). In any case, VIRUS stirred up my flesh & metal-fetish, so I'm gonna watch TETSUO all over again. "},{"Title":"Virus Rocks! Great Fun!","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Virus is the first great movie of the year. It has great special effects and a great cast. I give it a 10. See this movie TODAY!  "},{"Title":"Great effects, good story","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  People don't seem to see this film in the right way. This movie was excellent. People must have had their hopes set too high for this, and it a shame this movie is going to bomb. in a world where so many horror rip-offs (scream, I still know..., urban legend.......), it's great to see a very original movie. Based on an excellent comic book series from over a decade ago, this movie delivers some suspense and some great special effects with plenty of blood and gore for the TRUE horror fan...  "},{"Title":"Pastiche.","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It isn't necessary to go through the plot in any detail. A tugboat crew boards a deserted ship in search of salvage and find it occupied by an extraterrestrial force that produces a lot of CGIs that are more than usually disgusting.Other reviewers have pointed out the sources that were ripped off. Mostly we see a variation on Alien but there are also touches of Robocop and Jaws. I'm trying to imagine the designated audience. It must be younger folk, too young to have seen the originals, which were shockers in their own way. And of that group, I'd expect the greatest approval from those whose tastes have been degraded by overexposure to adult films designed for dull people. "},{"Title":"Better Than Its Reputation","Date":"24 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Decent sci-fi horror/thriller. OK, it's not exceptional in any way but it's also not the steaming pile of poo that its rating here would suggest. I was expecting it to be a real stinker judging by some of the reviews I've read. On the contrary, it was a perfectly watchable movie of its type. Entertaining to a small degree but never dull. The cast isn't bad. Jamie Lee Curtis is the best of the lot. Donald Sutherland hams it up some with a silly Lucky Charms accent. I ask you though -- in what way is that not fun? Maybe people hate it because it has a dumb action movie quality about it. Sci-fi fans can be a prickly sort sometimes. "},{"Title":"It is definitely a movie only recommended for fans of the genre.","Date":"11 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film has little acceptance, and that Virus combines a good mix of Frankenstein, Alien and terminator, producing a cocktail of these three classics of science fiction. The film seems a mixture of several horror movies and Sci-Fi.The argument is interesting in its infancy and the development is entertaining, but it is very typical, predictable and compliant in their objectives. This is to see what character falls first and who survives, and is very easy to guess. I must emphasize that the special effects are far superior to those of very recent movies.The film is interesting performances of Jamie Lee Curtis and Donald Sutherland are acceptable other performances are mediocre.It's just an entertaining film that mixes several films, the only difference is that here the action takes on a boat. "}{"Title":"Ghost Ship meets Alien and Terminator ...","Date":"30 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'll give it 10 stars, because I don't think it deserves the current (very low) rating. It's rated 4.6/10 currently. I would've given in 5 or 6 stars.It's not an 'excellent' movie, I admit. But it's watchable and it's far from 'complete crap'. The premise is intriguing, but, sadly, the execution ruined it for me. The script was also not very good. Surprisingly enough, even the acting was mediocre -- they have top-rate actors playing leads, but the scrip and direction is so bad, that even these great actors couldn't save the movie.It's an O.K. film, but nothing spectacular. There's very little suspense and the alien robots are a bit lame (that cringeworthy main frame voice... oh, the horror!).They could've found a much better use for the captain, but as soon as the fun begins (he volunteers to be turned into one of 'them'), the good guys blow him away within the very first minute! What the...? I did like the fact that the movie wasn't cheesy -- there weren't any wacky romantic scenes and the clichés were kept to a minimum. The explosions were also quite good, and I liked the look of the deserted ship -- quite atmospheric.Like I said, it's not a masterpiece, but I've seen much worse. "},{"Title":"I had one of those when I was a kid","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Virus looked like a healthy sci-fi movie from the previews. I was expecting an alien\terminator like movie in the far reaches of space. Of course I was bummed when I found out it took place on a ship in the middle of the ocean. Well I figured it could still be decent but it only got worse. The effects are rotten and the acting is bad. The story goes almost nowhere the whole time. The aspect of action is ruined with terrible sci-fi and bad effects. I heard a parent yell from the back of the theater I had one of those when I was a kid when the small cheesy robotic spider came onto the screen.  "},{"Title":"great effects!","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" if i were a entity without a body a place with robotics is where i'd start! ( that and human parts ) i loved this move, it reminded me of playing DOOM on PC for the first time when it came out, i liked the story myself and i wish there were more movies like this one. ( robotics, human parts etc..) i think i have watched them all from Hardware 1990, all the terminator movies but this one stands out to me. the only thing i wish is that i wish i could had seen more of the goliath in the movie. if you have not seen this movie, give it a shot or look up some images on google or look through the images here to get an idea of what it's about, if you like horror and robotics i think it may be your cup of tea. ) "},{"Title":"Welcome to ET hybridization","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Post Cold War science fiction. No more Soviets. The Russians are not dangerous and the Chinese are not yet in the picture, not to speak of the terrorists. So danger had to come from the sky, hence from the cosmos, hence some immaterial living form, at least immaterial according to our definition of matter. They just take over any kind of communications network and have at their disposal the whole sum of human knowledge, plus theirs, and they start spreading. They take over a Russian scientific boat and then recuperate anything, computer parts, mechanical parts and human parts, to build some hybrid beings that can take the control of the ship and then go to some human harbor and invade the planet. But it all goes wrong when some real human beings decide to use their intelligence and training to destroy these hybrid beings, the extraterrestrial cosmic being behind and sink the boat. And we are really after the end of the Cold War since it is the last female Russian survivor who will sacrifice herself to slow down the main machine so that the two last Americans will be able to escape while her sacrifice will start the setting on fire of the ship and the blowing of it up and down into the sea. A little bit simple, though quite entertaining if you like that kind of paranoid science fiction the human species is always menaced, from inside or from outside, and it is always thanks to the sacrifice of some who use their intelligence and know how in a creative way that the planet and humanity are saved. Paranoid and naive. And the final couple that escape the ship is of course a man and a woman. Adam and Eve not dead yet.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine & University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "},{"Title":"They blew $70 million on THIS??","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I rented Virus expecting it to be bad. That's okay, I enjoy a lot of bad movies, as long as they're fun. There was no fun to be had here. It was simply tedious, stupid, and unoriginal. I don't understand why actors with such solid resumes as Sutherland and Curtis feel the need to dirty themselves with such crap roles. The script for this joke of a film left them with absolutely nothing to work with. Curtis seems to be trying, but Sutherland was obviously as bored as I was. I managed to make it through the whole thing, but I found myself distracted throughout most of it. But I'll try to summarize it briefly anyway.Basically it's about a self-righteous alien life-force of some sort who has decided that human beings are a virus upon the earth, and that it's much more qualified to run things. Which reminds me a bit of a line I heard in this little movie called The Matrix...but okay, pal, whatever you say. So, it infests a Russian ship's mainframe computer and electrical systems via the Mir space station and starts turning people into hamburger-bots. (Wouldn't it be more effective to just take over NASA or something?) A tugboat crew stumbles onto the ship, thinks it's abandoned, gets greedy thinking about all the money they could make if they haul it in for scrap, and boards. They immediately become trapped on the ship and merriment ensues. Oh yeah, and there's a hurricane, too, if anyone cares. It's the same crap you've seen a hundred times. No new twists, only one unique character (who seems to be a Maori dude, and of course he gets killed, but not by the monster, so I guess that's something), who is of course as underdeveloped as the rest of them. The special effects are okay but the gore is senseless and over-the-top, there are no chills and no suspense of any kind, no chemistry between the leads, and we wouldn't notice if there was because there's no decent writing. You know exactly what's going to happen and who will survive from the second they step on the boat. It makes for a very boring experience. There are a thousand bad movies you could watch that are more fun than this one. Not recommended at all. "},{"Title":"Painfully bad...","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just read that this movie was made for $ 75 000 000.00... Where did the money go? Not on the script!! The story would have needed major script doctoring. We feel absolutely not empathy towards the characters, who are the biggest assemblage of cliches i have seen in years. All that is missing is a character wearing a cowboy hat and who is nicknamed billy-bob. Donald Sutherland's delivery is painful to watch while Jamie Lee Curtis tries very hard (but unsuccessfully) to rescue this bomb. After an hour, i wanted the ship to somehow blow up so i could go watch something more involving, like watching paint dry. $ 75 000 000 is about a thousand times the budget of the Blair Witch Project - i think there is a lesson there. Still, kudos to the special effects team - great work boys! - the effects are the only thing saving this movie from complete and well deserved oblivion.  "},{"Title":"Candidate for one of the ten worst films of all time","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What were they thinking?  Like everyone else, I saw the big names, Jamie Lee Curtis and Donald Sutherland and thought it must be at least ok.  WRONG!  It looks like they were given their lines with no time to rehearse and made to perform on the spot.  All lines and interactions seem as though they kept the first take.  They must have spent all their budget on the big names and had to pinch pennies on the filming.  And they must not have had enough for writers either, so all of the material was stolen.  When I saw the first little robot bug, I thought Runaway (which, by the way, is a movie that scares the sh** out of me) but it never came close.  Hello, Deep Rising, Star Trek's 'borg'.   I can't believe I sat through it.  Not worth the time, Not worth the money. "},{"Title":"Probably one of the worst movies of the decade","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It takes talent to create a movie as bad as this There are good actors, a somewhat original idea for a movie and good special effects - one would expect something good out of this. Yet here comes Virus to prove us wrong. How did Gale-Anne Hurd produce this? Why was it ever made in the first place? Now let's pray that they don't make a sequel... Rating 1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Decent story, but awful movie!","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the second worst film of the year.  First Prize went to Thin Red Line (Nominated for Best Picture??????).  All the actors, who in my opinion are decent actors, had the oh my god, my career is over look throughout the entire film and who could blame them, Virus was a waste of time, energy and money.  The story was decent, but the director completely screwed it up. It was poorly done and never seemed to captivate the viewer.0 stars and a 1 on the IMDB. "},{"Title":"A terrible film","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know what went wrong in the making of this film, but it is one of the most unimaginative, preposterous and generally boring films I've seen in recent years. A clear rip-off of the Alien series of films, except with lower quality acting. I have no idea how they got big name stars like Curtis, Baldwin, and Sutherland to volunteer for this travesty of a film. "}{"Title":"This movie was very boring.","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a load of crap, In the preview commercials. It had From the producers of Alien and Terminator comes Virus. I expected to see some serious scary sci fi thriller, but instead this movie was extremely predictable... on what will happen next and blah blah blah. There wasn't enough information about this Virus entity, just a bunch of electricity zapping around and scaring ship scavengers. This movie blatently tries to rip off Star Trek's Borg (Machines turning humans into robots) and trying to do a little Alien and Terminator like, but fails because of the depressing way the actors were talking. What a failure for the people who created this film, total failure. "},{"Title":"Good-action-packed-horror-flick-worth-watching","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I first watched this movie in 1999 I got it on DVD a year later.This movie has a so-so story line to it. An alien in the form of electricity comes to earth and starts to kill everybody on board the ship. The Crew of a tug boat come across it and start to die. 6/10The VFX and special FX were great. With the giant goliath and the animatronacs. The Action was equally good. Like the gun FX, and the tug boat going down. FX 8/10The actors were good in the film, whit some good lines. 6/10I liked it  "},{"Title":"Sci-fi, Alien type thriller with a lot of tense","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Despite its bad reviews the movie was good, may be not the best but worth watching. It contains excellent f/x and realistic gore. If you are into all that stuff, you should definetely watch this film.It's sort of a mixture of Alien, Predator and Event Horizon. It quite a lot of tense thrilling and scary scences which I really enjoy watching in a film.The characters aren't so solid and the story is not really original but than again this was not a movie made to win oscars.If you want some of cool f/x, tension, horror, cool robots, displaced human organs....watch the moive. "},{"Title":"Are you SURE it cost that kind of money to produce???","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Argh. Rented it. Repented of it. My goodness. This MUST have gone straight to video.  Contrived.  Borrowed plot themes and alien creatures.  Low budget appearance. When it ended (predictable ending) I said, Wow. Grade C film school! assuming it had been filmed in somebody's swimming pool. I was amazed to read the other reviewers' info regarding a huge budget. Wonder where the money went? As others have said, Jaime Lee Curtis at least gives it the old college try. Although it is hard to understand how such a take-charge kind of woman can still spend so much time Screeeaaammmminngg. Sutherland goes through the motions, and his character loses his Scots (? Irish? Yugoslavian?) accent before the first reel ends. Likewise the Russian scientist who is apparently the world's greatest language savant. She goes from understanding no English to speaking unaccented American within 20 minutes. Berlitz ought to be taking notes on her technique.Save your money. Avoid this film. If alien gore is your interest, rent Alien again.  "},{"Title":"Clichés - All Aboard!","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"21 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Laughable, extremely poorly scripted and acted effort about a small crew boarding what seems to be a dead huge Russian science ship that has been taken over by an alien life form in the form of electrical current. The small crew from the other ship quickly find out that boarding the ship was a bad idea, and soon they begin to, I know this will surprise you, ...DIE. Okay, for starters the film is very derivative of other films, most notably Alien with the same premise of a small group investigating a large foreign vessel and ultimately led by a strong female protagonist. Ther are many other obvious similarities, but time and a total lack of desire to rehash that drivel must excuse me. I could live with a less than original story if it had some better dialog and some characters you might give a hoot about, but Virus has none of that. Jamie Lee Curtis does a serviceable job at best and gives the film's best performance, but that is not saying anything as virtually everyone else is just awful. This is a surprise when one sees Donald Sutherland's name attached to this project. I have never seen him give quite as bad a performance as he does in Virus. He goes for every cliché and stereotype of an old sea captain save a wooden leg and a parrot on his shoulder. The accent he uses I found excruciating. The rest of the crew has a group of guys that you will not care about in the least. None of the guys can act. This applies mostly to male lead Wiulliam Baldwin who looks like he is lost at sea playing an actor. The script aids the actors in being inadequate as half the time it just makes no sense and other times begins to show promise and ends abruptly. Wow, the way Jamie Lee Curtis gets out of a jam near the film's end was so ridiculous. What about the captain and why he was almost going to shoot himself in the beginning of the picture? What was that all about? It was never brought up again. What does Virus have going for it? It is the very embodiment of mindless entertainment with almost no thinking required. The special effects are pretty good too. But for me the film was a great big let-down. Not that I was expecting something great, but I was expecting something suspenseful. I was laughing and turning my head a lot more times in this one then I was on the edge of my seat - except when I was ready to turn the movie off! "},{"Title":"Watchable and much better than the 4.8 rating","Date":"25 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I only write reviews of movies with low rating, which actually are not that bad. Give them a chance!I watched this film because I love movies about apocalypse. Some say that Virus is not for that group, but I disagree. If a virus kills humans for ''spare parts'' and wants to go to Lord Howe Island, so it could spread all over Earth - that could cause an apocalypse!Now when we got that cleared, I must admit that this movie deserves better rating then it has at this moment ( 4.8 ). It really is not that bad! Great story, great mechanical costumes, good set decoration. Acting is bad for some actors, especially Donald... I don't understand his acting in this movie, he is always great ( Land Of The Blind for example ), but here... Directing is also not at the top level, the ending is really bad and it looks like they could not wait to finish editing. But still, those two facts are not something that should give this movie such a low rating.You can enjoy this movie for sure, it is watchable and enjoyable.6/10 "},{"Title":"It was entertaining enough. There are much worse out there.","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'd read that Jamie Lee Curtis considered this the worst movie of her career. I suppose I then went into it expecting something quite awful, but was surprised to find it wasn't nearly as bad as so many horror/sci-fi films out there.The acting, whilst not the best I've seen from the likes of Donald Sutherland, William Baldwin or Jamie Lee Curtis, is hardly the worst acting you could unfortunately expect from movies of this genre. It was also good to see supporting actors in there such as Cliff Curtis, whom I'm immensely enjoying watching right now in Fear the Walking Dead, putting in solid efforts. The production values are quite competent. Camera work, lighting and sound editing are all a pass.The plot was nothing new but is always a favourite of mine. It seems that whenever a movie comes out about a person or crew investigating a derelict/abandoned ship, space station, military base or some such other thing, I'm all over it. I suppose this hearkens back to my favourite movie of all time being The Thing and always hoping for something just as good.A very pleasant surprise was the lack of CGI use. If looking back on the late 90s and early 00s has proved to me anything in retrospect, it's that CGI-laden movies made then by today's standards look utterly terrible. Some did okay, like Event Horizon and Twister, but others are just awful to look at, such as The Scorpion King and The Phantom Menace. Virus, to me, was comparable in special effects to the movie Screamers in that it has its CGI moments when it calls for them and ONLY when it calls for them.Overall, I'd give this one about a 6.8 out of 10 if I could rate a little more accurately. It won't set your world on fire, but it's hardly the worst way you could spend an evening on the sofa with a beer and a movie. "},{"Title":"An On screen Virus.","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Virus (1999) Dir John Bruno / Cast Jamie Lee Curtis, William Baldwin, Donald Sutherland, Joanna Pacula, Marshall Bell Pure crap with a theme regarding man as a virus. At least the actors can refer to this film as a career virus. It regards a Russian cruise ship with robotic creatures that kill people for body parts particularly the brain. Never mind how they originated. That would take brains to explain. These creatures need electricity but sinking the ship never alarms anyone here. The characters are done in with flat dialogue and serve no other purpose other than to shout over loud noise and die horribly. Jamie Lee Curtis revisits her Scream Queen days but perhaps to her worst effort. William Baldwin plays the so-called hero who will make narrow escapes. Donald Sutherland delivers perhaps the worst performance of his career as the ship's Captain who tries to communicate with these robotic creatures. The results are both horrifying and laughable when he goes through a transformation that must rank as an all time embarrassing low in an otherwise flourishing career. Joanna Pacula also appears among those who hope that this film won't be revisited again. Director John Bruno does an uninspiring job and lends more to the visual effects than anything. Dreadful film where studios fork over millions of dollars to create garbage. Now they just need a trash compactor to do it in. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"'what do you want from us?' ... 'spare parts'","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those typical 90s action flicks with a bunch of get-up-and-go characters with a bad apple or two mixed in with them, a simple premise that isolates them and the unforeseen extra-terrestrial threat for the course of the movie, and a particular angle which gives the movie a unique theme. It's not the most intelligent movie you'll see, but all things considered, the premise of an electricity based ET taking over a Russian scientific vessel which a salvage crew have to contend with, survive and ultimately prevent from reaching wider civilisation is pretty nicely realised I thought. For the most part the acting is convincing, particularly from Baldwin, J.L. Curtis, C. Curtis, Augustus and Pacula, with only Sutherland seeming a little off-key at times in my opinion, as the grizzled, negative old sea captain. But for the most part I thought the actors and actresses contributed to the fun with some committed acting. The CGI was visibly distinguishable, but not game-breaking; it was convincing enough, with some good make-up work and monster design as well as mood-setting, character-laden sets and locations.I really liked the concept of the alien life form itself; it comes from a spaceship that's seemingly composed of stable plasma, which passes close by earth and through a Russian spacecraft, transmitting a passenger through to the ship on the water. what it intends to do with humans, who it identifies as a virus itself, is to overcome them, and then use them as spare parts to establish physical, useful forms with which it can set up shop on our planet and do whatever it wants to do.One thing that did stand out as I was watching the film was just how many references the film seemingly borrowed from, as though the film itself were behaving like the alien in it, borrowing aspects from other films and welding them together haphazardly to establish a functional form of its own. Now, don't get me wrong! it's not necessarily a bad thing; it's not downright plagiarism in this case, instead, perhaps intentionally or perhaps unintentionally, it actually adds a level of exploration and/or parody of the science fiction medium to the film; allow me to elaborate with examples. I've seen many mentions of other films and stories this film reminded people of, and here are several examples I noticed myself; first of all, there are many parallels with The Abyss - naval setting, crew member who goes mad and turns on the others for whatever reason, the additional threat of a hurricane, and even the appearance of the spaceship of the aliens, that ephemeral pinkish hue; Sphere, where the crew communicate with the alien entity through textual conversations on a computer, just like in Virus; The Andromeda Strain, which is a story about an alien virus coming to Earth and wreaking havoc; Terminator and perhaps also Robocop, clearly alluded to and used as inspiration for the half machine half human cyborgs the alien builds; John Carpenter's The Thing, which also featured an alien which liked to assimilate humans into itself, as well as Richie's paranoia near the end about not trusting Foster and Steve about whether they were still themselves or whether they were modified by and under the influence of the alien; and finally, most of all, The Matrix.This film contains many startling similarities with and aspects of The Matrix, which was released in the same year as Virus, unlike all the other films I've pointed out which were released before 1999. It is difficult to say whether they were aware of the similarities, perhaps aware of the development of the matrix, or whether this was a pure coincidence, but let me list those similarities; a hive mind of an electrical, ephemeral nature, who wishes to overpower and, crucially, Control the human race and use human bodies for its own purposes; a sentience which acquires knowledge and exists, 'lives', electronically, through computers and signals and transmissions; a rapidly evolving, technologically adept and extremely intelligent intelligence who develops machines to act in its interests in the physical world; and how about the look and design of the machines? those clustered red 'eyes', recognise them from anywhere? how about the sentinels of the matrix? So, what we ended up with was a patchwork of themes, filming styles, plot devices and references, which come together to create an overall entertaining, committedly acted story about a particularly macabre, calculating, and very alien, extra-terrestrial being, who interrupts a slapdash, mismatched crew of seamen, a few grizzled malcontents and the rest gung-ho young working folk, who think they've stumbled upon the salvage of their lives, but are sorely mistaken, as well as the original Russian crew of the ship, and the spacecraft, which it overwhelmed, used and slaughtered, of course, and must overcome many obstacles, a few self-inflicted, to prevent this dangerous entity from finding a way to undo its isolation and snowball in power and overcome the whole world potentially. they find this predicament in the eye of the storm and must go through the storm to prevail, in more ways then one.Perhaps I shouldn't write a synopsis for anything ever again, heh. Sorry about that. But this is nonetheless something visceral, entertaining, and, if you see it from a particular angle, a rather smart poke at the fourth wall, a science fiction story which is built from parts of many others, the result of which could be more then the sum of its parts, or less, depending on what you're looking to get out of it - smart, allegorical science fiction what-if? brainless horror-SF caper? 90s action movie? personally, I just took it for what it was, and was left intrigued and impressed. it's no classic, but it's worth seeking out. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Ship Infection","Date":"21 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" As a typhoon approaches the South Pacific, some mysterious outer space force attacks a Russian missile and satellite tracking ship. Nearby, a small America tugboat barely weathers the storm. Led by steadfast navigator Jamie Lee Curtis (as Kelly Kit Foster) and handsome engineer William Baldwin (as Steve Baker), the crew barely makes it into the eye of the storm. Hoping to make repairs, they instead encounter and board the Russian ship, which is seemingly deserted. The huge vessel has 42 labs and is valuable as a salvage ship. If no Russian personnel survive, those returning the ship will be paid millions of dollars. After losing his tugboat's cargo, heavily-accented Captain Donald Sutherland (as Robert Everton) wants to collect the cash. Naturally, he hopes to find no survivors. This puts him at odds with attractive scientist Joanna Pacula (as Nadia Vinogradova)...Special effects wizard John Bruno directs this Dark Horse comic book adaptation. Not surprisingly, Virus is a special effects movie. It starts off with an attack and storm. The subsequent, short characterization period really doesn't endear us to the cast, who seem very stereotypical. We should have a much stronger time getting to know the characters. That we may not want to know them is another problem. Also, there is also no real suspense as things immediately get rough for the crew; consequently, there is little time to dread the villainous presence or care what it kills. An ambiguous ending jolt seems to be setting up a possible sequel, but we were probably better off letting this Virus run its course.***** Virus (1/15/99) John Bruno ~ Jamie Lee Curtis, William Baldwin, Donald Sutherland, Joanna Pacula "}{"Title":"Virus, A Virus of your Time...","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" No wonder Jamie lee Curtis stated that this movie was the worst in her entire career. Its alright all in all but the focus of the movie is on a Russian science ship that is found by Donald Sutherlands crew. The Ship is alive and thinks the Crew is a virus. OK no problem right? seems not to bad. Until you start to watch it, the characters seem rather odd and somewhat hard to take seriously, Donald Sutherland sounds strange at times as if hes trying to do an accent every so often but never pans out what kind of accent he was trying to achieve. Every character is very bland and you find it hard to focus on the happenings around them, cliché lines and cheesy robotic bad guys. Humans turned into robots just seem strange rather than scary, they are supposed to be threatening i guess to the crew but they always manage to get their butts kicked quickly, so much for the robot humans. Sometimes there is moments that don't make sense. At the start of the film when first finding the science ship they make note there is no weapons on board. But throughout the movie we find machine guns, a Missile room?, and various other weapons throughout the ship. The movie is a B rated movie at best but to be fair to B rated movies this is actually not even that good. Id pass up this movie if I were you but its your choice if you really like bad flicks. "},{"Title":"Shocking life form","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Virus is based on a Dark Horse comic book. It has a lot of behind the scenes talent such as Gale Anne Hurd (Terminator/Aliens), director John Bruno is an Oscar winner for visual effects for The Abyss and also did the VFX for Terminator 2, Titanic amongst other films.It is no surprise then that the film rips off many of these films in the genre especially as it becomes Aliens meets Robocop meets Terminator as an electrical based alien life form that views humans as a virus, only useful as spare parts and slowly converts the humans into cyborgs.The film starts off in a Russian space station before setting in a Russian ship. Our heroine is Jamie Lee Curtis a navigator in a tugboat with uninsured cargo destroyed in a typhoon. The salty captain of the ship, is mean, a drunkard and on the verge of catastrophic failure. He is played by Donald Sutherland. They stumble on the now abandoned Russian ship and want to take it as valuable salvage before they realise something else is also aboard.Lee Curtis shows a lot of spirit, she is assisted by a bland William Baldwin. Sutherland is the hissable villain, a mixture of Captain Hook and Quint from Jaws. The special effects are very good but the script is a let down and the film comes across as dull. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This review contains spoilers - but it's like a turd gets spoiled by running over it on a skateboard. No great tragedy.Adequate budget, admirable cast, appalling script. Such a wasted opportunity - none of the characters have any consistency, their relationships are never explained or explored and every opportunity for a cheap shock is shamelessly exploited with very minimal effect. At no point did I feel empathy for any of the characters and instead I was vaguely amused each time one of them dies. The cinematography is adequate and the performances of the cast are about as good as they could have been so I have given it 3/10 but by half-way through I was really just hoping it would end soon so I could do anything else instead.Why a research vessel is carrying surface to air missiles or has armouries bristling with bazookas and machine guns is never explained, nor is why the Russians are using a boat rather than a fixed-position land based facility to communicate with the MIR space station. A boat, I might add, that would have to be nearer America than Europe for the crews initial tug boat to have reached it. Why the sensible and sensitive daughter of an American Navy Admiral (as Jamie Lee Curtis' character claims to be) is involved with the unlikely crew combination on board the initial tug boat is also never explained, nor is why she has Thermionic grenades in her rucksack. Towards the end the tug boat crew suddenly seem very aware of the research vessels layout, facilities and capabilities and the final escape of two of the characters on a single-seater rocket powered ejector seat that has no flotation or survival equipment (one ejector seat for a crew of over 300?!) is the final laughable straw. Overall the film is pants. Poorly stitched pants, with a little skid-mark in them. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" While not a mega sci-fi hit it does have a very creepy vibe. The story is simple and a variation on many but not too predictable in that you really don't know who will get it or when. Overall the tension gets tighter and tighter as the film progresses and you are not cheated by the end. The creatures are actually very well done and creative. They are quite menacing and gives the film the creep factor I spoke of. The acting is good as it has a solid cast and a decent script. The set itself is an actual ship, not a man made fabrication. It makes for a nice late night time waster or Sunday afternoon movie. The creature effects are actually so good I'm surprised they didn't get a slew of awards. "},{"Title":"Characters clueless for too long","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" An energy based alien attacks the Mir space station then transfers to the science ship transmitting to the station. After a storm, an American tug boat captain by Everton (Donald Sutherland) runs into the Russian science ship. Captain Everton thinks he's going to salvage the giant ship and collect $30M in the process. Only there is something on the ship that they don't expect.This is good premise for an action horror movie. And when you have the scream queen Jamie Lee Curtis, this could have been great. It starts off good. The setup works. Then we find out these are a bunch of idiots. No matter how many crazy machines and cyborgs try to kill them, they can't buy the explanation from the Russian chick. I can accept Captain Everton and his money grubbing mentality. Every horror movie requires a human traitor bad guy. But the rest of them keep skating around the fact that there are machines trying to kill them.The cyborgs are OK. The action is pretty good. The final action sequence is questionable. But all the good filmmaking can't make up for the characters being too clueless. What's the point of rooting for a bunch of idiots. "},{"Title":"Honestly, not that bad","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'll admit, I was very skeptical when I started this movie and then realized how poorly overall it had done. I was surprised to find that it really wasn't that bad. It definitely wasn't the worst movie I had ever seen, not even close. The movie was genuinely creepy. The only thing that prevented my complete satisfaction was how stupid the premise was. But once you got past that, it was kind of enjoyable. The animation was actually good, and it wasn't clear to me if any one of the crew members would get off the ship. Normally it's easy to see the 'hero of the movie', that appears to be unstoppable in their success. No such limitations in this movie.Overall, an enjoyable movie that should have done much better than it did. "},{"Title":"Still uses other components from other films but still fairly entertaining","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Although many agree that films that use or recycle elements from successful previous franchises, end up not being entertaining or appealing, there are always a few that go against the grain. An example of those kinds of movies is like Leviathan (1989) and Screamers (1995). Well, Virus (1999) is not much different from those.The movie is based off of a series Dark Horse comics written by Chuck Pfarrer in the early 90s. The story is about how the crew of a tugboat stumble upon an abandoned ship. Inside, they discover that an electrical alien lifeform has taken control of the ship and has been using parts of the ship and its crewmembers to create robotic creatures to do its dirty work. Now its up to the crew to figure out how to rid the ship of this virus before it docks on dry land and takes control of other computers. So it's like Alien (1979) mixed with The Terminator (1984), OK so? It is not like Universal Studios was trying to out match these films, each film must be treated for what its worth and not as who's better than the original. William Baldwin, horror heroine Jaime Lee Curtis, Donald Sutherland and Joanna Pacula are just of the few actors that star in this film. I'd say that not many of these characters were memorable, but they do share good sarcastic lines, quirky reaction faces and fierce retaliations. I did laugh a lot at the character of Capt. Robert Everton played by Sutherland. Even though it probably wasn't intended to be funny, Sutherland is able to make his character come out with deadpan lines and a sadistic sense of humor. My question is, how did any of these characters come together as one group in the script? Screenwriter Pfarrer wrote the dialog like they hated each other from the start. What kind of crew is that? I'm surprised anything was accomplished with how much bickering took place. However, this didn't happen all to often because soon they had to work together. Surprisingly, this is one of the things I didn't realize. It took about until half way before the pace started to increase and that may make viewers restless. The gunfire and blood is there. The actual gore may be a bit low for gorehounds but it is still enjoyable. Not to mention there are also some boo moments too and that may catch audiences off guard even if most people won't find it frightening. Adding to the creepiness of the setting's atmosphere is composer Joel McNeely's orchestral score. It may not be extraordinarily inventive, but simplistically, it gets its point across in making the scenes work with the music to enhance the viewing experience. Finally, I have to give the most credit to director John Bruno. To say the film didn't work because a visual effects supervisor was given a chance to direct doesn't mean squat. Bruno is a talented man and his ability to make Chuck Pfarrer's vision come to fruition was done professionally. One of the scenes I found the most astounding was the sweatshop room where two of the crew members run into an area where numerous amounts of robots are being made by robotic arms. It was done surprisingly well, almost too well because of how realistic it was. Bruno should be given more credit for this reason alone.Like many other movies, Chuck Pfarrer's Dark Horse comic adaptation reuses elements from other movies. And although its story is not creative, it is still fun, especially for its special effects, cast members and musical score. "},{"Title":"Virus","Date":"19 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I wouldn't delete Virus off your list just yet...Virus is not a film that you go into expecting good performances or even mild shocks (even though it does have a few). The film is from producer Gale Anne Hurd (Aliens), which explains some otherwise exceptional special effects midst a tedious plot that rips off Alien (1979), The Terminator (1984), Aliens (1986), and many other science fiction blockbusters.The movie's message is also quite obvious from the outset mankind sucks, mankind is a virus that needs to be exterminated, and the deadly electronic extraterrestrial entity that has arrived on Earth to kill us is the cure. And such is this profane end-of-the-20th-century technophobic subtext that makes it only mildly scary and sets it apart from other similar-minded films. That also makes this creature somewhat unique amongst other movie monsters (more on this later).The film opens somewhere in the middle of the Pacific Ocean, when a Russian research vessel is conducting a transmission with the Russian space station Mir. In the middle of the space transmission, Mir encounters the aforementioned malevolent electronic entity and it beams itself down to Earth on-board the Russian freighter, creating all sorts of havoc in the course of its arrival. Eight days later, the crew of the Sea Star discovers the freighter and unwisely decides to board it, hoping for a huge $300 million payday from the Russian government for the return of the salvaged vessel.The crew is led by the corrupt and deeply indebted Captain Robert Everton (Donald Sutherland), and his navigator and second-in-command Kit Foster (Jamie Lee Curtis). The rest of the Sea Star includes Steven Baker (William Baldwin), Woods (Marshall Bell), Richie (Sherman Augustus), Hiko (Cliff Curtis), and Squeaky (Julio Oscar Mechoso). They discover one survivor aboard the crippled Russian freighter, Nadya (Joanna Pacula), who also has an exceptionally firm grasp of the English language.Nadya at first seems crazed and strangely unconcerned for her own safety, except that the Sea Star crew turn off the power to the ship. She explains that the alien life-form that killed the Mir cosmonauts downloaded itself down to Earth on-board their freighter, disabling it in the process and taking over the ship's electrical systems (the alien life-form needs electrical power to function), and then began killing the Russian crew members and that soon the same thing could happen to them.The plot, based on co-screenwriter Chuck Pfarrer's Dark Horse comic book series of the same name from the early 1990s, is actually pretty interesting and cool-sounding; I might just try to track it down and read it myself to see if it's any better than the movie. The alien life-form that antagonizes the poor Sea Star crew members is also pretty unique and cool-sounding the creature itself is a malevolent electronic entity from deep space with no physical form, but ends up having to give itself one from the spare parts made out of the ship's electrical systems and equipment, and human flesh (since it views humans as anti-thetical to its existence and spare parts are the only thing we're good for, apparently).It is clear that John Bruno's Virus is a paycheck sort of movie for its three otherwise bankable, big-name Hollywood stars (Jamie Lee Curtis, William Baldwin, Donald Sutherland). If it weren't for the big paycheck, I think they would have let it go to lesser-known B-movie actors. I also just mean to say that the movie is well-acted, for this sort of tedious monster movie production. You also really shouldn't knock the film's plot, since you know exactly where it's going to go before even watching this well-made, albeit quite shoddy, sci-fi/thriller.You should only watch Virus for its creature special effects and a few nice man-machine hybrids (that somehow or another remind you of the fearsome Borg from the Star Trek TV series and 1996's Star Trek First Contact). Save it for a late-night-type of deal (or early-morning-type deal, like me).5/10 "},{"Title":"Best left to undemanding, forgiving genre fans.","Date":"26 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Virus is not as bad as its reputation would indicate, even if star Jamie Lee Curtis herself feels that this is the worst thing she ever did. It's certainly not without its drawbacks - dumb and clichéd characters (the coward, the one who gets victimized first, the psycho, the no-nonsense hero, etc.), silly dialogue and silly moments, a familiar feel to it - but, taken for what it is, it provides some adequate entertainment. It makes sense that its director is John Bruno, whose background is in special effects, as it's often a showcase for some interesting and decently executed effects, with such luminaries as Phil Tippett, Steve Johnson, and Eric Allard contributing their talents. The story has a tugboat taking refuge from a hurricane by resting in its eye, and coming across an abandoned Russian research vessel that we know has already been overwhelmed by some weird phenomenon. It turns out the culprit is some sort of living alien electricity that has infested the computer on the vessel and manipulated its robotics department to come up with some amusing if not terribly imaginative human-robot hybrids. The movie has the look of quality - it's photographed by David Eggby (Mad Max, Pitch Black), who does a cameo as a captain, and designed by Mayling Cheng - and features a booming score by Joel McNeely. The actors really do their darnedest, no matter how badly written some of their roles might be. Jamie Lee is worth watching as always, William Baldwin is okay as the male lead, Donald Sutherland a total hoot as Jamie Lee's crazed and sleazy superior, and lovely Joanna Pacula is great as the traumatized survivor of the initial attack who tries to help the newcomers; also appearing are character players Marshall Bell, Sherman Augustus, Cliff Curtis, and Julio Oscar Mechoso. Provided one can turn off their brain and just laps up this kind of thing anyway, it is possible to be entertained by Virus. As for Jamie Lee's own opinion on the matter, she certainly has done better films in the genre, but this isn't the total fiasco it's made out to be, either. Just go in with your expectations low. Five out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pretty decent but still with some flaws","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Finding a derelict ship floating in the middle of a storm, a salvage crew finds the supposedly-abandoned ship infested by a mechanical alien organism looking to meld the two species together.This here was a pretty decent effort, though it does have some minor problems. One of the film's biggest issues is that it relies too heavily on a science-fiction undercurrent and never drives home the horror of the situation. Despite being placed on a large, abandoned research ship, there's hardly anything exploiting the darkened corridors, strange equipment or even the state of the ship with the mess and general disarray it's found in, even though it can certainly be set-up to be an extremely suspenseful part. This is also matched with a missed opportunity when it begins to entertain all the technobabble trying to explain the creature's motives and intentions. This is all way too technical and makes little sense, making it a missed opportunity. While it does get in some great stuff in the end with a series of extreme, high-energy action scenes where it's being confronted throughout the ship, as well as a fantastic-looking series of creatures that interact quite well, it's still just an overall decent effort.Rated R Graphic Violence and Graphic Language "}{"Title":"Vaccine","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Basically, Donald Sutherland provided the only real... actually he was probably the only one portraying a character. Everyone else portrayed generic people nobody should care about.Instead of one token minority character, they had four. None survived. The only other characters that died were intended to be hatable. Hmm...Of course that makes no difference because despite having a Mary Celeste type situation the film isn't scary. Probably because the audience already knows whats going on.Whoever investigated the Mary Celeste must have been creeped out; whereas this film had no atmosphere at all. Naturally it has cheap shocks.There was much money spent on special effects and because special effects aren't scary it amounts to nothing. "},{"Title":"mixed bag","Date":"6 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" With a fairly decent cast, but a pretty poor story and script. This basically becomes a bit Terminator at sea, blended with the squid from Matrix by the end. After the first quarter I was considering switching off cos it looked like it was going to sink like the ship is destined to do; but I kept with it, the special fx improved greatly, the plot didn't. Its not a great movie, its pretty terrible in places with some cliché lines, bad acting and horrible inconsistencies (being on a boat in a typhoon and everyone runs about as normal) but hey its only a movie, its just a shame it didn't fulfil its potential, except in cheese. "},{"Title":"Robots and gore... sweet.","Date":"10 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have seen this film years ago, but I had to see it again. Perhaps I do enjoy bad films with lot of gore and blood. Or perhaps robots... well maybe both. But, I don't certainly enjoy William Baldwin's rat face... Anyhow, this one of those films where we have a large battle ship full of robots and all of a sudden a bunch of sailors from a tugboat enters the ship, and guess what...? Fire, explosions, blood, weird special effects, funny acting, most of the actors were like this is comedy, so they do played like it was a comedy. Especially Jamie Lee Curtis, Marshall Bell and Donald Sutherland... man... they were funny. OK, Jamie was serious from time to time... but others... wow... that Richie dude is funny, Hiko... what's up with him (there's a lot of sick people on the sea...) and that Squeaky dude... don't worry, he's Cuban. LOL! Squeaky is a friend of Steve (Baldwin), he just can't stop calling Steve... Steve, Steve... shut up, man! It's a pretty odd bunch, with all those funny performances and pirate dumb names. OK, they suck. Story could be better, not much problems there... but script, damn... that was bad... every time actors spoke... it's just ridiculous! Here's some interesting stuff... Donald Sutherland was quite a surprise here... he was funny, but good at the same time, I liked Joanna Pacula, she was good... But, William Baldwin, damn... one of the notorious Baldwin brothers... the movie is bad enough without him... but Baldwin is like a last drop! Well, no sense to talk on... hey watch this film, you'll love it! But, tomorrow... throw it away... "},{"Title":"Nasty robot!","Date":"28 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Essentially, VIRUS IS ALIENS set at sea. A salvage crew boards what appears to be an abandoned Russian science vessel, only to be confronted by a sentient life form beamed down from outer space that is assembling an army of very bizarre and nasty robots. Some of them incorporate human body parts. It's a battle to to the finish, as the creature(s) attempts to get the ship to port so it can spread itself on dry land. Lots of gunfire and explosions, which help counteract the cheesier aspects of the plot. We're not talking about James Cameron here, after all. Eye-popping special effects, combining prosthetic devices and CGI, and a couple of genuinely scary moments. Jamie Lee Curtis, subbing for Sigourney Weaver, proves once again why she was the big screen's most famous scream queen, and Donald Sutherland plays the quirky tugboat captain. Clearly, the filmmakers were familiar with JOHN CARPENTER'S THE THING when they banged out this one, especially in the final battle. I can think of several other films with similar plots from roughly the same time period, none of which holds a candle to this monster action flick. If you can suspend your sense of disbelief, as we all had to do with THE THING years before, this one's a good bet. "},{"Title":"with a little more budget this could have shredded....","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As it is though you can't help but feel like 'virus' fits squarely in the standard abandoned-spaceship-hidden-evil category of action/horror. There were however saving graces in this otherwise unoriginal yarn, like the droid hierachy 'first came the gatherers...' and the action never let up from the opening and much like a comic book there was plenty of it. Richie was my personal favorite in the ensemble and all the little things in the film were what made it cool but looking at it as a whole movie it just lacked something- great ride movie but don't expect anything more -chuck pfarrer i must say kicks ass and i still believe in him big time -hard target rules, still the best Hollywood woo movie- as he has that knack of putting in little things that stand out in mundane actioners ie the gun in the jackal- and virus had the robots 6/10      "},{"Title":"Not as bad as many say","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I watched Virus on video because they didn´t play it (I know why...) in our local cinema. When it was originally released in January I read bad reviews after another so my expectations weren´t that high. Still, this movie somehow interested me. Now I rented this and I have to say that it wasn´t actually that bad, perhaps because I wasn´t expecting that much. Virus isn´t a classic but it´s still very entertaining. The cast doeswhat it can and the special effects are very good. Those huge robots are quite impressive. Sure it´s cliched and mindless but so are so many other films too. Not the best film of 1999 but worth checking (surely a lot better than 1995´s weak Species which unfortunately was a hit!). Could´ve been scarier, could´ve been worse. I give this 6 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Just for sci-fi lovers","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Virus is a good science fiction movie mixed with some suspense. But you should see it only if you really like the genre. It seems to be inspired in Alien the 8th. passenger, but with a lot more of technical resources. The difference between the two is that in Virus you begin to preview who in the crew will save their lives.  "},{"Title":"ending picks up","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie started out slow and ended with a 'bang'. I gave it five stars out ten instead of four only because the final incarnation of the alien life form and special effects picked up the pace somewhat. Jamie Lee Curtis's explosive energy was mostly wasted until the last third of the movie when she managed to increase the intensity a little. The second reason for the extra star. Ok 'B' movie if you like 'B' movies. "},{"Title":"Great Effects...Bad Movie","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I had really high hopes for this movie, but I never got the chance to check it out in the theater. So I just rented it on DVD, and it's pretty safe to say i was extremely disappointed. It had great gore and effects, but that's it. The acting was awful, which was rather surprising since there were some good actors. The script had awful dialogue and it was ripping off other movies left and right. I gave this movie a 4 because im a huge gore lover, and this movie had some great gore. I suggest you go see any of the Aliens or Deep Rising (slightly better then Virus) over this. Oh, by the way, why were those deleted scenes removed from the film? I thought they would have helped the character development tons, and might have convinced me to give it a 5. "},{"Title":"o.k.","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"    This movie was just o.k.  The acting was disappointing.  Donald Sutherland was at his worst while william baldwin was as bad as ever.  Jamie Lee Curtis turned in an acceptable performance but she could have done way better.  The only good performance was given by Joanna Pacula.  The rest of the cast I didn't even care about so I didn't even wonder why they were so bad.  The best thing about this movie are the special effects. I especially liked the miniature ship in the storm. I also liked the little machines that roamed the ship. All-in-All it was just okay!  So don't think to much and you will like the movie. "}{"Title":"Supremely silly, but fun","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Virus is one of those movies that you go to on a Friday or Saturday night with your friends and laugh yourself silly at the rather over the top acting, the really neat visual effects and those moments where you know something's going to jump out at you but you don't know when.  The film doesn't take itself seriously and that's the way you should watch it.  Dim the lights, put on some corn and crank up the volume, Virus will entertain. "},{"Title":"Slightly disappointing movie considering the good cast","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I initially went into the movie expecting a great deal of suspense and quality action. Hmm, but it was quite a let down. Granted a couple of scenes were quite good, but the trailer was 10 times better. The movie really lacked a solid pace, and as the movie progressed you kind of new what to expect next. Same creature comes back to life again... and the good guys try to kill it again... etc. And the camera work really just sets you up for what is coming next.Aside from being predictable, the characters being killed off, well what can you say. Donald Sutherland's sudden change and then near instant death... wow, I wonder if they cut out a few scenes there. The same goes for most of the characters that bought the farm.All in all the movie really wasn't very convincing, it really wasn't very good, but I kind of enjoyed the B-grade horror/sci-fi feeling it gives you. Taking into consideration the quality of the cast and probably the budget they had - this is a total mistake.  "},{"Title":"Nice start, but ends in a predictable way","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed the first 30 minutes of this film. The typical difference in characters between russians and americans was once again great. Cool, 'professional' russians, and then some bunch of americans, a combination of strange characters.The tension was built up nicely in the first half hour. When they entered the ship - in broad daylight - I was really waiting for something to happen. Strange but true, the fact that nothing happened initially, made it especially terrifying.Then when the aliens started to kill all the characters, it was just waiting for those who would survive to escape from the ship.Overall a good movie, but I have seen better ones. "},{"Title":"Alien meets Silence of the Lambs meets Borg","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Assimilation by surgery.  I thought the movie was pretty good.  If I had to really nitpick at something it would be that Billy Baldwin never ONCE took off his shirt.  I love the guy, I really do, but there isn't much of a point in putting him in a movie unless you're going to capitalize on his appearance.I thought the story was mostly sorta original until you get into the monster pursuit.  The overall look was good (except for the shirt thing) and I found myself appreciating Cliff Curtis a little more than usual.  Donald Sutherland pulls off a pretty good bad guy, but I can't understand why Jamie Lee Curtis was brought into the project.  She really didn't contribute much that couldn't have been done by a few dozen actresses of the Baldwin capability.  Not that she wasn't good, she was just a waste.I was surprised and pleased to see my old pals from my studio days in the credits.  Scott Smith, who was only an assistant editor when I knew him, usually only to his father, Bud Smith, had the solo editing credit on this film and did a really good job.  Of course, Bud Smith was also involved as 2nd Unit Director.As I said, my only disappointment was not seeing my Billy a little less clothed.  You'd think that in a wet movie that doesn't really have a great deal going for it there would be more people stripping down and drying off. "},{"Title":"Not bad enough (the problem with these big star movies)","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Normally, I expect a movie of this genre to fit one of the following criteria (1)actually suspenseful, (2)intentionally funny (esp. one-liners), or (3)unintentionally funny.  This movie, like virtually all of its predecessors, doesn't even come close to (1), but who would expect it to? Its attempts at humor (whoa, he's gone postal!) are so miserable that they almost fall into category (3).  But the main problem is one this movie shares with so many of its major studio pals the acting, dialogue, effects, etc. are just not bad enough to make me laugh.  If a movie is going to fail on every other level, then it should just go for the glory and be all-out stupid.  See Deep Rising for an example of how to get both (2) and (3) done right at the same time.  (Also, the big ending boat explosion is better by orders of magnitude.)  If you want to see (3) done really well, see Biohazard the Alien Force. Steve Latshaw is the master of this.Then again, the big robot was pretty cool. "},{"Title":"Less than adequate","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie appears to be an imitation of a movie made a few years ago titled Moontrap. In that movie, an alien mechanical intelligence lurks on the moon collecting the garbage left by the Apollo moon landings and assembling it into a spaceship so that it can get to earth. At one point this intelligence uses human body parts in its contructions. Virus uses this same premise but dresses it up with a bigger special effects budget. What you end up with is a movie that is not as good. I actually prefer Moontrap over Virus. I'm glad I chose to attend the matinee showing where I only had to spend $4.00 to get in instead of $8.50. I definitely will not purchase or rent this video.  "},{"Title":"Less than adequate","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie appears to be an imitation of a movie made a few years ago titled Moontrap. In that movie, an alien mechanical intelligence lurks on the moon collecting the garbage left by the Apollo moon landings and assembling it into a spaceship so that it can get to earth. At one point this intelligence uses human body parts in its contructions. Virus uses this same premise but dresses it up with a bigger special effects budget. What you end up with is a movie that is not as good. I actually prefer Moontrap over Virus. I'm glad I chose to attend the matinee showing where I only had to spend $4.00 to get in instead of $8.50. I definitely will not purchase or rent this video.  "},{"Title":"A B-Movie For the 21st century.","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  VIRUS.Not for the faint of stomach.  Mega violent.  BUT...  Some people will enjoy this film merely for the players which make up the cast.Virus takes place on a ship in the atlantic ocean.  A super intelligent electronic life form has been downloaded from the mir space station, it's goal to take over society and get rid of the ultimate virus, man.Not a great film, reminiscent of the Borg from Star TrekFirst Contact. If you enjoy films where you are presented with excessive amounts of violence, and a plot that doesn't require much thinking, you will enjoy VIRUS.  If you want an intellectual challenge, go to Blockbuster and rent Sphere and Star TrekFirst Contact, combine these films to get the premise of VIRUS. "},{"Title":"So LUDICROUS it's kind of fun.","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Okay, you know the whole idea of this movie? Some Life Force is transmitted to this big Russian boat from the Mir space station (MIR, source of all evil, don'tcha know), and kills everyone on board. Jamie Lee Curtis finds it, it tries to kill their crew, and she escapes.There is an interesting idea here and someone should steal it and make a good movie with it. After the virus boards the boat, we're introduced to Jamie Lee on a tugboat dragging some cargo through a hurricane. It's clear that the captain, Donald Sutherland (slumming in the very WORST way) is drunk and worse, CRAZY. They lose their cargo, and steer into the eye of the hurricane. There is one creepy special effect of their boat dead in calm water, with the hurricane raging around them-- and I thought THAT would be a good movie trapped on a boat with a psycho in the eye of a hurricane. Sadly, that's not THIS movie.Anyway, soon enough they find the big boat and the virus thing is making machines out of spare parts and the human's body parts. It keeps trying to kill them. That's the plot.Donald Sutherland's character is SO ludicrously over the top they couldn't possibly be serious. Some of the characters are so amazingly stupid (you know the typical horror movie character heading into a dark space to investigate a strange noise? In this movie a character actually gets down on all fours and climbs into a hole in the wall!) it becomes just fun. The script just keeps pouring on the shocks and inanity until it just becomes kind of funny and amusing. The machines aren't really scary, and the whole movie is just sort of fun.What holds the movie together at all is Jamie Lee Curtis-- she appears to take it all seriously, and is the only thing we, the audience, have to hold on to. She's great. We love you Jamie Lee! We want to see more of you! We want to see you do better movies! We want to see you do something other than horror!The movie gets more fun when we finally see the huge machine that comes after them at the end, smashing everything in its path, but this is obviously where the ENTIRE special effects budget went. The ocean scenes were obviously shot for less than a Burger King Super-Value meal costs. You have these cheesy models which are so small they appear to be facing water droplets the size of Volkswagons. And the continuity! You will see the ship being tossed in the storm, and in the next shot they will be in bright direct sunlight! Apparently they could not come up with a SINGLE cloudy day to shoot the storm scenes in. And at the end, when the boat finally blows up, you can SEE-- CLEARLY SEE-- the beach that the model is anchored three feet off of. WHAT a hoot.Anyway, if you like B movies, better get to this one. Amusement galore. And Jamie Lee.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"Jim Cameron, your ladies need you...","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What if someone had a terrific premise for a sci-fi/horror film, hired an excellent cast, the best technicians and a seasoned producer? You'd expect a lot out of that film. And in the case of Virus, you'd really want to slap a few faces to know what went wrong. How could a woman who oversaw the Terminator films and Aliens not see that the one element she forgot to add to the above mix is a smart script? How could the woman who helped populate such not-so-endangered-damsel-in-distress films as Halloween and True Lies miss the fact that this film is in dire need of more fleshed out characters? It looks like the one element they forgot to add was James Cameron. With the exception of Alien Nation, Gale Anne Hurd has yet to produce anything that comes close those she did for then-husband Cameron.The film itself is series of standard genre set-pieces, stock characters and elements. We've got dark corridors, fake scares and PC-diversified crew. Many scenes are crippled by the so-called MTV editing used in conjunction with under-lit sets that leaves the viewer wondering what the f**** happened?  Mostly, I was struck by the similarities to a film that debuted exactly one year ago this week - Deep Rising. Same ocean, same nearly abandoned ship, same She blowed-up REAL good! ending. Only difference was that I enjoyed Rising a lot more. It has a good ol' time going through its paces, and Treat Williams gives a great smart-ass performances. Plus, there's a terrific tag scene at the end. My advice rent Deep Rising this week and wait for Virus on video to use as a make out tape  "}{"Title":"Techincal, but well-made","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film, it had great special effects, it had funny lines, and lots of gore. It's one of the best sci-fi movies, I've seen in a long time. I give it a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"You've seen this movie before","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the most blatant Aliens rip-off I've seen (and you know there's been plenty).  Each major character from Aliens is represented in Virus the tough and resourceful heroine (Jamie Lee Curtis), the sensitive, hunky hero (Stephen Baldwin), the lone survivor of the first attack (Joanna Pacula), the good guy who turns out to be bad (Donald Sutherland), and the panicky whiner (Marshall Bell).  The only difference is that it takes place on the water rather than a distant planet.  But didn't The Abyss,Leviathan,Deep Star Six, and Deep Rising already cover that as well?  The filmmakers have just (once again) put Aliens on the ocean, and added the Borg as the enemy.In short, don't waste your money.  "},{"Title":"The Borg came out of Star Trek","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a somewhat fun movie freely inspired on the Borg theme present on Star Trek. In this plot, a group of mercenaries in a boat carrying an undefined cargo, leaded by a capitan played by Donald Sutherland, crosses the way of a Russian navy ship dominated by a kind of intelligent evil radiation that takes control of all electronic devices in the ship and starts using them to build robots. Good action sequences and OK performances by Sutherland, Jamie Lee Curtis (as a navigation specialist) and William Baldwin may put some fun in a boring Sunday afternoon. It's a must for trekkers, that might laugh a lot of the copy made out of the Borg concept.  "},{"Title":"A pretty good film","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad film, for a Borg The Wonder Years type of film that is. The pace of the film was mostly consistent. There was a slight cut of action in the beginning, then it kind of slows down a bit. It is a little predictable at times, the hints as to who dies next are a little to clear, although one death did slightly surprise me. Both Jamie Lee's and Joanna's characters seemed pretty strong, as did Baldwin's, and no-one plays a nut like Sutherland. All in all, a really good film "},{"Title":"Good effects, but predictable","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I suspect that the writers of this movie saw Event Horizon and said, I wonder if I can rewrite this movie so it doesn't COMPLETELY suck.It isn't a bad movie, but it doesn't exhibit anything original.  If it takes you more than five minutes to figure out who survives, who is heroic or who turns bad, then either you have no deductive powers, or you slept through the first five minutes. "},{"Title":"James Cameron, your women need you....","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What if someone had a terrific premise for a sci-fi/horror film, hired an excellent cast, the best technicians and a seasoned producer? You'd expect a lot out of that film. And in the case of Virus, you'd really want to slap a few faces to know what went wrong. How could a woman who oversaw the Terminator films and Aliens not see that the one element she forgot to add to the above mix is a smart script? How could the woman who helped populate such not-so-endangered-damsel-in-distress films as Halloween and True Lies miss the fact that this film is in dire need of more fleshed out characters? It looks like the one element they forgot to add was James Cameron. With the exception of Alien Nation, Gale Anne Hurd has yet to produce anything that comes close those she did for then-husband Cameron.The film itself is a series of standard genre set-pieces, stock characters and elements. We've got dark corridors, fake scares and PC-diversified crew. Many scenes are crippled by the so-called MTV editing used in conjunction with underlit sets that leaves the viewer wondering what the f**** happened? There's even the fake-out Boo!-oh-she's-only-dreaming ending (which I just saw this same week watching the laserdisc re-issue of Day of the Dead).Mostly, I was struck by the similarities to a film that debuted exactly one year ago this week - Deep Rising. Same ocean, same nearly abandoned ship, same She blowed-up REAL good! ending. Only difference was that I enjoyed Rising a lot more. It has a good ol' time going through its paces, and Treat Williams gives a great smart-ass performances. Plus, there's a terrific tag scene at the end. My advice rent Deep Rising this week and wait for Virus on video to use as a make out tape.  "},{"Title":"Deadly Virus","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" `Virus' After so many delays, `Virus' finally opens.  No press screenings, a move from summer 1998 to January...  It doesn't look good for this film.  Well, I can safely say that Universal should have been more ashamed of `Meet Joe Black' and the `Babe' sequel than this genre picture.  I can only imagine that spending 60 million on a Roger Corman type monster film was a little embarrassing to the big studio. With Jamie Lee Curtis, Billy Baldwin, and Donald Sutherland heading the cast there is some fun to be had.  The movie is very similar to last year's dreadful `Deep Rising', with this film benefiting greatly from exquisitely produced special effects.  They are the star of the show. Other than that, there is little to recommend about this film.  It's a story that has been told an alarmingly high amount in the last couple of years.  It's time to retire it.  The movie is fun from time to time, but in the end...  It's all the same.------ 4 "},{"Title":"Virus tries to be like to many other movies","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Virus starts off well enough setting things up, the Mir Space Station encounters a spacial anomaly just as it is sending a transmission to a russian science and research ship in the north atlantic.  The ship recieves it and their computer core goes haywire.  Jamie Lee Curtis and crew happen on the ship while in the eye of a hurricane.  Something is mentioned about maritime rules that if an abandoned ship is floating in international waters it is up for salvage.  Soon they discover they are not alone on the ship. After this point, the movie becomes very redundant, they encounter some aspect of this cybernetic creature, they fight they run away, repeat as necessary.  It then comes to a very predictable and quick ending.  The crew's connection with each other is bland and uninteresting. In my opinion if you want a good movie on cyborgs, see the terminator films, robocop, or star trek first contact.  "},{"Title":"Great film in-light of the circumstances...","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I worked on this film, and saw it about 2.5 months ago, and loved it.  Now you have to know that there are some key scenes which do not show up in the final cut. (Some character development and story plot points)  Take time to sit through the credits because you will need that time to catch your breath!  This movie is only 94mins long, and it seems like 50. See it.  Enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I can't believe I spent 1.5 hours of my life on this. With these actors (and actress), I thought it would be at least decent, but I was wrong. Very wrong. We've seen this all before; this movie is a poor combination of The Thing, Alien, Hardware and a few others. I think JLC (whom I like) thought she would have the chance of emulating the success of Sigourny W in Alien(s), but no...To say something good, the plot isn't that bad, actually. This COULD have been an OK movie.All in all, don't see this. If you already have, I'm sorry.PS What happened to MIR? What was in the cargo? "}{"Title":"Invasion Of The Plot Snatchers","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After battling through a storm, a tug boat, crewed by salvage-hungry stereotypes, stumbles across an apparently abandoned Russian spy-ship. Once aboard, the ship 'comes alive' and the stereotypes get picked off one by one. Derivative nonsense wastes the talents of Curtis, Sutherland, Baldwin et al... The day will come when a really scary movie will be made about a ship abandoned and adrift at sea, but this isn't it. The day will come when someone gives Pacula a chance to really showcase her talents, but this isn't it. No surprise to hear that this is the movie Curtis is most embarrassed by... "},{"Title":"Great Film for 1999","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Missed viewing this film and greatly enjoyed the film from beginning to the very end. The actors all did a fantastic job and the special effects were outstanding. Jamie Lee Curtis,(Kelly Foster),Drowning Mona,'2000, for a while played the only female with quite a few men on a simple tug boat. However, Kelly was the daughter of an Admiral in the US Navy and could handle herself quite well. The captain of the tug boat was Donald Sutherland,(Capt. Robert Everton),An American Hauting,'05 who drank most of the time, but still was capable of handing his Tug. There is also a Russian Space Ship that is involved in the film along with some very unusual Aliens who cause havoc on a very large Russian ship. William Baldwin,(Steve Baker),Last Hour,'06, gives a great supporting role, acting as a know it all, and is taught some very serious lessons. Great Sci-Fi, considering it was produced in 1998 or 1999. "},{"Title":"It's a Gav movie","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Anytime the major billed actors for a movie are William Baldwin, Donald Sutherland post 1968 and Jamie Lee Curtis post 1993, you know you're not getting a likely Oscar nominee. When that movie is built around robots at sea, you are really sure.The movie begins with a Russian sea liner being overtaken by some sort of robots. We are then taken to another boat at sea, a freighter, which runs into trouble and needs urgent help. When a huge boat (the Russian one) comes up on their radar, they think they have found help. When they get aboard the seemingly deserted ship, something seems wrong. When they run into a heap of weird robots, they know something really fishy is going down.Not much else needs to be said. If you like robots, the sea, explosions and bad acting, grab the popcorn and sit down for 2 hours of mind numbing entertainment. "},{"Title":"Not a Winner","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" William Baldwin is, if anything, an even worse actor than his older brother, Alec. Donald Sutherland, who can be effective when restrained and given proper direction, simply reeked like an old ham from beginning to end (although he looked really great as a humanoid/robotic stooge in a biker sort of way at the end). Ms Curtis provided the most convincing performance of the entire cast, and, as usual, looked fine doing so. We've seen many of the ideas before, and while reasonably well done in the special effects context, the director and writers did not bring much new to the table. The little robots seemed scary enough when they appeared on screen, with their insect-like metallic legs and probes. I found the scene in which the master robotic alien tortures Ms Curtis to find out important information the most effective in the film she seemed to be in pain throughout this creepy part.I found it quite difficult to suspend my disbelief and become immersed in the film. "},{"Title":"progenitors of the borg?","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This starts with those poor Russians having more Space Station problems.A blast of energy hits Mir and gets zapped down to a tracking ship in the Pacific. Jump forward eight days, a tug is pulling a barge laden with shipping containers through a typhoon. They are having a tough time, taking on water, losing the barge which the crew wanted to cut loose anyway but the greedy Captain, Donald Sutherland, insists on towing. Well, the towline parts, so the Cap'n decides to bust a cap in himself but he changes his mind when they pick up the Russian ship on radar. Once on board, it is quickly established that it is a derelict and visions of sugarplums start dancing in the tugcrew's heads. They stand to get 30 million bucks by selling it back to the Russkies. A lone survivor is discovered, a hot lady scientist (Joanna Pacula) who lays it all out, that an alien intelligence, kinda like smart lightning, has taken over the ship, killed half the crew and run the other half off. It's got no physical body, see, so it makes extensions for itself that can skitter around the ship and do stuff. Some of these manifestations are harmless looking erector sets with legs. However, it also uses dead bodies to make cyborgs. The first crewman to bite the big one ends up looking just like a first generation borg, complete with camcorder stuck in the side of his head. All he can say is Steve, Steve. That's his buddy, played by William Baldwin. Jamie Lee Curtis is a feisty navigator in tight teeshirts and very short hair. The excellent Cliff Curtis,(no relation), is a tough Maori crewman. Richie is a gung-ho ex-Navy man who has big plans for the entity. Some pretty good FX and exciting chase, fight, what are we going to do next? scenes keep the picture moving along. The Big Papa construct makes a deal with Donald Sutherland who does not live to regret it. An explosive device is set with a timer, they never just light the fuse and run away anymore, and Big Papa trys to find it before it blows up the ship. Big Papa finds the timer with, I think, 4 seconds left on it and crunches it in front of our heroes. Jamie Lee and William climb onto a way cool rocket escape device that not only blasts them to safety but also pulls the pin on the homemade bomb that Richie, good ol' Richie, made. Ship is engulfed in flames, world is saved. Thank you and good night. "},{"Title":"Only the sexy will survive (spoilers)","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" If your spouse likes Virus, divorce them; if a family member likes Virus, disown them; and if you yourself like Virus, have yourself committed, for Virus is a festering pustule on the face of cinema. Only by lancing it can you purge yourself of this yellowy blister of a film.Virus starts as it means to go on, by being staggeringly dumb. The film starts with Mir being hit by a wave of electricity that looks like it was expelled out of Emperor Palpatine's anus and shat across the cosmos. Then Mir starts exploding and a bolt of electricity hits the Russian ship that the space station was communicating with. And again, in the ship everything goes crazy &#150; things explode and people scream. So far, so uninteresting.Then we cut to another ship, a small tug helmed by Donald Sutherland. As you'd completely expect, they're a ragtag bunch &#150; annoying woman, check; coward, check; token black guy, check; insane salty seadog of a captain, check; Maori, er, check. And then, would you Adam and Eve it, they stumble upon the ghost ship and decide to take it as salvage. Only there's something evil on board. Something from space by way of Uranus.The big evil in this film doesn't come in the form of an alien. Instead it's electrical. And seeing as it's electrical, the threat isn't too great if you turn the power off. But unfortunately the ragtag bunch arrive on the short bus and turn the power on straightaway. Therefore the threat that a bunch of faceless Russians died to stop is reawakened. D'oh.But, to be honest, the threat isn't much. This alien electrical force may be able to take over machines and computers but the minions that it constructs have all the creeping dread of a morning bowel movement. All the sailors are up against are a few spidery robot things (they're about as agile as a BBC Micro Turtle) and a few lumbering cyborgs (the alien electrical force likes to take dead Russians, stick circuit boards inside their noggins and re-animate the corpses). But these half-human things are hopeless. They lumber forward like low-rent RoboCops after a colonic. A blind quadriplegic could outmanoeuvre them.However, although I rightly mock the unscary cyborgs, there was one moment that made my day. You see, Donald Sutherland gets fed up with his human friends and decides to ally himself with the alien electrical force. Well, they have a nice little chat (the electrical force can talk through computers) and then the alien thing shows him what he's doing to all the dead Russians. Sutherland is impressed. Then we cut to another scene where a lot of shouting is going on &#150; you can usually tell how bad a film is by the frequency of group shouting scenes (Virus is packed with them). But what they don't realise is that there's an ominous figure at the door. Eventually they see it and they all turn around. Then the thing walks forward to reveal itself as&#133;RoboSutherland! Honestly, I was laughing so much that I was spazzing on the floor like a special needs child on nitrous oxide. I'm not exaggerating when I say that I haven't laughed so hard in my life. I was hysterical. But what does RoboSutherland look like? Well, take one Donald Sutherland and lop off his legs. Then replace Sutherland legs with spindly robot legs. After that, lop off an arm and replace it with an axe. Also add a calculator to the back of his head and magnifying glasses to his face. However, leave his jaunty little captain's cap on his head. Voila! You have yourself a RoboSutherland. The only thing that could have made it funnier was if he smoked a wooden pipe and ate spinach.But there's more than just Sutherland's ridiculous appearance to this abomination of a scene. RoboSutherland mouths lines like, I'm still your captain. You must treat me with respect while hitting people with his axe hand. I'm borderline hysterical again&#133; But RoboSutherland is so immobile that William Baldwin is able to stick a grenade in RoboSutherland's belly and spear him out of the room. What a formidable foe.Another terrible (but hilarious) scene is when the sailors talk to the stupid alien thing. They Instant Message it on a computer. Who are you? they ask. I am aware, it replies. What a dumbass. But then it reveals its masterplan. It says that humanity is virus and it must be wiped out. Perhaps it's not so stupid after all.But although the alien electrical force actually turns out to be rather perceptive, the stupidity in the film comes thick and fast. For example, the black guy, bang on cue, suddenly cracks and goes insane. He just can't handle the pressure. And there's one great moment when he shoots alien robot things while screaming at the top of his lungs. I don't know why, but I can't get enough of people screaming/crying/sobbing/yelling as they unload with a machine gun. Only the likes of RoboSutherland can make me laugh harder.But of course the black guy dies and the two sexiest crewmembers survive. Oh, and there's a final shock at the end that turns out to be a paranoid dream. Sweet Jesus, what an atrocity. The only thing that made the experience worthwhile was RoboSutherland. Thanks for the laughs. "},{"Title":"Enjoyably Nutty Killer-Alien-Virus-At-Sea Action Thriller","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After losing their cargo in a violent South Pacific storm, a small salvage boat comes across the apparently deserted wreck of a state-of-the-art Russian science vessel, the Academic Vladislav Volkov. Eager to recoup their losses, the crew power up the ship and make plans to get her to port, but something alien and nasty has taken control of all the ship's systems and has other ideas in mind ...Although it has some hokey moments, this big-budget sci-fi action thriller has a lot going for it; the where-is-everybody setting and premise is terrific, the cast give their characters more credibility than the script sometimes deserves, the robotic special effects by Chuck Gaspar are eye-popping and David Eggby's dark photography slams along fast enough to leave you gasping. Chuck Pfarrer's script (based on his comic-book) has a good central idea &#150; an electrical life-form comes into contact with a space-station, which unwittingly transmits it into the computer of the ship, from where it starts to use the people and equipment on board to build itself a physical existence. Where the script starts to break down for me is when the characters start losing it and acting like clowns, and the sheer vagueness of the alien's power (it can weld doors shut remotely on the ship, but wastes all its time building big-ass robots to chase the heroes down narrow gangways). The likable cast gamely throw themselves around the nightmarish sets, but top honours go to the underrated Pacula as the lone-survivor Russkie, who effortlessly manages to create a real and likable woman in even the most extreme and nutty situations (for another great performance by her, check out Gorky Park). A little derivative of producer Gale Ann Hurd and effects man Bruno's earlier movies (notably Terminator 2 Judgement Day and The Abyss), but a fun, explosive, blockbuster B-movie all the same. "},{"Title":"Decent sci-fi entertainment","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed this movie. An alien energy force finding its way aboard a Russian science vessel. It reminded me of two of my favorite Pc games(System Shock 1 and 2). Though the Pc games I would rate 9 and 10. I thought Donald Sutherland played his role superbly. But, then I have always liked his acting going back to Mash and Klute. Sure there are elements of this movie's story that can be criticized. That goes for most sci-fi type movies. Terminator's time travel paradox stories are a prime example. If you have a weak stomach. This movie will most likely make you just a bit nauseous. I also enjoyed the special effects. Overall, an entertaining sci-fi watch for my money. "},{"Title":"If this comes on some day when you've got absolutely nothing else to do and you don't expect anything from the film, give it a try... otherwise, avoid it","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" My friend and I found this one night at Blockbuster. It looked nice... fairly appealing cast, plot sounds like it might be good and it certainly looks like it could contain some very good science fiction(which I live and breathe for, basically). So, we rented it. That was a few years ago... years where I haven't really given the film much thought. We pretty much enjoyed the film, didn't think much about it since then. Then, I saw it was being transmitted on TV a few days ago, taped it, and now, I've just seen it again. What can I say, other than pointing out that my friend and I must have had incredibly low expectations, been desperate for a film we hadn't seen or just in extreme denial because none of us would admit how bad a decision it certainly must have been to rent it. I couldn't remember any of it... and now I know why. For instantly obvious reasons, my sub-conscious must have erased the memory of the film to maintain my respect for the people involved and to keep me from thinking back on the rental with regret. This seriously is about as bad as they get. The plot is poor, derivative and has more holes than a Swiss cheese that has been mauled by a Gatling gun. The pacing is so off that you're almost falling asleep. The acting is unbelievably amateurish, even for the likes of Jamie Lee Curtis(who has herself said this film sucked in an interview), Donald Sutherland(who doesn't seem to be able to pick an accent to stick with, or even decide for sure if he's going to use one or not) and the Baldwin brother(whichever of them it was, I can barely tell them apart, particularly when the film is so dull, pointless and boring). Character development and motivation is non-existent. The writers clearly didn't have a lot of ideas, so they just kept doing the same thing over and over. In the end, there's a robot that comes back again more times than The Terminator itself. The film doesn't display even the least bit of originality, creativity or imagination. You're probably better off not seeing it, unless you really want to see just how bad it is. I recommend this mess of a film only to huge fans of the people involved. However, it is a better film than Deep Rising... that much I will say. One to skip, and, if necessary, avoid. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A Bit Too Lame For It's Own Good","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie was okay but a bit too lame for it's own good. I only rented this movie because of Jamie Lee Curtis, and it wasn't quite as bad as people said it was, still it wasn't that good, with fairly shoddy performances.The effects are awesome and the finale is kind of exciting however, the dialog is simply atrocious, and Donald Sutherland was simply god awful, and what was with that horrid accent?. The setting was good, as was the cast, but they can't do much with the rotten material they are given, and have to spurt out lousy dialog, throughout, and it's poor man's deep rising. The Direction is so so. John Bruno, does a so so job here, with some slick camera shots and angles,and the visual effects were good, however the pace is inconsistent, and it was rather bland overall, a so so job. There is TONS of gore. We get a bloody stitching of a wound,lots of blood,bloody gunshot wound,nails in the shoulder,piece of wood in leg,TONS of EXTREMELY gory man made cyborgs,bashed off arm,fist through the stomach,lots of extremely gory corpses,cyborg with no head,severed head,pool of gory corpses,severed limbs,gory impaling,and lots more!. The Acting is so so. Jamie lee Curtis is usually amazing in everything and does what she can with the rotten material, and actually comes out of this looking decent, her chemistry with Baldwin was alright too. (Jamie Rules!). William Baldwin, is decent here, he was likable, and had okay chemistry with Curtis but is Also given rotten material.Donald Sutherland is GOD awful here, with a laughable accent, and a terribly unconvincing performance. Joanna Pacula is okay here and nothing more. Marshall Bell is only so so, with his limited screen time. Sherman Augustus is decent as Ritchie, and does what he can. Cliff Curtis was okay here. Overall Pass, but if your looking for an average time waster look no further you can do a LOT better though. ** out of 5 "}{"Title":"Stop complaining!","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK, so let me see if I have this straight. You go to see a movie called Virus, and you're whining about plot holes and bad acting? What next, are you going to say, I went and saw Alien vs. Predator and I didn't like the story? If you want a good story then see Gone with the Wind. Don't make yourself look like an ass and complain about the acting in a film where SAILORS HAVE TO FIGHT FOR THEIR LIVES AGAINST MACHINES THAT BUILT THEMSELVES AFTER BEING HIT BY A LIGHTNING BOLT. Why don't you contrast Garbage Pail Kids the Movie with Dances with Wolves while you're at it. Here I'll sum this up for all of you who seem to have difficulty with this film...Why are there so many bodies when there was a small crew? Why does the captain go nuts? Why is Jaime Lee Curtis' acting bad? Why did they blow up the ship? How did the machine come alive? Why did the move cost 75mil? Why were there so many plot holes?...BECAUSE IT'S A FREAKING MOVIE ABOUT SAILORS FIGHTING FOR THEIR LIVES AGAINST ROBOTS WHO WEAR SKIN!!!!!!!!!!!!... What were you expecting?! A complex tale about the struggles of Sea Captains and their adventures in salvaging?People who walk out of movies like this and ACTUALLY COMPLAIN should stay home, get rid of their TV's, and read books! "},{"Title":"Gory but somehow cheesy fun.","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Very similar to DEEP RISING, and has the same setting and Atmosphere. Its lean and mean. Not too much exposition,just action,violence and gore. There are some good actors like Donald Sutherland and Jamie Lee Curtis, which keep the movie afloat.The special FX are decent,but not spectacular. Its surprisingly gory and cruel at times,which will make this a perfect meal for any gorehound. The story is somewhat interesting. The energy alien idea is not bad,but this being has no real reason to kill all these people on board. Some explanatory dialogue is missing here. DEEP RISING is more entertaining because it doesn`t take itself serious at any minute. VIRUS instead,is too serious and at the same time misses a coherent story. Its weird that this tired storyline (grunts find an abandoned ship and are killed by alien/monster/jerry lewis) gets repeated all the time. There are at least 4 Movies which have absolutely the same story. LEVIATHAN,DEEP RISING, VIRUS and GHOST SHIP. Ghost ship even rips off complete dialogue from VIRUS.Entertaining and violent Big-Budget Trash. "},{"Title":"Pass On This One","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is by far one of the worst movies I've ever seen in my lifetime. Jamie Lee Curtis looks like a man in this movie which is very disturbing after the sexy role she had in True Lies. But, this movie is a plotless pile of poop that doesn't need to be watched for any reason at all. It's boring, action less, and an unnecessary waste of money. Nothing memorable about this movie. Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"TERMINATOR REVISITED","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  So far I haven't read one good word about this movie, and in all honesty, it's no good but I saw a lot worser than that. It's a sort of action/sf thing that is having extremely expensive special effects and it's just because of that that this picture never bores. The story is so simple...not that you will believe one word from it. Somewhere at the Atlantic Ocean a Russian ship that is contact with the satelitte MIR receives strange transmissions from out of space. It seems some extra-terrestrial life has taken over the satelitte and it's brought down to the ship. As you guess the extra-terrestrial life isn't very ET-like but instead they kill the whole crew. At the same captain Donald Sutherland and his crew (Jamie Lee Curtis is among them) are in the middle of a storm and they are seeking a place to hide as the engine room of their ship stands under water. Sutherland is happy with the new discovery as according to some laws the ship is officiallly a wreck and those who bring back the ship to land are gaining 10% of the worth. This may be great but they don't know that the ship isn't abandonded as they think and the war starts against the et's (with the help from Nadia, played by Joanna Pacula, the sole surviving Russian crewmember). Plus it seems there is a collaborator as well...Sutherland as he wants his money! So is this a bad movie then? Not really as said before but it's the kind of movie you saw before....think of the Alientrilogy or Carpenters' The thing plus the robotic extra-terrestrials are copies from the machines in The terminator...and what do we see? Director John Bruno used to be the man behind the special effects from The terminator. And in some ways Virus is an inferior Terminatormovie but the acting from most of the actors (especially Curtis) are above the average so all by all Virus can be seen as a nice C-film....  "},{"Title":"I like it, my friends don't...","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie I personally enjoy a lot, unfortunately when I watch this one I watch it alone.  While some of the lines made the characters seem like morons, the special effects and the story in general were very believable.The monsters were really cool looking, and the explosions and gun fights were quite enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Formulaic, but entertaining","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ***SPOILERS WITHIN***I have to say that I actually quite enjoyed Virus.  I hadn't heard anything about it the first time I picked it up, but after watching it, I was quite entertained.  However, I believe the story is formulaic in many ways. Joe salvage crew comes upon a direlict Russian Science vessel intent on bringing it in for the profits.  As the salvage and exploration is underway we get to know Joe salvage crew a little better.  The characters are pretty straight-forward a beefy rough-and-tumble type played by the Baldwin brother who isn't Alec, a level headed officer played by Jamie Lee Curtis, a captain who isn't quite right in the head and bunch of other characters who you either don't really care about or are irritating.  Soon enough, strange and disasterous things begin to happen and it becomes an exercise in who will survive the nightmarish encounter.Now, despite how much this follows a formula for sci-fi thrillers, its still quite entertaining.  The people who are annoying and you want to get knocked off, do ultimately get knocked off.  For the mean-spirited out there, they also happen to die in a particularly gruesome ways.  Which brings me to the point that this movie is really gruesome.  I suppose that's another part of what makes it entertaining.  When you realize what's going on, you expect it to be gruesome.  If they hid it all away you would not be as satisfied. Anyway, its an interesting romp through the direlict ship as the monster chases them and dwindles their numbers down.  I never really felt the imperative of their situation, but hey, its still fun to watch the creepy monster chase them around.  Ultimately the movie concludes as how you predicted after the first 30 minutes but you look back and realize that hey, it was kind of fun.  "},{"Title":"A VERY SCARY ALIEN-MOVIE","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This story remembered me at Alien or Terminator. The monster machines were well done and the special effects resulted so realistic that we get scary. There were some brutal scenes but who cares. All in all there is lot of suspense but not much substance. The performance of the actors was top. For all these reasons we give 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok it is implied that the basis for my review is for a silly movie. Virus is an ok film to watch on cable between 1 and 5 am. Any other hour would be a waste of time.The movie is another Alien spawn of some monster loose in an enclosed area hunting down a group of people one by one and it is one of the worst. It could have been better, if only it would have been more developed and moodier. The movie just starts and finishes in what feels like fifteen minutes. The premise is plain dumb and the dialogue EXTREMELY cliche. It is such a shame Sutherland was given that stupid, pathetic character. I just wander how he wound up with that part, being an actor of such a high caliber.As you can see, the movie doesn't leave much to say, if you are thinking about renting it, don't, better go with Mimic or the Relic or go for the original Alien series, just don't touch this one in the video store.On a low scale of filmmaking I give it a 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Don't buy this movie! ( Rent it instead Cheaply ).","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I purchased this movie on DVD, (about a week after buying a new DVD player). I was surprised to find a Science Fiction title i hadn't seen, or heard of.Now i know why!The basic idea/plot behind this film is actually well thought out & good BUT too bad theres no script to support it. The characters and dialog are poorly written. Donald Sutherland (an actor whom i like) has never been worse, if this is due to the bad script, poor directing or himself; this i do not know.Even though the film has a well known special FX guy, many of the special FX are just plain BAD.I purchased this movie on DVD and was very happy; because it was region 1 (US) and it was cheap (app. 9$(US Dollar) used). But the film was so bad that i had to return it!SO Don't buy this movie! ( Rent it instead Cheaply ). "},{"Title":"Great movie, if you like the genre","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  An expensive B-style monster-widdles-away-the-crew flick. This movie is very entertaining, and the performances are some of the best I've seen... for this genre of film. The beast is cool and the concept epic, but it is far too expensively made for the narrow audience that likes such superviolent, effects-based films. For lovers of the Leviathan and Deep Star Six style movies, or for anyone who wants to see the Borg come to Earth a little early, see this movie. "}{"Title":"Plagued by a common problem in movies today...","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie, which seemed so full of promise to me, was disappointing. The (biggest) problem is uneven sound and faux surprises designed to make you jump. The dialog is SO much lower than ALL of the effects that (having watched this at home) i was forced to put the subtitles on so i wouldn't have to keep upping the volume during dialog portions (the explosions disturbed my neighbor).This may not seem like something to complain about, but the loudness of the sound effects seemed to exist only to intimidate or surprise the viewer. This, of course, is in lieu of the great story line movies used to have. I felt like the director was using his extensive video effects experience to replace a good, taut story line. When movies like Aliens and Terminator were out the volume was not so incredibly disparate; the movies were taut without throwing the effects (sound AND video) in your face (i have both of these DVDs and i NEVER have to up the volume during dialog and lower it later during effects). Plus, there were a couple of made you flinch scenes that were SO predictable it was ridiculous.I guess i just feel that John Bruno isn't ready for the bigtime unless he starts caring about dialog (which was sorely lacking) and staging; he needs to stop relying on cheap thrills.Spoiler The end dream sequence has been done a MILLION times!!! Try something new, Mr. Bruno. "},{"Title":"A sad use of talent","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  An excellent cast, badly misused in a shop-worn plot.  It could've been an episode of Star Trek except that it lacked the creativity and the humor of the series.  The characters were neither believable nor sympathetic.  At the very least a movie about a group of people trapped in a small area and pursued by aliens should be scary -- at least a little scary.  This movie was not. "},{"Title":"Nor good, neither bad","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Before judging about the film itself, the only thing original was (according to the makers) the assimilation of human beings by electronic devices. A lot of people go into reference with the BORG from Star Trek, but I found another strikingly similar flickMoon Trap, anyone?Walter Koenig and Bruce Campbell,... SAME THING!!Personally, I found the movie satisfying. Expecting a Sci-Fi/Fantasy/Horror... thing from the Straight-to-video universe, hey, why not.Nobody expected a masterpiece...  "},{"Title":"A clone, but a good clone...","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This review might contain spoilers, but none that will ruin the movie for you....This movie is an almost exact copy of Deep Rising (which i liked), with a bit of Alien and Star Treks Borg thrown in to it. The special effects are ok made and the actors are quite good (although I would have liked if Donald Sutherlands character would have had a bigger part of the story). The movie is not really as gory as Deep Rising, but there is enough to satisfy a viewer looking for gore... The movie is only about an hour and a half, and in my opinion it ends too early, it would have been better if they had used another half hour.. My rating is 7 of 10, which means that it is a pretty good movie, but nothing you are going to want to watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"Sorry, Jamie. I didn't like this one.","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I bought this video because I am a Jamie Leigh Curtis fan and the video was only $5.95.  I still lost.  Not even Curtis, Baldwin, and Sutherland could save this one.  It is definitely worth a ninety-nine cent rental some night when you don't have anything better to do, but that is about it.  I am very glad I watched it on video where I could make frequent use of the fast-forward button. "},{"Title":"Horribly funny","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you like real bad movies....this is the one for you to watch. In fact, this is one of those types of movies where you can sit around with a bunch of movie buff buddies and pick apart so bad you actually find yourself laughing hysterically. That's why I gave it a 2 (out of 10)...it does provide a good laugh. "},{"Title":"There's one moment that sticks in my mind...","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's when the small tugboat crew first lay eyes on the enormous Russian research vessel, and the screen consists of different shades of white the intricate technological whites of the enormous ship, the dark white water, and the threatening white clouds.  There's something at once poetic and menacing about that moment.  It's like an establishing shot of a haunted house.  It tells us that something fantastic is about to happen.It lies.  It's just ONE moment; the remaining 98-and-a-half minutes are, at best, utterly forgettable.  Even that one moment was undermined by the fact that we had already seen the inside of the ship, in an introductory scene too brief and too uninformative to serve any real purpose.It's safe to reveal this much the ship has been taken over by some alien power, and the alien power arrived as information, not in any particular physical form.  Put simply, the alien power is now part of the ship's electronic circuitry; and, worryingly, it can effect any other electronic circuitry it manages to signal to or come into contact with.If you're expecting quiet tension, or indeed tension of any kind, disabuse yourself of that notion now.  Spoiler follows.  Well, not really, but you know what I mean.  Anything of value there may have been in the electronic-alien-virus idea is squandered within minutes; instead, we get another bog-standard slasher/horror flick, this time with mechanical monsters.  Slasher/horror rarely gets worse, at least not at this budget.  The horror is sickening without being frightening, the director appears to be a sadist (yes, he's probably a nice man in real life - it's the genre talking, not him), people shout at each other all the time, there's too much firepower, not enough light, and the character dynamics are not so much poorly defined as ignored.  And the resolution is pretty silly.I could forgive everything, because I'm already finding it hard to remember, if not for Jamie Lee Curtis.  She's both too good and too charismatic to appear in this kind of thing.  I admit that the cast needs all the charisma it can get. ... And what's with the absence of definite articles these days?  Why not call the film The Virus?  Much more evocative, much less pretentious. "},{"Title":"This was really bad!","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What's really sad is that I used to consider Curtis a good actress. Now it seems that she cannot pick a decent role as of late. But besides the acting being a problem, the screenplay and story has been done God knows how many times. At least try something original guys! Don't waste your time with this movie.   "},{"Title":"How not to make a movie","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What could have been a totally unoriginal, heavily cliched but still very entertaining movie is scuppered by a fatal flaw. That being, a complete lack of suspense throughout the whole enterprise. If this was supposed to be a kind of creepy menace kind of movie, then it needs to be paced, crank up the suspense, some half glimpsed shadows, half heard sounds as the crew explore the ship.  But, oh no, on goes the power and we cut to the machines busy at work. Both the direction and editing is so inept as to undercut any kind of tension which could have given this effort some merit. The actors flounder and look as if they know they're in a movie thats as doomed as the ship. Credit to Donald Sutherland though, at least he is not disguising the fact that he is even remotely taking it seriously! Half hearted effects and incredibly bad continuity don't help, and by the time Tippett Studios CGI rendered monster appears at the end, you're just too disheartened to be impressed. The question I would like to ask is; was there not any point in this film's production history where someone took a good long hard look at it and think this is absolute rubbish? Or did it just suffer heavily at the editing stage?However, it's still not as bad as Deep Blue Sea!! "},{"Title":"Errrm.....","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The film is bad, and i mean bad, and i am not saying anything else - all the other negative comments reflects what i feel.  Dont watch it.  I now know why the really recent film was on the dark, far back shelves of my local Blockbuster video shop.... Dont touch it even with a bargepole... "}{"Title":"Titanic of the Robots?","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Do not take this DVD or video tape if you are not a fan of at least one of the sci-fi, robot stories, or horror movies genres. This film might end with a ship going down (actually this is the second in the plot), but is is no 'Titanic' or 'Perfect Storm'. What you get here is the rather standard robots gone crazy story, with the 'ship in storm' theme, all triggered by alien intervention. Jamie Lee Curtis or Donald Sutherland may not get Oscars for this film, but they are still good professionals. Though the film may be criticized for some lack of originality and pieces of ideas have been borrowed from many different sources, there is nothing really wrong in it, and I enjoyed it. The reason is probably the fact that I am a fan of ALL the three movie genres mentioned above.   "},{"Title":"Don't watch this movie!!","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I hated this movie. I saw it approximately 1 year ago and i was like Let me out of the cinema. I can understand that Jamie Lee Curtis and William Baldwin featured Virus but i wonder why Donald Sutherland had anything to do with it. The plot is ridiculous, the robots seem as if the escaped from an old Ed Wood movie and at the end you wish you would have never seen it. Don't watch this movie!! "},{"Title":"Given the star actors, I thought it might be good...","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" ...but it turned out to be boring drivvel.Same old formula - gothic background of dark corridors and scarey rooms and shadows. Could have been an old castle, spaceship or even a...Russian science ship (okay, 6/10 for originallity)  Remoniscent of one of many of the genre that came before it - Alien springing to mind, mostly.Scarey?  given it's Adult certificate - yet another disappointment.  Poor special f-x, pieces of meat on radio-controled machines for monsters.  Talking of machines - the cute little spider-like ones looked a lot like the contraptions in Runaway (1984).  Possibly a vacant lot?Tedious in extremis, and I couldn't have cared if ALL of the characters had been killed-off.  The cherry on this insufferable cake was the very Bond-esque escape of the hero and heroine at the end.  Not my favourite genre of film, horror, but I recommend this one for a laugh, and to play the parlour game of now what movie did I see THAT in?... "},{"Title":"Glad I didn't pay to see it!","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this as a free rental, and I am so glad that I didn't spend money on it. With the cast, I thought it would be pretty good, but the acting was not good at all. The story was old and used... the only mediocre part was the special effects. If you can see it for free, go for it - just don't waste any more money on it! "},{"Title":"If you needed money Donald why didn't you ask?","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was disappointing, in Australia it didn't even get cinema release to my knowledge.  I rented this movie thinking that is was a straight to video release, when I found out it was released in theatres(in the US) I almost vomited.  One of my favourite actors Donald Sutherland must have been cloned because this isn't the actor from Six Degrees of Separation or JFK or the many other fine performances he has put in.  His acting was horrible in this movie, so bad I thought I was watching Van Damme try an English/Scottish/Irish accent.  Overall this movie was fairly interesting but a little too patchy and uneven to be considered a good movie. Unfortunately the cast lets the movie down with some fairly poor acting and the movie's script stinks as does the film as a whole.  Four of ten.  "},{"Title":"A Mish Mash of lots of different films","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Virus is a complete rip off of a lot of films. Star Trek First Contact,Aliens,The Thing ,take your pick. The Average vote is 4 out of 10 , i dont think i would would be quite that cruel because i didnt expect to much from this film.  The acting Stinks , especialy Jamie Lee Curtis. She has got to the stage where she is a little to old to strip off so she has to rely on her acting. A bit of advice Jamie...Get you kit off that what we want to see! Donald Sutherland is funny in this film as he really does over act to good affect.The storyline has more holes in it than the boat but who cares? It was never meant to be a Classic. 6 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Hack sci-fi at its worst.","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Deadingly slow sci-fi has crew of a salvage ship board seemingly abandoned Russian ship.  The new ship is controlled by an alien composed of electricity, but the bad acting, poor story, and cheap special effects kill any potential interest in that complication.  Only saving grace is Joanna Pacula, who is excellent playing a Russian scientist who is the lone survivor on her ship.  The sound effects are good too, but overall you've seen stuff like this before, and better.  Donald Sutherland gives one of his worst performances here, effectively making his scenes a chore to watch. "},{"Title":"One Movie/Three Careers Set Back if not Ruined","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this mess on Starz. I'm surprised the producers actually got Jamie Lee Curtis, Billy Baldwin, and (most surprisingly) Donald Sutherland to participate. The reels turn and the rip-offs pile up Star Trek, Runaway, Aliens. Watching finally became unbearable when the protagonists found they could  talk to the virus-infected mega-robot. I think this is the kind of dreck that gets dumped almost immediately from first-run theaters in the US to in-flight movies on third-world airlines. But, Donald Sutherland?!?! "},{"Title":"What's Gale Anne Hurd doing on a movie like this?","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The title VIRUS must be jinxed. In 1980, a Japanese film company made a hugely expensive film with a great international cast. The film was so bad, it never attained a official US release. This VIRUS is as least as bad, quite likely the worst big budget film of the decade (and in a decade of SPEED 2, THE HAUNTING and SHOWGIRLS, that's saying a lot). A tug boat crew, survivors of a major storm come across apparently abandoned ship (shades ofBEYOND THE POSEIDON ADVENTURE), and get more than they bargained for when attempting a salvage.  Besides being pretty gruesome (and downright gross in places), the film has no suspense, terrible acting (particularly from Donald Sutherland) and inconsistent characters.  Jamie Lee Curtis, in particular, goes from being a Sigourney Weaver as Ripley clone, to a bosom-heaving damsel in distress within one scene.   The monsters, besides being gross, are ridiculous.  One thing ANY sci-fi film must do is create creatures that are SOMEWHAT reasonably scientifically plausible.  Not the case here. Gale Anne Hurd is listed as one of the producers of this mess. Hurd, better represented by ALIENS, THE ABYSS and TERMINATOR 2 will hopefully survive the embarrassment.  On the other hand, Jamie Lee Curtis could desperately use that TRUE LIES sequel bandied about for several years.  Otherwise, she will have gone from queen of the B's TO queen of the B's in 20 years. That's not progress for an actress of her abilities.VIRUS is another one of those films fans of the genre have to scratch their heads when trying to figure out Who approved this junk in the first place.  Particularly when there is somuch worthwhile fiction out there just SCREAMING for production.A huge waste all around. "},{"Title":"By the numbers.","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you are a generous and forgiving person you could saythat this film does what this sort of film is supposed toto do. It has all just been done so many times before, killermachines possessed by intelligent electricity. In a wayit's as if they had dusted off a script that has been donetoo many times already and just changed a bit here andthere. hmmm?  Let's see we have super intelligent sharks, ananaconda, and 9 Alien rip-offs already.  I know! Lets sayit's smart lightning from outer space!  The rest is by the numbers.  "}{"Title":"ACTION PACKED MOVIE!!","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Big budget flick, with heaps of special effects, made to draw crowds becuase of that. A very good watch, interesting and enjoyable. the movie is action packed and stars Jamie Lee Curtis the scream queen.  The story is about a bunch of people are on a ship that is infested by a computer virus controlling all the mechanics, and the virus think's they are enemies. Wants to kill them, they must fight, etc Don't expect to be glued to the plot, just expect an action packed adventure ride. "},{"Title":"Virus, computers, with bits of people, mmmm, nice.","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I supppose I should say that it starts of good, but it doesnt. And then they find the boat, and switch on the power...ooops! From here on in it kinda goes haywire, but the effects are possibly some of the most original I've seen for awhile. But the movie never really picks up. In fact it kind of falls, rapidly. "},{"Title":"Disappointing Film, Waste of Money and Talent.","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Basically a rehash of much better science fiction films, such as Aliens and The Terminator. I only saw this movie because I am such a Joanna Pacula fan. She was good in this movie, as she was in the Roger Corman film The Haunted Sea (1997), which had a similar theme. Strangely enough, in both films, she is in an abandoned, haunted ship, and can be seen moving through the ship, clutching an axe. In neither film is the axe much help........ "},{"Title":"This movie was Horrible","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I had to see this movie since it was filmed close to my hometown of Newport News, Va.  In fact I ran into Donald Sutherland at Barnes and Noble while they were there filming.  Now after seeing the movie, I wonder why big name actors would do such a terrible film.  The premise of the film was unbelievable and the acting left much to be desired.  I had heard the film was not very good but wanted to see it myself.  Even after expecting a poor film, I was still disappointed.  It was horrible. "},{"Title":"I like VIRUS.........BUT","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I think the story itself was fabulous.   But I do believe it was not done justice.   Yes, it borrows ideas from various past horror, sci-fi, suspense flicks but there is not one single genuinely unique movie out there that does not borrow from another movie.I liked the blending of different movies/series, etc.   The story was rather choppy but I think as a water-based movie, it was great.   GREAT gore!!!The idea of having a Russian vessel being that this is a USA based movie, it would be unlikely that the Russians would contact our country for assistance in such matters  adrift at sea was superb in the fact that if it was a U.S.  vessel, the coast guard would be out searching for it thus finding an abandoned ship wouldn't be very realistic.   I don't think I conveyed my thought very well so I wish you the best of luck in deciphering itI believe this to be one of the greatest stories I've ever come across.  ) But, again, it wasn't done justice.I give it a thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Jamie Lee Curtis can't cure poorly made 'Virus'","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jamie Lee Curtis, William Baldwin, and Donald Sutherland are among the crew of a tug ship that collides with and boards an abandoned Russian ship only to find a terminator-like machine is lurking and waiting to wipe out the human race.  Some good special effects can't rescue awful plot that has a promising start and then gets boring as it goes.  I'm glad that I used my Blockbuster coupon for this Terminator ripoff.  My evaluation * out of ****. "},{"Title":"another one of those almost monster films.","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film could have been great.  It had a great premise, where an alien visitor decides that man is a virus to the planet Earth and sets about destroying him, money for some neat special effects and name stars to attract attention.  What the movie doesn't have is much of an imagination.  What could have been a good battle movie like Aliens turns into another chase film like Deep Rising.  The characters run around, they don't know where they're going, we don't know where they're going and after about 20 minutes of this you lose interest altogether and just pray for a good ending, sorry not in this one.  The film is pretty much a rip off of Alien with a bit of The Terminator thrown in for good measure.  While it rips off the plot it doesn't rip off the pacing or style and maybe it should have.  Without much of a script to work with the director uses fast pacing and quick edits to create the action in the movie moving from one action scene to another each has very little pay off and becomes tiresome quickly.  It is quite obvious that this movie was made quickly on a low budget (I hope) and was expected to make its money back on its opening weekend and then quickly move to video.  If only they'd taken their time with this one and spent more time developing the alien creatures (personality wise) because they do look pretty good but cannot carry this film, which sinks long before the end credits roll.  (4 out of 10 just because it looks good. Works better as a comic book.) "},{"Title":"Good Effects, No Plot, Over-Hyped","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am crushingly disappointed.  I expected so much better from a Gale-Anne Hurd movie.  She should have just done a Near Dark Sequel it would have been ten times better than this.  Virus is a total disaster.  The first five minutes are great.  But that's where it should have gotten out of the water.  When is Hollyweird going to realize that these water movies don't work?  The effects themselves were great.  But there was no real plot.  We didn't know these characters and just plain didn't care about them.  I wasn't even sure what their names were for the whole movie.  This movie was a huge waste of great terminator effects.  What a total disappointment. "},{"Title":"Blood, guts, running, and lots of yelling...","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  With virtually no character development or plot, 'Virus' is left with blood, guts, running, and lots of yelling. Jamie Lee Curtis and William Baldwin try valiantly to infuse their characters with personality alas to no avail. It's too bad because these actors can act. There is just nothing for them here. "},{"Title":"There's a virus in the writer's brain...","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was probably the worst thing I've watched all year. It's the worst sort of dreck cranked out by the film industry; it's plodding, predictable, and absolutely unwatchable.Bad writing and Borg-ripoff aside, I was really hoping that this movie would be redeemed by the cast, which includes Jamie Lee Curtis, one of them Baldwin boys, and Donald Sutherland. Of course, they stomped on that hope with a fiery passion.Curtis was the obligatory tough-chick, but really had no purpose. Baldwin was her love interest (gee, who woulda thunk it), and equally one-dimensional in his me man, me fix engine, me stupid way. Sutherland slid in and out of either a horrible Irish accent or some sort of ambiguous pirate-speak... I couldn't tell which.I actually didn't even finish the movie, I'll admit it... Somewhere near the hour mark I started reading EW instead and only glanced up to see the occasional gratuitous carnage and disgusting FX that the filmmakers obviously hoped would cover up the dismal writing, directing, and acting.Sorry, guys, but you're not fooling anybody. "}{"Title":"what a rip-off","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this is one of the least original thriller/horror movies of the decade. every element is borrowed from another movie, with the Borg from star trek being the most obvious (bulletproof cyborgs from terminator 2 and the being-trapped-in-a-spaceship/boat-oh-so-popular-aliens premise being another.) from the very beginning, you which characters will be picked off and who the two survivors will be, but unfortunately, you have to wait for each one to be picked off one by one.and to make things worse, donald sutherland fakes an irish accent! terrible! "},{"Title":"No Dominant Life Form in this film","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Speaking through a robotic reanimation, an unseen presence aboard the Russian academic ship asks Donald Sutherland, tellingly, Are you the dominant life form?  Trust me, there are no dominant life forms of any kind within this wooden, unimaginative, horribly acted, and cliche-ridden rehash of every science fiction concept within contemporary cinema.  Of note is that Sutherland, somnambulating through his role, doesn't even try to maintain a consistent accent.   "},{"Title":"Standard horror show has no imaginative twists.","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  VIRUS is a fairly tepid science-fiction thriller.  Though the robotic, humanoid aliens look quite good, this film itself is hazardously prosaic.  This film is written strictly by-the-book and the performers themselves look like they were coerced to sign up for this project.  Granted, this movie does contain some nice visual effects, but as a whole, it does not have a single creative nuance in plot, characterization, or imagination.   On the American tugboat, the Sea Star, Kit Foster (Jamie Lee Curtis), Steve Baker (William Baldwin), and Captain Robert Everton (Donald Sutherland), along with several other crew members are lost at sea.  While trying to sail through against raging storms and aggressive tidal waves, the crew has unfortunately lost the required cargo.  Now, these people are about to lose hope.  Until...   ...the crew members of the Sea Star spot the Academic Vladislav Volkov, a vessel lying alone in the sea...floating still in apparent tranquility...  This abandoned ship is floating in the middle of the ocean...with no signs of survivors aboard.   Despite the permeating silence throughout the vessel, the Sea Star crew refuses to give up.  They climb aboard the vessel hoping to find any insinuating signs of life.  These people learn only too soon that they are not alone on this Volkov ship...  An unknown alien presence has traveled in the shape of an amorphous cosmic beam into a Russian Space Station.  It has then traveled down into Mother Earth and downloaded itself into the mainframe computer inside the Volkov ship.  Unbeknownst to the Sea Star crew, the alien has taken over the entire ship and now...it is hiding somewhere in this very vessel.  It is awakening...it is aware...and it is spreading.  Worst of all, it is planning on invading this homeland.  This alien is multiplying in numbers...Before these aliens can make Planet Earth their new homeland, they must first eradicate a virus...known as mankind!  These aliens feed on the life force of various human beings...and they have found their bait. The technologically enhanced beings have the instincts of bloodhounds.  They are predators ruthless, cunning, and unstoppable.  These alien beings always utilize human body parts to the max, integrating them into machinery...and that will only increase the size of their army. The Sea Star crew must fight against a violent new species.  It's the ultimate battle between the human race and the distinct mutants.  One will triumph...the other will seize to exist.  Extinction is imminent for one of these kinds.  `If you have seen one, you have seen it all.'  That pretty much sums up my impression of the motion picture, VIRUS.  VIRUS is an ersatz, play-by-play version of the far superior ALIENS (1986).  Let's see...we have the malevolent aliens planning to take over the world and only a handful of survivors can stop them.  The humans quarrel with each other while the aliens attack them piecemeal.  Sound familiar?  I thought so... VIRUS is a rehash of sci-fi classics.  The story is the same as any other science-fiction drivel; even the heroes and villains (crooked Captain, et. al.) are identical counterparts to the early fictitious characters of sci-fi motion pictures.  With the exception of Jamie Lee Curtis and Joanna Pacula, the rest of the cast seems to be either overzealous or simply bored.  Donald Sutherland does not seem to be having a good time.  He is quite idle in this movie.  The usually talented Donald Sutherland delivers a stale performance as a greedy captain. This character is one rigid misanthrope!  William Baldwin is uneven as a crew member who constantly gets into altercations with the captain.   In spite of the unpolished acting, there are still a couple of redeeming qualities.  Marshall Bell (TOTAL RECALL, STARSHIP TROOPERS) has a great supporting role as possibly the oddest member of the Sea Star crew.  The female leads are also spectacular.  Jamie Lee Curtis is appealing as the heroic lead.  Joanna Pacula (who was actually much better in the low budget film, THE HAUNTED SEA) adds a spark of interest as Nadia Vinogradiya, a sole survivor who may or may not know the answers to this whole predicament... The special FX in VIRUS are considerably good at times.  The humanoids especially, highly resemble a grotesque version of the Borg from `Star Trek.'  The miniature robotic aliens are shaped in menacing forms but the humanoids look the best.  The Golem creature itself, one of the main features in this movie, is seemingly indestructible with impenetrable body armor and a wicked attitude!  In short, the visuals in this movie are not too impressive, but they are well-made.  VIRUS is an ALIENS clone, but done without nobility or vividness.  This film does not really move quick enough.  Hey, it does not even have a decent sense of humor!  VIRUS is a seriously flawed sci-fi film that does not have a very high entertainment value...  However, in spite of all the diatribes I have given this movie, VIRUS is not atrocious.  It is hardly bearable, but for some reason, I managed to watch the entire movie in one try.  The formula is tripe, yet, the action is fairly executed.  The first half needed more energy.  The second half though, is more suspenseful and engaging.  If you are willing to let go of your austere expectations of a sci-fi film, then you will find yourself having a short but sweet pleasurable time.  Only the undemanding viewer will have some fun watching this movie.  The more experienced movie devotee will not be enjoying this movie half as much.     I really wish that I could garner up more enthusiasm for this movie, but the material is too simplistic and wearied.  This VIRUS is in need of a cure. RATING ** out of ****.     "},{"Title":"Another sci-fi/slasher - formulaic & gory","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I think video stores should create a new genre - the sci-fi/slasher flick. This one begins with a sci-fi premise (which sucks people like me in), that moves quickly to six to ten people isolated on some craft (ship, spaceship, etc.), while some alien life form attempts to kill them all.  The Alien series is the classic of this genre - very good.  This follows Event Horizon down the ho-hum-ness of the whole thing, just throw some extra gore in and people will see it.  By the end of the movie I didn't even react to the characters' fear, I just awaited the inevitable.  And there were some good actors in it. Oh well, I was hoping to get more out of the virus concept, but was robbed of that as the movie swung rapidly out of sci-fi and into slasher - I should have known.  Skip it and rent Alien again, or rent it, if you collect the genre. I gave it a 2 out of respect for Donald Sutherland and Jamie Lee Curtis (what were they thinking?) - zsk "},{"Title":"Diseased Movie","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Formulaic at best, this pathetic Aliens ripoff should be a burning stigma on the careers of all those involved, most notably Donald Sutherland who just can't seem to pick good roles anymore.In addition to Aliens Resurrection, this movie also manages to rip off Sphere and Star Trek The Next Generation "},{"Title":"Save your money!","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Aliens meet the borg! Dreadful!! Just dreadful!!! Donald Southerland phones it in. Save your money. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not that good","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I waited for this film to come out on video because I didn't think it was worth spending a few bucks at the theatre.  I was right too, this film wasn't bad.but it also wasn't that good.  Actually, kind of retarded.Curtis was alright in this film, Baldwin was good, Sutherland tended to get on my nerves but I like seeing him as a mean man.  The other characters I didn't like too much to get into the movie.All in all this film wasn't that good, so wait for it to come out on HBO or something. "},{"Title":"Alien ripoffs won't stop coming....","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Alien and Aliens when I was little and they scared the hell out of me with their originality of the aliens, along with the feeling that you have been brutalized after you have seen them.  Now comes Virus, the latest rip-off of Alien.  At least it's not the worst.  That title goes to Deep Rising, which really stunk.  The acting in this movie is passable, but some of the special effects, including the gross stuff range from good to crappy.The acting is passable, but I never really took an interest in it.  The characters were almost rip-offs from other movies.  I don't think Stephen Baldwin is going to get out of B movies.  What is Jamie Lee Curtis doing in here?  I never really liked her, but she's done a lot better movies than this.The animatronic creatures are good, but the make up for the guts and gore looked really fake.  After seeing Saving Private Ryan, most horror movies look extremely fake.Well, I don't like to say it, but I actually fell asleep watching this movie.  It's not crap, but it has nothing going for it either.  I wouldn't recommend it unless you really like the sci-fi/horror genre.  ** stars (out of *****)  "},{"Title":"100% recycled out of other better horror films. ** out of ****","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  VIRUSDirector John Bruno   100 minutes   1999   Rated R (for violence, gore and language)Virus is an overly familiar horror film where the plot is covered in grade B gore, the special effects are typically impressive and the characters all have motives to ensure the old rule that they will be picked off one by one by an in-human presence. Like many other movies of this genre, this is a recycle bin. Shall we count the films that Virus is recycled out of1. Deep Rising The most obvious film that this movie's material comes from is another terrible gore feast called Deep Rising, that was released about a year ago at this time. First of all both film's settings take place in the middle of the Pacific Ocean, right in the time of a storm. Both movies are about another smaller ship whose crew who stumbles upon terrifying secrets in a larger, abandon ship.2. Event Horizon Another movie about a ship, but this time a different kind; a search and rescue space shuttle searching for an abandon vessel that disappeared seven years earlier. Of course, this is a futuristic horror film. What do Virus and Event Horizon have in common? Both film's are about a mysterious life force on an empty carrier of some sort. How are they different? Event Horizon is one of the best science fiction movies I have ever seen. Virus is one of the worst.3.  Sphere Released about a year ago, Sphere was one of the most tricky movies to follow in 1998. It required brain work at all the time, thus major involvement. Remember, if you miss ten minutes of it you'll most likely be lost for the remainder of the film. Both movies use profundo voice synthesizers to communicate with the unknown as well. In Virus there are lots of mind games the movie attempts to play, all about what the monster is, and who the villains are, and about what happened to the ex-crew. Too bad none of the games make you think. As a madder of fact, you minds well park you brain outside before you walk into the theater to see it.4.  Demon Seed Another horror film, this one from the mind Dean Knootz, the novelist who also wrote movies like Phantoms. Virus uses copious amounts of gore, which doesn't earn any Oscar nominations or anything,  to generate fear in an audience. Neither film worked, as didn't their familiar concepts.5.  Frankenstein Yep, the classic. Where the evil deranged scientist uses body parts of other human to create a new life form. Virus takes that idea fresh right out of the container. This film uses body parts of humans and in combination to those. Also computer activated machines.6.  Ghost in the Machine The little seen horror romp about a technological killer who travels through electric fields. Virus even quotes that film when an apparent survivor states that the oncoming crew must shut off the power-- for it needs power to survive.and to move in that madder.That about raps it up. I didn't list all of the film's in the above area, however. If I was to name all of the pieces to the movies that were used to make Virus, I would have to explain the plot to you, which, as it sounds already, you can figure out by yourself. "},{"Title":"I would rather go to a hanson consert, than seeing this movie","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I woke up one morning and saw that there was a new action thriller running called Virus I thought yahoo a movie for the international nerd, but when the movie started I soon relised that this wasen't a movie about a virus, but a horror thriller about a electro alien that is trying to take over the world using the help of half human robots witch it manufactures in a russian ship, a unlucky crew of a 5 stumbles upon the ship and tries to save the world from the evil alien. first of all  this movie is terribly written, nothing in the storyline holds together and all that save the world bull**it is getting a bit tired, the acting is below average, and the special effects are horribly out dated. Take my advice, see any movie, just not this one "}{"Title":"It is Aware...that it stinks!","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The previews said From the creator of Alien and Terminator. It should've said Using cliches from Alien and Terminator! I usually like sci-fi flicks but this movie had bad-acting (like in the commercials when the guy goes We're gonna die! which was never in the movie anyways), and was boring! See the Alien Trilogy (And maybe Resurrection) instead, cause it'd be the same as watching this, only better "},{"Title":"decent creature feature","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad action creature feature.  Another reviewer suggested it's Aliens meets Mercury Rising, but he must have meant Aliens meets Deep Rising, the one with the killer octopi.  But this one is several notches better than Deep Rising, the creatures are better and the script is too, although it's several notches below the Alien series.  Worth a rental.   -Bob  "},{"Title":"Diabolical","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I would imagine that most people will go and see this film because Matrix was sold out (do studios deliberately do this ie. release dreadful films at the same time as guaranteed big sellers of a similar genre?). Anyway, I think this is the worst film I have ever seen. It is full of unexplained elements where did the virus come from? Why was the tug boat out in the middle of a typhoon? etc The plot was paper thin, extremely poorly acted, the scriptwriter should be shot, the only shocks came from loud noises, there was no dramatic tension built up - the end of the film was always going to be simply when they got off the ship there was nothing to figure out (like in Alien) no moral ambiguities were presented (like in The Fly) and there was no deadline to beat (a crude, but at times successful plot device). The film could and should have ended much earlier. Donald Sutherland (especially) and Jamie Lee Curtis (to some extent) - hang your heads. This is the turkey of your careers. "},{"Title":"Bad movie, nice creature effects","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  when i saw virus in a sneak preview night i expected it to be a not too bad movie.but unfortunately i was disapointed.the actors (especially jamie lee curtis and donald sutherland)seemed to be demotivated and bored by doing their work ( which was no surprise, because their lines were almost as bad as george clooney's in batman & robin.)the plot was absolutely predictable, you could even tell who of the crew would be killed within the next 15 minutes.the only  good aspect of the movie were the creature fx. the combination of human flesh and robotic elements remembered me of computer games such as quake 2 or half life.if you want to see a real trashy horror movie with cool creatures then you might not be disappointed by this one. but don't expect too muchrating 1/6  "},{"Title":"Filthy","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen Virus at a sneak preview at a local cinema. That was luck for the producers! If I had visited the film intentionally and paid for it knowing it was to be shown, I would have been seriously worried about the way I spend my money. Not only the story was it, what was so horrible. In fact, there wasn't any story. A few good men enter a Russian ship and have to face an evil alien. Haha. there might be some people on this planet, who would've made a good movie out of this, but the producers of Virus didn't. The bad special effects, a mixture of elements of films like Star Trek, Alien or The Abyss, and the missing atmosphere make this movie one of the worst I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Ok, but derivative.","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Virus is not the best film I have ever seen but it is certainly not the worst. It has all the makings of a really good sci-fi/horror film dark places, evil robots, good cast, but it doesn't put these together particularly well. It tends to follow all the old sci-fi cliches (shall we go down this dark corridor with inadequete weaponry?) and some of the characters are just plain stupid (we all knew what would happen to Captain Everton, so how come he didn't?). At least the robots were good, in a Terminator sort of way.All in all, the film borrows from many in the genre (The Thing, Terminator, Abyss) but doesn't use these to it's advantage. "},{"Title":"The poorest sci horror ever made!!!","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I assume that those who are attracted to the likes of 'Virus' in the first place are those like me... horror movie fans, sci fi fans... People who love, just now and then, to switch off their brains and go watch a bunch of poorly sketched characters get knocked off in inventive and crowd-pleasing ways. It's the good old tried and tested monster movie, right? It can't go wrong, can it?Ahem... think again...Just to sum it up alongside some other films of this genre from which it borrows gratuitously... not as fun as Deep rising, not as scary as hardware, not as gory as deepstar six, not as intelligent as sphere, not as impressive in the sfx department as the relic, not as indie as death machine, not as cheesy as anaconda,in other words, go rent any other monster movie along the same lines... leviathan, xtro 3, screamers, tremors, rent ANYTHING except this because they all put it to shame, no matter how bad you thought they were. 0 out of 5.Whoa wait! I'm not finished ranting about this yet! Not only does the plot have more holes than independence day, but the director is so lacklustre that I found myself daydreaming in the theatre and making up my own monste r movie just to pass the boredom. There are some pretty special effects near the end... These are wonderfully counterbalanced by some awful special effects at the beginning. The acting, of which - in this genre - wooden usually suffices nicely, goes well beyond wooden into the realms of farce. There is no gore so gorefans won't be satiated, there is no atmosphere so don't expect to get the creeps. There is no cool kiss-off line before dispatching the monster. You'll even guess how they despatch the monster within the first fifteen minutes. Oh dear oh dear oh dear... I beg you please don't see this film. I'll only say I told you so. "},{"Title":"Sci-fi Horror yarn. Good example of the genre.","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well turned out example of Sci Fi/horror genre. Not short on suspense either. The effects were a little model like in places.Best description is Aliens meets Mercury Rising.Cast was well choosen.Fairly predictable in the plot, but these films are standard formula. Interesting premise though. A fine example of its kind but if you want emotional depth instead of ocean depth look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"I am Aware - That this movie is awful !","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What a waste of film....Formulaic and nothing original - quite often during the film I thought I was watching another movie - Event Horizon / 1st Contact - basically anything with evil object / Cyborgs in...Quite dreadful, thought it would be good for a late Friday night but OUCH ! "},{"Title":"What a laugh!","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I spent all my time laughing throughout this movie. It was an absolute joke. The film started well enough - A mysterious force wiping out all life on a research vessel in the ocean. Jamie-Lee Curtis and the rest of the crew from a separate ship, stumble across this empty vessel with a view to towing it ashore and making a lot of money. Guess what. Aliens are on the vessel in the form of robotic machines. How pathetic! Surely, the writers could have thought of something a bit better. The aliens aren't even scary or intimidating. However, they did succeed in making me laugh. To be honest, I was expecting a film that would surprise me and at least be a little bit scary. However, it lacked any of this. Donald Sutherland was wasted on the role of a pathetic, daft old captain. For me   2/10 "}{"Title":"A no-point movie","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Movies like this shows me that sometimes producers can really do garbage-movies just for the money that they will get from the people that blindly will go to the theater and fooled by a poster.This movie is an old-style B-Movie with weak plot, no characters and interest. BE AWARE  "},{"Title":"Virus made me ill!!!!","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Boring, boring, boring, so boring, couldn't even make fun of.....a conventional 7 person in a dark, wet place with a big monster movie that's an insult to the conventional 7 person in a dark, wet place with a big monster movie...boring "},{"Title":"Ok film from mundane and over-used plot outline","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The following could fit at least 5 recent films made within the past few years (ie Event Horizon, The Relic, Deep Rising, Virus, and others);ok; here are some similarities First something evil (some bad-thought from beyond time and back, a disease/superstition, a lifeform, or a virus) takes over something (a ship, a museum, a ship, a ship). Second despite horror hints to the audience, the stupid people will not leave because of (salvaging the ship, salvaging a big opening, getting home on the ship, getting home and salvaging the ship). Coincidentally in Event Horizon, Deep Rising, and Virus the transportation ship was destroyed and in two of these cases (Deep Rising and Virus) the transport ship was carrying secret and expensive cargo. Next, bad things, like (phantom killings,dismemberments, interior/inside an amimals stomach digesting, and dismemberment into robots) occur. The crew starts to panic except for a few that have a plan (separate the ship and blow up the ship and then use the cockpit area to safety, get people to safety while tricking the amimal to follow another direction, blow up the ship, blow up the ship)In most of these films there is even some sort of hive were the evil lurks (the engineering room, the sewers, the bone-room, the robotic room or the engine/power)Do I even need to continue the similarities?....Oh yeah, the films are set up for sequels (Event Horizon, Deep Rising, and Virus)The lack of creativity makes me sick.  All the films were relative bombs and none were received well.On this movie specifically Virus' release (originally summer 1998) was delayed over 5 months.   Acting was Ok and even top-notch actors were in it (unlike some of the other noted flics).  The Russian aspect was good and the idea of a robotic virus is interesting.  BUT THE PLOT is run-of-the mill. Even in the simplified similarity outline (given above) it is predictable cliched and stupid.  Something more is needed as I keep waiting for some more originality in the film and was glad when the long 99 minutes ended.  I could have written a better script.Perhaps the movie would be better if I had not seen any any the previous versions/works.  Yet, doesn't Hollywood want me and all of us to see all the movies?  A better product should be made then.  As it is a saving grace is that through rentals and work most of the mundane movie viewing was free of everything, but a waste of time.  "},{"Title":"This film was awful...  But I loved it.","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Virus is a terrible film, but I loved it more than any bad film since The Island of Doctor Moreau.  The special effects were impressive, but the characters, dialogue, and storyline are all laughable.  Mr. Bruno should stick to supervising visual effects.  If you love to laugh at wonderfully bad films, Virus is for you.  "},{"Title":"Worst Movie I've Paid to See Since Soldier and 54","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, before I begin, let me make one thing clear  I am a huge horror movie fan.  When I go to see a horror/sci-fi flick I am not looking to be intellectually challenged.  That said, I must say this movie SUCKED!!!! Poor Jamie Lee Curtis and Donald Sutherland reduced to a movie like this!!?? I won't waste time by explaining the plot, which I'm sure all of the other reviews here covered.  The special effects are okay, but my main problem, is that the main robot monster thing looks like Johnny 5 from Short Circuit on crack.  It's painfully obvious that the film makers tried to appeal to every gender and race by having a crew consisting of a woman, a Latino, a Native American, an African American, and two old guys.  The film never generates any real suspense, partly because it's hard to care about one-dimensional characters.  Oh and there's a Baldwin brother thrown in for no good reason.  The highlight of the film is how the two main characters escape the ship.  My friends and I instantly cracked up when we saw it, and it still provides chuckles even now.  Even when it hits video, sit this one out. "},{"Title":"Plodding misfire, obvious and tedious","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of talented people, both in front of and behind the camera, worked hard on this movie -- to no good end at all.  It's hard to imagine a director managing to coax a BAD performance out of an actor as generally excellent as Donald Sutherland, but that happens here. The movie is contrived and unconvincing, slow-paced and lacking in tension; all the expected people die, all the expected people live, and there's not a single surprise to be had.  "},{"Title":"One to miss at all costs","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you want to see appalling acting, banal dialogue & a ludicrous plot, then Virus is for you. Donald Sutherland gives new meaning to the word wooden. Jamie Lee Curtis adds another B-movie to her impressive list & William Baldwin goes through the motions. This is simply Deep Rising regurgitated, and that was bad enough. In fact I thought I was watching Deep Rising all over again when Cliff Curtis appeared, sporting a rather fetching face tattoo. All the movie cliches you could wish for are here, including the famed red digital readouts & undecipherable Russians. In short, I felt I had wasted my time & do not recommend this movie to anyone.  "},{"Title":"A very action packed and suspenseful movie","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I liked VIRUS' because it kept my whole attention throughout the movie. It had a lot of action mixed with science fiction and a thriller. The scenes kept me looking forward to see what will happen next. The actors and actresses portrayed were very good. I would recommend this movie to anyone who loves this type of genre. "},{"Title":"Good spoof material!","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Take some bad to mediocre acting, a weak script and a lack of plot and character development and what do you get?  Virus!  Good for a few laughs (though I'm sure not in the desired places!) the odd 'startling' moment (and I certainly will never complain about watching Jamie Lee Curtis on the big screen), but otherwise a rather predictable and disappointing way to pass a couple of hours.I will be very surprised and a little disappointed, however, if someone doesn't spoof this one.  There's sooooo much material to work with! "},{"Title":"Unoriginal, but entertaining","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Here's a quick trivia question  Take a little bit of the movies Alien, Star Trek First Contact, and Deep Rising and what do you get?  Answer  The film Virus.This movie is like a sci-fi souffle.  Not much originality, but it is successful in creating a nice edge of your seat feeling as it winds down to it's conclusion.  I got a rush out of the last half hour of this film as I watched the characters succumb one by one to the evil alien machine monster from outer space.As far as the acting goes, Donald Sutherland was horrible.  Not his best acting performance.  Quite possibly his worst.  Jamie Lee Curtis provides a good performance as does William Baldwin. I was a little surprised, if not disappointed, to see that Jamie Lee is breaking out of her type cast bimbo, skin, and body part exposing roles of the past.  Her role is similar to that of Sigorney Weaver's Ripley from the Alien genre.   The rest of the characters are just fill ins as they are extinguished by the monster.This movie offers decent entertainment value for sci-fi and horror buffs. Don't be disappointed if you've seen this story before though. "}{"Title":"Starts well, but ...","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film explores some good ideas The virus-alien combo that is becoming standard since X-files; technological invasion as seen on Sphere; and team disintegration, a common place on a ship. The problem is that as the film lays its foundations all falls to ground. Even the captain of the ship, a well-constructed villain, dies too early ! Maybe what misses is a better developed script. It seems as if the author didn't know what to do with the Virus.  "},{"Title":"Astonishingly bad. REALLY, REALLY bad.","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film made Deep Rising look good, no small feat. One must wonder what Curtis was thinking, did she really need the money? And Donald Sutherland just keeps getting lamer and lamer in lamer and lamer roles. Avoid this one at all costs. I saw it for free and still wanted my money back... "},{"Title":"This movie is not worth the celluloid used to make it..","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Virus is the Terminator meets Aliens, meets Jaws meets the Caine Mutiny. The best part of the movie is the beginning.  After that the story line follows a wholly predictable track with obvious and telegraphed set ups for shock value that we've seen in every horror flick before this one.  The character development is disjointed and inconsistent.  Main characters flip flop from being strong and brave to being wimpy and needy and psychotic.  It was a relief to see it come to an end in 1 hour and 40 minutes - adding to the feeling of being ripped off (again) by Hollywood.  Yuck!   "},{"Title":"Not the best, but definitely entertaining","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was expecting a rip-off of 'Deep Rising' when I saw this film, but I was unexpectedly and pleasantly surprised.  What 'Deep Rising' was lacking, this film explored -- which was the abject terror and insanity that the people had to be going through.  Instead of having an 'every-body is OK and happy' ending, this movie actually explored at least the surface psychological scars.  The acting was also much better in this movie, compared to 'Deep Rising' and the slew of movies that are similar to it.  Overall, I was pretty entertained, with only one complaint -- the score was pretty generic, and sounded too much like Jerry Goldsmith's 'Deep Rising' score. "},{"Title":" Virus, a movie better called Jimmy the Misguided Robot Super Intelligence, is mediocrity at its best.","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"   Virus, a movie better called Jimmy the Misguided Robot Super Intelligence, is mediocrity at its best. Throw in a silicone enhanced Jamie Lee Curtis, a generic Baldwin brother, and a couple drunk old guys and you got yourself a 2 hour waste of time. The movie is just a repetition of a million other movies like Deep Rising, Alien, Relic, Mimic, and many more.  The scariest part of this movie is when a couple of birds fly out of a doorway. The robotic monsters are more of an annoyance than a threat. However the final robot is the best and his rampage is delightful.Also this movie never fails to kill all old people and minorities. I hate when the young white people win, and once again, for the 10,000th time, they do. Final Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Virus? A poor movie on all sides.","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Sorry, this is really poor, the performance of the actors is bad, and the script does not help them, failing to give life to any believable character. It would be a better deal to go and see movies that went more in depth of a Virus alien, like the much undervalued Star Trek The motion picture, Star Trek First Contact, or Aliens, which seems to have inspired some of the scenes of the movies.  "},{"Title":"Not What I expected, but GREAT!","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  WEll. the night started off slow when it was decided to go see virus.  I was expecting a rip off of the alien saga.  But I was surprised i enjoyed this wonderfully suspenseful movie.  The cast was wonderfully put together and beautifully directed. In general I would give it a 6.5 on a scale of 1-10 10 being great. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time, see DEEP RISING instead.","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What a piece of junk, see deep rising because this movie is exactly like it except worse. Jamie Lee Curtis's and Donald Sutherland's acting talents are so completely wasted, and the movie relies on special effects and scares to make up for it. Which it doesn't. Sucky movie. "},{"Title":"Derivative No-Brainer","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This awful techno-thriller brought me nothing new for my $7. Most of the little droids looked like they had been stolen directly from the set of Runaway, and all of the big ones resembled mish-mashed clones of electronics and the alien queen from the Alien saga. Crew members Kit Foster (Jamie Lee Curtis) and Steve Baker (Alec Baldwin) never seem to wake to their peril, and Capt. Everton (Donald Sutherland) never develops out of a standard evil/greedy freighter captain. The one pretty good role belonged to  Nadia (Joanna Pacula), the lone survivor of the striken Russian satellite monitoring ship most of this movie is played out on. Try as I might, I could not find any reason why a sentient computer virus would care to get dropped into this dull movie, surely there have got to be more intelligent plots it could have wreaked havoc upon!  "},{"Title":"Great F/X but utterly stupid","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Were we really supposed to believe that this can really happen?  What was Jamie Lee Curtis doing in this movie? This has got to be the miscast role of a lifetime, for her........ "}{"Title":"Paint by Numbers Horror/Sci-Fi","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Virus takes a genre that has been almost drained dry (that of a small crew of so-so competent types trapped with an alien life force in an isolated environment) and...does nothing much whatsoever with the idea.  There's a certain chilling idea to the concept of the alien creating cyborgs from the dead crewmen, but it's been done before.  The characters are not particularly interesting or engaging  even Jamie Lee Curtis has very little to do (she's more shrill than anything), and Donald Sutherland bounces all over the map characterization-wise. At the end, the two main characters escape, everyone dies, and there's the predictable dream shock-ending. Not one cliche is overlooked here, and the result is a generally uninteresting mess.  "},{"Title":"Awful.","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you like things jumping out occasionally at you, and a plot that can be predicted from the start of the movie, go see this.  If not, don't waste your time/money.  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people will say","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie basically is a run of the mill sci-fi action movie, yet I liked it. Donald Sutherland portrayed his character very well and he made you hate his character.Overall it was better that Alien Resurrection, but not quite as good as Event Horizon or Alien. "},{"Title":"A complete and utter waste of celluloid.","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This has to be one of the 10 worst films I've ever seen in my life, and I've seen many MANY films, and usually am not very rough when making an opinion. However, I feel that I have to state that everyone should demand that the studio hand out $6 to every citizen who wants to see this film so at least when they go broke it's for a reason. How can a movie this bad even be made anyway? Wouldn't someone along the production line say uhh, hey, does anyone else think this sucks?Spend your money on some ice cream and a rental.  "},{"Title":"lame","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The film starts out well enough but Donald Sutherland, who is a fine actor, gives the worst performance of his career in this film, either he din't care or the Director dosen't know how to direct a performance. Lots of special effects don't make a film interesting. We don't learn anything about the alien creature. It's just your Basic B movie hostile alien bent on destroying all humans. Old episodes of the original Star Treck are better. All in all this is a very lame film....  "},{"Title":"Haven't we seen this crap before?","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  From the producer of Aliens and Terminator 2 comes... (*gasp*) an expanded version of the first five minutes of Terminator 2.  You all know the five minutes the time where the robots are killing every human being in sight. Well, that's basically the entire movie of Virus. In Virus, a super-intelligent electronic life form has inhabited first the space station Mir and then a Russian science ship.  Everybody except for one person on the science ship goes kaput.  A tug populated by scavenging psychos happens upon the ship and decides to salvage it, so they reactivate the power and, in doing so, the psychotic robots. In the immortal words of Seinfeld, yada, yada, yada. The yada, yada, yada?  The robots try to kill them for the next two hours while I try to stay awake for the remainder of this boring horror flick. In the 80s, the golden age of slasher films, and in the 50s, the golden age of B-movies, you could watch a horror film and laugh.  I did not laugh once during this foray into the stupid and unoriginal.  The film is as patched together as the robots it features It steals from Relic, Terminator, Terminator 2, Every Star Trek episode featuring the Borg, etc, etc, etc. I'm only glad I'm going to see The Thin Red Line tomorrow.  After this and Varsity Blues, I'm ready to take a flame-thrower to Hollywood. If you haven't seen it, don't.  For those of you who've already made the mistake that cost them two hours Who's With Me?!   "},{"Title":"May be the worst movie I've ever seen.","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Where do I begin? Bad plot, bad characters, bad acting, horrendous writing. Donald Sutherland and Jamie Leigh Curtis are two of my favorite actors but they must be in severe debt for them to have taken roles in this preposterous action flick. I won't reveal any details so as not to spoil the film for the relatives and friends of cast and crew (who must be the only people who would pay to see this vapid mess). I'll just say there is never any real tension, there is no reason to even care about the characters because the screenwriter never introduces them to us, and all of the expensive special effects are so poorly used that my wife and I actually laughed out loud in the near-empty theater.  "},{"Title":"Bad idea/script/story gives you a bad movie.","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Aside from the second rate special effects, the plot was repetitive and predictable.  Scenes were so darkly lit, it was almost impossible to see what was happening.  There were also a few moments on unintended comedy.  "},{"Title":"Technical, but well done","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was a really good movie, that was well-made with great special effects and gore. It was scary, funny, and entertaining. I give it a 9 out of 10. Rated R for sci-fi violence/gore and language.  "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs.","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Virus seemed promising with director John Bruno (visual effects guru) and producer Gale Anne Hurd (Aliens,Abyss,T2). Virus is a mishmash of an ensemble cast and effects that have already been seen before and done better. Although this film was delayed due to a failure with mechanical effects (redone digitally) and Bruno's clash with the actors, I still had hope because of the names behind this film. I can't believe Bruno and Hurd kept their names on this movie, it's an amateurish and embarrassing effort. Virus is not even worth renting.  "}{"Title":"Jamie Lee Curtis isn't even in this movie!!!","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" So I bought this movie on VHS in a one dollar bargain bin when VHS'were being taken over by DVDs' and I can honestly say I could have put that dollar to better use. For example, I could have had it broken for quarters and bought some gum. Not only would it be have been tastier, but it would keep me entertained far longer than this piece of trash. Here's what my experience of watching this movie was like I had just gotten home with the VHS clenched in my dirty hands, where I promptly took off all my clothes knowing that Jamie Lee Curtis would be on my TV screen in a matter of minutes, after all, she was pretty hot in Halloween (which didn't suck like the god awful remake did). But soon I found she was nowhere to be seen, the only clear protagonists were this unshaven guy who looked like a broke-a$$ Keanu Reaves, and this other vaguely effeminate looking man. I was already 50 minutes in and The only clear female character was this one chick who wore a baggy sweater and wasn't Jamie Lee Curtis. I had to make due with her if you know what I mean. So eventually the movie ended and Jamie Lee Curtis was credited as the character Kit, which made no sense, Kit was a man. The thought eventually crossed my mind when I was grasping desperately for answers, that perhaps Jamie Lee Curtis was playing the male character Kit like how Eddie Murphy played that fat woman in Norbit. I mulled over this deviant thought for a bit then determined that the advertisers had either made a horrible mistake, or they just lied to sell this movie. I eventually decided that that Jamie Lee Curtis' participation in this movie was fictitious for two reasons. First is that Jamie Lee Curtis is too much of one of those upper class society type actress' to cross dress for a laugh. Second is that the producers would need to stick her name on this crap in order to at least brake even in the box office. I mean seriously, this movie was awful, I noticed how awful it was the second time I watched it (the first time I was just on a wild goose hunt for Jamie Lee Curtis to appear on the screen). Even the tagline is a lie, it says 'Earth is in for a shock.' this couldn't be more untrue to the movie, it only takes place on a boat, and also the whole problem with the virus is taken care of at the end, how the F*** is that a shock to the earth?!!It's just a terrible mess of a knock-off of John Carpenters The Thing, which is a classic. basically it's about a robot alien that infects people and builds itself together with human and robot parts. Like a action Sci-Fi twist on the Asian masterpiece Tetsuo. Sounds awesome, Right? Wrong! This movie sucks beyond all belief, there aren't even any redeeming factors like Nudity, Good looking special effects, Jamie Lee Curtis, Graphic Mutilation Scenes, and so on. Also the end blows a$$. Overall it was a bigger disappointment than when my friend told me John Getz was signing autographs at the Mcdonalds across the street, and then I found out he wasn't even there. "},{"Title":"A mess","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Virus never decides what kind of movie it wants to be. Thriller, Sci-fi, horror, action, farce, comedy? Which is it? You can have Thriller, but you can't have dead-pan one liners and hysterical over acting Russians. OR can you? The only way to make this movie watchable is to make a drinking game out of it Every time someone says a terrible cliché like If we play our cards right. or Get your asses up here. or We gotta get off this ship. or I need medical attention. then you drink. Believe me, you will be plastered by the beginning of the second act. At one point a character learns they are all in imminent peril and she says, We need to get off this ship. Wow! And another line that will haunt me is when William Baldwin says, You point that gun at me one more time... and Sutherland says, Or what?And William Baldwin pauses. Sweat drips from his forehead. All eyes are upon him. Tension is palpable. Baldwin says, Think about it. and walks away.That, my friends, is some damn fine writing.But the production design and animatronics are very very good, which makes me wonder how this script was left in tact. This is what happens when there is enough money for a tug boat and a government ship, but not enough for a script rewrite. One or the other. So the producers chose the tug boat and the ship and prayed the translation into Hungarian for the European DVD release would make up for the fact every other line makes you think the writer learned English from watching Streets of San Francisco reruns. But the writer also produced, so maybe he is a little in love with his craptastic writing. It wouldn't be the first case of vanity screen writing.I watched it all despite commercials but I wouldn't hesitate to turn it off the next time. "},{"Title":"Another visceral viral flick","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Bruno's 'Virus' is nothing new. There have been n number of sci-fi horror movies made on a similar theme and 'Virus' isn't anything outstanding and every minute of it is predictable... Yet, if you have the time and into this kind of flick, then why not? I watched it with my family as they like these kind of flicks. You'll see virus's chasing humans, lot's of blood and organs etc. Of course you'll already know who dies and who'll survive etc. Donald Sutherland is very good as the evil captain, while Jamie Lee Curtis is in her full Halloween mode, this time she's only being chased by viruses. William Baldwin is also accompanying Jamie Lee and rescuing her. Joanna Pacula also joins among a few other supporting actors who were there to die. It was made with the intention of becoming a summer horror hit and maybe it was a success. It is better than flicks like 'Ghost Ship'. Depends on your taste, so watch it at your own cost. "},{"Title":"Jamie Lee Curtis was right","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jamie Lee Curtis was right when she said this movie was a piece of ****. The plot is unoriginal and stupid, the acting was near unbearable. I don't understand why, when the people making this film didn't realize how bad this was. I mean seriously, 8 years ago is not that different from now. how could they not realize how much of a pathetic excuse for a movie this is. its like a 2000 dollar budget film by the look of it. Im seriously,this was so terrible. The last and final thing I couldn't figure out was how I managed to sit through this entire movie without ripping my out out with a spoon. If I had a chance to go back in time and not watch this movie I would of taken it. "},{"Title":"Horrid","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Having seen this thing on BBC3 just last night, I was stupid enough to not come to this web site and check first before viewing.The movie was unbelievable in its amount of gore, which normally would have had me turn the thing immediately OFF. The violence was gratuitous and the acting was so bad as to be not only laughable, but hysterical.I am surprised that Donald Sutherland (whose seemed to be trying to use every conceivable briticism with a Canadian/American accent) would even have done this movie. He was at least tolerable in Invasion of the Body Snatchers, but this was just ridiculous.Jamie Lee Curtis was pathetic and as for William Baldwin, there just aren't the words in the English language to express how stupid his performance (if you can call it that) was.The rest of the cast I could have cared less about. The creatures were so ridiculous they were funny; the plot was similar to the Alien trilogy (which someone else had mentioned here) and the ending so silly, I almost had tears from laughing if it weren't for the fact that I had to have a bucket nearby to hurl because of all the gore.Don't waste your time with this pathetic waste of film. "},{"Title":"Terminator at Sea","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Russian communication ship is at sea collecting data when one of it's recovered space vehicles returns infected with an alien life form. Determined to survive at all costs, the electrical being attacks the ship, destroys the original crew, and that's when Donald Southerland and his salvage crew board her to find a dead ship or so it seems. Combining elements of the original TERMINATOR and Johnny Five from SHORT Circuit, VIRUS which is directed by John Bruno, leaves this story ripe with video plagiarism. The actors are the only elements which a viewer might look for originality. Donald Sutherland plays experienced Capt. Robert Everton, William Baldwin, seconds as Steve Baker and Jamie Lee Curtis as virulent, Kelly Foster. The film was written for the screen by Chuck Pfarrer from his original Comic Book fantasy and screenplay story. Viewers might find the actions scenes familiar and interesting, but were it not for the veteran actors, the entire film, like the ship should have been scuttled at sea. ** "},{"Title":"By the numbers.","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A salvage crew come across an abandon Russian Navy ship in an eye of a storm. Thinking that they could be rich by this discovery that's if there's nobody on board, but there's something strange happening on this ship. They come across a lone survivor who informs them that there's an alien life form on the ship and it feeds on electricity. Sure they don't believe the person at first but when they come across machinery that has human parts attached to it they find out that the alien sees humans as some type of virus that should be wiped out.I've always been curious about this little b-grade flick and when it popped on telly last night I didn't hesitate to tune in. To begin with it looked like I was going to thoroughly enjoy myself, keeping in mind that sure I wasn't expecting anything grand, though I was hopping for some mindless, entertaining fodder. Simple as that. Actually it did deliver that in the first hour but shortly the impact started to wore thin by virtually losing itself in its many ideas. I wasn't looking for anything original in it, but heck as I sat there blankly I couldn't keep my mind off trying to think off the films it basically ripped off. Like many users have mentioned it steals its thunder from the likes of 'Alien', 'Predator' and 'The Terminator'. But no way does it reach the thrills and cleverness of those mentioned. Although while they came to my head straight away, the designs of the robots mixed with human body parts totally baffled me, that's until finally towards the end when Borgs from 'Star Trek First Contact' popped into my mind, and I see I'm not the only one to notice amongst other comments by users on this flick.'Virus' is shamelessly cheesy nonsense, beyond belief, but at the same time highly forgettable. That could be said because it plays out like a roller coaster, but without the screams and surprises, which you would like. Remarkably not its predictable hokum and spreads out the clichés rather nicely, which you rather expect. With your obvious characters, people venturing off to scramble around unknown and poorly lit places on the ship and the usual heroics. The dead weight script is your basic dribble, which is plain bad and laced with shallow remarks for humour that you wonder how can they spit this trite out. What takes the cake is that script takes itself far too seriously and therefore the acting is rather waterlogged. God only knows why Jamie Lee Curtis and Donald Sutherland penned their names to this clunker. Everyone is unconvincing in their parts and just seems to float by with little effort or purpose. What was the deal with Sutherland's dreadful accent? I don't want to flatter the film too much, but there's no denying it that is held top production values, which made sure it was well made and looked rather decent. The effects and designs looked okay and there are some nifty gadgets and toys on show. There's even a tad of gore, not that much but decent enough. It's just a shame it didn't last for too long. Sometimes it was just too dark to see what was happening and that also contributed by the frenetic camera-work. Where my experience really took a turn for the worst is when it limped and mopped about before it came to its drawn out climax. Phew, close one as the ending I thought oh no not a open ending for a sequel, but the outcome is a bleated take off another recent Sci-fi flick.Routine monster on the loose Sci-fi farce that looks fair enough and provides some moments to keep you oddly amused. "},{"Title":"Interesting - but stupid","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" What can one say about this? The writing was just barely acceptable. The dialog a little choppy, deteriorating into silly. The special effects are, besides incredibly corny and amateur, a complete waste of money. The actors seemed to be on 'autopilot' and cruise through the movie without even thinking, much less acting. The budget of $75,000,000 could have been better spent filming another, say, 20-50 seasons of SpongeBob, Square Pants.It would take all day to even to begin to describe the unlikely things that happen in this movie, (Radios work through solid steel? Curtis' character not only can navigate across the Pacific, but can suture lacerations, too. Yout get the idea.). Although the most unlikely thing that happened about this movie is that it got made!The only good things I can say about the DVD are It's round, it's shiny and it makes a heck of a coaster. "},{"Title":"The Infection of Pure Perfection!!!","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Alien rip-off or no - this is one gem of a sci-fi horror flick. And please bear in mind that Alien itself is an amalgam of various other films in the B movie mould. The gory cyborgs depicted with such mastery in Virus are, of course, one of the main reasons I keep on coming back to watch this film - and after repeated viewings I can still say in all honesty that they continue to keep me on the edge of my seat. Marvellous creations! In spite of what many reviewers have said about this film, I thoroughly recommend it to anyone who enjoys a good horror movie in the science fiction mode. In fact, I ordered the DVD a few days ago and have just received notification that I can collect it from my local Video/DVD store. Whoopee! I'm in for a real treat - I know it! "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I was led to think by the ratings here ...","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I never actually saw this movie on the shelves of any video/DVD store ... and I'm almost positively sure that it hasn't been shown in the cinema. Had I seen it, though, I would probably have rented it for an evening where I just wanted some standard entertainment.This movie is about a salvage crew on the ship Sea Star which suddenly comes upon a (seemingly) deserted Russian research ship while escaping into the eye of the hurricane they were trapped in.Entering the Russian ship - primarily driven by greed for the salvage they might collect - they soon discover that the ship isn't deserted at all but is inhabited by some kind of alien life form.This movie is pretty standard - there's no real surprises here when comparing to other sci-fi horror movies ... also the characters are nothing unusual. There's the heroes - Jamie Lee Curtis and William Baldwin - the only ones in the crew capable of thinking straight. On the other side there's the dubious captain - played by Donald Sutherland - obviously driven quite mad by the loss of his precious cargo in the hurricane. Besides these three there's some unimportant cannonfodder characters.Overall, the movie's alright ... the acting is fine for this sort of movie - it ain't Shakespeare. I was wondering why the captain spoke with different accents in some scenes, though  ... !! The alien life form is also okay - I found them quite scary, although they should have emphasized on the psychological horror of the alien ways instead of the physical.So the movie is worth watching if you like this sort of movie - just don't expect any great surprises. Wait ... there is one surprise ... not many one-liners or humorous scenes ... that's really great in my opinion. Usually they ruin the movie for me.***** SPOILERS BELOW *****One of the weakest points of this movie is probably the captain and his actions. Why does he ally with the alien life form? Well ... my best guess would be that he has lost everything (in the hurricane), and maybe even the possibility of collecting salvage for the Russian ship if the others will defeat the alien. I don't think he expected to be made into a cyborg ... he probably hoped that leading the alien to port would make him stand alone with the salvage pay while someone else (the military or whatever) could destroy the alien. After all, he didn't have much to loose since he was already on the verge of suicide.  "}{"Title":"This movie is electrifying!","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Great cast, great action, great movie!I was riveted to my seat from beginning to end. If you want loads of action, horrifying special effects and the type of scare that will stay with you for a while, then you will want to watch Virus.I would highly recommend this movie to anyone who loves Sci-Fi/Horror as one of the best movies ever made.Jamie Lee Curtis is incredible as Kelly Foster, the ship's navigator and Donald Sutherland pulled off his role as Captain Robert Everton of the Sea Star, a not too mentally stable but sea hardened captain, as only he can, with magnificence.Marshall Bell was equally as wonderful as the whiney and slovenly drinker, Woods, the pilot of the tug. He pulled off his role with such realism that I found myself feeling sorry for him one minute and actually telling him on the tv to stop whining the next! He was great!Sherman Augustus put in an unforgettable performance as Richie, a sly as a fox Navy veteran, weapons specialist.I own this movie and watch it often. With this much action and suspense, you can't get tired of it! "},{"Title":"Great Movie adaption...","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the movie adaption of the DarkHorse comic from 1995! The movie does the comic justice. While not being the greatest movie it is NOT as bad as the other comments make it apear... It is one of the best Movie adaptions to date.  "},{"Title":"Wasted Use of Good Actors","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  An unspectular motion picture that was heavily hinded by the sloopy and lazy editing done by the studio editors.  Shows how a very good film or good idea could be ruined by bad editing.  Virus(1999) has no clue in how to use the actors or how to make them effective.  The direction is alright for someone who never did feature films before.  Some scenes are good but most are lousy.  Virus(1999) was a rip off of many famous science fiction films involving aliens or machines without being at least interesting or entertaining. "},{"Title":"I'm a sucker for Sci-Fi horror, derivative or not...","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Yes yes I know...This was one of the most hated movies of 1999; both the majority of critics and audiences seem to agree. Yes yes, I know it was a rip off of Alien, Leviathan, the Star Trek Borg and countless other Sci-Fi horror films, but hey I love all the movies it ripped off! It may be derivative and formulaic, but if you like the formula and the material it was derived from, you will like the film. Therefore, I unabashedly declare that I liked Virus Interesting premise (to me at least), good special effects, a few good scares and suspenseful moments, reasonably cool action and excellent gore. B horror film fun with A movie actors and special effects. Final Rating 6/10 - A decent sci-fi/horror genre film....but for fans of the genre only. Noob Aalox "},{"Title":"One of the worst...ever!","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has exceeded my descriptive capacity. It is, without a doubt, one of the WORST movies I have ever seen. Not the worst of the year, not the worst of the decade--one of the worst EVER. Despite the name cast, the acting was simply embarrassing. It wasn't acting as much as posing. I never did really decide if the dialogue was supposed to be that cliched for its campy effect, or if they really meant it--and the dialogue was the high point of the writing. (Listen to Donald Sutherland's accent, and tell me he wasn't doing a parody.) The script is as disjointed as it is--well, silly is the only word that comes to mind. The editing is so clumsy that you feel you are looking at a 1st year film school project--and not a good one, at that. Roger Ebert gave it a minimal one star rating, and I can't believe he was so generous. This is a real stinker. "},{"Title":"The greatest film ever in biomechanical history","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  For those of you who are deeply in love with intelligent robots, capable of infesting human flesh to a perfect biomechanical lifeform this is the film for you! For others who aren't as fanatic about this as I am, the film may appear dull and maybe even worthless ( as proved in the vote ) but guys who've played warhammer 40k as the tyranids or necron, and who´ve played zerg in Starcraft will love this film. This film is in my opinion no less than perfect ! p.s. If anyone knows anything about a sequal to this film, pleeeeease let me know of it through my mail ok ? "},{"Title":"not that bad","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I liked virus. It was different than any other horror film/sci fi films. It has lots of gore,and sci fi action. The creature looked pretty cool in the movie. The movie was only 94 minutes long but seemed like 2 hours long. But over all i recommend this flick. "},{"Title":"One of the best sci-fi movies ever made","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is awesome good special effects and sound jamie lee curtis did great i love the robot design man I just love everything about this movie I think it is one of the best sci-fi movies ever made if this doesnt entertain audiences i dont know what can. "},{"Title":"Dark Sci-Fi Horror","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Virus is a dark and surprisingly impressive Sci-Fi Horror.  The characters unfortunatly were not well developed and information about the creature itself is limited but its intentions are very clear.  Exterminate humanity. The cyborg creations of the main computer are hideous and deadly monsters. From the small insect like machines to the huge metal attackers.  Some people would equate them to classic Star Trek Borg but they are far worse. The main electric creature isn't assimilating people but using them for spare parts!  The darkness and almost gothic quality of this movie is appealing in a vicious way.  But like all movies, you need to possess the ability to ignore reality and let yourself be drawn into the film's enviroment.  Sinister is the best description for this movie and its lead monster.  But I do wish that the film makers that they had put more background into the characters. "},{"Title":"Silly sci-fi horror flick. Dumb but fun.","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I go to a movie like VIRUS I want to be grossed out and scared, or at least startled. It is silly, but fun. I am not looking for great acting or great art. VIRUS kept me on the edge of my seat most of the time. It offered a few laughs and a lot of ``HOW DUMB CAN YOU GET!'' thoughts. It is a combination of THE TERMINATOR and ALIEN, sort of. This movie idea comes from a comic strip, so I'm not looking for anything going on here other than good special effects and action. I think it delivers both. And it is not too long. At a tad over 90 minutes, it is about perfect for this genre -- plenty of time for lots of popcorn and then on to the next show.  "}{"Title":"It's an Old Empty House movie Jim, but not as we know it","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The only way this delicious piece could be improved would be to have an alien bursting out of Miss J.L.Curtis's chest.I was entranced from beginning to end of this high camp masterpiece.Mr D.Sutherland 's sea captain makes Mr R.Newton's Long John Silver seem a masterly study in self - restraint.It is of course supreme nonsense,indeed,arrant supreme nonsense,and what the aforementioned Miss J.L.Curtis and Mr D.Sutherland are doing in it can only be a matter of conjecture - it certainly isn't acting that's for sure.Miss Curtis avoids eye contact with the camera as if she hopes she will be mistaken for someone else and Mr Sutherland makes the artistically sound decision to shoot himself very early on but is overtaken by events,a happenstance he clearly resents for the rest of the movie. Mr W.Baldwin playing a scruffy unshaven sailor at least gets the scruffy and unshaven bit right,the rest,sadly,is beyond him,and when he has to walk and talk at the same time he goes to pieces. To my shame I am unfamiliar with the other members of the cast and hope to familiarise myself with their work by raiding the Remainders bin at Blockbusters. Did I read somewhere that the budget for Viruswas 75 million dollars? Come on guys,you could buy several small countries for that......... What do we get in the way of bangs for our buck?Well,the storm sequences are pretty good,better in fact than in that George Clooney thing.Er,that's about it really.The rest are pretty standard Sci Fi effects,no better nor worse than many another space opera. The basic story is too well known to reiterate here.There will be no surprises for anybody who might feel tempted to rent it.You will be in safe hands and able to relax and smile knowingly as you wait to catch a glimpse of bare flesh from Miss J.L.C. I could end by saying that I hope Mr D.Sutherland will never give a worse performance,but I am a born pessimist. Whatever my finicky reservations about the thespian talent involved,The Virus is overall great fun and will entertain all but the most po - faced amongst you. "},{"Title":"Oh my god, it's sssooo bad!","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" How did such excellent actors get sucked into this horrid piece of cat-box droppings?! There's nowhere to begin in describing the utterly moronic mess that here pretends to be an action film.The characters of the story (I use that term loosely) deserve death - a hundred times over - and right at the beginning of the film! I have never encountered such a group of hateful cretins pretending to be heroes of any kind whatsoever in any genre.And the dialog! Some hippie fried his brain with LSD and wrote this in '67, no doubt; he tossed it in the basement of the flop-house he was evicted from; the scrip grew various shades of blue and green from mildew and other unmentionable molds. Then some idiot with a few million bucks accidentally dug it up when having the flop-house bulldozed and decided, hey, wouldn't it be nice to make a movie? Then he lost interest in it, and so did everyone else. You will too.This goes down in my little black book of DVDs I have ripped from my player and broken into bits of useless plastic, rather than suffer one minute more of such agonizing waste of time. "},{"Title":"Unoriginal And Unentertaining","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" How on Earth do I go about reviewing VIRUS ? I thought perhaps I might use some copy and paste reviews of DEEP RISING , THE X FILES and ALIENS but according to IMDb guidelines this isn't allowed so perhaps someone can tell me how screenwriter Chuck Pfarrer got away by stealing other peoples' plots ? It's the screenplay that's to blame . Didn't the producers notice that this plot has been done to death ? It's amazing how anyone could get away with this at a film pitch and VIRUS remains one of the most unoriginal movies I've seen in a long time which makes for a very predictable and unentertaining film . You know what's going to happen on screen a good few minutes before the wafer thin characters do which means the audience doesn't care about the people or situationsThe directing isn't much better sadly and right from the very opening sequence we're treated to a ridiculous scene where the characters speak in Russian . Considering the characters are Russian this isn't bizarre in itself but what makes it incredibly weird is that subtitles appear when people mention characters names or give chess moves - Subtitles don't appear elsewhere in the dialogue meaning we don't have a clue what the connection between the ship and the space capsule is ! Wouldn't it just have been easier to have them talk in English with Russian accents ? It might not be logical but considering there's no logic to this film it would have been consistent which is more than can be said for the accents in this unentertaining dumb movie "},{"Title":"Not a bad film","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Saw this on TV a few days ago.  I don't know what was edited out, so I can only say so much, but I must say that the special effects and makeup effects were awesome! The main, cybernetic nemesis (while a tad blue-screenish) was menacing to the very end.  And some of the sets were very richly-detailed. $75,000,000 to make?  I can believe it. Now, that being said, there still were some flaws in this movie - mainly, the dialogue and acting.  While not terrible, these elements could stand some work.  Had they been brushed up, this movie would have been so much better than it was. But as is, it's not that bad.My Grade  B "},{"Title":"High Tech Sea Yarn","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Part outer space movie, part nefarious robots, part sea yarn, I'm assuming the key to Virus is the Dark Horse comic series, which I have yet to read. How else to explain the non-credible, cartoon character appearance of Donald Sutherland in this movie? While Jamie Lee has been quoted as saying, Virus is a piece of sh... it's clear that somebody, somewhere had fun making this movie. Fancy CGI, live action puppets, telemetry suits, 10 by 10 foot robot models, plenty of moving parts to keep the gearheads happy, and of course enough obligatory dental drill sound effects to make anyone squirm...somebody's gotta have fun watching that.Any misanthrope will readily agree with the premise, that human beings are the virus. Greedy, destructive, out of control reproduction, etc. And the Luddites will also enjoy the flip side of the same coin, that eeeevil computers (with REALLY unsophisticated interfaces!) are somehow in competition with human greed, destruction, etc.And the documentary Ghost in the Machine really should have been entitled The Body Electric. Rush is better than The Police, any old day.Speaking of music, I come from a classic musicals background, so film music is extremely important to me. If you enjoy male choruses, be sure to suffer through the credits where composer Joel McNealy's fairly cool take on a Russian march, based on his own orchestral themes, will make it worth your while.See, something for everybody in this movie. 7/10, three points for letting Jamie Lee Curtis cut loose with a few well-timed yelps. "},{"Title":"Greetings, virus... I am Ripoff of the Borg. Originality is futile.","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was hoping for a decent Alien clone on the sea. But it turned out that Virus is copied from three other movies with basically nothing original added. The plot is taken from Leviathan, the alien's concept from Star Trek and the Borg, and the cyborgs - from Hardware. And all those movies are better - even Star Trek! There's nothing surprising that, and it would be OK were Virus tense and exciting. But it isn't... Frankly, it's just boring. For me a necessary element of plot in such movies is a thoroughly alien, unknown and mysterious organism, hostile toward humans. But here, with the cyborgs and most things explained right away, it's about as exciting as watching people fight a couple of toasters. The only thing worth mentioning is the soundtrack... not bad, not bad at all. Other than that, it's pretty weak. It amazes me that this movie got its own action figure series, while e.g. Leviathan and Hardware, though much better, still don't...  "},{"Title":"Ok for something we already saw","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Event Horizon, Relic, Terminator 2, Aliens, Deep Rising were all the films mentioned in the other reviews that were so similar to VIRUS that it makes this movie look like a big dumb rip-off. The dialogue was lame, the direction was uninspired, the script was poor, the plot was dead and the characters were worthless and the performances were not helping you care at all. This film left no impact. Otherwise...VIRUS had great special effects despite what the other critics said. The idea what this unknown entity does by living in electricity and using us for spare parts and wiping us out because we are the virus to it is pretty much original. Forgettable horror/sci-fi with some awesome moments was actually produced by Gale Anne Hurd, female producer of power-women films such as Terminator 2, Aliens and Relic...strange that VIRUS seem to rip these off huh? Unlike these three, Jamie Lee Curtis' role was pathetic and weak - she wasn't this Sigourney Weaver type bad-ass babe kicking some monster gluteus maximus. Sad that even a film with great special effects would sink so low...it could have been better - these morons at Universal should have hired some ghostwriters to adjust the script (that's what Hollywood do to make the script better) one writer does the action, one does the character development, one does the plot...all comes together in a three or plus time better movie than VIRUS. "},{"Title":"A misunderstanded movie.","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I don't see why people hate this movie? Personally, I liked thewhole taking-peoples-flesh-and-put-it-on-robots thing. And thecast were excellent, when it came to the more frenetic scenes. Theonly thing that was bad about the movie, was when the captainwillingly makes himself a robot/dead guy. He didn't put up much ofa fight, and because he for some reason removed his legs, hiswalking capabilities were kinda non-existent. But overall... A good movie, which were put in my collection rightaway.8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Absurd rubbish even by B-movie standards!","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Adrift in the ocean after a hurricane leaves their vessel damaged, the crew of Captain Everton comes across a ship they hope will help them.  They board the damaged Russian scientific cruiser but find it deserted.  They decide to take it back to port and claim the salvage fee but, as they power the ship back up, strange things begin to happen on board - and the ship drops anchor onto their vessel, sinking it.  When they find one of the crew still alive, they learn that an alien computer virus has taken over the ship and is making machines.  It's aim - to wipe out the virus on earth - man.When Curtis was asked recently if there were any films she regretted making, Virus was top of her list and she named it with almost no hesitation as a `piece of sh*t'!  With this glowing recommendation I decided to watch it for myself (who says I'm not open to advice!).  I expected this to be rubbish but fun - I didn't realise that it would be as laughably bad as it was. The plot is lifted from many other sci-fi films and put together in a messy mix of unoriginal ideas.  If you can watch this film and not recognise at least 5 other films then you have likely not seen any other films of the genre - or you are a dumb son of a b*tch!  The ship idea is Deep Rising, the robots look like the Borg or Terminator even the final scene at the end is right out of Event Horizon.  It is all a bit of a mess - although lack of originality is not that big an issue if it is fun - this is not.The poor effects are annoying for the most part.  Of course they are not bad effects but for $70million I was surprised how corny and silly the robots looked.  I got the impression that they were just copied rather than being well designed.  The worst moment was the lead robot - an incredibly sophisticated technology, using a keyboard to interact with the ship's computer.  Sorry? Run that past me again this massively advanced technology that is connected to everything and is busy making little robots but still uses a keyboard!?  Likewise most of the robots just look clunky and unimaginative - the effects are OK but they just are so badly designed that it doesn't matter how much they cost.The script is bad all the way; although some footballs fans may get a kick out of Sutherland telling the robot `Everton is the superior being'!  The screams come thick and you can guess how long is left by how many characters are left alive on screen - the usual slasher fare.  Reflecting the bad script, pretty much every single actor in the film gives a bad performance. Curtis just runs round screaming and is as bad in it as she says she is - credit to her for being honest!  Sutherland, however, is completely off his t*ts!  He clearly has decided to see how far he can push his performance before his director spots that he is taking the p*ss - and it looks like the director never spotted it!  The worst thing about him is that fact that his accent changes with nearly every scene - Irish, Scottish, Eastern European - was he trying to make a list?  An even more hilarious accent is that of Pacula who starts the film speaking broken English and 40 minutes later is fluent and has an American accent - the fact that nobody even got her to do ADR after the fact shows just how little love was put into this film. Billy Baldwin is poor but that's pretty much par for the course with him.  The only actor that I enjoyed was Augustus - but his character spins out of control as well.Overall this is a piece of junk, but it will do you for a Saturday night if you are smoking or drinking - you really need to be off your head to appreciate this film.  If you are sober as I was, you may get a kick out of how unintentionally funny the whole thing is but you're more likely to wonder what you could have done with that 90 minutes of your life.  Curtis called it right - what a piece of sh*t! "},{"Title":"It's so bad it will scares you","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies I've ever seen in years.  Bad plot, bad acting, bad sound, bad editing, bad EVERYTHING!!!  It was just unnecesarily gory and so stupid to watch.  When the movie ended, I felt so dumb I was just sitting there trying to remember if there is any movie as bad as this one.  Acting was so bad it was difficult to look at and special effects are terrible too.  They made bunch of toys and called them aliens.If you watch this movie, you'll understand what I'm saying.  0/10 stars. "}{"Title":"dumb dumb dumb and more dumb","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Virus...I rented this movie picturing some sort of world wide epidemic of HIV you could catch like a cold. Nothing of the sort of course. The minute I saw the fake looking sea surrounding the tug boat...I thought this is going to be a dog. I was right. Turns out the virus is either an alien computer program or the alien computer program thinks humans are viruses...I was never quite clear on that point.Someone else commented that science fiction has to fit science... in this movie nothing looks functional from a scientific view point ..the small robots with leather wings look like they are made from a child's erector set and a dead bat. Ditto for the larger half cadaver half erector set machines all of which have to be hooked by cables to the central computer... I guess the aliens had not advanced to wireless connections despite having flying saucers etc.... it is just dumb dumb and more dumb.Gee how convenient that the ship has rocket powered ejector seats??? Huhhh? I bet the Russians install them on all their military ship!!! As some one else stated this is half slasher half half science fiction and bad at both. 75 million (cost of movie) you have to be joking! Nothing is frightening or exciting in this movie. "},{"Title":"WAY better than Transformers 2","Date":"26 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't understand why this film got such bad ratings. It's certainly not Aliens, but for a sci-fi thriller, it was definitely watchable. It took a ton of caffeine to be able to stay awake for the entire Transformers 2 movie (which got 6 stars on IMDb), but this one held my interest with better acting with basically the same concept... AND it was created ten years earlier! Maybe people were expecting something like Outbreak when they rented this... Maybe it didn't do well in the theaters because it was up against Star Wars Ep.1 and The Matrix that year... Maybe Jamie Lee Curtis should have dressed more provocatively... It's hard to say. I, for one, was pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Special effects is all that Virus has to sell","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Virus is a pretty obvious rip-off of both Terminator and Aliens. It is derivative, predictable and unscary, but its visual effects are top notch, and because they get better with each passing sequence, the movie keeps you in your seat just to see what comes next, and the grand finale might be an interesting match for the T-1000.In scene one, something (very big and very bright) from outer space comes down to earth and crashes into a massive Russian communication vessel out on the ocean blue. Seven days later, a tug boat crew discovers the motionless vessel adrift at sea. It appears to be deserted, needless to say, it isn't. There is something on board which has worked it's way into the computers and programmed the machines to build bodies for itself. Our heroes must destroy it before it finds it's way to mainland, and from there god nows how many computers across the world.Virus is strictly for anyone who is into this material, but frankly I can name many better examples (outside of Aliens and Terminator of course). Competent visual effects alone only satisfy so many. "},{"Title":"Passable Fare, Could Have Been Much Better...","Date":"22 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Life forms or an energy force from outer space takes over a Russian freighter, and things heat up !John Bruno under directs what could have been a very good Sci-Fi thriller. All of the plot elements are there,including off-center Tug Captain Everton(Donald Sutherland), hip weapons specialist Richie(Sherman Augustus),savvy crew-person Kit Foster(Jamie Lee Curtis), crewman Steve Baker(William Baldwin) all contribute to a solid cast.But lack of execution of direction and editing help doom this film to mediocrity. Lack of building the proper suspense, and lack of vision make this film sub-par.The crew of the Sea Star, a tug boat is damaged during a storm, but finds an abandoned Russian ship with high-tech electronic equipment, and they choose to retrieve it for salvage and claim a large reward in return.An unknown force from space has taken over the ship, and disposed of all of the crew members, with one exception, the chief science officer Nadia Vinogradiya(Joanna Pacula).So the battle for the ship ensues against evil robots sent by the alien.At 99 minutes you won't waste too much of your life. 6 out of 10 stars, some decent special effects, but story lacks cohesive tension. "},{"Title":"A bad movie that is actually worth seeing'","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When someone asks you if they should see a certain movie, the answer is usually pretty clear cut (provided you've seen it, of course). Was the movie good or bad? Virus falls into the latter category. Yet the visuals are so good and inventive that I'd actually recommend seeing it.This is another haunted house on a ship story. It's similar to the later film Ghost Ship, although this is more action oriented as opposed to horror. It's not nearly as good as the 2005 feature, but altogether they are different movies.The crew of the Sea Star, which includes the captain, Everton (Donald Sutherland) and navigator, Kit Foster (Jamie Lee Curtis), is salvaging a barge through a typhoon. Sadly, they have to ditch the cargo in order to prevent their own ship from sinking. Luck turns in their favor when in the eye of the storm they find a Russian research vessel that appears to be completely deserted. However, it's not. It has been taken over by an alien life form that builds itself from spare parts machine and human.The acting is terrible. All of them seem to be doing this just for the money. No one seems to have any energy invested in their parts. The two most well known actors in the cast, Jamie Lee Curtis and David Sutherland are especially guilty of this. Curtis may be blasting this movie as the worst she's ever acted in, but that's partly her fault. Had she actually tried, the fault would like squarely on Sutherland. Donald Sutherland is especially surprising. Like Christopher Walken, Sutherland is fun to watch even in the worst movies...usually. Here, he's just plain bad. If I didn't know any better, I'd say that he couldn't act at all.Apparently, director John Bruno had made a name for himself in visual effects. His experience with the visuals is masterful. He uses models and animatronics for the machines, and not only are they interesting to look at, but they are wholly convincing. They alone make this movie recommendable.I don't know why this movie has such a bad reputation. It's entirely watchable, and on some level even moderately engaging. However, save for the machines, the visuals are sorely lacking (it looks like a direct-to-DVD flick), and the script need some fine tuning. But with a bigger budget and actors who really worked at it, this film could have been a big blockbuster. As it is, it's only the machines that make it worthwhile. "},{"Title":"I Virus I Wouldn't Mind Catching","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I had the extreme pleasure of watching the movie Virus for the second time and after watching it this time, I really liked this movie. The story is based off of a Dark Horse comic of the same name and it's essentially about an electronic alien life form that inhabits a ship and controls the robots in it. It was my surprise that Jamie Lee Curtis, Donald Sutherland and William Baldwin were in this movie but then again, it was a good movie.What I liked about it was the whole premise of a life form that lives within computers and attack using robots and fusing machines with real people. I don't know why but it reminded me of TerrorVision because the idea is the same&#x85; and alien that tries to invade Earth via satellite.I think what I really enjoyed about this movie was the unexpected amount of gore. Throughout the movie, and especially near the end, there are graphic scenes of robots fusing robotic arms and legs on disemboweled torsos and heads. There are scenes where there are spilled intestines and skin peeling when the crew captures one of the cyborgs and decides to pick it apart.Not much else can be said about the movie, the acting was good and the visual effects were astonishing for 1999 and it should be&#x85; it was directed by special effects guru John Bruno and you can definitely see his influence.It was a fun ride and I really enjoyed seeing all those different kind of robots working together and making cyborgs... it was a wild ride. "},{"Title":"A fresh breeze compared to other movies of it's genre","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This move was a lot better then I anticipated. I was thinking this was going to be yet another sci-fi horror shock movie about people getting killed by either monsters or aliens.I was wrong in the sense that it was going to be 'yet another' movie.The story is about a satellite ship (can't find the correct term for such a ship at the moment) which is in contact with a space station above the earth. Suddenly, a strange cloud of electric energy passes through the station and beams itself down onto the ship and into the main computer. That's what the intro of the movie is about.You then meet the characters of the story the crew of a small ship, called the Sea star with on board a precious cargo. They are on their way to port when they sail right into a typhoon. Lost cargo and a depressed captain are the results. What's even worse is that their ship has taken damage and will sink in a few hours. Then they spot the satellite ship we saw in the intro.They take their chances and board the ship, searching for a way to contact for help.Then the movie really starts...There are a lot of elements in this movie, including greed, hatred, treachery and fear. Cleverly weaved into a web that is this movie.The acting is quite nice. Especially Jamie Lee Curtis and Donald Sutherland deliver a solid performance. There's also a lot of good chemistry between the characters of the crew, allowing some small jokes and dialog.However, the main element in this movie has to be the 'something' that got beamed down to the ship. I have to say that the effects in this film are very effective. A nifty combination of CGI, mechanical effects and acting. I haven't seen anything like that in a movie yet and I found it very interesting.The plot of the story, as a whole, is also... refreshing, in lack of a better word. Humans as a virus, and must be exterminated. If you think about it, you can understand that point of view. It doesn't mean that you should cheer for the life form that is hunting our poor crew members though...There's gore in this movie. Not an awful lot every 10 seconds, but you will get your fair share in body parts and blood throughout the film. Good shock moments too, and some are unpredictable. I jumped up on my chair a few times.In overall, I have to say that Virus is a good, entertaining movie with some elements and effects I haven't seen much in a Sci-fi movie. I can recommend this film to any fan of either science-fiction or thriller/horror movies. I give this a 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Assembly line thriller","Date":"7 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Taken in the right vein, this movie can entertain. Donald Sutherland and Jaime Lee Curtis pretty much had nothing to do one afternoon, so they set sail on a tugboat with one of the many Baldwin brothers. Also on board are a group of unknown actors playing doomed red-shirt sailors who play dummies that have some dumb comic relief lines and then eventually get croaked.Finding the Mary Celeste-type Russian science vessel was pretty cool, and actually done well. Some of the ghost-like events while the crew tries to salvage the vessel (for millions of dollars, they estimate), not done too bad but much of the material is recognizable from similar ghost ship movies. Most of the acting is up to par, but Sutherland's agent needs to get him a role where he doesn't play a demented nut for once. Here he's a captain trying to make evil deals with the menace, once it's been uncovered what it is.The monster itself is a comedy of contradictions that are really a series of thriller flick clichés woven together loosely and sloppily. There is no consistency in the thing's actions throughout the story. Consequently this is a Saturday afternoon when you have nothing to do popcorn movie where a seemingly indestructible foe picks off the characters one by one in a series of creative kills.Turn off the brain, and it should be fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Second-Rate Chiller With Good Technical Effects","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Veteran Hollywood producer Gale Anne Hurd has bankrolled her share of popular science fiction and horror movies. She produced hits like the Terminator movies, Aliens, Alien Nation, The Abyss, Tremors, The Relic, Hulk, The Incredible Hulk, and Armageddon. Unfortunately, she has financed some losers, too, such as No Escape, Switchback, Dead Man on Campus, and Virus.Virus boasts a strong cast trapped amid top-drawer production values in a stillborn plot. Sadly, with a nary a scary thing in sight, this moody, synthetic ship of horrors saga about man versus alien machines wallows in a quagmire of clichés. Although the premise and the plot display some early promise, nothing new bolsters this briny tale of technological terror. Neither the crew of heroes nor the robo-beasts reflect any semblance of novelty. True to form, our stalwart heroes battle these invincible demons right up to a catapulting conclusion that mercifully leaves little room for a sequel!A ruthless but intelligent alien life-form enters Earth's orbit and engulfs Mir, the Russian space station. Everybody onboard Mir perishes, and the alien down-links its destructive energy to a high-tech Russian trawler equipped to track missiles and satellites. This alien presence infests the ship, with its array of parabolic dishes and robotic labs, and exterminates nearly everybody onboard. With the crew out of its way, the alien possesses the computers and reprograms the robotic labs to assemble homicidal androids using the body parts of dead sailors. Only Nadia Vinogradiya (Joanna Pacula of Tombstone), the vessel's chief science officer, short circuits the alien's evil ambitions when she shuts off the electricity, trapping it in stasis.Meanwhile, complications arise as a tugboat with a barge in the South Pacific encounters a typhoon. The 'Sea Star' engineer Steve Baker (William Baldwin of Fair Game) demands that Captain Everton (Donald Sutherland of The Eagle Has Landed) release the barge. Baker fears that rough seas will swamp the barge and deep-six the 'Sea Star,' too. A feisty Everton refuses to cut the barge loose. He goes so far as to brandish his revolver and aim it at Baker. The cable unravels in typical Hollywood fashion and the barge founders. A dejected Everton settles into his own cabin to contemplate suicide while Kelly 'Kit' Foster (Jamie Lee Curtis of Trading Places), the tug's navigator, charts a new course to put the stormy seas behind the 'Sea Star.' Everton sticks the muzzle of his revolver in his mouth and his finger is on the trigger when a crew member interrupts him. They have spotted a ship on radar that appears to be dead at sea. Everton's spirits revive when the abandoned ship emerges out of the misty seas. Initially, they find nobody onboard alive. The rejuvenated captain fuels everybody's dreams about salvage. Maritime law stipulates that owners must ante up a tenth of what their ships cost to buy them back. The crew calculates that the trawler costs $300-million, and a delighted Everton does everything but knead his hands in fiendish collaboration. He disperses his crew to fire up the ship's engines so they can avoid the typhoon. The prospect of salvage serves to reunite Everton's men and boost their morale. Predictably, sinister things then begin to happen, and the crew disappears one at a time. The surveillance cameras onboard monitor the sailors as intruders.Visual effects designer/director John Bruno fails to make any of this creepy stuff seem remotely eerie. The computers signal the anchor to drop, and Everton's tug sinks after the anchor smashes its way through the hull. Again, an ominous scene lacks menace. Squeaky (Julio Oscar Mechoso of The Legend of Zorro), a Cuban sailor, is the first to die. He sticks his head idiotically into a pipe cluttered with cables. When we see him next, poor Squeaky is a half-human, half-machine bent on killing humans. Indeed, when Squeaky enters the pipe, you'll be talking back to the screen, reprimanding him for his lack of caution.Meantime, the trawler's Russian science officer Nadia springs out of a locker in a gas mask with a machine gun and tries to kill the captain, Kit, and Steve while they are stitching up an injured deckhand in sick bay. Nadia brings them up to speed about the mysterious alien. An incredulous Everton condemns her as a raving lunatic. Eventually, the monster confronts the crew and uses a computer to communicate with them. This thing reveals that it considers humanity a 'virus' and vows to destroy the crew. Before its explosive, fireball finale, Virus revives every obvious horror movie cliché. Nothing surprising occurs, and nothing jumps out to grab you. No, Curtis doesn't shed her clothes for a convenient shower in the middle of all this chaos.Hard Target scenarist Chuck Pfarrer and Species writer Dennis Feldman don't conjure up anything that hasn't been done 10,000 times in countless other chillers. The half-human/half-machine adversaries in Virus may remind you of the Borg in Star Trek First Contact. Unlike First Contact, however, these Virus androids wouldn't scare a cat. Basically, they clunk around like huge erector-set junk heaps. They neither inspire no stimulate menace. Worse, Pfarrer and Feldman provide no explanation for the alien presence on Earth. Have you ever noticed how the Earth attracts aliens with the same frequency that bug light attract insects? "},{"Title":"A Scare and well done, for the most part","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This sci-Fi is the only one I've seen recently giving a certain sense of fear, dread and suspense. Yes, some of the acting is down right cheese worthy. The blurry eyed skipper being one stereotypical and entirely unbelievable character.I think the scene play itself could have been more scary of in fact, this evil intelligence, instead of making silly looking machines, actually had created a virus that transformed humans into some new and horrible aliens.But that said, enough old bug eyed monsters here to scare most middle schoolers, and I assume that's the age range they were shooting for?In any event, despite acting problems, rather bad scripts, the over all video cinema quality was great. I, in fact give it a jolly seven and will watch it again, unlike much of the grade C sci-fi trash that is more than abundant these days. "}{"Title":"I fell asleep half-way through!","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Not that the movie was boring. I was quite enjoying it up until the moment when tiredness kicked in.This occurred somewhere after the guy gets dragged into the airshaft/accessway etc. in the engineering section of the ship. Up until then, I was enjoying the what's going to be the form of the beast? suspense. The next thing I knew, I was waking up to find the movie had turned into the Terminator! With some giant mechanical monstrosity beating the jolly jack tar out of one of the tug-boat crew.You can understand my confusion! I wasn't even sure it was the SAME movie until I saw old Jamie Lee! What happened in the interim, I remain blissfully unaware of - until such time as it turns up on TV again, anyway! But, from what I did see, it has a certain amount of promise and was entertaining enough. Once again I stress I fell asleep through fatigue, not movie tedium! "},{"Title":"I HAVE SEEN FAR WORSE FLICKS","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was not as bad as some of the before-reviews made it out to be, BUT...The story has been done countless times before. Take your pick We have crew/civilians/military running around a space ship/haunted house/town with a monster/ghost/alien/act-of-god chasing them. They get killed off one by one.... And you know the rest.Acting by the cast, however, was O.K.  Some of the characters portrayed were actually well played despite the strictly by-the-numbers cliche-ridden plot of this flick. Cliff Curtis was good, given his character didn't have a whole lot to do.The small machines were cheesy, but they do get bigger, nastier and bloodier as the flick progresses. They have been built by intelligent electricity that screams like a pig being butchered. That's not the only thing being butchered! You can count which (large) number of movies this flick borrows its ideas from, and this almost becomes an art unto itself!CONCLUSION This flick was turned into a Really Rotten Play Station Game. Rent the Video instead! "},{"Title":"Brilliant gore","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When i watched the film virus i thought it was going to be a simple sci movie but it was probably the best I've seen in years, the blood and gore scenes are brilliant, acting is great by all the actors, a recommendation to others this is a sci film to watch. The plot is simple, a group of smugglers sailing on a tugboat get caught in a major thunder storm, and then discover a desolate Russian battleship and discover all the crew has been murdered by an alien organic life-form of machines using human parts for themselves, in the film captain Robert Everton, played by Donald Sutherland enters a workshop in the ship and discovers humans are being cut up, torn and slaughtered, bloodiest bit of the film, as soon i finished watching the film i compared it to the film Ghost Ship and noticed a similarity, group of people, find a ship thats deserted, want to tow it is for money and get killed by ghosts or aliens, two films sort of the same. "},{"Title":"had potential, until after the beginning credits rolled","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" wow, what a mess.bad acting,bad special effects, dumb plot.this one has it all.Donald Sutherland in particular should be ashamed for having the worst fake accent ever.none of the actors seemed to want to be there.maybe they all owed a debt to somebody,and this was the only way to pay it.this thing was a really dog through and through.who green lights this crap?don't they screen movies before releasing them.i can't believe i sat through this cesspool.i guess i was hoping it might improve.there's 90 minutes of my life i'll never get back,and neither will you if you subject yourself to this so called movie.watch this movie at your own peril.so,if you like a movie with good acting, good special effects and a good plot-look elsewhere,i beg you.1* ,though it deserves much less "},{"Title":"Average Sci-Fi horror at best, boring silly rubbish at worst.","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Virus starts aboard the Russian scientific ship the Academic Vladislav Volkov as it makes radio contact with the Mir space-station, at that moment a strange purple electric alien life form passes through the Mir & gets transmitted down onto the ship. Virus then switches to the South Pacific 7 days later during a typhoon & the crew of a salvage tug named the 'Sea Star' are caught up in it. The typhoon creates huge waves which begin to damage & flood the Sea Star, Captain Robert Everton (Donald Sutherland) is at odds with his crew when he demands they carry on regardless. As it happens the storm severs the chain to their salvage behind them, they then decide to head into the eye of the typhoon where the waters will be calm. As they discuss their situation the boats radar picks up a large signal, that of the Academic Vladislav Volkov. Sensing it might be salvageable the Sea Star pulls up along side & Everton, the navigator Kelly Foster (Jamie Lee Curtis), two engineers Steve Baker (William Baldwin) & Squeaky (Julio Oscar Mechoso) & the token black guy Ritchie Mason (Sherman Augustus) venture on board. At first it seems perfect as no one is around but things soon start to turn sour as a dropped anchor destroys the Sea Star, the last two remaining crew members J.W. Woods (Marshall Bell) & Hiko (Cliff Curtis) also board the ship at this point. Eventually they discover one survivor, a Russina female scientist named Nadia Vinogradiya (Joanna Pacula) who tells bizarre tales of aliens which no one believes, at first anyway...Directed by John Bruno I thought Virus passed an hour and a half painlessly enough but isn't anything that's going to change the world. The script by Dennis Feldman & Chuck Pfarrer based on his comic book series of the same name is as clichéd as you could imagine. There's the tough female, the obligatory black guy, the Canadian comic relief character, the crusty old sea Captain whose main motivation is money, the handsome hero, the fish out of water character in the Russian scientist & you know the sort of thing. Now place these stereotypes into an isolated location with varying motives to maintain antagonism & add something, it doesn't really matter does it, that wants to kill everyone & is a risk to the whole World unless our clichéd hero's can destroy it or stop it from spreading, yep that's all here as well. While Virus isn't original in the slightest it does provide fair entertainment, it moves along at a nice pace & never became too boring or dull even if it was predictable. There is nothing particularly bad about Virus but at the same time there is nothing particularly brilliant about it, it was all average stuff that I felt I had seen many times before. Technically Virus has that nice Hollywood polish about it, solid production values & very well made throughout a few unconvincing special effects apart. Having said that the IMDb claims that Virus had a budget of around $75,000,000 which seems like a hell of a lot of money for what actually ended up on screen. Director Bruno fails to inject much life, pace or excitement into either the horror or action elements & Virus ends up feeling a bit flat. There is some gore here, brain operations, someone has a hole punched through their body & bloody half human half robot creatures but the violence is somewhat restrained. The huge robotic alien creation at the end is pretty cool looking & has nice spider like movement to it. The acting is as you would expect from a film such as Virus, just OK. Jamie Lee Curtis has apparently said in an interview that Virus is the worst film she has ever acted in, to which I will add nothing... Sutherland is obviously only here for the money. Overall I thought Virus was an OK watch, even though it rips-off many other better films Virus still comes out as a decent enough time-waster. "},{"Title":"I just can't stop myself...","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I normally don't comment on movies here, but after watching Virus I couldn't resist coming to it's IMDb comments... and then I just had to post a general reply.To the people that liked this movie... I suppose I'm glad some people out there discovered a new viewing treat. Most of the rest of us, however, were not entertained. The IMDb rating is more than justified. Frankly, I found the movie very insulting... to my intelligence as a viewer, to the actors who contracted themselves to perform in it, and even to the genre of sci-fi horror.Quite simply , the movie was 'not good'. Regardless of what level of standards anyone thinks 'movies of this genre' should consider par, regardless of who's in it, etc. How much it ended up costing to make, who directed it, who's in it... all of that is just a pile of facts other people will chime in with, and they don't mean a damn thing as far as the final product is concerned. Most film enthusiasts will consider it mediocre at best upon seeing it... period.It was accused of plot-stealing from other films, and that may be true (although I didn't pick up anything obvious). It would only be true in parts and pieces, as the plot was 'original enough'. If everything had come together better this movie might have achieved a 6.5-7.2... very decent by IMDb standards. It didn't, and it doesn't.Someone blamed the editor, and he may in part be at fault. The director also has to take some of the rap, as does the writing team.Here are some general personal observations ==> Soundtrack annoying and aggravating ==> Special effects poor to decent, depending on the scene ==> Acting bad to average, depending on the character and the scene ==> Direction, Editing, Writing bad all around, but the editor seemed to at least have career knowledge (perhaps he simply had nothing to work with)Mostly what this film did was offend... moviegoers, real scientists, and free thinkers everywhere should all feel insulted by this movie after seeing it. Some scenes were actually, physically painful to sit through. By the end I was in 'Highlander 2' mode... as though I was watching a cinematic train wreck in progress.I don't ever allow myself to spoil a movie on principle, but I'm going to say something omenistic anyhow... if you haven't seen this movie yet, then you should probably just avoid it and dodge the negative wash. It'll likely only jade you from appreciating some of it's 'talent' when they show up in other, more respectable movies. "},{"Title":"When you steal this much, Jail time should be mandatory....","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is not just a movie, It's actually 4 movies and a television series to boot! There are plotlines, similar characters, special effects, costumes and even dialog from The Last Starfighter, The Matrix, Runaway, Robocop and Star Trek.  Even then they couldn't patch together a watchable film. Jamie Leigh Curtis gives a performance worthy of one those screams from Holloween and there ought to be a law limiting the number of Baldwin brothers allowed to torture us with awful performances. What reason did a great character actor like Donald Sutherland have to make a clunker like this, only god knows. One thing for certain, The next time I see this film it will probably be on Mystery  Science Theater 3000 getting about the same review... "},{"Title":"It's mind-bogglingly awful.","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  1/2* out of ****Wow, I do believe in my review of Batman and Robin I stated that was the worst big-budget theatrical release of the past decade.  I believe we have a new contender.  Ineptly directed, carelessly written, and terribly acted, Virus is another low for Alien Clones.  There's not a brief moment of originality or excitement throughout the entire torturous 99 minute running time, and the only good thing I can say is that it finally ended.  As I think about it now, I'm not even sure why I don't give the movie no stars.Basically, we have another rehashed story about a group of people who are trapped, this time on a ship (Deep Rising, anyone?), and they are being slowly hunted down by robotic creatures intent on assimilating them (Star Trek First Contact).  The humans are led by Kit Foster (Jamie Lee Curtis), but all of them decide to stupid little things, like run off alone or always forgetting to behind their back.Virus is an insult to any viewer.  Not only is it relentlessly stupid, it's also boring.  Those in need of a nap will find this film right up their alley.  Director John Bruno obviously has no skill in direction.  All the action scenes are clumsily executed, and shot in such a dark manner, you could hardly see a thing.Rather, Bruno seems to realize he can't find a way to milk suspense into the film, so he prefers to throw in as much gore as he can and still keep an R-rating.  Simply put, this is a gruesome movie that's unpleasant to watch.  If you like the sight of human body parts attached to robotics, then by all means, watch this movie.  Otherwise, I would avoid it.With a 75 million dollar cost, you would at least expect the movie to feature some good special effects, which it does not.  The effects are obvious CGI, and the main attraction, the lead robotic alien, is cheesy looking.  Plus, the waves around the ship are laughably bad.  F/X fans will most definitely not enjoy this movie.The performances are just as bad.  Take a look at Jamie Lee Curtis, who has gone from being a movie star back to B-movie queen again.  She's dreadful in the role and annoying, and I kept wishing her character would get killed.  William Baldwin is slightly better, surprisinlgy enough.  He's still plays his part fairly badly, though.  Donald Sutherland should be ashamed of himself.  He hams it up to no end, and it's not even a fun performance to watch, just painful.  Joanna Pacula is probably the only reason I didn't give the film zero stars.  Her performance is decent, and she's easy on the eyes.  Chuck Pfarrer's script is supremely awful.  Rather than try and add an interesting twist on old ideas, he rehashes cliches and steals from far better films.  It's not even enjoyable on a campy level like Deep Rising, and instead comes off looking flat and boring. I can't even see Virus as a movie that would please afficionados of thrillers.  Wonder what that would mean to the casual viewer. "},{"Title":"You've got to be kidding...?","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What an AWFUL movie. I was expecting something quite different, but it was a was of good money. Yecchhhh! Obviously Donald Sutherland did this film out of boredom, and I guess Jamie Lee need the money.... =P! And the friends that watched it with me thought it sucked, too. "},{"Title":"Great action/horror film!!!","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot.  It was very entertaining and suspenseful, and very unpredictable.  I give it 9 out of 10 stars, not 10 because of some unnecessary language, but the special effects were mind-(and eye-)boggling! While some of the shots were kind of gross, the plot was pretty straight forward.  The acting wasn't all that great, but it was still cool.  I recommend this film to anyone who likes sci-fi thrillers, but not to any little kids.  Go see this film, I'm pretty sure you will like it, unless you don't like special effects or gross camera shots.  "}{"Title":"a blend of many different sci-fi movies","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was mediocre because of one minor detail, it wasn't an original movie.  Instead, it heavily borrowed ideas from other movies such as Deep Rising, Alien, Terminator, and Sphere.  It was the same sort of standard sci-fi movie that has been released for the past few years, afraid to try anything new.  I didn't really care for the characters when they were slaughtered, and they didn't really make me feel the atmosphere.  The only actor that had a good part was Donald Sutherland. I would wait for video, or better yet, rent Dark City, or some other sci-fi movie. "},{"Title":"BØRG INC.","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Have you seen Star Trek First Contact; have you seen The Lost World Jurassic Park - then read on.BASIC PLOT A ship caught in the eye of a storm. The crew discovers a ship nearby with what appears to be no one onboard. On closer investigation things re-appear much different.MOVIE FORMULA Virus is to Star Trek First Contact as Godzilla was to The Lost World Jurassic Park.Had this movie been released in 1995 instead of 1999 then I could say that Star Trek First Contact is a Virus rip-off. I found not one original idea in the whole 100 minutes of this production.The less said about this movie, the better!!Rating  2 out of 10 stars   "},{"Title":"holy crap !!!","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" this movie was great .... lets see ..evil bio-death-bots consuming all life the get rid of us for we are seen as a virus ....other than moon trap ( i have not seen yet ..erg) your don't here much about this kind things ...sure you have your ...aliens take over people crap and all the other remade over and over again story lines .... but the robots of death ....maybe its just me but i cant get enough of that ....it would be cool if they made a second but they would just screw it up trying to hard so its for the best this way ... but to all the haters of this film ...what !?!?!??!??! maybe you were high when watching it ...or drunk that could explain it ...maybe ...(4), vocalist GOD IN A MACHINE "},{"Title":"mess","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" First the characters. They are horrid collection of vile, humorless, cowardly schmucks, here for - I don't even remember what got them on board the boat, it made so little sense and mattered not at all.The Donald Sutherland character especially - embarrassing. Clearly intended as some sort of political joke, but two decades out of date, and annoying even back then.The acting - ham on toast. The dialog worst I've heard in any horror film since Ed Wood's Plan 9. The monster nothing new, a confusing mish-mash of disconnected 'scary' ideas.The plot - one-by-one they go down - as usually happens in such pictures.The sense of tension, the shocks, the thrills - never happen.The virus - worse than a flu, will have you puking and you can't stop.Best defense - avoid this movie like the plague! "},{"Title":"for a while I thought it was a parody...","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i went to the theater with my friends to see it. the movie was advertised as a sci-fi horror, but after about 30 min i started laughing because i just couldn't take it anymore... it was so pathetic. For a while people around me thought i was a freak, but then the laughter caught on... more and more people around started realizing what kind of garbage they are watching... the scariest moments were the funniest... the movie was closer to being a parody about bad film making than a thriller... i left after an hour, it was getting more stupid and less funny.I would put this movie in the same category as The Core - so pathetically idiotic that it actually makes you laugh. "},{"Title":"Not funny.","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  My brother was laughing at the terrible dialogue and the dull action throughout the movie, but VIRUS wore very thin with me. The movie is garbage pure and simple and it is a waste of time writing about how pathetic this piece of dirt was to watch.Thing is on ship, wants to take over world and many people die trying to stop it.Sutherland is not so much a 'dominant actor,' anymore, let alone a 'dominant life form.' Funny how the suits the females wear are pretty tight fit. What was everyone thinking? What a waste of film spent on such a disaster. This movie sucked. You may laugh but be honest. "},{"Title":"The Scarecrow reviews Virus","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Dreadful sci-fi/horror hybrid based on a comic book about an alien force which electrifies a Russian space station which in turn links to a Russian scientific research vessel down on the ocean of earth. A tug boat helmed by nut-case captain Sutherland(in one of the worst performances of his career, battling an Irish accent and really lacking any presence whatsoever), with crew-members Curtis, Baldwyn, & the ready-to-be-slaughtered-prime-time-players suffer a cataclysmic leak on their boat after they try to pull a barge during a typhoon. They come across the Russian ship which seems to be deserted and ram-sacked and decide to salvage it with dollar signs glistening in their eyes for a big payday. The ship's power source is cut off and they do not not know what lies in wait once they re-power it. This film has nothing new to offer as characters are merely on script to be killed, completely lifeless and stupid. The alien force seems to operate anything mechanical and little robotic spiders and giant machine monsters run amok doing victims in. Curtis is too damn good in this film and it does not deserve her talents. Baldwyn does what he can with an underwritten hero simply written in the film to save people..he doesn't even get to crack wise. Pacula portrays the only Russian survivor who tries to warn them of what they are up against. The film seems to be about explosions and more explosions. The evil electrical alien force doesn't even get much story..it's simply in the film to kill, nothing more & nothing less. The force, for some reason, also assembles robots together using human remains along with wires and steel. Terrible mess which just gets worse and worse as it goes along. "},{"Title":"Mundane, but entertaining B-movie","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Despite it's low rating on here, and general dislike across the board; Virus is actually not a bad film. It's pointless and very stupid, but it's hard to complain about that when you're knowingly going into a film about a bunch of aliens that take over a Russian sea-lab. Actually, Virus makes good use of it's plot, and it manages to deliver something more than the usual mundane 'ghost ship' plot line. It's massively clichéd, and this is never more evident than when you consider it's characters. We've got the mad captain; the black guy, the action hero, the woman, the Indian guy and the other two that are only there to get killed near the start. However, the film is also really entertaining, and it's easy to forgive the clichés with that in mind. The plot follows a transmission from the Mir space station that is received by a Russian boat in international waters. We follows the crew of a small tug that enters the boat in the hope of getting it to a port so that they can be paid off by the Russian government for returning their boat. However, they're not the only ones on board...The cast features a few big names, including Donald Sutherland, 'Scream Queen' Jamie Lee Curtis and William Baldwin. None of them deliver great performances, and really they're just on autopilot, but it's still nice to see these stars in a silly B-movie flick. Donald Sutherland definitely stands out the most among them, and his character acting is what makes the film. The best idea in the film comes from the aliens fusing machines with the people that they kill, and while this idea does become overused by the end; it's impressive at first and, because the special effects are rather good; it provides the movie with ample entertainment value. The way that the plot plays out is rather standard, with various people being picked off while the rest of the crew attempt to defeat the threat at hand. There's also a fair amount of gore in the movie, which never goes over the top and is, therefore, more potent when it is on screen. This isn't the sort of film that will impress you; but if all you want is ninety minutes of entertainment; this isn't a bad way to get it. "},{"Title":"There's no vaccine against the bad-movie virus","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This incredibly silly excuse for a SF-horror movie starts off with a Russian space station transmitting a humongous ball of electric energy onto a Russian vessel (sure, blame the Russians for the upcoming end of all mankind!). The ball of energy turns out to be an alien life force on a mission to wipe out this little virus called humanity. By the time captain Everton and his tugboat arrive to salvage the vessel, the aliens have already taken over all the machinery and even use the corpses of the Russian crew as fancy armory. The only elements that save Virus from merciless video-hell are the sublime special effects and the fact that the film is never boring. John Bruno is an effects-wizard and he proved his talents on several occasions already, like in the excellent James Cameron movies The Abyss and Terminator 2. The only problem here is that Bruno is credited as director himself and he's clearly no James Cameron. His interpretation of the comic book script is very routine and the guidance of cast and crew is far below average. Virus basically is a big-budgeted clone of SF milestones like Alien and the before mentioned Terminator, only without the intelligence and genuine shock themes of those titles. The film actually only satisfies SF-fanatics that look for gore and hi-tech visuals. The stars' names look very appealing but their performances are all very mediocre. We get one of the Baldwins (the least talented one; William), Jamie Lee Curtis (going from slasher-horror to space-horror) and a drunken Donald Sutherland who doesn't seem to know how he ended up in a movie like this. "}]