[{"Title":"Photographs","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The myth of the governess in English literature, seems to have been the inspiration for film maker Sandra Goldbacher, who makes an auspicious debut with this feature. Never had a first time director been so blessed to be working with a winning team behind her. The glorious cinematography by Ashley Rowe, the music by Ed Shearmur, to name just two, make The Governess a satisfying movie to watch.We are taken to the England of the 1830s. The story shows us a Jewish family of means. Rosina, the oldest daughter is a sophisticated young woman who seems to thrive in that society. When her father is killed, Rosina's world goes to pieces. She decides to seek employment as a governess for a young girl in the Island of Skye, in the Hebrides. The trip Rosina undertakes in primitive transport makes her think whether she had made the right choice, or not. All she sees is the lush green of the English countryside around her. Her employers are a Scotish couple of means. Charles Cavendish is a man of science working in his own kind of photography. His wife, seems to be a woman who is bored out of her mind. The young charge, Clementina, doesn't like the idea of being bossed by the new governess. Rosina has changed her name and passes herself as a Christian by the name of Mary Blackchurch. There is also a young son, Henry, who is away at school.Mary, who has received an education in London, surprises Mr. Cavendish and soon becomes his assistant in his experiments. The admiration Charles feels toward the young woman soon turns into a passion that is reciprocated by Mary, who we are led to believe has not had any sexual experience before. This newly found passion in Charles soon gets the best of him as he feels it makes him neglect his interest, which has been helped immensely by Mary's innate intelligence.In a surprising turn of events, Mary decides that since she can't have Charles, she must leave the island and return to London, not before presenting Mrs. Cavendish with the naked picture of her husband she took, which appears to have been the excuse for the break in their illicit relationship. At the end, Rosina is back to London where she is seen practicing the new technique she learned by working with Charles in the island.Minnie Driver totally dominates the film. Her Rosina/Mary is perhaps her best role in her career. Some comments point to the fact that Ms. Driver seems older to play this woman, but in our humble opinion, she seems to have an understanding of the character and makes it come alive. Tom Wilkinson, a great actor that probably hasn't been recognized as he should, does an outstanding job in capturing Charles. Jonathan Rhys-Meyers plays Henry the son that comes back from school and ends up falling in love for the governess. Harriel Walter and Florence Hoath play Mrs. Cavendish and Clementina well.The film is a triumph for a novel director. Ms. Goldbacher clearly shows to be a voice to be reckoned with in the English cinema. "},{"Title":"Sultry and Seductive","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was beautiful. It was somewhat overlooked in America when it was released in 1998, partly because it had to compete against some higher profile British films and partly because it is not commercial. It could not be sold to the general public for a very sad reason - most movie goers have absolutely no sense or knowledge of history. So, the story of being a Jewess in mid-19th Century England and Scotland would seem too odd to them. In addition, the average person might have difficulty in grasping how amazing photography was to people in those days.For those who do have knowledge of history, I highly recommend this film. Some might say that Rosina Minnie Driver is too much of a modern character, but intelligent women, rebellious women and highly sensual women have ALWAYS existed, regardless of the morals and hypocrisies of the times they lived in. "},{"Title":"Exquisitely Done","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Do not be put off by the negative comments in the user reviews here! This is a thoughtful, lovely, well-made film. I would watch it again, which is, for me, the highest endorsement. I can not comprehend how anyone could find it boring.   "},{"Title":"beautiful, stunning film","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gorgeous, stunning film!  Minnie Driver shines in this film, as do several of her co-stars. Fascinating, unusual story as well.  Most of these period films end in tragedy; no if, and, or buts about it.  The rise and fall of the protagonist is the norm, as many Merchant-Ivory films portray.  However, one of the pleasing aspects of this film was that the ending was mixed, and not as simple as heroine tries for the moon; fails and is punished.  In addition, I can't remember the last time I saw Sephardic Jews portrayed in a film.  The vast majority of time, only Ashkenaz Jews are pictured (Jews from northern Europe and Russia).  Quite refreshing to see something new.  A beautiful film overall! "},{"Title":" The Governess was a beautiful film that I think deserves more credit than it got.","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Governess was a beautiful film that I think deserves more credit than it got. I feel this film followed in the same quality and artistic depth as Jane Campion's 'The Piano'. Of course the story is very unique. Minnie Driver plays Rossina da Silva, a Jewess in victorian era England, who is forced to find employment in a Christian family when her father dies. She takes on the persona of 'Mary Blackchurch' a pious Christian women. She ends up in distant Scotland, where her employer  turns out to be a deeply intelligent scientist - whose family feels detached from society because of his work. Mr. Cavendish's work interest Rossina and in their work they discover not only some breathtaking advances in science but new emotions and feelings, which they each explore differently. The film technique is just impeccable. There are beautiful shots on the shores of the ocean. The use of color and glass distortions makes Rosinna's Jewish world come to life like I have never seen before. I think I loved this film, not only for its story, but also because it opened up a realm to me that I had never been aware of Jewish life in the 19th century. Minnie Driver is wonderful in this film, her Rosina is stronger than any other role I have seen her in. Tom Wilkinson of 'Full Monty' fame is also a very believable and caring Mr. Cavendish. SEE THIS MOVIE ! It is so beautiful and the soundtrack is moving, almost haunting. The governess is definitely on my list of favorite films of all time !  "},{"Title":"Well photographed period piece with interesting music","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story is not up to great things, oft told one way or another and smacking of Jane Austen romantic drama aspirations a beautiful jewess of sephardi descent in 1830s London decides to take the job of  governess to a little girl in a great big mansion supposedly on the Island of Skye, Inner Hebrides, Scotland (though I did glimpse a bit of Glencoe, Scottish mainland, and indeed what was definitely the beautiful Cuillins on Skye) where she falls in love with the master of the household, father of the little girl, and then the son falls in love with her. Well, that alone might have you wandering over to the next projection sala or just twiddling with the remote control, if it were not for certain other factors which may well be called redeeming, so good they are.Minnie Driver certainly looks the beautiful jewess, but her interpretation goes a bit awry at times, or even careers off the rails; her performance has ups and downs of feelings and passions which do not really make much sense. Better directing might well have produced better results from Ms. Driver, as well as the fact that the focussing of the story is very much a feministic appreciation, rather slanted perhaps, forgiveably so I am not so sure, rather as if Ms. Goldbacher herself was brought up on the aforementioned Jane Austen, as well as Daphné du Maurier, a touch of the Brontës, and she finally spiced it all up with some misgivings from D.H. Lawrence. The result is a confusion of desire and sex being mistaken for romantic love. But don't we all, anyway?The excellent photography and scenification makes up quite a lot for many of these pitfalls; the costumes and the settings of the interior of the house of such lucky landed-gentry is superb, as well as the scenes in London in the opening and closing parts of the film. This visual experience is greatly enhanced by the musical setting. Ed Shearmur has done an excellent job of creating his own `sephardi' music, helped by offerings from the Israeli singer, Ofra Haza. The music contributed greatly to the setting of scenes, ably supplying tone and atmosphere. Such that I feel one could enjoy this film solely for the photography, costumes and sets, and the music, and you could quite happily skip most of the story. It is not that the story is so bad, just that it is not anything special to write home to mother about, although she might well be the first to disagree.The Sephardi songs made me remember an old recording I have of some very beautiful melodies sung by Soledad Bravo on a CBS record maybe 20 years ago and which might be found on a Sony CD. The intepretation of these songs, sung in `ladino' (sometimes called judezmo) which is an archaic form of today's Spanish, is pretty authentic. Ladino is still used today by descendents of people thrown out of Spain during the `Inquisición', and now living in parts of Turkey (specifically I found it being spoken in Izmir), Bulgaria, Macedonia, Montenegro and the Croatia coast. Within Israel of course, this language is pretty frequent.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful, haunting period piece","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie to be quite beautiful, and it opened a period of history seldom explored in films. It tells the tale of a Jewess in 19th Century London who must disguise herself as a gentile to obtain employment as a governess. Her joy for life and her searching mind attract her to her employer, who is trying to discover a way to freeze the photographic image. It is very much of its time. Minnie Driver is excellent, very sensual and convincing. Tom Wilkinson is incredibly strong and attractive. The dark colors and the general sense of gloom are very well depicted. I thought it was a marvelous film. "},{"Title":"Minnie Driver, stunning as always","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm always surprised when I see a movie with Minnie Driver. She's not the best looking actress, or the most skilled but she makes every movie she's a part of worth watching. Even Disney's Tarzan was vitalized by her sparkling voice and energetic acting. This movie places the main character in a very odd position in a house with no love. The dangerous triangle betwixt the governess, the father and the son is very interesting. I would however like to have more motives and reason for the governess treatment of the son. Also that relation seems not to fit in the movie and should have been given more time to grow. The photography is beautiful and the nice singing of late Ophra Haza adds value to the movie. It has been a while since I last was left so puzzled and thoughtful after a movie. See this movie with a dear friend. "},{"Title":"An unintended cautionary tale?","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" THE GOVERNESS is a moody period piece, the meandering story of a Jewish woman who, upon the death of her father, sets out to 1830's Scotland, posing as a Gentile to get work to support her family in London.Rosina - or Mary, as she calls herself in a none too subtle piece of symbolic writing - is a rudderless child, a socialite with dreams of being an actress. She strikes up an alliance with her employer, and by accident solves a crucial problem in his research with photography. Giddy with success, they begin a halting and uncomfortable affair while the eldest son of her paramour falls hopelessly (and inexplicably) in love with her.And like a child, she fails to understand the consequences of her actions - in the end, betraying those she deceived in order to make a life for herself.Many claim this is something of a feminist manifesto, but I disagree. Whether intended or not, this film only resonates with me if I think of it as a cautionary tale. In the end, Rosina's greatest disappointment is the truth - that she lied, happened upon a way to help a man she wanted to be both her father and her lover, and in the end contributed nothing but destruction. As such, the end of the film gives me the impression that nothing she did, no one she used, made her happy - and that is exactly as it should be.Did I need a movie this long and langorous to teach me this lesson? Not at all. On the contrary, had it not been for excellent cinematography, unique score and my hope that she'd get her come-uppance, I wouldn't have stuck with it to the end of the film.Fans of Minnie Driver will likely be disappointed by her uneven performance but may wish to see it anyway; I doubt young female fans of Jonathan Rhys-Meyers will be able to stay awake for the payoff they expect, and I can't help thinking this holds too little cultural detail to be of interest, even to photography buffs. The 3 points I award the film are solely for its visual style and score. On the strength of their other work, I assume the actors' performances are so disappointing because of a poor script and worse directing, but they are, in the end, unremarkable. "},{"Title":"The driver peeks out, trying to find one face in this concrete world full of souls.","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I quite enjoyed this movie.  Sure, my mind wandered a lot because the story is hardly gripping.  I'm also positive I won't remember much about it next week, except that Minnie Driver's talent and beauty is stunning. STUNNING. I did also feel that the leading man was poorly cast.  He did not seem to me a person that a young, vibrant woman would fall for.  I'm sure the script called for a older man, but age wasn't the problem.  He just didn't seem to fit in with Minnie Driver.  Nonetheless, the whole movie was excellently shot and wonderfully acted and extremely high quality, but conversely it's regrettably forgettable.  (That's a nice phrase, no?) "}{"Title":"One of 1998's Best Films","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why all the negativity about this utterly brilliant motion picture? First of all, Minnie Driver is absolutely splendid. The entire film is beautiful to watch, the story palpably intelligent and erotic. The characters rich and spellbinding. I was enraptured by the first 5 minutes and the story never let me down. Tom Wilkinson was excellent as was Harriet Walter. A definite must see for lovers of intelligent period pieces. Very reminiscent visually of Jane Campion's The Portrait of a Lady and Shekhar Kapur's Elizabeth. Too bad the film (and especially Driver's performance) got so little attention when it was released this summer. Rent it, and then decide how you feel. "},{"Title":"I just love Minnie Driver","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Some actors can only convey emotion with a raised voice. Some can act with broad gestures in the face. But there is something special in Minnie Driver's beautiful face that is missed because she does it so delicately.She can act with her face by the slightest movement around her eyes and her mouth. It is one thing to act with one's lips but even harder I think to convey an emotion with the slightest movement of the corners of the mouth. She has large, round eyes that can look vulnerable or heartbroken or disgusted or all at the same time. Minnie has a way of looking at other actors and seeming to see right through them (especially men). We can tell by the slightest gestures in her face what she is feeling and what she is thinking.This makes her the perfect choice to play Rosina, a woman trapped in the society of the 1840s by the fact that she is a woman and a Jew. There are few options open to this woman. She is an intellectual but no avenue on which to use it.Her father is murdered and in order to support her mother and her sister she takes a job as a governess to The Cavandishs a family living on an island in Scotland. Because they would never hire a Jew she studies new testament and tells the family that she is a Protestant named Mary Blackchurch.The father is as much an intellectual as 'Mary' but his ignorant family falls a bit short of being interested in much of anything. Therefore he spends a lot of time working in his laboratory. He is interested in photography, a new invention and is working on a way to keep the images from fading. She becomes interested in his work. Their common interests draw them to one another. This is not a tired old story of marital infidelity but a story of an attraction that begins with a common bond.There is an eroticism that exists between the two but there are boundaries that keep them apart. She uses posing for him as a way for him to see her and not just her job title. There is a lot of tension going on and Driver uses her expressive face to great advantage. We know that these two would-be lovers won't cross the boundaries (they would be outcasts if they did) but we like to see them dance as close to it as they can. "},{"Title":"Unexpected story but the romance is gross","Date":"23 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Minnie Driver acts well in this fantastical story. Its about a Jewess who pretends to be a Protestant, becomes a governess who helps stablize photography in its early days, and has a torrid affair with her employer. Then finally she becomes a famous photographer.The nudity and romance between Minnie and Tom Wilkinson is tedious and kind of disgusting. He's just way too old for her. Jonathan Rhys Meyers plays a love sick puppy in one of his earlier roles.It's obviously based on a rather bad novel but it's beautifully filmed.Worth a watch if you are a fan of Minnie. Otherwise the romance leaves a bad after taste. "},{"Title":"","Date":"18 August 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wanted to like this one - the situation was rich, and the setting unusual and interesting.  But the story is swamped with  childish female gothic romance elements that are hard to swallow.   The director is unfairly prejudiced against the 'goy' characters -- content to let them be grotesque cardboard caricatures -- and inexplicably indulgent towards the homewrecking behavior of the heroine.   The potentially interesting power struggle between the inventor and the governess is not really dealt with.Feminist film makers will get more credibility when they stop  manipulating situations to throw all the sympathy to the heroine, and start dealing honestly with issues.   This movie more closely resembles 'The 7 Pieces of Gold', another earnest failure, more than 'The Piano' - a real tale of passion. "},{"Title":"A really odd storyline...","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I find this movie was quite rather odd and different. I mean, OK this governess is really much based on a Jewish aristocrat who just took up a teacher job just because she wants to support more for her family. I think it's selfish and rather strange to take up this job. I would understand the story of Jane Eyre on why she had to take up a job as a governess but I did not understand why Rosina da Silva took up the position. This will wonder in my head for a long long time really....Anyways, I thought Minnie Driver looked absolutely stunning, she's like an Italian goddess. I would've preferred her character to be with Jonathan Rhy Mehers character. Although, I thought his voice was too sweet for his role. I know he was meant to play as a teenage boy but I didn't think it suits him personally. You have to admit girls, he still looks hot today even if he has a fiancée xDI kinda like the movie but then again, it's alright to keep you going. I'll give this film 7/10. "},{"Title":"a very rare occasion to hear Sefardi music and observe British Sefardi customs of the early 19th century","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Apart from being a well-acted, well-constructed film, The Governess should be seen by those interested both in Judaica and Romance studies.  The film offers a unique occasion of hearing judezmo, the archaic Spanish spoken by Sefardi Jews, and getting acquainted with  their splendid musical tradition (Classic songs, e.g. Cuando el rey Nimrod, performed instrumentally and by Ofra Haza).  It is also quite interesting to observe e.g. the characteristic head-dress worn by the protagonist when still in her London environment, and customs of the London Sefardi community as portrayed here.  "},{"Title":"I would rather be a prostitute swallowing semolina than become that fish merchant's wife.","Date":"16 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After her father is murdered, Rosina (Minnie Driver) must marry without love or strike out and try something different. She changes her name and takes a job as a governess.Of course, she also has to hide her Jewishness and learn to be a Protestant.Her employer, Charles Cavendish (Tom Wilkinson) is a photographer working on a way to fix the photos he takes so that they last more than a day. She shows an interest in his work and spends her spare time helping. As expected, Minnie Drivers sensuality soon captivates him. He gives up his photographs of nature and gets into portraiture.He realizes that he is not her intellectual equal and, when he discovers that he was in love with a Jewess, he turns very cruel.She returns to London during a cholera epidemic, finding her mother dead. He new knowledge enable her family to survive, and she flourishes.Driver was outstanding, and Jonathan Rhys Meyers was also good as the son.Sandra Goldbacher's first feature film shows much promise. "},{"Title":"I feel the word 'Jewess' must be emblazoned on my forehead. I am not like them.","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Governess is Mary Blackchurch's (her 'Christian' name) story. It is set in 1830s (we learn from the Daguerre reference) in London and the Scottish Isle of Skye, where she becomes a governess to help the family after her father is murdered. If we are to believe Ebert's instincts, it is the author's life story, much as Boyz N the Hood is.Being a photographer, I was 'hooked' when the film turned in that direction. Although not historically accurate, it certainly does a good job of depicting the trial and error used back in the 1800s to master a photographic process in which the resultant image could be fixed. There was a British Cavendish, Henry, but he was not into photography. In this film, Mary accidentally helps discover a fixing process using ordinary salt water. Mary and Carles develop a bond, become lovers, Mary talks of their future together, Charles pulls away, You consume me. I cannot be consumed.I cannot say too much about how fine a performance Minnie Driver gives here.  Especially the scene near the end when she basically is willing to do anything, give anything, to avoid rejection by Charles. Failing, she returns to London, giving nude photos to Charles' wife, and taking along enough chemicals to get her started in her own photographic studio.Charles looks her up, she does a portrait, but the love she professed had been shattered beyond repair. She had given her whole self to Charles, had been rejected, and she moved on.This is a really fine film, different, but enjoyable in the vein of Dangerous Beauty, another period piece where the female protagonist is empowered. The infidelity in Governess is certainly not glorified, but used in the context of a weak husband whose marriage was a routine formality, and a young girl who knew no boundaries, and found a soulmate for the first time. "},{"Title":"A good but flawed period film.","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Driver plays a Jewess in 19th century Scotland who poses as a gentile and takes a governess position to provide income for her family following her father's death. An artistically and technically excellent film, The Governess is flawed to the detriment of the overall effort. Driver's character grows ambiguous and the film wears on; the juxtaposition of the Jewish and Christian is overwrought; the male lead is not sufficiently charismatic; and the story stutters at the end which is anticlimactic at best. Nonetheless, well worth a look especially for Driver fans. "},{"Title":"thoroughly awful","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" *****SPOILERS*********This movie was truly awful. This woman deceives her employers right from the start and then selfishly proceeds to tear them apart. At the end you see her making a profession out of the trade she'd learned from the father of her pupil. I put pupil in quotes because the governess never really seems to teach the child anything. She seems to hate her and can't stand being near her. I felt sorry for the little girl who simply wanted to be loved, absent that, it was understandable that she would say and do outrageous things just to get attention but the viewer wasn't supposed to sympathize with the little girl, the viewer was supposed to sympathize with the governess who hated her pupil and manipulated and deceived her employers. I just couldn't do it. This was not the story of a self made woman, rather, it was a window into the mind of one who uses others at every opportunity with no other thought for anyone outside of her own family. I couldn't stand the governess! This was a really horrible movie. I only paid one dollar to rent it but even that was too much! "}{"Title":"Rosina Then do not look at me.","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Rosina, the child of an Italian-Jewish father and a mother born on the Island of Sky. The warmth of the Sephardic Jewish household of the early 1840's is disturbed by the murder of the da Silva family's father. The headstrong daughter Rosina decides not to marry but seek domestic service. All I need are a pair of white gloves and some humility and an answer to my advertisement. Her wish of stage acting becomes reality the stage of the world. Aware that her Jewishness bars the door to any employment Rosina invents the governess Mary Blackchurch, a Protestant whose part-Italian ancestry explains her olive skin.while Mrs Cavendish lives a life in boredom her husband is absorbed in the pioneering studies of photography. Mysterious study of which the servant Cook says, that it has something to do with capturing the shadows of ghosts. Secretly she enters at night the study, looking around and seeing the box camera at the window and the 'ghost'-pictures. Next morning she positions herself outside the study, photo typed by Charles Cavendish, inviting her to come and join her in his work as assistant &#x96; partly released from her normal duties.. But how he tries the pictures fade and vanish. Mary, following in her room the Jewish traditions, she celebrates Passover by mistake she spills saltwater on a photo type on her bedside table, wiping it dry.Next morning she discovers that the picture has not vanished. She rushes to the study and Charles It is Salt solution, you clever girl. The mixture of sodium chloride he did not see how could I have been so stupid. It was starring me into the face. Rosina, conscious of the males dominance You should be proud of what you've done. You've made it possible to capture the essence of people, to fix memory, fix people, &#x85; lost people &#x85; in one's mind forever. When Rosita suggests after the salted picture discovery again a portrait (she asked before Have you ever recorded a photo type of a human face?) he agrees. Eventually both are unable to resist as man and woman; 'devoured' by the eager woman with her answering kiss &#x96; and his bad conscience How late it is. But too late for both. Charles says Your eyes are so huge.You devour me to which she answers Then do not look at me. I've heard it said that the ancient Hebrews used to express love for each other entirely covered. Then Do I look different? You showed me how to be an inventor. And now I feel as though I could do anything. I want to understand everything about you. I want, I want to invent a way of fixing this moment for ever. Forgetting what her aunt said to her mother after her fathers death You never really know a man's true nature. It is all God's will. Rosina setts the pace, knowing what she wants, knowing a mans true nature &#x96; never forgetting the master and who the servant is Could we not &#x85; could you not, or Cavendish method. Cavendish Blackchurch method &#x85; or even the Blackchurch Cavendish method. Charles Are you trying to overtake me, Miss? And then the forbidden moment when Rosina goes beyond the point of no return. Charles talks of his mothers and Rositas hair. While fiddling with it he falls asleep and Rosina sees her chance. She undresses him, arranging his left leg &#x96; on the developed photo type it is the right leg. Too late she discovers her mistake. Charles is unable to forgive her that she crossed the line. And when the Royal Society's Hewlitt comes, the idea of the salted pictures are his Science is not always an entirely rational being. These matters are not always of interest to the ladies. Rosina, hopes to wind back time, humiliates herself Charles, I know I have angered you. I know you do not like me to use the camera. Please forgive me. I'm sorry. It was just a gift to show my love. &#x85;. And our plans, what about the future? I will, I will not be so demanding. I promise you I won't. I will not talk of love. I will not speak of the future. I promise I will be whatever you want me to be. What do you want me to be? &#x85; Forgive me. I beg you, forgive me. I love you. But done is done and no forgiveness. After her halfhearted revenge with his son she leaves for London. Leaving she confronts the family at supper. Dressed in her Jewish outfit, Mrs Cavendish asks Have we a Christmas charades? Rosina gives her the compromising photo type of her naked husband.Back in London Rosina becomes a well known, unmarried photographers for her own people. One day Charles is her customer, defeated as he is I'm in your hands Miss da Silva. Do with me what you will. She Could you turn your head a little more into the light? Still for a full minute. And he Are we done? and she Yes, Yes, I think so. Quite done. If you leave your address with my sister, leaving him, the print will be ready within a week. While he in the background he goes she stops. Last scene while working I think of Scotland hardly ever at all now. My images are much admired, and I am even to give a lecture at the Royal Society. They say I have captured the beauty of my father's people, and I am glad. Preparing a self portrait, looking into the camera My Mary Blackchurch days seem long gone now. I hardly ever think of what might have been, or why he came to find me, or why it is that you love most those who always seem to be turning away from you. Work is a wonderful restorative. "},{"Title":"Essential viewing, if only for one reason","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a deeply flawed film.  Supporting characters are never fleshed out and the ending simply does not ring true. But coming as it does in the wake of several films about the Holocaust (with more on the way, one imagines), The Governess accomplishes something extremely important it presents Judaism and Jewishness as normal and desirable.Indeed, the film takes a fairly dim view of other states of existence.  Gentiles -- particularly Christians -- who are thinking of seeing this film should be warned that they and their culture do not come off very well.The Governess is also a very beautiful film to look at and listen to.Happy Passover, everyone!  "},{"Title":"It could be shorter and more intense.","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like Minnie Driver, I really do, but honestly, this film is a disappointment. The story and characters have so much potential, but the movie is a drag of uninteresting scenes that are way too long and unrealistic. I keep waiting for something interesting or intense to happen but somehow it never did.  The build up that supposely leads to the relationship between Rosina and Charles seems weak and vague.  The relationship between Rosina and Henry, however, seems more interesting but too short.  Wouldn't recommend this to anyone unless you are a huge Minnie Driver fan, it is always a treat to watch her act. "},{"Title":"Overall an excellent , intelligent film","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was slagged off in the Radio Times but I'd checked the viewer comments here and decided to watch it . My one main problem with this is Minnie Driver . She can't do restrained and repressed . It's not her . She's not Helena Bonham-Carter or Kristin Scott Thomas . The fragile English rose , she's not . Stillness doesn't suit her . When she lets rip at Tom Wilkinson she comes alive . Let's see some more of that kind of temperament in her performances . Apart from that it is a very well put together film although the wonderfulness of this Jewish woman alone in the Gentile world of the nineteenth century gets laid on with a trowel , somewhat . Nevertheless an interesting and unusual film . "},{"Title":"Labour of love makes for love's labours (slight spoilers)","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I usually glean valuable insights into films from the user comments at IMDB, but reading the critiques of `The Governess' I feel that many of the commentaries are colour-blind, missing the fine detail--how many ways can I say the same thing--there's more to this period piece than seems to have met the common eye. It's not just a sepia-and-white romantic snapshot, as some commentators allege, but a moving picture in subtle hues.In the main, many seem to have missed the driving force behind the unusual alliance at the core of the film why Rosina falls for the older Cavendish and not his fair-faced but very green son. It's obviously not for his looks or his years-notwithstanding Rosina's grief for her suddenly deceased father, and all the Freudian implications of her being `floated' above her bed.It's self-evident in the film's unfolding that the sparks catch where they do because of a common pursuit and a shared passion, and one that is especially exciting to these two people because it gives them the sense they are innovating and creating something valuable. Rosina is lonely, bereft, and far from home, in many different senses. When she finds herself suddenly welcomed and valued, drawn toward fixing beauty and expressing herself, it's natural for her gratitude and sense of being closely connected to flower into erotic love for the man who opens that opportunity for her. Had her nasty and narcissistic `mistress' been the creative and welcoming one, rather than her `master', things could have been quite different and less socially explosive (and made for much less interesting cinema.)I'm not without quibbles about this movie-I think the governess has far too much `free' time and is far too able to get herself into trouble in the heart of this remotely situated family, without being caught. She's also far too unworried about being caught. A young woman in her circumstances would have to be afraid of social ruin (and a lot more careful about her fertility) than Director/writer Sandra Goldbacher's  main character.But this is a special film, notwithstanding its anachronistic feminism. The special flavour of the Jewish woman's culture and the prejudice of English society against it, the photographic odyssey of Rosina and Cavendish, the believable pleasures and pain of the characters all make for a real find in a film not given due attention. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very authentic portrayal of a Jewish girl's adventure. Minnie Driver is very convincing as the Jew girl, who after her father's death comes for employment to a christian house. She passes herself off as a christian girl and become the governess of the small girl in the house.Here she falls in love which leads to a disaster for her. Wonderfully portrayed and supported by the cast, the movie is a nice thought provoking movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A young Jewish girl masquerades as a very proper Protestant  one in order to support her family after her father's death. The early scenes with her family in London are delightful, but the movie goes to hell in a handbasket once it moves to Scotland where she falls desperately in love with her cold, dull as dishwater employer, then carries on a torrid naked-in-the-roses affair with him right under the noses of his neglected, desperately bored wife, his nosey little girl, and his wacky son, played by Jonathan Rhys Meyers, who obligingly chews up the scenery in his obsession for her. As portrayed by Minnie Driver, the girl is bright, funny and full of life. I can't understand why she would give a whit for this stodgy grandfather figure, especially considering that her own father was so witty, vivacious and attractive.  And that they are not found out until she literally shoves photographic evidence into the poor wife's face defies reason.  "},{"Title":"Beautifully atmospheric period film with rich performances","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was very disturbed to see the negative comments posted, here, about this unique and rather splendid film. Minnie Driver, Tom Wilkinson, and Jonathan Rhys-Meyers all turn in compelling and seductive performances in this erotic Victorian costume drama. This is a must for fans of such costume dramas that attack the senses with palpable sexuality and stimulate the mind with intellectual characters. (The Wings of the Dove, Wilde, The Portrait of a Lady and Oscar and Lucinda jump to mind of the more recent films to which this compares.) This film is Driver's finest role to date and the director and photographer work well together with the actors, musical composers, and art-directors to provide a lavish atmosphere for the story to unfold. This is one of those rare period pieces with a PULSE,  not boring, but alive and kicking.Hats off, too, for first -time writer/director Sandra Goldblacher for providing such a solid debut film. This was a very pleasurable way to immerse a true movie-goer on a hot Saturday afternoon.   "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I only watched this to see more of Jonathan Rhys Meyers work. I truly enjoyed this movie, it was beautiful.  And the strange character played by JRM didn't disappoint me at all.  It was educational as well.  I found out some things about photography that I never know.  This movie was great. "},{"Title":"Sensual and riveting","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This extraordinary period piece was breath taking and at times painfully real.  Rosina (Mary Blackchurch) becomes interested in her employer's experiments with photography fixation and subsequently falls in love (while pursued by her employer's son).  Rosina's first experience with love is tumultuous and passionate.  Rosina's employer, played brilliantly by Tom Wilkinson, shared her passion but was unable to embrace the new emotions awakened within.  Charles Cavendish, like his castle, was at times dim and hollow.  Rosina (Minnie Driver) tries to bring life to an otherwise cold and lifeless environment.  Some viewers have wondered why the Rosina character would fall for the older man, when the son (Henry) was obviously smitten.  Considering the immature and bizarre behavior of Henry Cavendish (played by Jonathan Rhys-Meyers), should anyone wonder at all?  The senior Cavendish despite his shortcomings possessed a mysteriously masculine allure that would charm any young woman looking for both a lover and a father figure.  Unfortunately, in this story the viewer will witness that love (alone) is not always enough to sustain a relationship.  This film is well done and worth watching.     "}{"Title":"The Mystery Woman Who Remains a Mystery","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since the excellent film, The Piano, which explores a woman breaking free from constricting female roles in the 19th century, some films (such as Wings of the Dove) think that female characters can be conflicted and inconsistent with little explanation. The Governess falls into this category. In spite of this The Governess is not poorly made. It has atmosphere whether the setting is the English countryside or showing Jewish ceremonies and traditions of the time. The supporting characters in the English manor whether bored or brooding or silly provide a clear and interesting background for the Minnie Driver character.But the question I cannot answer is what is the movie's main character trying to accomplish? If she is a governess to get money for her suffering family then why jeopardize her job with a love affair? If she wants to be the colleague of a scientist who is the man of the house then why go behind his back? If she loves him then why in the end reject him and by implication all physical love? If she wants to be true to Judaism, then why bother with these bigots? As the plot swings back and forth with all of this melodrama the motivations of our heroine become less clear until they fade away like an old photograph. The heroine in The Piano is made a symbol and in a sense represents the feminine. Whether by design or lack of skill the Minnie Driver character is not a universal symbol of womanhood. If she is a real human being, then we need to understand why she makes the severe choices at the end of the movie.As a well photographed glimpse into the past with some exotic touches the Governess works well. As a portrait of a Jewish woman living in the England in the 19th century the film starts out with a compelling story. But in the end after a strange romance, we only understand that the main character likes to change her mind a lot with little or no explanation. "},{"Title":"One of the most boring movies I have ever seen","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had an excellent premise, and could have been a fascinating look at racism, attitudes to women at work and male female relations in England early last century.  However, it simply turned into a soppy love story.  But what was worse, is that the love story was totally unbelievable.  The acting was for the most part poor, the direction confusing, but most of all the screenplay and the story were non-existent.  The only thing I liked about the film was how dark it must have been before electric lighting.  I really got a sense of just how little light one candle puts out. "},{"Title":"But we can be any self we want, can't we?","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Governess was, by far, a very pitiful film. I do not use this word loosely, as it honestly was a poor excuse for a movie. I finished watching this feature with only one word on my mind &#133; why? Honestly, you could use this question at the end of every scene of this film and it would seem like it fit. There were so many inconsistencies that lead to a lack of development (both in the story and in the characters) which ultimately lead to a very confusing film with actors walking through the motions instead of giving any explanation. Scenes would occur with no foreshadowing, understanding, or drive to a complete ending. It was as if I was watching several different ideas thrown together without really any resolution. Actors were setting events in motion that did not seem to fit their character or really were resolved. This was my biggest issue with this film. The complete and utter lack of structure to this film brought all specks of foundation crumbling down with a genuine ripple-effect being felt throughout the rest of the film as a result.Let me explain myself further on this lack of consistency throughout the film. I would liken this film to a bowl of lumpy oatmeal that had a zebra in it. It made no sense nor was there any logic behind it all. Minnie Driver was the worst culprit of this deed. Her character's lines were drawn very fuzzy and nearly transparent. She would do things like talk about sex all the time with her sister, but yet she seemed very open to sexual experiences all the time. She has her first moment of passion in this film, and there is no pain or excitement. It nonchalantly happens, and this just didn't seem to fit the original conversation that we had at the beginning of the film with Rosina and her sister. She is a very intelligent woman that accidentally finds a solution to Wilkinson's problem and suddenly wants full rights to his invention? That was confusing and completely random. Is it not obvious to anyone else that her teaching methods were non-existent. Anyone in their right mind could see that she wasn't teaching Cavendish's daughter anything. The sudden and awkward relationship that randomly forms between Driver and Jonathan Rhys-Meyers nearly had me laughing out loud. I thought maybe I had discovered some magic in this film as Rhys-Meyers literally poofed into the scene and suddenly caused some unneeded drama. It felt that the director (or writer) was thinking that the original story was going nowhere fast, so by adding this random character we may be able to advance the plot a bit (or confuse the lesser film enthusiasts). Well, it didn't fool me, I saw that he was nearly a cut-and-paste character used to strengthen an already weakened story. Don't get me started on the ending, which had no consistency to the rest of the story. Again using the cut-and-paste method, the writer of this film needed a way to just end the story, and this was the only solution they could arrive to. It is sad when actors are forced to do things out of character &#133; but I guess that is the name of the game in Hollywood. Fix until completely broken, or at least salvageable.The remainder of the story was unexciting dribble. There were maybe a handful of neat cinematography moments where you could see that there was one sliver of creativity trying to peak through coupled with some bars of decent, period piece music, but nothing to write to Grandma about. More family structure with some stronger introductions could have strengthened this film a bit more, but as I stated before, by leaving open-ended scenes just lying around the entire film, you will experience a crack in your foundation. What may seem like a sturdy story, will eventually wear down over time, and by the end of this film I felt that the house was crumbling down on top of me. Wilkinson plays his normal self in this film, while Driver apparently did not want to get naked, but everyone else had too (I will have to see a doctor after those images were burned into my eyes &#133; eeewwww). Also, she wore the same dress everyday. That was disgusting and I could smell her through the television. Sex and dirty laundry. Now there is a great film for you! There just seemed to be some potential floating around here, but instead it was just rubbish. Nothing was answered, questions seemed to fall like snow in Alaska, and mediocrity seemed to reign supreme.Overall, this could have been a decent film that combined the powerful themes of science and love together, but instead it was just pitiful. I cannot stress enough the disturbing fact that characters were going through motions without any sort of pre-explanation. I don't need cinematic moments handed to me like a child, but something should have been done to build a foundation. Just remember the oatmeal with a zebra analogy that I used. If you were as confused about that as I was, then you will completely understand the film The Governess, while if you prefer zebras in your oatmeal &#133; then, maybe this film is for you!Grade * out of ***** "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If I heard the male lead say This is madness! one more time I would have barfed.  The film is one big cliche, with fake grind him under your heel attitudes.  Not one male in this movie has one redeeming quality; reminds me of Soviet-era films with strongly politically-oriented messages.  I couldn't even understand WHY there was attraction between the leads, nor could I wait for the ending. "},{"Title":"The Governess as a feminist film.","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sandra Goldbacher's premiere as a feature film writer/director is groundbreaking. The discomfort some feel regarding the character Rosina (played by Minnie Driver) as a 19th century Jewess disguising herself as a Protestant in order to work as a governess can be attributed to the purposeful destabilization of the social hierarchy both within the film and without. Rosina (who calls herself Mary Blackchurch in her disguise) plays several roles in the household, each of which she makes her own in very subtle but important ways. This film is not necessarily satiating plot-wise, but is richly rewarding for its commentary on the role of women. "},{"Title":"A Kodak Moment (DVD)","Date":"16 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Another great movie with Minnie ! It's sad that she had a meteoric career because she really stood out.Here, she plays a surprising Jew girl in Britain at Victorian time. Even if her family is wealthy, the death of her father leads her to search for work. She gets it as a governess of a spoiled young girl leaving in a isolated island. During her stay, she would find love and participate in the invention of photography. Thus, there are a lot of ideas, emotions, feelings here that makes a fast, gripping movie. I think that this lonely place helps to maximize the tension, all above that the sets and costume are beautiful and for modern eyes of cities settlers, it looks fairy! As it's about leaving home, making a trip and dividing faiths, it's funny to notice that human always carry a luggage that is weightless and is the ultimate glue for people the libido! Unaware of it, even when Minnie is locked in a tiny island for working and inventing photography, this pulsing has accompanied her, lurking and waiting for the perfect time to get out it's not really surprising that the first takes are nude composition and having lost her dear father, Minnie falls in love with the only mature man.As her story is told with a lot of heart, fragility and truth, it leaves a warmly memory! "},{"Title":"It explains, how does it happen that Jews are the factor of progress","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I asked myself, why Jews are the main factor of all progress in history. This movie is the best  answer I could get. It describes in details the jewish influence and their pain of being better, wiser etc.at the same time. It leaves the viewer satisfied, grateful  and fascinated.  "},{"Title":"Compelling.....","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I started watching the film because of Jonathon Rhys-Meyers. I finished watching the film for every part of it.It was stunning. Minnie Driver was much overlooked in her role as Rosina, a young Jewish woman struggling to support her family.Tom Wilkinson and Florence Hoath also deliver pleasing performances as unhappily married couple. Jonathan Rhys-Meyers' small but powerful performance as Henry Cavindish, an infatuated young man is almost terrifying.  This film is not only a love story, but a story of obsession, lust, invention and greed. 'The Governess' is a piece of artwork painted before the viewers eyes. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Jewish girl assumes WASP identity and everyone wants to sleep with her","Date":"14 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sandra Goldbacher had good intentions with this film.  It seems like she  wanted to contrast the two different worlds of Rosina/Mary and explore the  conflict between them.  She got a bit side-tracked with the unbelievable  love story.  Also, her characters lack dimension - they do things that  aren't explained.  the Governess did include some pretty photography, but  it would have been nice if a good script with developed, motivated  characters and adequate dialogue had accompanied it.  Maybe if the dialogue  hadn't been so sparse, the characters would have seemed more developed and  the film wouldn't have been so dull.  There is a limit to how many times I  can watch Minnie pose for the camera before I start to fall asleep.  "},{"Title":"Awful bodice ripper on film","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jane Eyre with full frontal nudity!  I was not surprised to see that a woman had had a hand in this awful woman's picture and I mean that in the worst possible way.  The trouble is, it could have been so good if they had only left out the Jane Eyre stuff and stuck with the vastly more interesting scenes involving the Spanish/Portuguese Jews in early 19th century London. When the sound track music is better than the film, you know you are in trouble.  When you fast forward the video because you can't stand the film, just to make sure you don't miss anything, you are in even worse trouble. This film will end up on the romance TV channel where it rightly belongs.  "}{"Title":"Stark and very trite!","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm from the UK, but there's only so much of these typical period pieces that I can take. Gosh! the governess was very tasking for me, although it was refreshing to see a woman like the Jewish governess Minnie Driver plays here, exist and hold her own within that time frame. She is sent to go work as a governess in the home of Tom Wilkinson's character (who inadvertently falls in love with her) and sooner than later she becomes the center of the household for more reasons than one. The master's children are smitten with her, her mistress loathes but tolerates her and she (Driver) induces and nurtures an affair so scandalous with the man of the house that it is probably what inspired the son (played by Johnathan Rhys Myers) to come after her as well. The whole premise is sick, and nobody wins in the end. It was well-acted but that's about all I can say for it. Sorry if I truly spoiled the synopsis of this film for you but, I just couldn't help but tell it like it is. I have initiated the spoiler alert check-mark so please don't be too offended with my review. "},{"Title":"Evocative and Entertaining, But Slow and Superficial","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hmm. What to say? I liked it, overall. It's a nice little picture. It moves kind of slow, is the main problem. Minnie Driver, despite being a slightly odd choice for the lead, is quite good, showing just the right combination of determination, petulance, and romantic obsession. Tom Wilkinson is great, too. Torn between his desire for the governess and his fear that she will devour him, his agony is palpable. The mother and daughter roles are small, but very well done. Jonathan Rhys-Meyers character is a little batty. Henry's a freak about half the time, and swooning in unrequited love the other half, which strangely enough does seem to evoke the reckless passion of an emotionally immature boy looking for a reason to be. (Plus we get to see Rhys-Meyers get his kit off. A decent movie, quite good in fact. Not for everyone, surely. Good performances all around, and a unique look at the time and place. It didn't quite get deep enough, and some of it seems superficial, but it functions well as a character study. "},{"Title":"An ambitious failure.","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Governess is one of those films you want to like--an independent effort to tell the story of people we rarely here about, the Jewish community in Victorian England.  But instead of telling their story, or the story of Rosina (played by an excellent Minnie Driver)as she discovers herself and her love for photography, it spends all its time on an improbable romance.  It's really rather demeaning for the beautiful, intelligent, young Rosina to fall so absolutely in love with her employer (Tom Wilkinson).  To be blunt, he's not young, not at all good looking, not kind, and a lot dumber than she is.  The romance, in other words, never works.  And why, may I ask, do all female coming-of-age films have to center on love and sex?  I expected a lot from this film, and I'm afraid I was quite disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Jonathan Rhys Meyers shines in an otherwise dull film.","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie could have been wonderful. It had potential.  However, the relationship between Minnie Driver's character and Tom Wilkinson's was dreadful.  Completely unbelievable.  I couldn't help but wonder why Rosina would not be attracted to Henry (the unnaturally beautiful Jonathan Rhys Meyers) but instead fell in love with his father, who is considerably older than she.  It is not only the age difference, but the fact that it is very difficult to believe that a girl of such high religious morals would have an explicit sexual relationship with a man who has little or no respect for her religion.  That doesn't make any sense.  It is particularly irritating when Mr. Wilkinson's character discovers that Rosina is of the Jewish faith, after which he ignores Rosina and discredits her of her knowledge of photography.  About this time, Henry (Jonathan Rhys Meyers) tells Rosina of his love for her; a love unconditional of faith.  STILL she refuses him, and belittles him.  She uses him, and breaks his heart by leaving him to go back to her previous home.  Minnie Driver's performance is above adequate, and fans of hers should probably see this movie, but be aware of a disappointment in her character.  Fans of Jonathan Rhys Meyers are highly encouraged to see this.  He is brilliant. His performance is beautiful, lyrical, and heart breaking.  Even those who have not seen Mr. Rhys Meyers before should see this and know what they're missing.  "},{"Title":"Slow, tedious, but watchable","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Why is it that so often the controlling part of the human heart desires most the person who obviously does not share the same feeling and attraction? Why does a person have less interest in someone whose love comes quickly and easily?THE GOVERNESS is a slow, tedious, not perfectly realistic, but still, not that difficult to watch, study of the seductiveness of rejection.  I found it to be worth my time, but not interesting enough to call good.  "},{"Title":"Was the director on a holiday?","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had potential.  If it had been handled differently.  What it needed was a different director.  That's certain.  And perhaps a different leading lady.  I just can't understand the Minnie Driver character - or at least how she played it.  She was completely unbelievable.  I cannot believe she would have liked her performance in this movie either.  She was probably abandoned by the director or incapable of delivering what the director was trying to get her to do.  I am writing this as I am still watching it.  I'm thinking I would have hated to be in her shoes trying to 'act' something I didn't understand.  Well, we've just proceeded to the affair she begins with the son (I'm still watching).  I'm now beginning to be profoundly embarrassed for everyone involved in this enterprise.  If you enjoy watching movies that miss their mark in a big way, then watch this one.   "},{"Title":"Nice scenery, unsympathetic protagonist","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Minnie Driver is cute and photogenic.  While the male characters are charming, she is the main draw.  My own observation is that Driver was a bit mature to be playing a naive young virgin forced out into the cold, cruel world, but she is fetching and made for this part.Now that that is out of the way, I found the film unsatisfying.  The title character is largely unsympathetic.  A spoiled rich girl forced to find gainful employment after the death of her father, Driver embarks on an elaborate deception.  She pretends to be a Christian so that she may service - in more ways than one, it turns out - a remote, conservative British family.  That this is somewhat fanciful (perhaps there were jobs closer by that paid more than 20 pounds a year?) draws a romance novel aura right from the start.Once ensconced in the busom of her employer's family - passing herself off as being of Italian descent when the other characters all but give her knowing winks - our heroine proceeds to a) seduce the married patriarch (she is hardly a victim) who is disturbingly reminiscent of her own beloved papa; b) betray him with his emotionally immature son; c) photograph him sleeping nude without his knowledge or consent, which he later makes clear invaded his privacy; d) actively seek to break up his family by having him run away with her; and e) publicly expose (!) him to his family using her misbegotten photographs.  Perhaps he had it coming because his qualms arose too late, but he winds up the most sympathetic figure, victim of an avenging poseur with no sense of responsibility for her actions.The governess winds up having the presence of mind upon leaving to steal the new-fangled photography idea (which she has improved despite having no background in it - plucky girl!) and to go into business for herself, becoming (of course) a huge success.  Can't have a romance tale without the big success-is-the-best-revenge payoff, I suppose, especially at the what-goes-around-comes-around expense of the fellow who hurt her.The character of the patriarch is nicely, if stiffly, played by Tom Wilkinson.  Once he ends the affair, he loses all color and interest - he becomes part of the scenery, as he was before the affair began.  The son is played in an annoyingly bratty fashion by Jonathan Rhys-Meyers.  The other female characters are largely ciphers, except for some cute scenes by little Florence Hoath.  The overall effect is that everyone is filtered through the governess' perspective and her changing emotional priorities, in keeping with the romance novel attitude.Driver's characterization is a bit erratic.  After maintaining a cool, calculating exterior, the governess incongruously explodes into a fit of sobbing passion some time after being rejected - then just as suddenly resumes her passionless, predatory behavior.  More time devoted to her emotional development would have been useful.While by nature your standard bodice-ripper - Driver quite literally rips off her own bodice - I term this a proto-feminist film.  The caveats are that the feminist impulses arise in a catty and under-handed context and the heroine seems more driven by spite and desire than by intent.  She encounters adversity, then adventure and romance, then betrayal and bitter revenge, then brilliant success - yes, I think I've seen that plot before. "},{"Title":"The Governess Was Anything But **1/2","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite strong performances by Minnie Driver and Tom Wilkinson, this film fails to ignite the imagination of the viewer.By the way, what has become of Ms. Driver? She had such a potential in the film industry.This to me was almost like an 1850s version of Yentl without the musical fanfare. With the death of her father, Driver takes a position as a governess to a Christian family, hiding her Jewish identity.While I realize that this is a period peace, it was awfully dull even for 1850 England and Scotland.The lady of the house is most irritating with that sing-song voice of hers. I expected her to refer to Driver as dear at any moment. What kind of name is Mary Blackchurch? I know that Driver is trying to pass herself off as a Christian, but does this name signify all the way?In the interim, Mary finds love with the young charge's father (Wilkinson) and his emotionally unbalanced son.In the end, the only thing that we see accomplished is that Mary has found a profession to provide for her family-photography. Did we really have to be subjected to what was happening throughout the film?The early scenes of Judaism practiced in 19th century England and the cholera epidemic at the end could have been played up more. There is a definite underlying feeling of anti-Semitism by the Wilkinson family but that's never allowed to come out. "},{"Title":"Few shining moments","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Exploring wonderful literature from our past, such as the recent magnificent Jane Austen revivals and the renewed interest in Shakespeare, has unearthed timeless tales of wonderful force and clarity.  Through the faithful adaptations of these masterpieces, we get a glimpse of another lifetime. Unfortunately, force and clarity are two virtues The Governess lacks.An interesting storyline with much potential, Minnie Driver plays a Jewess in late 19th century England who loses her father to murder early in the movie and chooses to flee London to become a nursemaid to a young gentile girl in the country by posing as a Christian herself.  An infatuation ensues between the master of the house (Charles Cavendish) and Mary Blackchurch (Driver's assumed gentile identity) leading to a fairly unbelievable affair. We find out that Mr. Cavendish is working on some photographic experimentations, and lo and behold Mary has the answer to most of his problems, both scientifically and emotionally.Good performances by all, but characters as flat and undeveloped as the crude photography they are trying to refine.  The film tries so hard to be important, it is neither entertaining nor believable.  Perhaps one of its greatest flaws, however, is its incredible lack of pacing.  Most great British films keenly understand the fine development of subtlety through attention to detail which requires more time.  The Governess is just slow. We see several minutes of pointless interaction which neither develop characters nor move plot and becomes, instead, gratuitous sexual encounters or simply a vehicle to show off set dressing.The cast is capable of more and one comes away with a sense of this could have been great, or at least good.  Instead, it is neither great nor good and has one looking at the clock to see when the counting will stop. "},{"Title":"","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Beautifully photographed and acted film.  Too bad it is so steeped in such a  feminist point of view.  "}{"Title":"Peculiar presentation of early photography","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First, a confession I'm not really in a position to review this film (which I caught this evening on Bravo), because I found it so deeply and frequently annoying that I spent as much time surfing away from it as watching it.I will make one observation, however. Fairly late in the film -- which is set in the earliest days of photography -- Minnie Driver's character is shown making a portrait of two young women. Driver -- ostensibly a talented photographer -- removes the lens cover (there being, of course, no mechanical shutters at the time) for the requisite VERY long exposure. While the image is being exposed, she essentially tells her giggling subjects to say Cheese. Now what do you think the finished photo would look like under such circumstances? A messy, worthless blur? Bingo.Virtually nothing in this film -- set design, presentation of early photo methods, character motivation -- made any sense to me. But, as I said, perhaps I missed something as I feverishly tapped away at my remote. "},{"Title":"The history was interesting, the movie was not...","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just recently saw this movie and although I liked the photography storyline, the movie itself dragged. You sat there waiting for something to happen and when it did, it was almost not worth the wait. The scenes were broken, the dream sequences were not clearly defined (they were over before you realized that they were a dream), the costuming took away from the film. I kept watching the dress Minnie Driver was wearing vs. what was happening on the screen. I did like Minnie Driver's character...strong in will, yet weak in love. Very intelligent and soughtout revenge in a most knowledgeable way.If you like history, you might enjoy the historical factors in this film, if you can sit through the slow parts. "},{"Title":"Not Good","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not good. Mostly because you don't give a damn about what happens to all these people. Some comments  1. I am tired of seeing governesses who never talk to their pupils, never teach them anything and take a tired and annoyed look whenever the said pupil, who of course has been won over in the space of 4 seconds, says something 2. Fine, so Rosina has a father complex and therefore is attracted to her employer. But Charles is completely different in all aspects from her father - if anything Henry is much closer as a sensual, exalted person 3. How could you ever believe that she would be more attracted to Tom Wilkinson than to Rhys Meyer. 4. Hard to believe, if she had been in fact raised as a deeply religious girl, that she would be so careless about sleeping with a gentile after knowing him for 5 minutes.Some good things about the film  At least she didn't end up pregnant, not knowing who the father was... The whole description of life in the Jewish community in London is good "},{"Title":"Hiding her Jewish heritage, Rosina takes a job as a governess and falls in love with a reclusive scientist.","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film starts out well enough.  Warm lighting and a cheery disposition.   But as  Minnie Driver's character is forced to find work  to support her family, the swing from cheery to moody to depressing is so  huge that it's distracting.  Not that there's anything to be distracted  from since the love story between Rosina and Cavendish is totally  unbelievable and is completely contrived.  It's as if someone took people  from the 1990's and subplanted them in the 1890's and had fun with a story.   But this film is far from fun--in fact, it's dead boring with really weird  characters (esp. Henry Cavendish, the son who comes home from Oxford after  being expelled for using opium) that don't really have a place in the  story.  Lost motivations, ambiguous direction, poor production quality, and  flat lighting make this film extremely hard to watch.  And try as she might,  Minnie Driver just can't get this movie to float--even with such an  interesting character as Rosina Da Silva.  Even the title is misleading  because she  hardly does any governing!  Still, you have to like Ms. Driver  for going after a role that could have been so rich but ultimately is left  poor and destitute by a weak story and extremely incoherent direction.  Too  bad... "},{"Title":"What was the entire point of this movie?","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie very much. However, I am still a bit baffled as to what the entire point of the movie was. I also thought that another actress as the lead would have added to the dramatic essence of this picture. Really though, Minnie Driver must have been delusional to choose that mean, confused man over the young and handsome Jonathan Rhys Meyers. Although I enjoyed the movie, Minnie Driver's character annoyed me quite a bit. She was too weak at one moment, and then at the next she was supposed to be in complete control of everything. Besides that, the movie was wonderful and it must have been great if I can not enjoy the main actress, and yet still find myself uncontrollably drawn to the story. "},{"Title":"Jane Austen ripoff","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  With a plotline lifted from Jane Austen, we see a young woman made destitute by the death of her father forced into a life of service to the rich.  A torrid love affair ensues in which we are voyeuristically inserted. However, the motivations of the characters are never made clear.  Is the heroine opportunistic, naive, or merely blind to the consequences of her actions?  Fans of Minnie Driver will not be disappointed, those of us expecting a plot were, however. "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie with totally unreal character interactions","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, it seemed like the kind of movie I normally like. But, the scientist was able to resist love. The protagonist was able to change from a child to a confident adult to a distressed child, to a confident adult at the whim of the writer/director. The son sent home from University was so poorly conceived that I was never able to categorize him or understand why anyone would treat him as other than deranged and dangerous. "},{"Title":"Monica and Bill on the Isle of Skye","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie started out as a fascinating, rich, glimpse of the life of Sephardic Jews in early 19th century London, but with the death of the Rosina De Silva's father, disaster followed. The promise presented in the contrast between the sheltered life of her close knit community with the terror and possibility in a strange new world was converted instead into Monica and Bill on the Isle of Skye  And there is no doubt that I felt sorry for Bill in this version. This Monica (Rosina) will never be satisfied to be an administrative assistant.  And she too spills the beans when she is spurned.   "},{"Title":"Starts slow, then comes to a complete stop.","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Minnie Driver is horribly miscast as the lead in this film, in as much as her on-screen appearance is neither friendly, nor inviting  (in the future she should also shy away from anything that involves her getting 'wet' argh!-I can't Even imagine watching Hard Rain). As the Annabella Sciorras, and the Emma Thompsons before her, Ms. Driver will have to quickly accept the fact that she has little to offer in a role that is supposed to 'carry' a film. She just has not the acting skills, nor the on-screen magic that someone like Kate Winslet or Gwyneth Paltrow has, nor has she the energy or effervescence that, say Rose McGowan has.I grabbed the film for Tom Wilkinson anyway, having recently become quite the fan of this British J.T. Walsh. A wonderful character actor who has raised his profile in the US significantly of late with appearances in Shakespeare in Love, The Full Monty, and Sense and Sensibility.The story fails even the Driver-factor, ambling on like one of those scripts developed in a screen-writing class 'who has an idea?' 'how about a young Jewess loses her money and has to take on work in Scotland in the 1800s' 'good, but we need some conflict in the first act'.'maybe she falls for the master of the house, but the son has eyes for her as well'.'good'.you know the rest.And it goes from bad to worse. It's impossible to complete this puzzle with so many ill-fitting pieces.  "}]