[{"Title":"Very funny and intriguing","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't know how this ended up with such a middling rating. It stands out as one of the wittiest, strangest and well-constructed films I've seen in years. Well photographed, with many characters wonderfully and unexpectedly acted. Appropriate for almost any mood, occasion or atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Inside the theater, but not too inside.","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wonderful characters, glib and meaningful dialogue, a portrait of theater and its denizens so complete you believe the film is a biography.There are no small actors here because there are no small parts. What might have been a cameo becomes a pivotal role.It has been said that the film was missing direction. Not at all. What was happening there was style. This guys loves women and shape and color, and what he likes best is wit.The entire cast....and that is everybody, was wonderful, so good you could smell the sweat. Camera and sets were so good you could hear floor boards creak. Music, well and tastefully done.Recommendation see it once for the discovery, twice for the appreciation, three times for the education. You will not be bored. "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Great bawdy fun! This has a lot to enjoy and we did. If you like delightful actors letting out all the stops as they clearly enjoy going over the top, or good, often excellent wit and writing, see this movie. They had lots of fun with humorous sexuality, very interesting sets, costumes and visual moments that stay in the mind.If you've ever taken an acting class, wanted to be on stage or known an actor with a larger than life ego and personality whom you couldn't help but love (even when you wanted to throttle him/her), this movie is for you. Illuminata is a real treat that we had never heard of before borrowing it from our local library. I hope you enjoy it nearly as much as we did. "},{"Title":"Puppets Talk Back","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Superficially about love (isn't everything?) this effort really concerns itself with a recurring question in theater how important are the actors?In recent years, there have been a dozen or so movies by actors that deal with this and insist they are paramount. The most entertaining (in a camp way) is Wag the Dog, perhaps the most intelligent Vanya on 42nd St and the most interesting Branagh's Midwinter's Night. The most financially successful is Shakespeare in Love.This is not a sex farce, nor about love. That's all just grist for motion. Here we have a message from the puppets, underscored by pleasant framing of the film by puppets. What the writers of this work have done is suggest that the life of any play comes from the lives of the actors. This is in contrast to plays written by genius playwrights like Ibsen, that are merely performed. For this troupe to have to participate in such an enterprise is seen as hell.Thus we have their (thinly distilled) lives appear on the stage. Along the way we have an audience that is purely incidental since they don't know what's good anyway. We have the theater owner who likewise is ignorant, but married to a failed thespian who suspects. We have the all-important critic whose real interesting characteristic is not his flamboyant gayness, but his views on art he values writing, values the fulfillment of the author's intent. So he is particularly vulnerable to being abused. The character is a parody of Wilde who came down strongly on this controversy.We have the vain celebrity (Sarandon) who does not have the commitment to the art of acting. She briefly tempts our author who really in his heart loves and respects the actors, here represented by the head of the troupe. Sarandon has a speech where she claims she loves the art, but it is clear she loves herself only. Is she a parody on Ellen Terry? Walkin and Sarandon clearly as actors believe in the supremacy of the actor, so in playing the bad guys they overly ham it up so that we know where they really stand. In so doing, they undercut their purported honor somewhat. Rather unsettling, especially so since they are amusing at it.And we also have the troupe itself. They do double duty here first showing honest commitment. Second providing the material that appears in the play, each representing a distinct stereotype. Wheels turn, people love and not, die and not. This strange crew (and any like it) we are told is worth it despite the strangeness. Along the way many writers are quoted from the Greeks through Chekhov. This is not new stuff, as noted above, but once you know what it is about it is well enough done. However, there is only so much reward one can get, the work can only go but so deep when it is turned over to actors. See where I stand?If you come looking for a sex farce where the theater is incidental, your mistake will lead you to disappointment as it clearly did many who commented before me.  "},{"Title":"Superb mesh of reality & theater","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is something to watch! A beautiful soundtrack, an excellent cast, and untouchable screen writing! Comedy and drama are woven inextricably well together in it--though I'm of a mind to throw it into the comedy category as it is quite the gut-buster.Tuturro is indefatigably adorable (literally) as per the usual custom, while his lovely long-time partner Borowitz achieves an austere yet at the same time sensual sort of emotional anchor in the film. Sewell, gorgeous as always, makes for an excellently vain and superficial thespian. Hilarity, however, takes the stage before all else, spinning itself into and around the players and the plot. Spinning around like clandestine lovers, 5-foot bureaus, and pale-faced Pieros--all swirling about between worlds behind and before the red curtain.Old-timers Sarandon, Walken, D'Angelo, & Gazzara (a theatrical whore, a Wildean macaroni queen, a stuffy unfulfilled power-wife, and an Old-Father Hubbard respectively) seem to enjoy taking a break from the rigmarole of Hollywood blockbusters and relaxing into the comfort of off-beat but positively unforgettable roles. Least forgettable among them, however, is Walken and his dance of seduction, which will most undoubtedly sear itself permanently into the back of anyone's brain.Cates, Irwin, Bassi, Behar, Aida, Sussman, and McCann are all indispensable as well, even though I list them in shameful lump here; due time for each would have the film extended another 2 hours, but what is given of them still allows each thespian to shine superbly nevertheless. They are simply smaller gems in the treasure chest this film is.Too many people have compared it to Shakespeare in Love and other mainstream films--but mainstream it is not. Don't bother to comment on it if you confuse it with them and disdain it insofar as it does not compare with them; you only show that you don't understand it. Understand in its stead that not getting it is okay. For those who say, Poor Tuccio he was so young, and so untalented, (-D) know that for the rest of us, the film is almost flawlessly styled, each and every moment an essential thread of a tapestry, silk and gold studded in emeralds and rubies. Yeah, a lot like that.Much like the play it centers on, Illuminata, it is hard for most people to understand it seems; one of its primary themes I would say, if it must be stated overtly, is that the imperfection of life prevails. But don't read too hard into that either, friend; the film goes in the wind, like someone that knows their way, which is to say that it 'floats' along. But what many mistake for meaningless meandering is really its fluidity, its subtle weaving. It is a film meant to be enjoyed thoroughly, like fine wine, to use a cliché; an opportunity to cut loose and laugh at the absurdity of it all, life that is. Even the tragic heroine played by Borowitz, whom we all agree is most noble and flawless in the beginning, in the end we see, is flawed. Each of them flawed. And that's okay; in fact, that's the point.Thus, I give this a 10 out of 10 because I am satisfied in all respects with the film. Its soundtrack (which I bought), its cinematography (ooh la la), its cast (magnifico), plot (incandescent), and dialog (hilarious)--are all artfully interwoven, making it a gem unfortunately overlooked or misunderstood by the general public.Oh, and by the way the puppets are just meant to be pretty, friends. Representative in some instances of the scenes to follow, but for aesthetic effect mainly (kudos on the puppeteering & puppets themselves).Tuccio! Tuccio! Tuccio! "},{"Title":"The Play's the Thing...","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film shines from the loving direction that Tuturro lavishes upon Brandon Cole's screenplay.  The entire cast is delightful, with Katherine Borowitz's loving and tormented Rachel and Christopher Walken's sexually aggressive Bevalaqua truly standing out.  It was great to see a film about the theatre done so passionately, after the dull and trite Shakespeare in Love.I was mesmerized by the performances.  Tuturro, Borowitz and Sewell moved so seamlessly in and out of characters that you often felt that you were in Illuminata.This film reminded me with an equally remarkable film, Louis Malle's Vanya on 42nd Street.  I'm going to have fire up the laser disc player on that one tonight.If you are a fan of the theatre or works on the theatre, then Illuminata is certainly going to work its magic on you. "},{"Title":"Like a richly-colored Persian carpet","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  John Turturro has created an intelligent, witty (and funny!), movie. Christopher Walken's Bevalaqua will become a classic role in film. There's so much going on - nods to literature, other films, music and theater. We found ourselves talking about it again and again. Even if everything that Turturro attempts doesn't work, you're happy he tried it. If you like a movie where there are many interleaved themes, this is for you. "},{"Title":"Exquisite (but not for everyone)","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the best film I've seen this year.  I'll go further than that it's better than all but a few films I've seen in the last two years, including Shakespeare in Love.  Does this mean that I am giving Illuminata a universal recommendation?  Well, no.If you love the theatre, go see this film immediately.  Travel hundreds of miles to see it, if you have to.  It will be a transcendent experience, and your faith in motion pictures will be strengthened (or restored).If you don't feel one way or another about the theatre but enjoyed The Golden Coach or Les enfants du paradis, you'll enjoy Illuminata just as much.On the other hand, if you don't like the theatre, or if you want your movies to have something to do with Real Life...well, let's just say that Illuminata will be wasted on you.On that note, it's worth pointing out that Illuminata takes place at an important moment in the history of western theatre. The screenplay doesn't dwell on it, but the film is in some ways a chronicle of the struggle between symbolism and naturalism that took place during the last quarter of the 19th century and the first years of the 20th.  Our hero, Tuccio, has written a symbolist drama reminiscent of Maurice Maeterlinck's Pelleas et Melisande, while the owners of the theatre want to produce Hedda Gabler, by the naturalist Henryk Ibsen.On film, a compromise is reached.  In life, naturalism won out. Our stages are dominated by the likes of Ibsen, Chekhov, and Miller; contemporary plays look oddly like sitcoms.Support the fight against naturalism -- see Illuminata.  "},{"Title":"Illuminating!","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Brilliantly directed and acted, although not very popular movie. For those who don't now how it's like to work and live in the theatre this movie explains it all. It's charming and bewitching, incredibly funny and romantic and above all very truthful. This is a masterpiece! Made by a man who knew what he was doing and who obviously spent a lot of his time on stage. The most important thing in one actor's life is love, which inspires him to create. Tuccio is in his middle age crisis and he wrote a play about a husband who leaves his wife for a much younger woman. The play is very modern for that time and nobody seems to understand it, except Tuccio's wife who knows about his affair with popular actress Celimene. Christopher Walken is terrific in his role of gay-critic Bevalaqua! In few words - YOU MUST SEE THIS FILM! "},{"Title":"Inferior Woody Allen","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Does Turturro want to say something about theatre? Does he want to say something about love? Does he want to make a brilliant film like Woody Allen? Does he want to do all of these things? Probably. But he fails abysmally! The film is the most self-indulgent, pretentious piece of you-know-what I have ever sat through. The DVD version features a director's commentary. This one thinks will provide some glimmer as to what he thought he was doing. But no! Turturro and his young son chatter on in the most inane, inept, and ineffective babble ever recorded. Turturro should open a pizza parlor and leave film to artists. Who ever annoys me most this year will get this film for Christmas. "}{"Title":"Disjointed, failed film with great moments","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went into this film really wanting to like it - it headlined a film festival earlier in the year, and boasted an all-star cast. But (and you could tell there was a but coming) it's a failure of a film.  Outstanding character acting by Sarandon and Walken is destroyed by editing and the antics of the supporting cast. Turturro's performance is lackluster, and most of the comedy is overplayed.  The recurring puppet shows are pointless, and a few scenes are completely out of place.That said, there are some wonderful moments sprinkled in the film.  A genuinely touching stage moment, several of the seductions, and a few of the comedic color actually work out.  Unfortunately, they're overshadowed by the diffuse, incoherent script and some bad acting. "},{"Title":"A Ponderous Take on the Magic of the Theater and Actors","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's partly bad luck for Illuminata that it comes out after Shakespeare in Love as it deals with virtually the same themes of life as art, art as life and the Magic of the Theatre and the same archetypal Foibles of Theater Folk, but a whole lot more ponderously.There are scenes that come alive, as a play develops and gets reinterpreted by a writer's life, but there's a whole lot of Orson Welles-ish ego in this produced by/directed by/lead acted by John Torturro as a vehicle for his wife Katharine Borowitz (with an adorable cameo by their son).Each actor gets his/her moment literally in the spotlight, but there's so many masques or set pieces that seem like 19th century parlor games. Bill Irwin Talks. Susan Sarandon gets to be a diva. Christopher Walken gets to be a different kind of villain - a gay critic. The women have to disrobe unnecessarily because this is an Art Film.The art and set direction are marvelous, though quite dark. This should get an award as the Best Use of a Jersey City Theater as A Set Ever In a Movie. (originally written 8/21/99) "},{"Title":"No plot","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie has no plot. The acting is good, and the individual scenes are very well executed. However, there is no real plot line, and the pieces though individually pretty, do not form a whole.The movie is a `behind-the-scenes' look at a drama company whose male lead Tuccio played by Turturro is not getting along with his lover, who is the female lead. There are a number of sub-plots, and essentially everyone want the two leads to get along and be in love. They also want the play to be a success. This is pretty much it. All sub-plot and no main one. "},{"Title":"The Main Reason to watch this film is summed up in two words...","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Susan Sarandon!  Her work as Celimene is a comic sight to behold. Whenever she's onscreen (which isn't enough) the material's full comedic potential kicks into overdrive. Illuminata the movie, leaves a lot to be desired--namely more Susan Sarandon at her most breathtakingly beautiful. At an age when most women give up any hope of ever being thought of as sexually appealing or sexually viable, to be exact, Susan owns her many charms and certainly knows how to make the most of them.  Her seduction of Tuccio (played by John Turturro) is one of the most erotic in recent cinematic history. And, that it contains one of the funniest gradification sequences ever captured on celluloid just goes to show that no matter what age she may happen to be, the one and only Susan Sarandon is and always will be one of the sexiest women alive and the definitive thinking man's sex symbol as well as a truly gifted actress quite adept at comedy. By the way, what you just read was written by a 22 year old man--when it comes to beauty, both inside and out, age is nothing but a number.  A virtue that Ms. Sarandon continues to redefine with each passing year.  I know a magnificient talent when I see it. Score The film gets 6 out of 10/B-, Susan Sarandon gets a 10/A+ as always. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  While I'm normally a big fan of John Turturro's work as an actor and director, ILLUMINATA is a great disappointment. Although the film has some charming moments, overall it falls flat. Worst of all, the film is confusing. Where is the movie set? Italy or an Italian troupe in New York? Why bother making a historical film if it fails to convey a setting? If you want to see a well-made, inspiring historical film also about theater, go see Tim Robbins' THE CRADLE WILL ROCK. This movie has many pluses, including a fine performance by John Turturro. "},{"Title":"Disappointing one-man show","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the few movies I have had to escape by walking out. Others in the movie house did the same before me. This  movie was boring, lacked coherence, relied on cheap jokes and gratuitous topless scenes and tasteless sexual innuendo. The whole thing just fell apart. I don't know how Susan Sarandon was talked into appearing in this.I'm also tired of endless self-centered movies being made about actors doing acting or making plays or movies. The direction might as well have been phoned in. Most of this can be blamed on actor John Turturro who adapted this movie from a play and who co-authored the screenplay and co-produced and directed this disappointment. The only redeeming qualities, as I see it, were the set design and photography.The reason I joined the IMDB database was to warn others about this waste of time and money. I have enjoyed Turturro's acting in past movies and that is where, in my opinion, his energies are best utilized. "},{"Title":"Sad experience","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I agree with the comment the critic Bevalaqua (Walken was the best in the cast) made at the beginning of the movie (except for his appreciation for that actor). The originality isn't missing but it's all so boring and not entertaining at all.I rent the movie and I watch it alone. The enterprise was hard but i managed to stay awake until the and. Although the theme is fundamentally the same Illuminata all that made Shakespeare in Love a great movie. The actors are all talented and professional but there are too many characters to care about and finally I cared about none of them. A sad and disappointing experience that I hope to forget soon.Sorry, I just didn't like it.  "},{"Title":"A dull film with a good cast.","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Best around the middle, when most characters get horny and go after someone they haven't had before. It is around this point that we get to see Susan Sarandon's majestic breasts (even if through a veil). Strangely enough, Beverly D'Angelo who isn't shy about nudity doesn't show any at all, while Aida Turturro &#150; of all people &#150; does. On the other end of the spectrum, the less said about Walken playing a homosexual the better. The film itself has little plot; the dialogs from the theater play and the normal dialogs cross over often and that's not the sort of thing I'd consider a good idea. Life in the theater who cares? Occasionally the dialog has something going for it, but the film drags in stretches. "},{"Title":"Murky","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't mind the odd artsy film. But when they are larded with arcane symbolism and murky dialogue and when it's obvious they were done for the filmmaker's ego rather than the viewer's benefit, I get upset. I'm not a stupid person yet I simply didn't understand what this film was trying to say. Or do. Film is a magnificent form of human communication. Why do some filmmakers use it instead for obfuscation?  "},{"Title":"dull backstage drama","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Write what you know about has long been the dictum for writers ranging all the way from accomplished published authors to struggling composition class students;  is there a playwright then who can resist the temptation to compose a play about composing a play?  It has, of course, been done countless times in the past (Shakespeare in Love being but the most recent popular example), but, alas, rarely as dully as in Illuminata, Brandon Cole's tale of a turn-of-the-century repertory company struggling, amid personal conflicts, theatrical roadblocks and even death, to produce an original work (itself entitled Illuminata).  Cole, along with co-writer and director, John Turturro, centers his story on the playwright, Tuccio, (also played by Turturro), as he copes with temperamental actors, theatre owners and critics, all of whom conspire, intentionally or unintentionally, to sabotage his work.Like so many films that attempt to deal seriously with the creative process, Illuminata seems naively to suggest that inspiration can only be achieved after the creator has undergone a series of concomitant life experiences that somehow illuminate the truths hitherto obscured in darkness.  Thus, since, in this case, the play-within-the-play deals with the issue of marital infidelity, it is only after the entire cast and crew of the production have participated in a night long sexual roundelay (which consists essentially of switching partners in a style too cute for words) that the play (which failed in its first performance the night before) can come to complete artistic fruition.   This cloying and cliched view of theatre as merely a reflection of life (or vice versa) might have been acceptable had the script provided any truly interesting characters, profound insights or satiric wit to carry us through.  As it is, though, the characters are both unappealing and woefully underdeveloped, the insights consist of mere self-indulgent paeans to the glory of artistic creation and the humor rests mainly in a series of surprisingly crude illustrations of sexual activity.  Furthermore, Turturro is such a dull, uninspiring lead, with his constant sadsack expression and look of pained bewilderment, that he conveys no sense of the dynamism essential to a person capable of producing a work of genius.  This leaves the rest of the cast, some of whom are very good, pretty much adrift as they thrash about looking for something solid in the way of character development to hold onto.Actually, the highlight of this film comes during the opening credit sequence, a beautifully done marionette performance that is almost heartbreaking in its otherworldly beauty and delicacy.  It is a measure of the failure of the rest of the film that the audience wishes IT were performed by marionettes as well. "}{"Title":"Absolutely Beautiful","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Illuminata is a lovely existential commentary on the relationship between art and reality. There is a stream of Buddhist thought throughout the film that was wonderful to behold. The sets and lighting are beautiful and nearly every shot could have been framed and hung on a wall. The writing and acting were excellent. This movis is a very rare find... I'd highly recommend it to people who enjoyed other colorful philosophical works such as SLC Punk. "},{"Title":"A perfectly imperfect parody of the human drama","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Written, directed and starring John Turturro, amongst a colorful cast of engaging loonies, this is a self critical, perfectly imperfect parody of the human drama,It is at once ragged and genius in it's sublime musings and witty study of eccentrics, dramatics, cynics and lovers - peering between the veils of life, love and the stage. In this, it is Birdman light.Not without its flaws, but playfully symbolic sets and lighting form the back drop to a surreal folly. To take it too seriously like so many critics, is to miss it's beauty and the point entirely.in its study of the thin veils between life and stage. "},{"Title":"theater is life","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Turturro directed this focus on a group of people involved in the production of a play at the turn of the last century. Turturro himself stars as the playwright who submits a new play. Although the theater rejects it, this initiates a series of events in which the various other people play a role. One might interpret Illuminata as a look at the intersections of art and life. The relationship between all these different characters - the playwright, his girlfriend, the theater owner, her husband, the critic, and the various actors and actresses - reflects our daily lives.One thing that did confuse me about the movie is the setting. I read that it's set in New York, but all the outdoor scenes look more like northern Italy, and most of the characters do have Italian names. No matter, I found it to be a well done movie. To be certain, there's a scene with John Turturro and Susan Sarandon that would make any guy want to be Susan Sarandon's boy toy.Check it out. "},{"Title":"not for every viewer","Date":"18 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Illuminata is not to everyone's taste, though it's a beautiful film to look at with a terrific cast who do a great job. It has a rather loose construction, as it concerns the on-stage and offstage antics of actors, as well as a writer, a theater owner, and a critic. The stars are John Turturro, who directed it, Katherine Borowitz, Susan Sarandon, Beverly D'Angelo, Rufus Sewell, Aida Turturro, Christopher Walken, Ben Gazzara, and Bill Irwin.Illuminata takes place in the early part of the century. The film begins with Tuccio (Turturro) and Borowitz (Rachel) rehearsing - though at first it's not clear that they are - and that really sets up the rest of the film. These people are in love and act in love on and off stage all the time, and often, you're not really sure if they're saying lines or are being sincere. I act all the time, Celimine (Sarandon) says. I act when I ask for more bread at a restaurant, I act when I tell my mother I love her. That's part of the fun. The actors invest their lives with the same histrionics, passion, and illusion/delusion that they do their stage roles. When Sarandon sees a young actress, she says, See, that's the way I will look in about ten years. I'm getting to the point where I can play ingénues. She was about 50 at the time.Illuminata is set at the turn of the century. Tuccio is rehearsing his new play, Illuminata, at a theater owned by Astergourd (D'Angelo), but she hasn't committed to putting it on yet. Tonight it's the play version of Cavalleria Rusticana. One of the lead actors, Dominique (Sewell) has been relegated to just being a presence on stage, and he's very unhappy about it. Earlier we see Marta (Aida Turturro) practicing her scream. The critic, Bevelaqua (Walken) has come to see it. When the Turridu collapses, Tuccio announces that his play will be presented the next evening.The actors jump in and out of bed and go through one crisis or seduction or rejection after another. All the characters are vividly portrayed, but Christopher Walken as the outrageous critic Bevelaqua stands out. He goes through a list of all the kinds of plays he hates - I don't think he missed one kind.Truly glorious looking (and you can't go wrong looking at Rufus Sewell) with some lovely prose and a mood fitting for the time period and the type of play Illuminata is. But as I say, it's not for everyone. "},{"Title":"Not for Private People","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Just saw this on TV.  As a lifelong professional actor, and therefore of the other world (the other other world is everybody else, the private people), I want to say how it seemed to me to be made for actors only. Full of wondrous insights, dealing with the shallowness of actors, and their ever present self-concern that maybe where real life is concerned, they just don't get it, but want to.  (Hence our method approach to the craft.)For me it has everything that I've never seen before in films that purport to be about the theatre, but in actuality pander to the ignorance of Private People about things of the theatre, and lie.  These guys really don't care about that, but would rather stick to the truth.  Yes, it's a huge in joke.  Like the no-no of breaking up on stage, and destroying the fourth wall, not supposed to do that, it upsets the audience.This exploration of that unreal world will always stand for me to be definitive.  If you're one of the outsiders, don't bother, you won't understand.  If this sounds elitist, it's not meant to be.  Put it down to an actor's insecurity.  But enjoy it for its beauty if you wish, don't look for more.  "},{"Title":"Thank goodness I saw it on video, so I could turn it off!","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My apologies to all of you who love and understand artsy movies, but I think this one just reeked.  There was probably some deep meaning in this, but from the beginning it was confusing and disjointed.  I couldn't finish watching it, even with Susan Sarandon in it. "},{"Title":"A self-indulgent and tedious movie with moments of brilliance","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie treads on very familiar ground -- the confusion of art and reality in the life of actors. It does not have anything particularly novel or interesting to say on this subject and is in fact rather dull. The final scene in particular is interminably tedious. Seeing the audience crying at the moving acting they are seeing on the screen made me ask who do they think they are kidding?Nevertheless there are some good performances and interesting scenes, particularly from some of the minor characters. Ben Gazzara plays an old and slightly touched actor, who gets a whole posse of policemen clapping his performance when they come to arrest him.Christopher Walken again plays an over-the-top wacko. Remember his character The Continental on Saturday Night Live; an aging eurotrash satyr chasing a young woman around the furniture and trying to get her into bed? He does an identical turn in the film, chasing his young (male) prey around an antique table and plying him with champagne.Overall this film was both enchanting and irritating, but mostly irritating. "},{"Title":"Love the puppets!","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I composed, recorded and produced the music for Tuccio's fantasy/breakdown at the party.  The bit where the cast break into song... Tuccio...Tuccio...Tuccio... etc.I think Chris and Ben and the rest are very funny here. But... I was wondering why there is no credit posted here for my work.TerminiJust Wondering hmmmmmm "},{"Title":"Not for Private People","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Just saw this on TV. As a lifelong professional actor, and therefore of the other world (the other other world is everybody else, the private people), I want to say how it seemed to me to be made for actors only. Full of wondrous insights, dealing with the shallowness of actors, and their ever present self-concern that maybe where real life is concerned, they just don't get it, but want to. (Hence our method approach to the craft.)For me it has everything that I've never seen before in films that purport to be about the theatre, but in actuality pander to the ignorance of Private People about things of the theatre, and lie. These guys really don't care about that, but would rather stick to the truth. Yes, it's a huge in joke. Like the no-no of breaking up on stage, and destroying the fourth wall, not supposed to do that, it upsets the audience.This exploration of that unreal world will always stand for me to be definitive. If you're one of the outsiders, don't bother, you won't understand. If this sounds elitist, it's not meant to be. Put it down to an actor's insecurity. But enjoy it for its beauty if you wish, don't look for more. "},{"Title":"Illuminata Left Me Totally in the Dark","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film starts off evocative and arresting but quickly slips into an incoherent mess of the most embarrasing sort.  What might be half entertaining at a performance space in an East Village converted garage, on film is a completely vapid waste.  Any comparison between SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE and this film is idiotic.  SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE has been universally admired (justly so) for it's exceptional script (Tom Stoppard's no slouch) and incredible performances.  This tripe will be forgotten by the time one reaches for the rewind button.  Don't be fooled by thinking that because the film deals with art and culture that it is somehow deep and meaningful.  Even with it's fancy Italianate name, ILLUMINATA is dim-witted and dull. "}{"Title":"Meandering story dreadfully done.","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Illuminata' has expanded the limits of John Turturro's mediocrity from second rate actor to third rate director, writer and producer.  This film was dreadful.  It is disjointed and flits from scene to scene with little flow or meaning relevant to the main story line.We are served with a smorgasbord of fragmented scenes, each a non sequitur to all the others.  The only thread that seems to run through them is that they occur in the lives of the members of the same theatre repertory company.  The few scenes that do matter to the plot are so convoluted that you frequently can't tell if the dialogue is from the story or the actors running their lines for the play within the story.    If this story were a person it would be a schizophrenic with mulitple personality disorder.  It couldn't decide if it was a drama, a romance, a comedy, a tragedy, a sex farce, or a parody of theatre.  It came closest to being bearable as a sex farce.   Turturro was lifeless and impassive as Tuccio, supposedly a complex and passionate writer whose play gets its big chance when the currently running show needs to be cancelled due to the illness of the lead actor.  Susan Sarandon gave a good performance as the aging actress trying to seduce Tuccio for a role.  Unfortunately, she found it necessary to go topless which only goes to illustrate that the hardware of aging sex symbols is much better left to the imagination.  Christoher Walkin gave a delightful performance as the uppity theatre critic who makes impassioned overtures to a member of the cast.  Beverly D'Angelo and Ben Gazzara also had minor roles.I gave this film a 2.  Other than Walken's vignette, there is really not much to recommend it except that the puppets used in the opening and closing credits were phenomenally lifelike and beautiful.  Avoid this movie like the plague that it is. "},{"Title":"Catatonia","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The story is a turn-of-the-century troupe of actors, along with producers and theatre-owners, have very complicated relationships. A resident playwright has written a psychological drama. He wants to get a good production on stage, but can't unless he convinces a pariticular reviewer to revisit the production, and give a positive review. If his production does not go on, then the troupe will put on The Doll House, recently written by Ibsen. Many different relationships among the principals are explored; none of them interesting. But the involvement of the characters with one another lead to giving the play by the resident playwrght a second shot.This movie is purely an excuse for the director and his friends to get together and put on a movie. The story lines are incoherent to anyone who isn't a buddy of one of the stars. The only reason I didn't leave the theatre after about a half hour is that a fat lady was resting a full meal atop her stomach at the end of my row. "},{"Title":"Well cured hams.","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An entertaining movie filled with fun acting but many must be accused of overacting.  I'm not sure of the significance of the wandering plot and I'm sure that many theatre allusions went over my head.  The puppets were really strange and spellbinding.  They alone are worth seeing.  I will watch for John Turturro movies in the future based on his performance as actor and director in this movie.  A good, not great, movie for those who like engaging dialog.   "},{"Title":"A gem","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am no fan of Salon, but read their review of this film (follow the link from external reviews) because it sums it up well. This is a funny, thoughtful and romantic movie. The dialog is witty and poignant, and the actors all get moments to shine. John Turturro has made a gem.BTW, the DVD has excellent production values. One of the best I've seen. "},{"Title":"A story about love, friendship and artistic principles.","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this at Cannes in 1998 and thought it was smart and very original. It makes Shakespeare in Love seem like a cartoon.  The cinematography, design and acting is all first rate.  Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Borowitz shines!","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the first film I've seen in aeons where I wanted a copy of the script. There are so many insightful, poetic and beautiful lines in this film that you can't remember them all. I can't even remember one now. I'm on cerebral sensory overload.The film will undoubtedly be compared to Shakespeare in Love. It too concerns a writer and a troupe of actors in olden times. But Illuminata is so much more than that more widely seen film. John Turturro, who co-scripts, acts, co-produces and directs here, brings the film more of a stage actor's touch. While it does have a certain, stagy quality to it, the film is actually simply more cinematically bold and daring, more poetic because of it. Where many films become claustrophobic because of their setting at a theater stage, Turturro uses this to somehow open up the film even more. Turturro isn't afraid to highlight the background or shoot the characters through a sheer stage curtain backdrop if it makes the film more beautiful or more meaningful. His film moves effortlessly through the moments that define his characters, delving into the play which shapes their lives which shapes their play which shapes their lives, the Moebius strip of existence that helps them live and learn and love. It is rugged and fine, gossamer and black and bright as day; it never ceases to amaze and delight us.But the film does have some problems. For one, it is so cerebral and so poetic that it often fails to truly engross us. We get so caught up in the beauty and the cadence of the film that we forget to pay attention to what it is about and to what is being said. Turturro also casts the recognizable faces of Susan Sarandon and Christopher Walken in highlighted secondary roles and then allows them to overact into delirium. Sure, it is fun to see Sarandon in such a bawdy role, probably influenced by Sara Bernhard, but watching Christopher Walken as the critic inspired by Oscar Wilde is sheer homophobic tedium. Walken camps up his repulsive dandy to the nauseating extreme and then Turturro foists a plot turn upon us that has the homosexual preying on an actor he has developed a crush on. At least it's not a pretty teenage boy. But Walken's overacting insights repulsion rather than empathy. We don't feel sorry for this monster when his unrequited lover turns and runs from his clutches. We don't feel anything expect for the relief that this segment of the film is over.Finally Turturro casts the lackluster Rufus Sewell in what is, kind of, supposed to be the lead role. Sewell, who cannot act, plays his role well - since he is playing a puffy, egotistical leading actor who cannot act. His poor acting reflects his inability to separate life from art, overblown acting from real personality. This is delightful to view, until Turturro calls upon him, in the films finale, to truly act. And Sewell falls flat exactly as we expect making the film's final point fail. It's a sad defeat.All of this, all of it, however, is negated by the wonderful, free-spirited, lilting performance of Katherine Borowitz (the real life Mrs. john Turturro). With the eloquent rhythm of a true artist, Ms. Borowitz elevates every frame of every foot of film she is in to true perfection. Never missing a note, a beat, a moment, Ms. Borowitz draws us into the film, willingly, until we are caught under her delicate, intricate spell. Her acting consist of baring her naked self to us and letting us absorb every molecule of her being. Her voice pours forth the brilliance of the script in the beat of the angel's wings. Light as a hummingbird yet as full as a barrel-chested bodybuilder, Ms. Borowitz is Illuminata. She owns it. She brings it forth and rears it. The two, her self and her work, become inseparable. It's magic.Graciously, she is aided by wonderful performance from many other performers, Ben Gazarra, Beverly D'Angelo, Leo Bassi and Aida Turturro (John's sister?) turn in work of utter wonder. Aida's buxom and lusty Martha proves that big girl's can be just as sexy and as desirable as the petite models plastered on magazine covers. She did not get the role due to nepotism because no other actress could portray the role so boldly and unabashed.Turturro has crafted a fine film to rival Shakespeare in Love and all the other period pieces which turn on actor's lives. The film is humorous, delightful, charming, and poetic. Cinematically, it refuses to be pigeon-holed. Turturro uses puppets to frame the film in a device that is charming and new. He also captures the true feeling of celebrity in a segment where, at a party, his character hears all the chatter in the room and choreographs it into a operatic moment where all the characters sing his praises, literally. It's beautiful. Illuminata is a great fresco. Too bad Walken and Sewell chip away heartily at it's delicate, finely crafted edges. "},{"Title":"Sturdy film with moments of brilliance","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Its very hard to describe this film. As far as backstage films go its not as emotionally stirring as The Dresser or as honestly funny as Noises Off, but there is a gentle humanity to the bergman like humor of the play. Unless you are in theatre,or even if you are, it demand complete attention to follow the film,but as you do,the more you like it.The direction of Mr. Turturro is splendid and he evokes some great performances from some wonderful actors. The late Donal McCann is wonderful in his comic role of the theatre owner's husband,It is very rare to see this fine actor doing comedy and He is one of the film's hifgh ponts,as is Christopher Walken as an Oscar Wilde like critic,Bill Irwin is also in fine form as the reluctant object of his affection. Turturro himself is wonderful in the key role of the playwright and its good to see Ben Gazzara on the big screen again.  The film is far from perfect,it drags at times and there are momentsthat leave you saying, what just happened? but for overall effect its a good effort with a pleasing,if not brilliant ,product. "},{"Title":"Dear Mr. Termini","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love this funny and lovely tribute to the humans and the theatre as well as the scene of Tuccio's fantasy at the reception, including, of course, your song.  That scene is SO funny and especially, Mr.Walken is... just great. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Movie!","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Dear Mr Tuturro, short time ago I have been able to watch your movie and I found it very beautiful and original. The best comment I can make you is that it could well be a Beautiful European Movie! My best congratulations Francesca Lomonaco "},{"Title":"Turturro's must-see new film","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  John Turturro's new film, Illuminata, is a truly beautiful, sensitive, touching, loving, and quite funny look at the doings --on stage and off-- of a-turn-of-the-century theatre company.  John Turturro produced, directed, wrote (with Brandon Cole), and stars in this exquisite film that also features a stellar performance by Katherine Borowitz, and great work by Susan Sarandon, and Christopher Walken.  Illuminata is a masterpiece --and it is most unusual in everything from its pacing to its gorgeous cinematography. "}]