[{"Title":"An intelligent, taut thriller","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"81 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just when you think he's cornered, he thinks of a new strategy. Samuel L. Jackson portrays Lieutenant Danny Roman, police hostage negotiator. When he's framed for a crime he didn't commit, against his fellow police officers no less, he knows that the only way out is to bring in an equally tough negotiator, Lieutenant Chris Sabian played by Kevin Spacey, who's from another precinct and who therefore could not have been contaminated by the bad elements within his own force, which buys him the necessary time to bluff and blindside while he finds the clues he needs to prove he's innocent. Chicago is taken hostage along with the few people he retains as bargaining chips, and we are taken along for the ride. This was a masterful job of film-making from beginning to end. The characters and story were flawlessly developed. We don't precisely know who's guilty or who's innocent. Roman conducts his interrogation and trial while he negotiates with the police outside, some of whom are working overtime to eliminate Roman before he figures it all out. This all occurs right under the noses of the FBI who are in way over their heads and don't have a clue who's guilty or innocent, just like the rest of us watching. Along the way, we get to witness Roman lecture his underlings about the finer points of negotiations while he himself has just become a hostage taker. Never say no! he barks with effective zeal. And he tests his bewildered pupils continuously, who fail continuously. Only Sabian is smart enough to understand what's going on in Roman's mind. The strategy is shared by two men who think alike, who are under stress, and have an innate instinct for lie detection. The screenplay was terrific. The cinematography was effective. The acting of Jackson and Spacey exceptional. And the supporting cast, particularly bad-guy-turned-good-guy Paul Giamatti who provides great comic relief, was outstanding. If you're in the mood for an intelligent, taut thriller, The Negotiator delivers... 9/10.   "},{"Title":"Fantastic Film","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"80 out of 101 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Anyone who says this film is not good must be crazy! The Negotiator has the complete package intelligence, love, anger,comedy,suspense and action. An absolute terrific film which as well as having all the characteristics to make a classic, it has the cast to match. Samuel L Jackson at his best playing the role as Danny Roman, a negotiator with nothing to lose but all to prove. Kevin Spacey shows a strong side of his acting ability and is terrific in the role of Chris Sabien, another negotiator who has the sole interest of getting the truth!. The film is full of so many twists and turns that makes it one of the best thrillers ever!!! GUARANTEE...THIS FILM WILL NOT DISAPPOINT!!! "},{"Title":"Strong, Intelligent movie-making","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"54 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Negotiator presents us with both of two things in a summer full of  flicks only containing one or the other ambition AND intelligence.  It  doesn't have any qualms with taking a far-fetched concept and treating it  with absolute seriousness, but unlike most movies that are willing to do  this (especially some recent ones involving very large asteroids and very  large lizards), it is able to pull it off by combining a tight script with  strong, strong acting.If this were a perfect world, Jackson would deserve an Oscar nomination for  his performance here.  There's no way on Earth he'll get it, of course, but  he's given the difficult role here of playing a guy who has to convince the  guys downstairs that he's a psycho, while convincing the guys he's  kidnapped that he's innocent, and he does a flawless job of it.  No easy  task, especially when you consider the fact that he's got to throw in the  occasional gunfight.  At least he'll probably win the MTV award )What results is a skillfully made film.  I enjoyed it.  It made sense but  kept me guessing, the action was intense but still followed logical  patterns, and the ending was not a disappointment.  An altogether fun  experience. "},{"Title":"Conventional siege thriller, made better than expected by its actors.","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In terms of plot and story development, The Negotiator offers little that is new. It's a very conventional film. However, it gets a much needed injection from its cast, especially the two leads Jackson and Spacey, whose verbal exchanges are exciting and dynamic.The far-fetched yarn introduces us to Chicago hostage negotiator Danny Roman (Samuel L. Jackson). Roman's partner Nate (Paul Guilfoyle) is brutally murdered just as he is about to expose a bunch of cops who have been stealing from the Disability Fund. All the clues at the scene of Nate's murder point to Roman being the guilty one. Danny is arrested for the killing, but he remains determined to prove his innocence. He violently besieges the Internal Affairs division of the Chicago P.D, taking several hostages at gunpoint, and proceeds to demand that his name be cleared. Hostage negotiator Chris Sabian (Kevin Spacey) arrives on the scene to talk Roman into surrendering his hostages.The ease with which Jackson's character is framed for a crime he didn't commit is hard to believe, and his subsequent decision to take hostages in order to clear himself stretches credibility to the limit. The solution to the mystery - with the revelation of the real killer coming right at the end - isn't especially believable either. However, improbabilities aside, The Negotiator is an entertaining work. As mentioned, Jackson and Spacey's confrontations are quite dynamic and help to make the film compulsively watchable. Siege thrillers by their very definition are exciting, and this one is no exception. Granted, The Negotiator is totally conventional fare, but within its limitations it remains a well-crafted, absorbing and agreeable offering.  "},{"Title":"somewhat familiar setup made worthwhile by an excellent cast","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Lieutenant Danny Roman, just married and quickly becoming recognized as one of Chicago's top hostage negotiators, has his life turned upside down when he's framed for the murder of his partner and embezzlement of his department's pension fund. With the evidence piling up against him and unsure of whom he can trust, he resorts to desperate means by taking hostages himself and acquiring the services of unknown but equally skilled negotiator Chris Sabian in order to clear his name. Sharp, intelligent thriller should be your run-of-the-mill cop flick, but its plot twists are so convincing, its police procedures so realistic, and its acted with such great conviction that you don't want to miss a single moment of it! Jackson and Spacey ignite the screen, but they're surrounded by a top-notch supporting cast. A great piece of work from all those involved. *** "},{"Title":"Keeps you guessing","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I know very little about the movie industry, directing, producing and the like but I know when I really enjoy a movie, and I enjoyed this one so much I am making my first ever comment on a movie on this site. Having just watched this movie for the first time, I have been riveted to my seat. The twists and turns were so good even I didn't know who to trust! I was wrong about some of the cops I thought were dirty, right about others and the end took me by surprise. Although a long film, the pace of events and quality acting kept me interested from the first minute to the last one. This is probably the best thriller I have seen this year and I recommend it to anyone who is looking for a good thriller with a few action moments thrown in intelligently for good measure. All credit must go to Samuel L Jackson for a great performance in playing a specialist police officer who finds himself an innocent fall guy, supported very well by the late J. T. Walsh, who seemed to always play dislikable characters. Jackson makes his character an actor himself, as a psychopath to the cops he holds at bay and a careful family man to his new wife whilst slowly but surely convincing his hostages of his innocence. Similar credit for great performances go to Kevin Spacey as the neutral respected negotiator dropped into a tense situation completely blind to events, and I have yet to see a poor performance by David Morse, who followed up this film with another good performance in The Green Mile. My work as a real police officer in England seems so ordinary and boring by comparison! "},{"Title":"Acting Duos...","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" An honest cop is an easy target, right? Well, this is what the trailer of The Negotiator states, but it also states a lot of more things; some which it shouldn't state. So my first recommendation is don't watch the trailer of this film before watching the film itself&#133;It will make it better. Danny Roman (Samuel L. Jackson) is a successful negotiator and, as it happens in these films, he's getting too close to something and consequences are ahead.That's all you'll hear from me. After this main plot line, The Negotiator becomes a nerve- racking ride; with thrills all the way through and a very intelligent use of the general elements of the crime thriller. See, that's the thing about crime thrillers they are always around the same kind of ideas and stories. I recently watched Edison and I didn't like the way it handled things; because it wanted to give an explanation to a conspiracy that was confusing and difficult to understand, sadly inside of a good script.The Negotiator suffers from the same thing. However, writers James DeMonaco and Kevin Fox make it up with some beautifully written, gripping dialogue in a fantastic achievement; considering that one of them hadn't done anything before and the other had written Jack. The screenplay of The Negotiator is probably what brings the rest to life.It isn't the writers' fault but, although the cameras are well placed and F. Gary Gray's direction is accurate, everything feels a little bit like television (like in SWAT). I'm not saying this is a bad characteristic, because it doesn't make the film less dynamic and because the film is, as I said, intelligent; but it's ultimately disappointing. The music by Graeme Revell is one of the high points, with chilling strings that accentuate the characters' looks in the moments of tension. These moments of tension also look like television, but we forgive it because we get some good intense looks. If The Negotiator is not good for everything else (which is not entirely true), it is good because of the actors (casting by David Rubin). Samuel L. Jackson is full of perfectly managed rage as Danny Roman, achieving a better performance than the ones he got in other movies where he carried guns, like The Long Kiss Goodnight, Rules of Engagement, even Shaft and definitely SWAT. A lot of the actors in the cast come from television or are now still on television (which may help the feeling I was talking about), like Ron Rifkin, John Spencer, Carlos Gomez, Nestor Serrano, Stephen Lee and Doug Spinuzza. They are all great, and so is the late J.T Walsh in a small role. Besides, Regina Taylor is powerful as Jackson the cold David Morse is astounding playing a kind of villain and showing he's one of the best for playing villains today; even in films like Dreamer. Paul Giamatti steals the show as a maniac hostage, which is a nice performance to see Giamatti before becoming the cult performer he is now. He was still good then. Siobhan Fallon is also flawless as a law-abiding secretary. But Jackson is the centre of the movie, alongside the other main character. Chris Sabian appears late in the film, but in the skin of Kevin Spacey he encounters Jackson's craziness and The Negotiator elevates itself into a whole different level. Spacey's facial expression and manner of talking and Jackson's unique eyes movement are just little details of their incredible performances and their chemistry. Wonderful actors pay attention to details in movies. At least just to watch Spacey and Jackson, you can't miss The Negotiator. It has one of the best acting duos I've seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"Very well done","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"34 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Terrific action drama about dedicated cop Jackson,who is framed for the murder of his partner and stealing money funds. Spacey does a great job as the stranger. Film relies more on drama than action which is good in this case. Marred only by overlength.Rating**** (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Good Solid Hollywood Entertainment -- No More No Less","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Negotiator is neither a deep film that might cause serious contemplation of social issues nor a radically different experimental experience. It is simply a star-studded action thriller designed to allow the audience to escape into the world of Chicago hostage squad cops. A wrongfully accused negotiator/cop, played at about 300+ degrees Fahrenheit by Samuel Jackson matches wits with another negotiator, Kevin Spacey, who does his best to keep Jackson from reaching the boiling point. Briefly, Jackson is caught in the middle of an extortion scandal involving the lifting of millions of dollars from the policeman's pension fund. When Jackson's partner becomes aware of the secret heist, he is taken out, and the powers behind the white-collar corporate dealings use Jackson as the scapegoat. Jackson then retaliates by using extra-legal means.What makes this movie are the performances by both Jackson and Spacey, with good performances by the supporting cast, including the late J.T. Walsch who made a career of playing heartless and emotionless middle-age men. And John Spencer is also involved as the Chief of Police, shortly before he was promoted to the White House Chief of Staff in The West Wing.The movie goes a mile a minute but is suffused with an interesting enough storyline to make it well worth the price of admission. Some of what happens is ludicrous when you really think about it, but you tend to just run with it. Not a bad way to kill two hours, and you could do a lot worse. "},{"Title":"A Rather Unconvincing Thriller","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Lt Danny Roman is a police negotiator who finds himself accused of murdering a colleague . He believes he's been set up and walks into his local station and takes hostages in order to uncover the truth !!!! SPOILERS !!!! I have a serious problem with this premise since it erases any type of internal logic . I can believe Danny setting all this up in order to uncover the real criminals but moments stretch all credibility . Danny is a negotiator right ? So surely he must know that the police department will talk to him without taking drastic risks unless he starts killing hostages . BANG Danny kills a hostage which means the SWAT guys are going to come crashing through the windows . Except Danny only pretended to kill a hostage thereby playing a trick on the audience . But the fact remains the cops outside think he's killed a hostage and unless he's trying to get himself killed he logically shouldn't have done that and this isn't the only bit where credibility goes astray . I couldn't help but gasp at the stupid ending where Chris Sabian shoots Danny in order to make it look he's gone over to the villains side . Think about it .Chris shot Danny and Danny plays dead . Danny is lying with a bullet in him not making a sound because if the villain thought he was still alive he'd pump few more bullets in him to make sure he's not going to tell tales . If you've not seen the movie yet let me explain that Danny is NOT wearing a bullet proof vest or anything like that and he has a bullet in him . If someone shot you in the stomach would you be physically able to play dead , not move a muscle , not scream in agony ? Danny can and it's yet another example of having to suspend disbelief in order to enjoy the film . It's one thing introducing shock twists and turns but not if it damages the credibility of the screenplay Most people have praised the cast and Samuel L Jackson is every bit as good as you'd expect him to be . Spacey is as bland as always in my opinion and I'm surprised he was ever a highly regarded actor ( Though there's some justice that we see very little output from him these days ) while the supporting cast are just okay hindered possibly by their very two dimensional characters . Opinions about the film itself are very wide ranging with some people think it's a taut exciting twisting thriller while others describe it as a contrived clichéd movie and I'm certainly in the latter camp . As I said this is a movie that quickly falls apart the more you think about it "}{"Title":"Formula is fine when it works","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I understand from what I read about this movie that the original script concentrated more on talk and less on action, and I would have liked to see that movie.  Nevertheless, I enjoyed it quite a bit.  Sure, it's a formula film, but there's nothing wrong with formula films when they're done well, and this one was.  It helps, of course, when you have two great character actors like Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey in the lead roles.  Not to mention the other cast members, like the late, lamented J.T. Walsh, David Morse, and Paul Giamatti, who also appeared in two of the year's best films, SAVING PRIVATE RYAN and THE TRUMAN SHOW.  The film even had a fresh spin on the bad guy kills himself rather than face prosecution cliche. "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable if implausible action thriller - 86%","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Regular readers of my reviews (all three of you) will know that one film that really soured my opinion of the Hollywood machine is the completely botched Italian Job remake - a typically stylish but ultimately shallow rehash of a perfectly good original. I was almost angry at director F. Gary Gray for trying to wreck my fond memories of Michael Caine in Turin so imagine my surprise to find him responsible for this earlier effort which is a genuinely exciting, if far-fetched, thriller starring two of Hollywood's biggest actors. Where did it all go wrong for the poor guy?Samuel L Jackson plays police negotiator Lt. Danny Roman, a hostage negotiator with the Chicago PD who's a nice guy and all-round good bloke. After discovering corrupt cops helping themselves to the department's disability fund, Danny's world comes crumbling down after his partner is gunned down with all evidence pointing to him. Believing himself to be set up by Internal Affairs, led by Inspector Niebaum (J.T. Walsh) and Commander Frost (Ron Rifkin), Danny decides to take some hostages of his own in a desperate attempt to prove his innocence. Facing fellow negotiator Chris Sabian (Kevin Spacey), can Danny discover the truth before his one-time colleagues put a premature end to the siege? Featuring quality at every level of the casting, The Negotiator shrugs off it's far-fetched scenario and becomes one of the most compulsive thrillers I've seen in ages. With the outcome never really certain until the credits roll, this is as good an example that I can think of of a film that has all the traditional elements of a classic summer blockbuster but remains taunt, thrilling and exciting throughout. Acting is a real strength of the film as Jackson, Walsh, Paul Giamatti and David Morse offer real depth to their characters and hold the film together with ease. Spacey looks a little out of place - he's too nice to play the stone-faced good guy with a mean streak - but his performance supports Jackson's wild-eyed paranoia perfectly. The biggest problems I found was that the story took a while to get going and when it did, it was actually rather obvious who the villains are.I was actually a little tired of hostage movies after watching the equally brilliant Inside Man a little while ago but while that was a little on the slow side, this kept up a cracking pace until the very end. But both are exceptionally well-written, well-acted pieces of cinema and I don't think I could pick between the two. Even my Better Half enjoyed it, making me stay up late to watch it in spite of my early start the next day. I wouldn't describe The Negotiator as exceptional because it doesn't offer anything new in terms of action films or thrillers and the premise, as I've said, is too far-fetched for me personally. But The Negotiator is still a highly enjoyable film in its own right and to ignore it would be criminal. Feel free to ignore The Italian Job rehash, though... "},{"Title":"Hellva Good Deal!!!","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Summer movies usually lack the sophistication and subtlety of Set It Off director F. Gary Gray's The Negotiator, a taut, suspenseful, white-knuckled police thriller that pits Pulp Fiction's Samuel L. Jackson against The Usual Suspects' Oscar-winner Kevin Spacey. Incredibly, the brain and brawn in Kevin Fox & James DeMonaco's screenplay is evenly matched so that The Negotiator scores solidly as an above-average, good cops versus bad cops account of law and order. Nobody in The Negotiator does anything that the average human couldn't survive without the services of an agile stunt double. You won't find the kind of outlandish heroics here that occur ostentatiously enough in the Die Hard franchise. Indeed, The Negotiator stands out as one of the summer's more down-to-earth entries. Actual characters find themselves in plausible situations where they must compete in a deadly contest of wits and wills. Dialogue does matter in The Negotiator. Nevertheless, despite its onslaught of pyrotechnics at appropriate intervals, The Negotiator manages to thrill and entertain without venturing too far out on a limb.The Negotiator focuses on police corruption among a tightly knit coterie of Chicago's finest. Really helpful is the fact that The Negotiator originated from an authentic case involving the St. Louis Police. Co-scripted by Fox and DeMonaco (who wrote the Robin Williams fantasy Jack), this tense actioneer deals with a falsely accused cop. The Negotiator belongs to the police genre where the hero-in-blue must take the law into his own hands to prove his innocence. While The Negotiator staunchly adheres to the crime formula, with its shoot-outs constantly interrupting the plot to enliven it, the film boasts enough star charisma and surprises to boost it far above the standard-issue police thriller. Moreover, The Negotiator features a line-up of well-versed thespians.Ace hostage negotiator Danny Roman (Samuel L. Jackson) wakes up one morning and finds himself charged not only with embezzling police pension funds but also for murdering Nathan Roenick (an unbilled Paul Guilfoyle of Primary Colors) his long-time partner. The filmmakers deserve praise for getting the story off to an early start. Gray and his scenarists provide some informative dialogue about police negotiations and their methods. The lecture on eye language and lying is particularly illuminating and guaranteed to bolster any conversation. Stunned by these accusations, Danny hands in his shield at the request of Chief Al Travis (John Spencer of The Rock), his suspicious superior. Once again, Spencer plays a character with villainous shades. Danny's partner's widow curses Danny to his face and Danny's attorney advises his client to cut a deal.In short, everybody but Danny's newly wed wife, Karen (Regina Taylor of Lean on Me), believes that he is guilty as sin. Investigators at Danny's house produce bank accounts of funds invested in off-shore bank accounts. Things look terrible for our hero, but Danny is innocent and we know it. Clearly, someone is trying to frame him. The dramatic tension that fuels The Negotiator concerns who is guilty and can Danny survive long enough to prove it. At this point, predictability sets into the Fox & DeMonaco screenplay. All the usual police thriller elements remain intact. No sooner has the heroic cop's pal confided in him about a police conspiracy than he catches lead, and Roman finds himself isolated. Another element of the police movie genre is how a saint like Danny Roman can fall so swiftly.Refusing to cave in to a neat frame-up, Danny demands to face his accuser, portly Internal Affairs investigator Terrence Niebaum (J.T. Walsh of Tequila Sunrise). When a feisty Niebaum repudiates Danny, the outraged Roman takes him hostage, along with Niebaum's secretary, Maggie (Siobahn Fallon of Krippendorf's Tribe), and a pasty-faced informer, Rudy (Paul Giamatti of Saving Private Ryan), on the 20th floor of the Chicago Internal Affairs Division Headquarters. Chaos erupts. Chief Travis (John Spencer), Commander Adam Beck (David Morse of The Rock) and Commander Frost (Ron Rifkin of L.A. Confidential) besiege the building with an army of trigger-happy SWAT cops. David Morse joins the gallery of villains in The Negotiator. As Commander Beck, Morse joins the gallery of villains in The Negotiator. He makes quite an impression with is steely eyes and stern manner. Since he has figured out that one or more of his buddies have set him up, Danny demands an outside negotiator.Enter Lieutenant Chris Sabian (Kevin Spacey), another of Chicago's crack hostage negotiators. Sabian boasts that he has never killed a hostage taker in all his years on the force. Before Sabian confronts Roman, the filmmakers have a little fun with his character. Apparently, Sabian's insubordinate daughter said something that hurt her mother's feelings, and Chris has to talk her out of the bedroom when he receives his call from Travis. The irony (that Sabian cannot get his own wife and daughter to mind him) enriches the storyline when Chris finds himself caught up between Danny and an army of cops that prefer to dispense with questions and shoot first.At two hours and twenty minutes, The Negotiator is a quarter hour too long. Gray could have trimmed twenty minutes without endangering the suspense. Happily, The Negotiator gets off to a fast start. The idea of bottling them up in a skyscraper while Danny tries to break Niebaum's resolve qualifies as good stuff. Sadly, the filmmakers come up short. Often the plot stalls out. A big problem with The Negotiator is that the filmmakers keep us in the dark about who the villains are. Gray doesn't give up many clues about who they are and deploys some choice red herrings. Basically, we never get to know Danny Roman's friends so that we can guess the identity of his betrayers. Indeed, The Negotiator will make you furrow your brows with its plethora of detail. Burn the story about Shane into your brain cells if you really want to appreciate the plot. Unquestionably, with The Negotiator, Gray establishes himself as a helmer of big-action melodramas. "},{"Title":"Edge of the seat","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Samuel L. Jackson is probably one of the most awesome actors that ever lived, and his pure uncut awesomeness is captured perfectly in this well thought-out thriller. He's angry. He's looking for justice. Don't get in his way. The plot moves at a breakneck pace, and the length of the running time will probably go completely unnoticed because the direction looks so compact. This movie is over two hours long? I really have a hard time believing that. It just flies by, even though most of it happens in and around one location. With a build-up this exciting, the conclusion is usually a disappointment, but even that's not the case here. This is a rush of adrenaline captured on celluloid. "},{"Title":"better then expected","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" this movie was better then I first took it for granted I thought it was going to be a boring movie where nothing really happens but I was wrongthis movie never gets boring and gets more and more exciting every minute also some positive sides are the sound quality is very good and Samuel L. Jackson gives it his all and unexpected things that happen in this movie like the end and when one of the hostages gets shot by a S.W.A.T. member downsides Kevin Spacey and Ron Rifkin weren't that good to my opinion those are really the only downsidesfor anybody who has not seen this movie yet should definitely go rent it "},{"Title":"The Negotiator","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fast paced, well made thriller about a framed police negotiator (Jackson) who takes hostages and demands to speak with a counterpart from another precinct (Spacey). Powerful performances from both stars and great support from Giamatti, Morse, Rifkin and the great J.T.Walsh who ignite the flame to this shocker from start to finish.  "},{"Title":"an awesome well made melodrama","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" OK i had recently seen the negotiator and its almost a 10 year old movie,but needless to say i just watched it recently and i was blown away.I'm a big fan of Kevin Spacey,i believe is one of the greatest actors out there.and Samuel L Jackson is great in this too,we can all forgive him for;snakes on a plane.this is more than a good cop bad cop movie,it involves police corruption,Samuel L Jackson plays a good cop,a veteran whose partner is murdered,he gets set up as a patsy and...,well no way am i going to spoil this.you must watch this to find out what happens.you see both Samuel L Jackson and Kevin Spacey are both police negotiators,and yes both are good guys.also actor JT Walshes last movie,he died when this was released,JT Walsh was mostly known as his role in the Robin Williams comedy/drama good morning Vietnam as the Sargent major who clashed with Robin Williams character.but i cant say enough about the negotiator,i don't know why i never saw it before but there's that old saying better late than never. be warned it is a long movie but its not boring.its extremely enjoyable and well made.and its not a typical good cop/bad cop movie.I'm going to give the negotiator 10 out of 10,i would love to go higher but its only 1 to 10. "},{"Title":"My Most Favourite Action Movie !","Date":"21 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not a fan of Samuel L Jackson or Kevin Spacey, but this movie is one of the best i've ever seen! The plot is well...and good actors in this movie have really brought up this movie. William Forsythye and David Morse are some of the supporting casts which really support this movie. They have lighten up the movie, which turns The Negotiator as one of the best action movie ever! Anyway, i would like to congratulate to both actors Jackson and Spacey, who have been a great combination as the negotiator in this movie! Nothing to say more about this movie...just spent some money, go to the nearest video store, and buy this movie. Don't rent it, but buy it! Surely you won't regret for the rest of your life! 10/10**** (A+++) Highly Recommended !!! "},{"Title":"Longish but bright and extremely clever thriller.","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Danny Roman (Samuel L. Jackson) is a top negotiator for the city of Chicago but all things changes for the worse. When his best friend (Paul Guilfoyle) got murder by a mysterious shooter. Now Danny is accused of murder and for embezzlement as well. His best friend knew that some of his colleagues are corrupted police officers, he was going to tell Danny what was going on before he got killed. Danny has no other choice to take some hostages on a federal building including Internal Affairs officer Inspector Niebaum (The late J.T. Walsh), who might be involved with the death of his best friend. The only person that Danny could trust is another negotiator by the name of Chris Sabian (Two-Time Oscar WinnerKevin Spacey). Chris might be the only man, who could save Danny's life and clear his name.Directed by F. Gary Gray (Friday, The Italian Job 2003, Set It Off) made an entertaining, suspenseful, action-thriller with sharp performances by Jackson and Spacey. The director certainly has an eye for suspense and creating good action sequences. The movie has an strong supporting cast like David Morse, Ron Rifkin and the late John Spencer. The picture was well received by the film critics but it got lost, when it was released in the summer of 1998. The Negotiator was an box office disappointment but it did found an audiences on Video and TV.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an strong Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has two featurettes, production notes, the original theatrical trailer and four trailers from the two lead actors. The Negotiator is certainly better than most action-thrillers has to offers these days. This movie truly does focus on character development as well. The Negotiator is certainly one of the most underrated movies of the 1990's. Paul Giamatti steals the show in his supporting role as a ex-thief turned informant. Super 35. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Exciting procedural thriller","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" An above average procedural which cashes the potential of Kevin Spacey - and the internal corruption drama of his recent LA Confidential. Hot shot negotiator Danny Roman's been set up and, in the leave-your-common-sense-at-the-door central act of the film, takes over an entire building and will only deal with the awkward outsider Chris Sabian to negotiate the situation.This is a perfectly cast film. Spacey and Jackson are fine actors and this is really a conflagrated two-hander which requires Jackson to be an action hero occasionally. That's exactly how it plays out, with Sabian/Spacey's suspicions being aroused as the rules of negotiation are continually undermined and subverted. The well-executed action in the office block recalls the best bits of Die Hard. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Samuel L Jackson rocks!","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I do not know what it is about Samuel L. Jackson. No picture, and I have seen many Freedomland, Shaft, Die Hard with a Vengeance, A Time to Kill, Pulp Fiction, and on and on, fails to excite, and this one is no exception. His interaction with another top negotiator, Keven Spacey, incredible as usual, after he framed by other officers for stealing from the policemen's disability fund, is brilliant. As he goes crazy-like-a-fox berserk in order to prove his innocence, he and Spacey play cat and mouse to solve the crisis. A wild ending and a super supporting cast, especially David Morse, John Spencer, J.T. Walsh, Paul Giamatti, and Paul Guilfoyle "},{"Title":"very good and interesting","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a very smart movie but there not much to say about it.The acting very good but not good enough for academy awards.The plot is very interesting and better than Hostage (2005 Bruce Willis)There's not much that came to my mind after I was done watching this movie but it was really a good smart action movie.If anyone ever saw hostage before and liked it well they should watch this movie because it is similar and better and more interesting and is worth watching.Great movie an 8 out of 10 go see it now "},{"Title":"Good edgy dynamics once it gets going","Date":"19 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Negotiator (1998)I don't think I expected much more than a standard contemporary police corruption thriller, and this was better than I expected both in the story line (which has a couple great twists) and the acting and pacing (thanks to both Kevin Spacey and Samuel L. Jackson). It's not quite as intense or fresh feeling as Serpico, one of the defining movies of this type, and it's longer than it needs to be (especially at the beginning), but it's as steady and convincing as most movies of this type.Now it's worth saying that movies of this type (and let's be broad and include Die Hard and Bad Lieutenant in the mix) always stretch the limits of credibility, and if you don't like that, don't watch it. I mean, even the bad cops are kind of super cops, swirling in from helicopters and crashing through windows with their guns on fire. And Jackson, playing the embattled innocent accused, is more adept than even Bruce Willis, though a bit less fun for sure. If this were all the movie, it would be just passable, something on the level of the new Take Pelham 123. But enter Spacey, and the whole meaning of the title shifts 180 degrees, and the edginess of the dialog ramps up a lot. A good one. "},{"Title":"Method Actors","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" All you have to do is read the script. You know when you do whether or not you can =identify= with the characters and the =drama= between them. It's really that simple.Now. The director =can= screw it all up. But with actors as far into Stella Adler and Harold Klurman as Spacey and Jackson, and who have as much on the ball as they both do, =I= could have directed this, and it would have worked.Fortunately, I did not direct this film. And a bad-a** with a 'hood-a-tude who knows the boys in blue are often just soldiers in the WASP mafia =did=. So when =he= read the script, he identified with it, too.Then it just comes down to discipline and technical skill. Gray might never have worked at this level before, but he was ready to do so when he got the call.This is a real clean film about another real dirty department. It's on the toob occasionally, but really worth renting. "},{"Title":"Great Action Thriller!","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 1998 was a great year for film. Armageddon came out to battle The Negotiator for the top blockbuster hit. It's clear to me that Armageddon takes the cake but The Negotiator shouldn't be forgotten being slightly inferior.While The Negotiator wasn't filled with dazzling special and visual effects and didn't have the end of the world premise, it still delivers a high level action packed film with thrills and chills that place you on the end of your seat.Immediately opening up with Samuel L. Jackson as Danny Roman negotiating with a hostage taker, we get a glimpse into the world of chaos and evil doings. After the words, I'm not going to jail are said, this movie goes round for round to keep your heart pumping faster and faster. You'll get chills and glue your eyes to the screen.It's really a weird character, Danny Roman, as he's a protagonist but he's being viewed as the hostage taker throughout 75% of the film and thus he's also the main antagonist. Jackson's opposite in the film, Kevin Spacey really shines more so than anyone, I believe. Spacey plays Chris Sabian and he's edgy but still has a comedic relief in the film.It's an educational film on a couple levels of how a hostage takeover is handled and a bunch of little extra things to learn too. Aside from the main actors of Jackson and Spacey, I really enjoyed David Morse as Commander Beck and Michael Cudlitz as Palermo. Michael really shines in his supporting role as the caring sniper who can't be against a colleague like Danny while Morse really plays the guy that we love to hate just because he's such a jerk.It's got a lot of action for being such a claustrophobic film and mainly having two sets. Spacey really shines the most because, while Jackson is seen nearly 95% of the film, Spacey doesn't appear until almost halfway through the film giving him only maybe an hour of screen time. Supporting cast really help make the leads all the better.Hardly any special effects, but what is seen is top-notch and the rest of the visual effects used are decent. Violence and profanity is kept to a minimum and it's really a dialogue oriented film. Spacey and Jackson on screen is something to behold and without these actors at each other throats, I don't think the film would be such a huge success. The Negotiator marks the moment of when I as a kid began to love Kevin Spacey's work. "},{"Title":"Negotiate with your partner to make this part of your movie night","Date":"21 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Beautifully shot in downtown Chicago, The Negotiator is one of my all-time favorite movies. Excellent dialogue, great acting, suspense and tight shots/twists make this a must-see for all movie-lovers.And to top it off, it starts two of my favorite actors of all time Spacey and Jackson, even though Spacey doesn't show up until a third of the movie is over.That's okay, because after watching this, probably a dozen or so times, I always get completely enthralled in the suspenseful and gripping opening third and then, even when the movie's already near-perfect, in comes Spacey to add so much to the story. And he was absolutely perfect. His demeanor, smirks, dialogue, command and scene-stealing make this repeat viewing movie a joy each and every time.This is not to take away from the other cast members, namely the always wonderful Jackson, who, once again, adds so much depth to a troubled man put into extraordinary circumstances.After an example of expert hostage negotiator Danny (Jackson) in action of taking down a horrible person who put his child in danger, he learns of a corruption/conspiracy to rob the cop's retirement fund. Without much time to digest the information, he is framed for his own partner's murder. With only his wife on his side, he takes his accusers hostage easily since he knows all the tactics and rules of engagement. He's a quick thinker and appoints Chris (Spacey) as his own personal negotiator who's immediately puzzled on how Danny's own friends, coworkers and cops want Danny to fail despite the efforts Danny takes to prove his innocence. From there, the onion peels to the conspiracy and who's involved and who will survive this ordeal to prove Danny's innocence.Say what you will about this movie, its length or it's A-B-C mystery solved, it was a tight, suspenseful, original and extremely well acted and wonderfully written. Every few years, I revisit this movie and the lovely part, is I always seem to forget which of the cops on screen are involved and who's just trying to do their job.I especially love the Chicago shots (one of my favorite cities) and the interaction, whether by phone or in-person, between two of the screen's legends Spacey and Jackson. Whether or not this could really happen, I get lost in the fictional story and root for Danny and Chris who's caught so much in the middle. Spacey really shines and this smaller role for him should show his genius and fun he has in the movies. This is an absolute must see. "},{"Title":"One of the examples show that why 1990s action thriller cinema was better","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The action, thriller movies which made in 1990's and 1980's are much better than the ones which made recently, after 2000 This is one of the main reasons that those years are very special for me. I will start with the opening credits, it is one of my favorite opening credits so far. The music is great, the images, zooms and music cause mystery. I love that. The director uses the city excellently, in addition the atmosphere, the tone of the film are great, it absorbs you. Returning to the city, we frequently see the city from bird's-eye view, those images are dazzling. The scenes which S.W.A.T. and other police forces prepare are also flashy, but not showy. The movie does not include a lot of action scenes, a few, and those action scenes are not big, but they are stylish and exciting as the whole movie. The pace of the movie never slows down except a few scenes at the beginnings, but it does not mean that those scenes are uninteresting. This one was the first Paul Giamatti movie I watched and never forgot him. (an unnecessary note in those years, I used to confuse him with Rob Schneider) The most parts of the movie take place at night, you feel the coldness of the city. Kevin Spacey are not included in action movies usually, surprisingly, he is in the cast and a plus for the movie. This is rather a thriller, than action, but still very engaging. "},{"Title":"Superior mystery thriller","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey are both excellent as two police negotiators in this tense, well acted, action thriller.The plot takes off quickly as does the action as Danny Roman (Jackson) is framed for a crime, and he suspects someone on the inside, a fellow officer, is responsible. He takes over an office and several hostages at gunpoint in an effort to get his story out, and demands negotiations with Chris Sabian (Spacey). Roman embarks on a risky poker game, utilizing his negotiator experience, knowing what moves his counterpart will be forced to make.The search for the truth Roman embarks on develops quickly, with plenty of chess game tactics with Sabian, while unknown mole(s) presumably are making moves on the sly as well. Paul Giametti, Siobhan Fallon and J.T. Walsh are the hostages hanging by a thread, caught in the middle between Roman and special unit forces being held at bay only by the negotiations. David Morse has a strong role as one of the cops who might blow Roman away at any moment.A few minor clichés and plot holes are evident, such as unrealistic police tactics. Also, one scene has Roman playing a bluff which is easy to recognize; Sabian not seeing through it is an unlikely scenario. However, the story is strong enough to allow the poetic license necessary. The mystery unravels at just the right pace to maintain the suspense and intrigue. The entire cast bring realism and urgency to their respective characters, many of whom have important back stories.A fine, well thought out movie, that moves quickly and involves you to the end. "},{"Title":"This won't win any rewards","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Why is it that every action/thriller out of Hollywood these days look like they've come out of the same mold? Why are they all shot like glossy commercials? Why do they waste good actors, time and money on drivel such as this? Why do i bother writing this? Could someone sometime please remember how to MAKE A REAL MOVIE? Story weaknesses aside, this could have been a lot more realistic had it been shot in a more documentary style, remember French Connection, anyone? You get what you bargained for, a couple of name actors (check), a high concept premise (check), a former music video and commercials director (check), a pedestrian and interchangeable music score that could have gone with any other brainless action-film around (check), a unexpected twist that you never saw coming (check), and on and on... "},{"Title":"Intelligent and suspenseful thriller","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My Age 13Danny Roman, played by Samuel L. Jackson is the best hostage negotiator in his precinct, and is framed for the murder of his partner and for stealing money from a disability fund.  To clear his name and find the real killer of his friend, Danny takes hostages and forces the police to bring in a negotiator from another precinct, because he believes some people from his precinct are corrupt.  This negotiator is Chris Sabian, played by Kevin Spacey.  He sets up all the usual gadgets to watch Danny, but Danny knows all the tricks.  After a while, Chris begins to think Danny is innocent, and starts helping him uncover the truth.The Negotiator is a very interesting film that sets up a very interesting plot very well.  Acting performances are great from both leads and the supporting cast as well.  This is definitely not a stupid or predictable film, and even the action is quite good.  The only problem this film has is that it becomes a little boring waiting for the next thing to happen to Danny or the hostages.  But with a suspenseful finale, The Negotiator is an intelligent thriller that I would recommend.Australian Classification MA 15+ Medium Level Violence, Medium Level Coarse LanguageRating 74 out of 100 "}{"Title":"CORRUPTION is the only word","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One word came out of this film. CORRUPTION. I wasn't actually gonna do a review, considering, I would only have one word. But the action and the scene, was just unreal. It tells a story of a cop Danny(Jackson), was being framed for a murder of another cop. Battles ensues between the cops and the Feds aka FBI get involved. Music score was quite good actually. Very suspenseful, no doubt. hahaah. Chris Sabier gets involved as Danny asked for him. Then during the film, the SWAT team and other police cops Chicago PDs, get involved by breaking what Chris had asked him to do. Then the lawyer or some other cop gets thrown into the ring, Frost. It has then been found that Frost was the one who did the framing. It just goes to show you who you can trust. You can't trust anyone. "},{"Title":"Great acting","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well I expected more from this movie. When two big names Kevin Spacy and Samuel L Jackson come together then one should expect much more. So did I. Movie was average. Spacy has got a flair for convincing someone easily and he did his job very well as a negotiator. Plot was like old movies and what can you expect from a movie of 1998? but direction and screenplay was pretty good. Movie was too much focused on negotiation that it could not create that thriller of finding the real man. I am a fan of these two actors so I liked it overall. So here it is an average movie with an average plot with combo of two extraordinary actors. "},{"Title":"Gripping, exciting.  A near perfect film... Blu-ray Very Good A8 V8","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This one is gonna be easy...First off, WHY in God's name has this director not either done more films or why is he not more recognized...??? I had to look him up here because I didn't know him; imagine my surprise when I saw that he also directed the excellent 'LAW ABIDING CITIZEN' & 'THE Italian JOB'(2003)This guy is GOOD!Just that simple. I'm REALLY puzzled why we haven't heard more about him. I mean, this was one of his earliest and biggest films, starring two iconic actors among many other excellent supporters, and the guy has only done ONLY 3 really big, recognizable films in 16 years...???!! We're talking like Antoine Fuqua quality here people. So WHERE the hell has this guy been...?Oh well, who am I to unravel the dastardly machinations of Hollywood? Probably better off not knowing...  )Anyway, the acting is excellent all around and the story itself is very well done. It seriously GRABS you right from the beginning, and it does NOT let you go until it is done with you. That is really all you need to know...Needless to say... DAMN good film! "},{"Title":"Very Intense with Two Great Leads","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Negotiator is a brilliant movie with a really well developed storyline and a fantastic cast.The movie is very intense,mainly because of the outstanding dramatic performances delivered by Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey,the films plot easily could have been given to any well known action star who would bring in the money but not a great performance,but instead they got Jackson and Spacey,who aren't necessarily action stars,and we get to enjoy this movie much more and feel even more for these characters.I was having trouble finding Jackson's character likable,which he was obviously suppose to be,but he held a bunch of people hostage in order to prove his own innocence,but was committing a crime in the meantime,although I did like seeing him use both personalities as he is great at being both a good and evil character.Action packed and very intense,I would definitely recommend the Negotiator to anyone looking for a good crime drama or action. A hostage negotiator who is framed for the murder of his partner decides to take some hostages of his own.Best Performance Samuel L. Jackson Worst Performance Regina Taylor If you have any recommendations on films/TV series I should watch or review,or any questions to ask me,just tweet me @DillonTheHarris "},{"Title":"A negotiator turns on his own","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Negotiator is a very tense movie that keeps you captivated right through to the end. The cinematography is brilliant and the plot has been developed to completely throw the viewer. As this movie does has a number of twists, I will not reveal them so as not to spoil the movie.This movie is about a number of themes. It is about control and power, the bluff, and the truth. A top police negotiator is framed for stealing money for the police disability funds and for murdering his partner. He is innocent and goes to internal affairs to try and find out what is wrong. While he is there, guns are pulled and it falls into a hostage situation. The catch is that he is a police negotiator and as such knows everything that the police do to rescue hostages. Because of this he is able to take control of the situation, and maintain control. He is able to shut the police out of the room and create a very dangerous situation. Because he has been told that his friends are involved, he demands that another negotiator (Kevin Spacey) come to handle the situation.The Negotiator deals with intense psychological warfare where the negotiator is using all of his tactics that he uses on hostage takers to bring the police around to his side. The central part of this warfare involves the bluff. They must lead people to think one thing while they are trying to do another. In situations such as these, calling the bluff can be dangerous, but if one is in complete control of the situation then one can be safe in knowing that the bluff will not be called.Bluffs are thrown around constantly in this movie, but here the hostage taker is in complete control and is able to easily call their bluffs, while he can bluff without worrying about them being called.The Negotiator is a very good movie. It is quite fast, I think, though it drags a bit at the beginning. Generally the drag is needed to set up the plot, but once it gets going, the action becomes very tense. "},{"Title":"I'm Sure That Everyone Got What They Were Looking For!","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Going into this movie, you shouldn't really have such high expectations. You should look at it for what it is a good, solid action thriller. Even though you probably wouldn't have very, very high expectations going into this movie, I think you would have gotten much more than what you were looking for! I think that the best aspect of the movie would probably be the performances given by Samuel Jackon (Pulp Fiction, Die Hard with a Vengeance), and Kevin Spacey (Seven, The Usual Suspects), as well as a solid performance by David Morse (who, in the following year, gave another solid performance in The Green Mile). I thought that they were all great.The reason I say that you might have gotten much more than what you were looking for is because of the movie's unpredictable scenarios and how well they were handled. During the course of the movie, I didn't really expect that Frost (played by Ron Rifkin) was going to be behind it all.Overall, this should definitely please fans of the genre and anyone who is a fan of Samuel Jackson and Kevin Spacey should definitely check this movie out, as it is going to keep you on the edge of your seat the whole time!8/10 "},{"Title":"What a FANTASTIC movie.","Date":"23 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie tonight. I love it so much that I was not able to move out from my seat. This film is an excellent intelligent movie with fantastic actors of Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey. For sure Samuel L. Jackson played his best of ability to deliver this well written by James DeMonaco, and Kevin Fox. Jackson was a police hostage negotiator, and he set up for a crime that he didn't commit. He worked with amazing strategy to get into truth by taking his own hostages and find out about the truth by bluffing, and negotiating, and smart actions. I RECOMMEND this movie to those people who would like to get nailed down to their chairs for over one hour, and enjoy an intelligent movie. I give score 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Overlooked And Underrated, The Negotiator Is A Thrilling, Suspenseful, Edge-Of-Your-Seat Thrill-Ride(**** Out Of ****).","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Negotiator is directed by F. Gary Gray who also directed Friday and Set It Off comes The Negotiator. Now unlike Friday and Set It Off which were deemed Box Office Sucsesses earning more than there budget back, The Negotiator was a Box Office Failure failing to bring back 6 million dollars from it's budget. The budget was $50,000,000 and it only brought back $44,000,000, which is a shame because this was a great film.The film tells the story of Danny Roman played by Samuel L. Jackson whose job is to be a hostage negotiator. One day he is framed by the police for embezzlement and murder. Upset with being wrongly framed Roman takes hostages to get to the bottom of what happened. He meets fellow hostage negotiator Chris Sabian played by Kevin Spacey who walks Danny through everything. Pretty soon the clock starts running out and Danny must choose a fate between Life and Death.This is a great movie that threw me for a loop even at times I didn't even see it coming. This movie does not use the same old tired formula, It decides to take a very different turn and thats a good thing. The acting is phenomenal, The story is well conceived and there is real chemistry between the two leads who play off each other very well. If you have not seen this I would recommend it for anybody that wants a taste of something different.Rated R For Violence And Language.2hrs 20min/140min.86 uses of the F-word.****/**** "},{"Title":"Definitely worth seeing","Date":"20 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The plot consists of Danny Roman (Samuel L. Jackson),a negotiator of the Metropolitan police department. His partner, Nate, tells him that he is investigating a theft in department's disability fund and that the ones responsible are people they work with. Later the same night, he finds Nate dead. Then he finds himself set up for both the murder and the theft. He is pushed over the edge and forced to take hostages of his own to prove his innocence. One of witch he is convinced is hiding something. His own teem arrive but he will only negotiate with Chris Sabian (Kevin Spacey), a negotiator from another department.I was really drawn to this film, when i first watched it. The acting is fantastic. There are some really suspenseful scenes, where characters are frustrated and the actors pull it off very well. There are some very effective quotes scenes. It is a bit long but definitely not boring, filled with twists and turns and dialogue that adds to the excitement.The Negotiator is clever, well executed and well written thriller. In my opinion, Jackson and Spacey at their best! "},{"Title":"An exciting battle of two wills","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the good things about The Negotiator is the set up. Police hero Danny Roman (Samuel Jackson in an intense performance) is accused of murder and corruption in connection with the Police Department's disability fund. In a desperate attempt to prove his innocence, Roman holds an entire government office hostage and refuses to release any prisoners until he discovers who framed him. The rest of the film is about a standoff between Danny Roman, hauled up in a government office with four hostages, and his own police department and the FBI which assume his guilt and will stop at nothing to stop him. The Police Department also consists of some of the people who framed Roman in the first place, adding a third dimension to an already interesting plot.Yet the best thing about The Negotiator is the fascinating battle of wills that takes place between two intelligent, forceful, determined men Danny Roman (Jackson) and the negotiator Chris Sabian (Kevin Spacey) who can stand down anyone without causing casualties. It is this battle of wills, combined with wonderful dialogue delivered in bravura fashion by Jackson and Spacey (both brilliant actors), that makes this movie so fascinating and exciting to watch -- even more so than the action scenes. Perhaps the great lesson of this film, which unfortunately has not influenced other Hollywood films, is that you do not need explosions and shoot outs to create an entertaining movie. Instead all you need are two great actors and a great script that sets their dialogue on fire. Although Jackson and Spacey are, by far, the heart and soul of this movie, The Negotiator has some good smaller performances as well. Paul Giamatti is amusing as a con man turned secretary who, after taken hostage, goes back to his old ways to try to help Roman prove his innocence. Jackson and Giamatti share some great dialogue together. Another great performance is J.T. Walsh as Terence Niebaum who is more complex than he seems on the surface.The only let down in this movie comes at the end. The closing act is not only anti-climactic, but far fetched and silly. Predictable confrontations take place (which I will not describe) and these are followed by a happy resolution, as though some people who take an entire government office hostage live happily ever after. But aside from this ending, which occupies 10-15 minutes in a 140 minute movie, The Negotiator is a brilliantly intense and fast-paced thriller driven by great performances by Jackson and Spacey and fantastic dialogue to match.8/10 "}{"Title":"Killer! Powerful and suspenseful!","Date":"14 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Outstanding movie. On-the-edge-of-your-seat drama that keeps you guessing right up to the very end. Danny Roman(Samuel L. Jackson)is an expert hostage negotiator, who is wrongfully accused of killing his partner. In order to prove his innocence, Roman must take hostages of his own to ferret out his partner's killer and a ring of fellow police officers within his own department suspected of stealing money from their pension funds. Roman requests to talk with a specific hostage negotiator Chris Sabian(Kevin Spacey)since he would be least likely part of any conspiracy against him. Fairly long running time just over two hours, but has enough action you don't really notice. Jackson and Spacey are superb in front of a strong supporting cast David Morse, J.T. Walsh, Siobhan Fallon, Paul Giamatti, Regina Taylor and Ron Rifkin. "},{"Title":"Excellent film!!!!!!!!","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" My favorite types of movies are intelligent, clever, suspense thrillers. I, of course, have seen lots of great movies that would be classified in another genre. The one thing that they always have in common is that are intelligent and clever. Those qualities can be used in many different forms. For instance by the incorporation of music with a great story such as A Knights Tale, etc. That said, back to my comments on The Negotiator. I highly recommend this movie as a must see for everyone. It is a great film. It is well written, directed and has great actors. The casting of these actors is great as well. The main characters, Samuel L. Jackson & Kevin Spacey, are exceptional actors in their own right. I love and have great respect for both of them and they are among the list of my favorite actors. I will watch almost any film that they are in. Even so,I just want to say that I consider both of their performances in this film among the best of their careers. I salute anyone who gives them the opportunity to utilize their talent in such a brilliant way. "},{"Title":"Quality Thriller","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Put Kevin Spacey and Samuel L Jackson opposite each other in a movie and your guaranteed great performances and thats this films ace card. Without that and some very competent suspense building direction this film could have descended into b-action movie hell.Having a hostage negotiator forced to take hostages himself is a nice concept and the director really knows how to ramp up the tension during the negotiation scenes and when Spacey and Jackson are on screen together the sparks do fly. But it's not all talky scenes the as the thrills and spills of a good action movie are in there to with SWAT teams, snipers etc all shooting it out.My one slight gripe about this movie is the main conspiracy seems a bit far fetched. Some of the characters motivations seem to change to suddenly. But other than that this is a really enjoyable thriller.7/10 - Will keep you gripped to the end. "},{"Title":"Check it our before it gets out","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Finally, after a very long time we get to see an excellent action drama. The best in recent times. With two of the best actors, Hollywood has produced, we have a stunning tale of mystery, murder and intrigue woven into the Chicago Police Department. Samuel L. Jackson is the best negotiator on the East Side of Chicago. The absolute best there is in the business. He gets busted for murdering his partner who was investigating a fraud. This man is desperate and his ass is on the pan. Well so what does he do??? Something he know best. Takes a hostage (actually four of them) and demands a negotiator. Enter Kevin Spacey, Oscar winner for his role in The Usual Suspects and star of LA Confidential. This guy has guts and brains. What he and Jackson have done to this movie no other 2 actors could probably have done. With their inimitable styles and dialogue delivery they manage to light up the night-sky in Chicago. Sterling performances from the director and scriptwriter moreover have given us a beautifully twisted tale. The comedy is rather subtle and never ceases to amaze. All in all a wonderful movie worth spending 50 bucks for. "},{"Title":"The Fugitive in a room","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Good film with an excellent cast which, though not as intricately plotted as the superb L.A. Confidential, still manages to deliver enough surprises and whodunnit action to maintain interest. As it contains a fairly expansive cast of police, FBI etc you never really know who's doing what until the end. Several characters seem very much intwined in the conspiracy and framing of Jackson yet are innocent while others, neither obvious nor covertly involved, become prime suspects. The pacing is just about right as it's not a straight shoot-em-up and tension is maintained right through. All in all good to watch on TV, though I doubt I'd go to the cinema to see it. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although the plot of the movie is somewhat predictable, I still enjoyed seeing it very much. I would suggest that you focus more on the acting of those main actors and try not to expect some exaggerated action or explosive scenes. I'm really attractive to Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey's character when I watching it - human beings with some heroic DNA in them. They usually won't show it until necessary. David Morse's character is fine but not that special. It's a waste that he recently always stay in supporting actor list. Paul Giamatti's character also attracts your attention sometimes.(I recently saw him in Man on the Moon.)Anyway, this is a good movie. Everybody should try it! "},{"Title":"Twists from start to finish","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is fantastic. The performances of both Samuel L Jackson and Kevin Spacey are excellent. The supporting cast also performed admirably.The best thing in the film, however, was the plot. It kept me guessing right to the very end.A fitting tribute for the late JT Walsh - his presence was always welcome in any film. "},{"Title":"The way action thrillers should be made...","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey in an action thriller together expectations have got to be high, and I'm glad to say that The Negotiator doesn't disappoint at all. In a summer dominated by a plot hungry lizard and a bunch of asteroids hurtling towards earth The Negotiator arrived with very little fanfare but still manages to provide one of the best action films this year.Perhaps calling The Negotiator simply an action film is doing it a disservice as it works on many levels, action, drama, thriller, but perhaps what works best is the fact that it has a really well written script (by James DeMonaco & Kevin Fox) and that combined with a host of very good actors all working at the top of their game and top notch direction from F. Gary Gray, who is equally at ease here getting the best out of the dramatics as he is at delivering the thrills during the films action sequences, all combine to make an extremely enjoyable and very satisfying whole.The performances in this film are all very well handled with Spacey and Jackson utterly compelling as the two negotiators on opposite sides of the situation, with David Morse, John Spenser, Paul Giamatti and the late J.T. Walsh (in his last screen role) all offering excellent support. The rest of the cast are all also very solid in their roles, especially Ron Rifkin, Siobhan Fallon, Rhonda Dotson and (the uncredited) Tom Bower and Paul Guilfoyle. Also of note is the top notch cinematography and editing (by Russell Carpenter and Christian Wagner respectively) that considerably adds to the film's overall impact.Any flaws that the film may have (such as the slower pace of the first 30 minutes or so) are relatively tiny and not really worth mentioning, and all in all this remains one of the best action thrillers in quite some time. Twists, turns, action, acting, thrills and plot all add up to a film that is well worth catching.One man's opinion. 9/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best featuring the best of the best.","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've seen the movie The Negotiator twice and I know I'll watch the movie over and over again. The first time I've watched the movie, I look at it like I normally do. Just watch it and that's it. The second time, I focussed more on the actors, their use of expressions, the dialogue...  the things you would normally find laid out in a screenplay.I must say The Negotiator is one of best movies I've ever seen and I have seen a lot of them. The dialogues are absolutely sensational, especially the ones that were done by Samuel L. Jackson. I have no idea if the movie was already picked for the Oscars. If not, to my opinion, a big mistake. Samuel L. Jackson should win or should have won at least one Oscar as well as Kevin Spacey and J.T. Walsh. And let's not forget the one or ones that wrote the screenplay.For those that have not seen this movie yet, go see it !My guess is that, although you don't expect it, your eyes will drop some tears during certain parts in the film. At least mine did... several times. ;-) Maybe because Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey are not just actors to me. "},{"Title":"Smart, very interesting, complicated film","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Really interesting and smart script. S.L.Jackson and K. Spacey are wonderful as usual, both in their styles. You don't sure ,watching the movie, that good guys will win and this adds... So if you like intellegent, complicated detective/ action/ thriller/ drama movie, this is a film for you, enjoy "}{"Title":"An extremely well done film - biting my nail the whole way.","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am a HUGE Die Hard fan.  Of coarce - the first thing that this movie made me thought of while I watched it, was Die Hard...But I believe that this flick has out-done Die Hard, and with style.  The Nigotiator boasts crisp filming, sharp sound - a killer soundtrack (very worthy of purchasing) and top grade casting.  It has been a long time since a movie like this has been as near as good.  This one was an undercredited - under publicised jewel. My highest recommendations for any fan of Crimpson Tide - trust me, if you liked that one (also a top notch thriller), you'll love this one.This one Surprised me thrice fold.Bravo, Bravo!10/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent plot, great acting...","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie had an intriguing plot, Samuel Jackson and Kevin Spacey portrayed their roles as negotiators excellently.The movie (unlike most others) made excellent use of the SWAT team, and overall there was plenty of action.  A must see "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the best thriller ever. From beginning to end, every minute and every second, I was glued to the chair and couldn't move an inch. WONDERFUL MOVIE!!! A MUST SEE!!! "},{"Title":"Tense, Thrilling, and Quick paced","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey could this flick go wrong? A taut thriller showcasing one man's last attempt at revealing the truth, the film never lets up. Kevin Spacey is just outstanding (as always) as the negotiator requested by Jackson. Jackson himself also gives an outstanding performance as the negotiator at the end of his rope. The rest of the cast puts in a pretty good performance, but the two stars really steal the show. A good flick all around...  "},{"Title":"a wonderful blend of action, suspense, and drama","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Samuel L. Jackson, and Kevin Spacey, at first the two seem to be an unlikely couple.  It seems that Mr Jackson is more of an action/comedy man, while Mr Spacey appears more likely to star in a serious comedy, or serious drama, where you must use every extent of your brain to understand every extent of the film.  That is what makes The Negotiator work so well. Jackson is not only the main character, but he gives us a breather when the conspiracy becomes too overwhelming to keep up with, whether it be making fun of the amateur negotiator Farley (Stephen Lee), or square dancing to cotton eye joe in a bar, 6 hours after rescuing a young girl from her father, early in the beginning of the film.  Jackson presents us with a fun, enthusiastic, rash (but wise) character.  While Spacey is the down to earth, I wanna do my job, family man, who doesn't trust, or choose sides.The young, but extremely talented, F. Gary Gray, does a phenomenal job, using an ominous office building, standing tall over the Chicago river, and then turning it all into the site of a superior motion picture.  Gray uses a wonderful contrast of Light/Dark, High/Low, Good/Bad.  The good guys (Jackson), are higher up, on the well lit, 20th floor of a government office building. While the bad guys have set up a command center, on a dim construction barge in the river. Gray does a nice job of using action, drama, suspense, and even a little mystery, to make the film come together. There are never too many bullets flying, or too few tears running.  Trust plays a big part in the movie, representing how Danny Roman (Jackson) is like a caged rat, with the entire world against him.  Gray does a nice job of keeping the movie away from the Die Hard look, he uses only Flash Bang grenades, and no C4. Although Chris Sabian (Spacey) can be compared to Sargeant Al Powell (Reginald VelJohnson) of Die Hard and there are many similarities in the film, such as the office building itself, and the 500 trigger happy police officers, encroaching the surroundings of the building.Altogether, The Negotiator worked wonderfully. The excellent blend of blood/sweat/tears representing action/suspense/drama, along with a powerful musical score, and a superb cast.  The Negotiator keeps you on the edge of your seat, and the tip of your brain, for the entire 140 minutes  that it runs. "},{"Title":"Well worth the time","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a very well made film. Sam Jackson is very good as Danny Roman, a police negotiator, who is framed for a pension theft and has to take matters into his own hands to clear his name.  The supporting cast is good, with David Morse playing a cop that has you guessing right up to the end as to which side he is on.  Kevin Spacey is just so good that they are going to change the saying to 'Never act with animals, kids or Kevin Spacey'.  Man, he is good.  Well worth the time and money. "},{"Title":"Refreshing.....","Date":"14 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Refreshing.  What precisely do I mean by that?  No, the movie didn't have  that crisp, minty flavor.  I mean that after treating myself to the Good (X -Files), the Bad (Godzilla), and the Ugly (Saving Private Ryan--although  ugly still very, very unforgettable) this summer at the movies, it was nice  to get a movie that got the adrenaline flowing smoothly while somehow  managing to keep me guessing right up to the final scene of the flick AND  providing me with intelligent dialogue!The Negotiator is the kind of film I've been waiting for Kevin Spacey to  do.  It had the right amount of action without crossing the Die Hard 2  threshold of absurdity.  That combined with brillantly written scenes  between Jedi-to-be Samuel L. Jackson and Spacey bring you a decidedly  original cinema experience during a season notorious for pulling out the  flashy fireworks and Oding us on CGI.The film masterfully wraps you up in the story in record time, while letting  you know right up front who the villains *could* be.  Everything that makes  a good thriller comes rushing out of the flood gates, and soon Jackson has  everyone in the film (and watching it) in the palm of his hand.  My only  complaint is the time it took for Spacey's Chris Sabian to show up.   Although his first scene with his daughter and slightly upset wife almost  makes up for his tardiness.  Other than that, superb and unexpected summer  entertainment.  And can we get a special round O' applause to Paul Pig  Vomit Giamatti, whose brief but hilarious scenes are almost worth the  price of admission.It just goes to show you that the box office doesn't always fall under the  control of Devlin and Emmerich just because it happens to be June.  "},{"Title":"Sweet Talk","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Screened on late-night TV recently this one kept me watching til the small hours. The writers tip their glove by naming the protagonist Danny Roman and then SHOWING him to be the 'noblest Roman of them all' but I can live with that late at night. It adheres to classic formulae in that it begins by catching Roman at work - he's a highly skilled hostage negotiator - and showing us just how good and well respected he is and then taking it to the next level by having him framed not only for the murder of his partner but also of embezzling from the police pension fund. Unable to get anybody to agree with his contention that he is innocent he resorts to taking hostages of his own - something he is more than equipped to do via his specialized knowledge - and then demanding a second negotiator, the equally skilled Chris Sabien, be seconded to the Case. What we have is a mixture of Talk and Action, a Cat-and-Mouse game and a Mystery to be solved and actors of the calibre of Kevin Spacey and Samuel T Jackson who between them elevate a fairly pedestrian script to a higher level. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"With Spacey and Jackson as the lead characters, you be right to expect a brilliant movie, but is this it?","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Danny (Jackson) is a Top negotiator in the City of Chicago. Accused of murdering his Partner, he deals with the situation by becoming the very thing, he deals with every day; a hostage taker.With strong reasons to believe his 'Friends' are corrupt, he refuses to be negotiated with, until Sabian (Spacey) another negotiator from another precinct arrives. Sabian quickly realises that this is no normal situation, and his usual routine simply won't cut it.Now Spacey and Jackson, both give typically great performances, but the movie has a few too many flaws to be a really great one, that said is does have some good action, a few good thrills and a decent script, so if you fancy it, its certainly worth your time.8/10 mainly for Spacey and Jackson. "},{"Title":"Only a small ransom needed","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  * * (2 out of 5)The NegotiatorDirected by F. Gary Gray, 1998Standard Hollywood cop/hostage movie gets special credit for some great scenery (filmed on location in Chicago), and some genuine but very sporadic suspense.  Other than that, it's business as usual. The Negotiator is yet another contrived and overly talkative affair for Samuel L. Jackson. He's a police negotiator who gets framed for his partner's murder. There's even a `gun and badge' scene (the good cop hands over his hardware).  The movie also stars that other golden-tongued Hollywood boy, Kevin Spacey, as the cop who at first hesitates but then decides to help Jackson's character. Big surprise.    "}{"Title":"Overblown, hard to believe script","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented this the other night based on good comments I'd read in the newsgroups.  Unfortunately I discovered, along with many others that have commented here, that the movie's script is overblown, contrived, and asks for way too much suspension of disbelief.After Jackson's partner is killed and he's framed for it, his friends and colleagues turn on him waaaay too easily.  If they're going to play this angle, at least make him a loner or jerk to give some credibility to people believing the worst about him; as it is, it seems wholly contrived to simply give him an excuse to snap.Jackson then goes off the deep end, takes several hostages.  Various mayhem ensues.  Accused of a crime you didn't commit?  Take hostages, convince everyone you're a lunatic capable of killing in cold blood, and force people to believe you, that's the ticket!  He only ends up breaking a few dozen laws by the end of the movie. The supposedly tension-packed scenes are quite predictable as the movie never for an instant makes you believe Jackson is on the edge--he's always quite clearly the protagonist of this story.The movie's premise is reminiscent of The Fugitive, however in that movie, the protagonist has already been convicted and is obviously desperate because everyone's given up on him; in this case, he hasn't even gone to court yet!  I sensed that the film may have tried to setup an underlying theme of racism as perhaps another reason Jackson's character is betrayed by his friends and doesn't trust the courts, but perhaps it's just me.  In any case, the confrontations with the police and hostages become sillier and sillier when you realize that this man is trying to prove his innocence.Jackson and Spacey make a good duo.  They should find a less absurd movie vehicle to work together in.  Just for their performances, I'll give this movie a C. "},{"Title":"Too many plot holes","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I do realize that suspension of disbelief is a requirement for movies like this.  But, I'm sorry, there were just too many plot holes.  Yes, some exaggeration is required for movie making, but when it adds up to just plain stupidity, I draw the line.  One example (SPOILER)Sabian gets relieved of his duty by the feds, and he is supposedly escorted to the car by a FBI agent.  A few shots later, he is seen entering the office building again.  Come on!  The fed didn't make sure he drove off? AND, the building's entrance is not monitored??!!!  That was just too illogical for me.Better movie makers could have thought of a more creative--and far more believable way--of Sabian getting back into the building. "},{"Title":"The Negotiator starts interestingly but goes downhill quickly","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Having just seen an, I'm sure, edited (mainly for profanity) version of The Negotiator on My Network TV, I don't think this is my definitive review of this movie but I want to comment on it anyway. I liked the interesting set-up of Samuel L. Jackson's way of dealing with hostage situations at the beginning and the way his partner was set-up for murder. But then just as Jackson starts holding up J.T. Walsh for his deceit I was already thinking how overblown the rest of the movie was going to be and I was right. It's at this time that the other lead, Kevin Spacey, shows up as the other negotiator and while it's interesting to see these two intense actors perform together all I could think of was when will this be over. Even the presence of Walsh (bless his soul), John Spencer (ditto), Siobhan Fallon, Paul Giamatti, and Ron Rifkin in support isn't completely enough to make this a very compelling movie when one doesn't feel any real suspense during the whole thing. All that's left is too quick editing and too much action going on all at once that makes it hard to really tell what's going on or why certain things are taking place. Only recommended if you're a fan of the two leads. "},{"Title":"Builds up fairly well, but grows far-fetched, boring and stupid","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Negotiator was a action/drama that fails to live up to its build up.Without giving too much away, a top-notch hostage negotiator (Jackson) takes a group hostage when he is framed for a crime and calls in a top-notch hostage negotiator from the other side of town (Spacey) to run the negotiation of his demands.So effectively, we have two top notch actors pitted against each other in a hostage negotiator stand off. Good premise. But I felt that the writers got this far (and knew it was good) but didn't know where to take it from there.Accordingly, they got creative and that's where it all goes wrong. The negotiation we're all waiting for really doesn't deliver. There is a noticeable absence of intellectual dueling or exchanges of snappy dialogue, even though it tries hard. In fact, some of the script is extremely contrived, indicating that the writers wanted this to make this stand off enthralling, but didn't know how to go about it. Also, there is way too much yelling and carrying on. Jackson yelling like a lunatic and his wife screeching in the background almost turned me off this film completely. It's unnecessary, even though Hollywood loves to call that kind of crap tense, top class drama... Then when the stand resolves, the story becomes ridiculously far fetched (especially the ending) and, on occasions, downright stupid.But what's more disappointing is the lack of plot development. Without giving too much away, the premise of the story sets up a potentially intriguing investigation by Jackson into corruption within his ranks, which could include the standard number of good twists and turns. But instead, nothing much is revealed by his periodic investigation (don't forget, he's also managing a hostage negotiation at the same time) and the ending is more or less predictable - even though they threw in a deeply contrived 'twist' right at the end which was BOTH stupid and far-fetched.Finally, I'm getting a bit sick and tired of seeing Stockholm Syndrome feature in every hostage film these days. I can't wait to see Flight 93, because I know (before I've seen it) that it won't feature the hostages sympathising with the hostage taker (unlike that dreadful John Q). And much like John Q, the film makers didn't really denounce hostage taking when you're in a fix and there seems to be no other alternative. "},{"Title":"Formulaic at best","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The worst part about this movie was not the formulaic, drawn-out ending. Nor was it the overuse of names of characters we have no knowledge of.The worst part about this movie was that the Kevin Spacey quote occuring in the trailer, Now you're dealing with both of us, NEVER TOOK PLACE in the movie.In a way, I guess it's good the editors got that one because it would've made the movie even more incomprehensible. "},{"Title":"BIG disappointment","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  C'mon folks !! I love Spacey and Jackson, but face it, this movie isn't worth their effort or my time. It is very bland and unintelligently scripted.  It has not one clever moment, no real saving graces; I can't believe the hokum I'm reading here. You all wanted it to be so good that you've tricked yourself into believing that it was. Sorry, I was really disappointed, too.  "},{"Title":"Watchable but forgettable","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  No movie with Samuel L. Jackson, Kevin Spacey and the late great J.T. Walsh could be all bad, and The Negotiator is watchable largely because of its strong cast.  But what could have been an excellent suspense film unfortunately is overlong and ends up feeling like a competent but forgettable TV movie with some bad language thrown in.One of the biggest problems is a thundering, distracting musical score that sounds like every action movie you've seen in the past five years.  And action scenes are milked for all they're worth -- there are endless shots of police cars, helicopters, cops running, etc.  The movie would have benefitted greatly from a leaner script and more economical direction and editing.Not a bad rental for a rainy or snowy day, but hardly as satisfying as it might have been.  "},{"Title":"Negotiating through the clichés","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the eternal shames of 90's Hollywood, this film could have been so much better. An astonishing cast of stars backed by more talented character actors than you could shake the proverbial stick at. The Negotiater had the tremendous misfortune to be directed by a complete dud. The viewer can only assume that during production the director, F. Gary Gray, must have been ticking off pages from the Big Book of Hollywood Clichés, much as he did with dire Hollywood remake of 'The Italian Job'. The occasional reference to the science of body language raises the intellectual level on only the most superficial basis.However, if you like movies with cops and feds shouting about 'jurisdiction', each of whom may or may not be the true villains, then you'll love this, certainly there does seem to be an audience for that kind of manhood waving tosh. If on the other hand you're tired of dumb gun-happy action movies with plot holes and pointless shock twists that treat the viewer like an idiot, you'll want to avoid this film. "},{"Title":"overwrought thriller","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Top Chicago police negotiator Danny Roman (Samuel L. Jackson) is warned by detective Nate Roenick that money is missing from police pension funds. Nate is killed and Danny is framed for it. Internal Affairs Terence Niebaum (J.T. Walsh) investigates. Offshore accounts in Danny's name are found. Danny suspects Niebaum's involvement and takes him, his assistant Maggie (Siobhan Fallon), police commander Grant Frost (Ron Rifkin) and petty criminal Rudy Timmons (Paul Giamatti) as hostages. Danny uses his negotiating skills to demand outsider negotiator Chris Sabian (Kevin Spacey) as he tries to find Nate's secret informant. Chief Al Travis (John Spencer) and Commander Adam Beck (David Morse) seems intent on taking down Danny.Instead of suspense, this movie goes for overwrought thriller action. Samuel L. Jackson is in his full glory. It has its appeal but the central investigation holds very little interest. Director F. Gary Gray's music video roots are showing. It's fun overblown intensity but it doesn't stick. "},{"Title":"Two talented negotiators","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Negotiator is a very good and successful Crime film filled with lots of action and mystery. The story is about a Police Negotiator known as Danny Roman (Samuel L Jackson) who is 'apparently' accused of corruption and killing his partner. Danny Roman (Samuel L Jackson) strongly believes he is innocent and that some members within his police force framed him for these crimes for various reasons. He then sets out to prove in a hard way that he was being set-up and to do that, he holds some hostages at a building until his demands are met. Danny Roman then demands certain conditions to be met and one of them is for summoning an indifferent Police Negotiator called Chris Sabian (Kevin Spacey) who works for a different police force. This is because there are some fellow Police members within Danny's (Samuel) force that apparently set him up and he cannot trust his own team to openly handle this major situation Danny (Samuel) has put himself in and demanding decisive answers from them too. Danny (Samuel) believes that without Chris (Kevin) taking charge then some members within his own team that apparently framed him will try to kill him because of the conspiracy Danny (Samuel) is trying to solve with hostages in his presence. Chris Sabian (Kevin) is his one and only hope Danny (Samuel) believes that can get him out of these 'false' accusations. Like I've said, the film is a brilliant crime film that gets you intrigued. The acting was brilliant especially from Samuel L Jackson and Kevin Spacey who were unarguably the stand-out performers of this film. What makes this film really good is that its hard to predict who is behind the crimes Danny (Samuel) 'apparently' committed yet it gives some clues but the viewer somehow won't even notice it till after the film. Well that's how I felt anyway.The film is certainly worth watching and you certainly won't feel disappointed. The film has everything drama, action, mystery and thrill. This film is pretty much tailor made for crime film fanatics. "}{"Title":"Negotiate this!","Date":"11 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Interesting hostage type thriller finds professional negotiator Sam Jackson reversing the roles after he discovers some powerful people in the force are trying to frame him. He decides the only way he can uncover the truth is by taking the man he is certain must be responsible hostage, along with his secretary and his own superior officer.Film works on two levels. One is the fact that it is a little different in comparison to most of the formula action flicks going around at the moment. The other is director F. Gary Gray's ability to build the tension at a steady and believable pace. The presence of acting powerhouses Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey is an added bonus, even if they are not at their best here. They are without a doubt larger than life and always a joy to watch.Saturday, November 7 1998 - Village Centre Melbourne "},{"Title":"A movie not too real","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie emphasized too much on talk. It is a bit boring as the negotiators are just always talking and talking with no results. The negotiator trying to rescue hostages always goes up to the room and meets the negotiator with hostages but then back without results. I think that this is out of reality. How could one survive even if a team of FBI got into your room and wanted to blow you up? How would a trained, experienced FBI point the gun to the 'crime', ready to shoot him, but then did not do so? Impossible!!! This movie is just too creative. I think this movie has not-bad-actors but the contents are far too many. "},{"Title":"This is a Whole New Mess for the Chicago Police","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Truly an Excellent Movie, Kevin Spacey doesn't come in until part of the way through the movie. The best line in the movie is when Kevin Spacey is getting the phone call he says I once talked a guy out of blowing up the Sears Tower but I can't talk my wife out of the bedroom or my kid off the phone. Kevin Spacey and Samuel L. Jackson are both excellent actors, they work very well together in this movie. Jackson is the center of a hostage situation in Chicago, and he has been told that he can't trust anyone really. So He's trying to clear his name, but having a hostage situation. Now this a very interesting movie, but a little far fetched, It was clear they didn't do anything that an actual police department should do for the murder of one of their boys in blue the investigations were not completed, he never should have been pushed to the point of taking hostages. Now the best part about the movie was the fact that it really truly kept you guessing, they kept saying different people, you didn't know who was for him or who was against him. Even in the end it still wasn't the person I expected, the movie was excellent that way. But again even in the end, I highly doubt he would have just made the deal like that. But they needed to end the movie somehow right? Anyway Overall with the acting and the plot, and the little nitpicks, 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Incredible Plot and Great suspense","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie will hopefully usher in an era of movies for people with brains. All to often new movies are written so that a dog could watch and understand it. The result is that a plot suffers. You have to actively watch this movie to catch everything that goes on.The acting was great, SLJ and Kevin Spacey play off each other very well.See it See it See it. "},{"Title":"Just brilliant.","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great actors. Suspense. Action. Intelligence. Conclusion Nothing wrong with this movie. A great example for how thrillers can - and should - be made. (Not to mention that this is NOT one of the well, no one will be thrilled if there's no bloodshed films.) "},{"Title":"Oscar award for Samuel. One of the best roles in his career.","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While waiting for this movie we were all thinking What type of hair cut will Samuel L. Jackson have?. After the movie we were really shocked. Sam as a normal, well almoast normal, men with short hair, without his KANGOL stuff, protecting his life from the evil and corrupted cops. Strange, isnt it? Just remember his roles in Pulp Fiction, Great white Hype or Jackie Brown... Now he is someone completly different. For me it is one of the best Samuel`s appearences in the silver screen. That is a pitty that he wont have an Oscar for it. In Negotiator he plays the best negotiator in Chicago which is acused of killing his friend and partner. All evidences are against him but we all know that somebody wants to set him up. To protect himself Danny Roman (Samuel) takes few hostages from the Internal Affair Bureau and closes them in their office in 20th floor. In this moment the real action begins. Interventions of S.W.A.T., lots of shoting, big drama of wrong acused person. Another great role in this film plays Kevin Spacey (Usual Suspects, Seven, LA Confidental) - second negotiator in the city, which is going to help our hero. They both know the rules of engagment so prepare for the tough battle... In that movie also appear lots of actors from movies like The Rock or Bad Boys. They are less known but playing police officers they make this film looks even more authentic. Great job officer!! "},{"Title":"Action with... intelligence!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Surprisingly, this movie became a favorite of mine.  Jackson is incredibly strong and proves his worth as a premier actor of the late 90s.  The entire plot twists and turns, and keeps you guessing till the end.  Plus, plus, you get action!  Broken windows!  Guns, guns, guns!  All that Hollywood movie stuff.  Hostages, even.Totally exciting and enthralling.  4.5/5.0 stars. "},{"Title":"Excellent performances, unrealistic plot","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Negotiator is an enjoyable movie-especially if you love good performances by some of today's best actors Samuel Jackson, Kevin Spacey, TJ Walsh.  The plot involves a Chicago cop, expert in the art of hostage negotiation (Jackson) who finds himself blamed for the murder of his partner after he confides in him that monies are being stolen from the department disability fund and that it's an inside job, involving cops and officers from Internal Affairs.  Jackson does an excellent job playing the bull in the china shop; a newly-married high energy risk taker working to calm down his 'crazy' antics to assure peace in his marriage. Just as he thinks he's got it, he's accused of murdering his partner and decides to take the law in his own hands, managing to overpower an entire building full of armed police officers, taking hostages in an impulsive act of desperation.  This is when the film goes into unrealistic plot twists-Jackson repeatedly controls and bullies the police department, special task force and FBI until the entire city of Chicago is at his mercy, unable to bring him down despite repeated efforts to take him out. Enter Kevin Spacey, another talented and expert 'negotiator', and the two characters go at it out-talking and out-negotiating each other through the crisis. Jackson and Spacey do wonders with their characters, and the strong performances make up for the lack of believability in the script. There's plenty of action, violence and emotional charge--everyone in the movie is effective.  I loved the film despite the weak storyline. "},{"Title":"Maybe it's just me, but I liked the movie!","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, the plot may be a bit contrived, but it's presented believably, and that's what makes or breaks it in my book. If you're willing to momentarily suspend disbelief and accept that Jackson's character knows he is being railroaded by a carefully hidden conspiracy that reaches high into the department, then his subsequent actions, while rather extreme, are quite reasonable. If not, well, you should probably watch a different movie, because this one isn't going to make much sense. -)The acting is very good all around, and the ending does keep you guessing as to who the guilty parties really are. It even keeps you hanging about just how far this man might go to prove his innocence, even to the point of committing other crimes. And, of course, there are some gunfights to keep things moving. A well made, intelligent and enjoyable movie.  "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A predictable script saved by Jackson and Spacey. Worth checking out if you're a fan of either of the two..but it's only decent if you just want to see a movie. "}{"Title":"Tense confrontations make for a fine film","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Two gripping performances save 'The Negotiator' from mediocrity. The main problems are the action sequences which are staged with little freshness or cleverness. The cameras whiz around and around and all we see are guns fired and sometimes entire scenes are hard to follow.No one however, can dispute that Jackson and Spacey are two of the greatest supporting actors of the 90's. In 'The Negotiator' they are given the chance of sharing the spotlight together. Their confrontations are so engrossing that you want to cherish every line they deliver. (The pair also had some tense scenes in their earlier film together 'A Time to Kill'.The dialogue is clever and interesting. Some fascinating little tid-bits about hostage negotiating can also be learned by listening carefully.The story really stretches the fabric of credibility in its closing sequence, but it doesn't ruin what is an otherwise fine film.***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Good acting; uneven script","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved the acting in this movie b/c Kevin Spacey is my favorite actor (and he has never failed to give a great performance regardless of the movie's script), while I think Samuel L. Jackson is also in the same calibre league as Spacey on this front.  Unfortunately, despite these two actors, this movie simply cannot rise out of its script problems  1) I feel as if I am watching two completely different movies (one that runs through the first half-hour and one that finishes the remaining one hour and forty-five minutes) due to the uneven script, 2) Spacey's talent is underutilized by not bringing him in until the second half of the movie and not giving him enough time to converse with Jackson in this negotiator role b/c of constant explosions, gun fire, etc., and 3) the movie ending was predictable and unbelievable.  If you want to watch this movie, do so only to watch Spacey and Jackson interact, not for a fantastic script or movie editing.  Even though I now own the video on DVD (I own most of Spacey or Jackson's movies), I always forward-fast to the scenes between these two actors rather than watching some of the other weaker elements of the film.  "},{"Title":"Very entertaining...with gripping plot twists that MAKE SENSE!","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is what an action-thriller was meant to be.  Smart, exciting, extremely well acted, and just plain gripping from beginning to end.  Watch for the scene where Samuel L. Jackson completely frazzles a relatively inept negotiator (Farley)-it's a very funny/entertaining scene and the intelligence and confidence Jackson exudes during it is wonderful.  And Kevin Spacey is definitely his equal in the acting department.  Altogether wonderful casting on the part of the director F. Gary Gray-I read an interview with where he said that Jackson and Spacey were his dream cast for this film-Praise the Lord that he was able to get it!)  This was probably the most enjoyable thriller of the summer of '98.  And as for the plot...it's compelling, with plot twists that don't baffle you at the end like, say, Mission Impossible.   "},{"Title":"Who do you turn to when everybody is out to get you?","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Generally a good film, with an interesting plot.  Kevin Spacey is excellent as always; he has that rare ability to make you take him seriously while being very understated.  Jackson on the other hand is a little over the top to make his character totally believable.  This is one of the best they're out to get me type films I've seen, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Puzzled by ratings!","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Can't understand why this film is not rated at least a 9. It is, in my opinion, one of the best films of '98. I would rate it right up there with The Usual Suspects as two of the best movies in recent times!  "},{"Title":"Great!  Kevin Spacey was just wonderful.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I work at a video rental store, and I always recommend TheNegotiator to the people who ask my opinion on movies.  When I ask them how they liked the movie, they always have something positive to say.  Kevin Spacey, in my opinion, made the movie, because he is such a great actor. The movie combined suspense and action that kept me wondering what would happen next.  I recommend this movie to everyone!! "},{"Title":"Superbly put together movie. Samuel L. Jackson & Kevin Spacey are first class.","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a tremendous movie, with great tension throughout. Jackson's character is forced into desperate measures to clear his name, without knowing who his real enemies are. He's forced to rely on a stranger to support him. Great performances by Jackson in the lead role (I've never seen him in a poor film!) and some spectacular effects. A neat twist at the end is only spoilt because you just KNOW that there's going to be one! It's a satisfying way of spending a couple of hours.   "},{"Title":"An action/thriller picture with real drama","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Danny Roman (SAMUEL L. JACKSON) is the best hostage negotiator on the Chicago police force and one day is framed for embezzlement and murder. Newly married and unjustly faced with prison, Roman turns hostage-taker to smoke out the guilty ones. Squaring off against him is respected, methodical negotiator Chris Sabian (Kevin Spacey). Under siege and racing the clock, the two lock in a deadly battle of wits. As Beck and his team move into position around Danny's 20th floor barricade and the FBI arrives ready to take over the operation, Sabian races against time to diffuse the potentially explosive situation before Danny and his hostages are injured or possibly killed. The performances is spectacular I've always thoroughly enjoyed Samuel L. Jackson's performances (Pulp Fiction, Die Hard With A Vengeance) and while this isn't his best film to date, it's still quite good simply because of the actors behind it. Jackson always manages to easily portray bottled intensity that's ready to pop that look he can get in his eyes is a killer and such a characteristic perfectly fits this character. And than it´s Kevin Spacey (The Usual Suspects, L.A. Confidential) easily slips into his character and is completely believable in his role. Audiences always love characters who are completely in control, and Spacey makes the audience believe he's the only man for the job. With compelling performances, a mostly decent script and superb suspense inducing direction by F. Gary Gray make this a good movie to watch.  "},{"Title":"Spacey steals the show in a well made, and very clever action-flick","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went to the cinema to see this movie with no great expectations. I knew it would be good - any movie with Kevin Spacey in it, I have learned, is going to be damn good - but I had no idea I would like it as much as I did.We first meet Policeman Danny Roman (Samuel L. Jackson), one of Chicago's best hostage negotiators. Roman loves his job, and it is clear that he's good at it. If only he wasn't being pressed to give in to the trigger-happy S.W.A.T team all the time. He's out celebrating his latest triumph, when he discovers that his friend, Nate, has uncovered a police-corruption conspiracy - right here in their ranks in Chicago. Later that night Nate is killed, and it looks like Roman is set to take the blame not only for his friend's murder, but for the corruption as well. Whether or not Roman is innocent remains to be proved to the authorities, though it is clear from the start that Roman is telling to truth when he pleads not guilty.Enraged at the thought of going to jail, Roman ends up doing what he has been fighting for most of his life - he takes hostages. And he won't talk to anyone. That is, not to anyone he knows.Enter Kevin Spacey (and the crowd goes wild!). He plays top hostage negotiator, and stranger to Roman, Chris Sabian. Legend has it he once talked down to a guy for 55 hours, and holds a 0-mortality rate. Now he is brought in to talk down to someone who already knows the rules. So now, with the same trigger-happy cops just itching to end it, Sabian and Roman are engaged in a battle of wits, and it's up to them to find the truth. Let the games begin...I've said it before and I'll say it again, Kevin Spacey is a genuine and amazingly talented actor. He convinces us effortlessly and we can see in his eyes that he is always thinking, absorbing every little detail. His performance runs circles around Jackson's, who, though he gives a credible portrayal, tends to come across as inconsistent and, in some parts, 'whiny'. Supporting cast is very strong, especially in the late JT Walsh, who the film is also dedicated to.The Negotiator is not your average action flick. It's story is wonderfully original, and all the more amazing because it is true (based on several real-life hostage situations) and the plot twists are masterful. There is an intelligent and subtle humour throughout - I especially love the part where Sabian, fed up with Roman, coolly hangs up the phone in mid-sentence. But the best is saved til last, and the final scene is one of the very best I have ever seen.This movie provides a thrilling action/adventure story-line, while remaining, above all, human. One of the best action flicks you're likely to see.It's harder and harder to find a decent action flick with decent acting, but the Negotiator's writing and directing are fantastic, and Spacey doesn't put a foot wrong ) "},{"Title":"Best suspense of the year","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie fully demonstrates the possibility of creative screenplay writing. The beauty of this film is that it is action packed (not excessively though), full of edge-of-your-seat suspense, and has powerful acting-WITHOUT having to possess the incredible unrealistic sequences and cheesy one-liners of some of the latest films. Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"A riveting, tense, psychological thriller","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you enjoy action-packed thrillers and you don't see this one, you will be making a BIG mistake. Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey's wonderful chemistry makes this movie work.  That magic combined with a good story, create a psychological roller coaster ride that you won't soon forget.  "},{"Title":"If you like Jackson you gonna love this movie","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a one man show.If you like Samuel L Jackson you gonna love this movie.If you don´t I´m not so sure.I saw this film on the cinema a couple of weeks ago.I thought it was great.Samuel and Kevin Spacey are both great.David Morse is also good as the confused SWAT-leader.I also think that it was a little bit to long,and sometimes it´s hard to follow.It´s 7.5 of 10. Just because I àm a great fan of Samuel L Jackson.  "},{"Title":"A neat, thrilling movie with lots of tension.","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Police Lieutanent Danny Roman (Samuel L. Jackson) is framed for a murder he did not commit. Roman must takes measures into his own hands in order to flush out the true suspects behind this whole elaborate scheme. Taking all of the folks working for the Internal Affairs Department hostage, Roman decides to find out who are the culprits who set him up for murder in the first degree...Lt. Chris Sabian (Kevin Spacey) is an expert in the field of negotiating who must find a way to work out a reasonable truce with Roman before violence precipitates and disaster occurs...The Negotiator zeroes in on-target with suspense sustained throughout the film. Of course, The Negotiator is made to be even more believable with a morose sense of humor. The late J.T. Walsh (Breakdown) is right on the money as a wisecracking, curse-spouting, obstinate Internal Affairs Officer Niebaum. Niebaum may or may not be embroiled in this shameful money laundering some boys in blue have committed. Other humorous bits include Roman disparaging a novice negotiator, for all the faulty he has done.The Negotiator has detailed layers of characterization that are conveniently built. The character angles are fine and each performer gives an individual personality, inserting mood and emotion into each of the players. Samuel L. Jackson delivers a powerhouse performance as a once heroic hostage negotiator turned hostile hostage taker. Kevin Spacey is persuasive as the brave soul who must risk going against the authorities' wishes just to negotiate his own probable truce. Perhaps Spacey may even switch allegiance...The pressure never mitigates in The Negotiator. The intensity grows as each character, especially the hostages determine their fate...and prey that they may survive and the ordeal will end. The rules of engagement, the nuts and bolts of handling a hostage situation are fairly played out well and there are plenty of interesting, didactic footnotes on handling these quandaries involving human lives. This film is not without its faults of course. The Negotiator plodded for too long and 20 minutes or so of this movie's content could have at least been edited out here and there. Also, the advertisements for The Negotiator are often misleading, protruding this film as a high speed chase. However, this motion picture works a lot better as a drama and especially a murder mystery. The audience never finds out who the real killer(s) is/are until the absolute end!The Negotiator is a superbly strong thriller with rapid fire punches creating every single beat. The visceral feeling of the sweat and nervousness of the main characters in The Negotiator can also be vicariously felt in the audiences as well. This film is achieved as a poignant drama for the characterization is unforgettable, the direction is taut, and the surprises are unexpected. A motion picture accomplishment well worth watching.RATING *** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"Two Thumbs WAY Up!!!","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a definite MUST SEE.  Sam Jackson and Kevin Spacey gave excellent performances--as did Paul Giamatti.  Not only was this movie full of action and suspense, but the plot and ending were both exceptional as well.   "},{"Title":"intelligent and truly great","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked it very much. MTV video director - F. Gary Gray did a really good job - keeping the audience at their edge of the sit through-out the whole movie. Spacy and Sam acted very nicely. The story kind of reminded me of the movie L.A. confidential but this one is better. There is a surprise at the end and it is very enjoying. I liked it so much that I am going to buy the tape when it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"The mind is faster than bullet","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie holds quite good pressure. But that's because of operator and audio-service. The script is not so good as it seems. No good one-liners, no memorable quotes, quite pre-readable plot. Kevin Spacey helps this movie out.  But... If you had such a story when one guy have to save the situation with his speech and mindf***ing decisions, then why your story misses those things? Instead of nice dialogue we can see a shooting and action (what cinema-goer want to see too). Think about why my 4-years-old son asked me during the movie He (S.Jackson) didn't kill that policeman (Special Force) in this office, didnt he? No big punchline, also. It's a good product but not what it could have been. "},{"Title":"Thrilling, exciting, attention holding.","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having gone to this film half-expecting another talk-shoot-talk-run-shoot etc, I was surprised to find a well-made, intelligent film which easily kept my attention throughout. Although the ending was not surprising, it was equally not a disappointment.  Kevin Spacey and Samuel L Jackson worked well off each other, cleverly using the fact that they were, it seems, both pretty much the best in their field of work, and therefore knew each other's next move perfectly. The supporting cast all did a fine job, none of them seeming as if they were in the wrong film! Very enjoyable, good to see Kevin Spacey adding yet another type of character to his great repertoir. Is there no end to this man's talents? "},{"Title":"Good Casting","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'll admit, this wasn't a revolutionary flick, but you could basically stick Spacey and Jackson in a room together and have them talk for a few hours and it would be good. So, rent it just to watch two masters at work, and to enjoy some tense moments.   "},{"Title":"'Nuff said","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Samuel L. Jackson + Kevin Spacey + Paul Giamatti + intelligent script = fun, enjoyable movie.  You cannot go wrong with that equation.   "},{"Title":"Very intense thriller.","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, so the plot was way over the top, but the script is well written and Samuel Jackson as always delivers a sterling performance. For most of the movie I found myself sitting on the edge of my seat, my popcorn completely forgotten. It has the occasional hard-to-follow plot thread, so you need to be alert (and sober) to reap the full benefit of the movie, but it's well worth it in the end.   "}{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Easy to say, the best movie of 1998. Why? because it had everything,good acting,action,suspense,very intelligent etc. What is particularly liked is that they used only 3 locations in the movie 1. In the building 2. Outside in the boat 3. The house of the bad copOverall a must see movie "},{"Title":"Palatable thriller","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  High priced stars + high concept = mediocre box office seems to be the Hollywood formula for (un)success these days. Thank goodness for video and foreign box office. These last two, coincidentally, is the market Hollywood's big budget movies are made for. This must be the case, because the studio's trip over themselves in their efforts to give A-list movie stars astronomical salaries knowing full well these said stars do not guarantee big box office. The movie star system does not work; given the extremely inconsistent quality of movies that come out these days, everyone knows a movie with their favorite actor in it is no  guarantee that it will be any good. The studio system is meant to support the star system, not challenge it.I say this because the only reason to see The Negotiator is Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey star in it. At least that is what the studio releasing the film would have you believe, and people seem to be buying this notion, proclaiming the brilliance of the acting in the movie. Personally, I think they chew the scenery something fierce; it's just that they are polished and charismatic enough to overact, wink at the audience about how they're overacting, and get away with it.But even these good actors' best efforts can't conceal the glaring holes in the plot. It involves Samuel L. Jackson as Danny Roman, a top notch hostage negotiator set up for murder, who then takes hostages! to prove his innocence, enlisting the aid of another top notch negotiator,Chris Sabian (Spacey) to help him. Although the set-up is so lame no-one in their right mind would believe it. Although no negotiator could be as bad as Farley (he's only there to make Jackson look good). Although no-one would assume Roman actually killed the cop he took hostage. And how did Sabian sneak Roman out of the barricaded area? And so on and so on... Still, the movie tries to be fun and exciting without insulting our intelligence too much, which is saying something these days. And if you like enough close-ups to count the hairs in Samuel L. Jackson's nose, this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Predictable but snappy thriller","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film could have been very very good instead of somehwat above average if there had been a single plot device that wasn't predictable. Good technical execution and a great performance by Kevin Spacey in what might be his first non-character role. Damn, the guy proved he's not just good, but great.  "},{"Title":"Non-stop action, great plot","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It is a great movie. The action is great. Once the problem is set up, there is no stop until the very end. It reminded me of Face Off and Con Air, because you couldn't stop watching. The plot is great, too. I can't say is as good as The Usual Suspects, but it does trick you if you don't pay attention. "},{"Title":"Tension, humor, great story...","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ...despite some minor flaws with hardware, police procedure, etc. (For example They have to get the negotiator to the scene of the crisis so he can speak with the hostage-taker on the phone. Apparently the phones in Chicago do not work across town. The negotiator does finally call on a cell phone, but not until seconds before the deadline and not until he is almost on site.)This is a nail-biter. See it. "},{"Title":"An excellently crafted powered by phenomenal performances.","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the year's most powerful action thriller fueled by top-notch performances by Jackson and Spacey.  Actually, this is one of the best action thrillers ever.  This is a tense film that strongly concentrates on performances and dialogue, rather than mindless action sequences. "},{"Title":"Jackson, Spacey, & Gray turn a movie that could easily have been poor into a great, extremely tense and riveting thriller","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Negotiator works because it had the right director and leads to pull it off. With a weak director, two poor leads like Reeves and Gere for their drawing power, and a bunch of rolled out pyro this would have been an * movie. The weakness of the movie is the setup is rather cookie cutter, and the movie is somewhat cliche, but it is excellent from the moment Spacey's character is introduced. Jackson and Spacey are tremendous as always though.  This movie doesn't sell out to special effects.  It's a movie where the two leads will clearly make or break it, and with Jackson and Spacey it obviously was the latter. They have great chemistry together, and allow the fact that the language of the negotiators goes beyond words to really work.  The movie itself is extremely riveting with unrelenting tension. A strength of the movie is that Gray always moves forward instead of sitting on a point to make it stand out. The reason this is important is that every notable cop has at least one scene where they look like they could be in on it.  This isn't a cheasy process of elimination movie. You may know some of the people who are in on it, but you aren't sure who stands where until the very end. Thus there can be no strong heels, but it doesn't fall into the trap of making Jackson a very strong face. Gray makes you care about several characters,even ones you wouldn't expect to care about.The film is somewhat reminiscent of Die Hard, but it moves better and obviously has a superior lead, who gives a great performance.  "},{"Title":"SAMUEL JACKSON DESERVES AN OSCAR","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Once again, Samuel Jackson proves he's probably the most talented actor in Hollywood not to have won an oscar.  His performance in the Negotiator is nothing short of spectacular.  The movie keeps you at the edge of your seat and Kevin Spacey is casted to perfection. A movie that has all the ingredients of a classic action/thriller.  "},{"Title":"Script hampers Jackson, Spacey","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you know anything about film, you know that Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey are two of the better actors walking around on the planet. So, I was anxious to see them work off each other. And in many scenes of the film, you get to see them do just that.However, the problem here is that the scriptwriters and the director expect you to believe too many implausible things. Whatever tension and drama that comes from this film is due to the performances of Jackson (especially) and Spacey. There's some fine supporting work as well from Regina Taylor and David Morse.The plot is a little byzantine and will leave you incredulous, but here, the acting's the thing and you won't be disappointed for shelling out a few bucks to see a couple of pros do their riffs. "},{"Title":"The best movie of the year!","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have already seen this movie 5 times.  It is both action-packed and intelligent.  Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey are just perfect.  "}{"Title":"The Negotiator delivers","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was perhaps my favorite movie of the summer, and for a number of reasons, not the least of which being that Kevin Spacey is in my mind one of, if not the most talented actors in the business today, and I must say quite sexy in this role as Lt. Chris Sabien.  He has, as usual, chosen a script that is intelligent and chosen to work with fellow cast members who share his talent, namely Samuel L. Jackson, who gave an intense and believable portrayal of a man falsely accused who takes things into his own hands.  And Paul Giamatti's Rudy is such a scene stealer!  His quote regarding Farley's attempt to talk Danny down was priceless. I have and will continue to recommend this movie to all my friends, as I am now doing for you.  Go see it if you haven't.  If you have, go see it again!  "},{"Title":"Negotiator is pleasent mix.","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Negotiator is a movie that offers a pleasant mix between suspense and action.  Although the movie would have been just fine without all the S.W.A.T. team action, it added some extra spice to the movie. "},{"Title":"Spacey and Jackson were great, but the plot was rather stale.","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Feels like a made-for-broadcast-TV movie.  The last 10 minutes were good though. "},{"Title":"An above average thriller kept taut by its excellent performances.","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The performances of Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey compensated for an  uneven script.  To me, the search for the real killers lacked resonance and  dramatic gravity.  It seemed contrived that the necessary information was  always as inaccessible or readily available as the plot dictated.  The  story's necessity for confining the action to the tower handicapped the  ability for this subplot to be resolved.  Also, with so little time to  acquaint us with the characters involved, there was a lessened dramatic  stake in who the real perpetrators were.  Jackson and Spacey elevated this  film, however with their razor sharp performances, and the cast overall  were rock solid. "},{"Title":"Showcase for Jackson and Spacey","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I always liked Kevin Spacey and Samuel L. Jackson, and they don't disappoint here.  There is more dialogue between the two than might be expected in this kind of film, but it works.  The film moves along at a good clip, and there are enough twists and turns to keep it interesting.  J.T. Walsh is masterful at doing little more than sitting and yet convincing you he is hiding something.  The end was a little unbelievable, but nonetheless, I enjoyed it.   "},{"Title":"engaging action flick","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I will admit that I had my doubts about this film because its premise, as advertised in the trailers, was somewhat bold - a hostage negotiator who takes hostages in a desperate situation, and wins.  Nevertheless, I see movies to be entertained, and this film definitely hit its mark.I found the beginning dragged a bit, and the character introduction took a tad too long; besides that, I would have appreciated the relationship between Jackson's character and his partner to have been developed a little more.  The sheer number and layers of police officers was also confusing.  I found these issues to be minor, in comparison to the superb acting of both Jackson and Spacey, in addition to witty and well-executed dialogue.  The scene where Jackson's character is instructing a novice negotiator  (Farley) who's learning on-the-job, is lively and hilarious, but does not distract from the overall action or intensity of the situation.  In general I feel that writers that do this try to do too much and should pick one genre before writing a script, but in this instance it works.The film is also nicely tied together with a beginning and ending scene with Jackson poised with a loaded weapon over a bad guy's head  - both scenes gripping the audience with the question, Will he shoot him?For those of you who like discrepancies, The Negotiator inadvertently commented on cutbacks in healthcare spending, perhaps...  At the end of the film, the ambulance crew makes the guy that's hurt (I won't spoil it for you if you haven't seen it yet) WALK to the ambulance.  Maybe he had the wrong kind of insurance.  There are more, but that was my favorite.In short, engaging, exciting, and entertaining.  See it on the big screen, for the action scenes.  "},{"Title":"It's just a great movie with two of the best actors in the industry.","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an excellent movie. It's probably the best move of the summer. It has a ton of action and it's also funny. If you liked Kevin Spacey before, you'll love him after you see this movie. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Man this was a great movie!  Spine tingling action throughout the whole movie !  The film was NOT predictable as some  others had said, and the acting and writing are superb.  I highly recommend this film, which is much more clever than The Rock. "},{"Title":"Not that bad!","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Negotiator doesn't break any new ground in the suspense-thriller genre , but it's not too shabby either.  Despite the rebuke of a grandiose reviewer, this film is acutally pretty involving.  I wasn't expecting the next Usual Suspects, but the elements of an intriguing film are there.  Take the opening scene, for instance, where Samuel L. Jackson risks his life cunningly by amusing a disgruntled Marine.  He digresses off the subject of the hostage situation and distracts the lunatic so a gunman can maim him.  Most of the movie seems cliched from there, but eventually, as Jackson becomes the vigilante defending his life, the movie's coolness increases.   This sets up for some unusually superlative acting in a summer flick.  This movie is tense and alive; people shout and try to outsmart each other throughout.  Most scenes are well done; well, the eye thing revealing truth was a bit contrived.   The end of the movie was fun, too, with the unexpected twists. This movie almost ends on the note of Chinatown, but instead concludes righteously like L.A. Confidential with the police corruption countered.  This is a very good movie; not excellent or novel, but fun. "},{"Title":"It's Good","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is not the most spectacular movie to ever hit the big screen, but it is  very entertaining.  It's a good movie to see in the theater on a hot,  summer's day.  I recommend this film. "}{"Title":"Great action packed thriller","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't want to get too cerebral as others in this area seem to have.  That  said, this movie was quite a seat gripper.It stalled a few times, but for the most part accelerated up and down like a  roller coaster ride.Samuel Jackson was great, and so was Spacey.  I'd highly recommend the  movie. "},{"Title":"Great teamwork...","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay... Kevin Spacey is a _hot_ actor... he's definitely one of the best  actors that's gotten his stardom in the 90s.Samuel Jackson is also a very hot actor from the 90s.The two worked really well together and made the movie worth seeing for  me.Of course, anything with Kevin Spacey is worth seeing for me... "},{"Title":"An engrossing thriller","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In this fast-paced story of political corruption, Samuel L. Jackson makes the most of his starring role--it's his best film to date.  Kevin Spacey brings his usual eventful twist to his character and gives his fans another must see performance.  There are several No Way! spots in the plot, but they are easy to overlook as you go along for a bumpy ride.  Our police negotiator turns hostage taker as he tries to find the facts to prove his own innocence and to uncover his partner's real killer.  Who in his own squad--or even Internal Affair--is to be trusted?  You, as an avid movie goer, know J.T. Walsh, Ron Rifkin, David Morse, or John Spencer could just as easily be bad as good.  This is an engrossing thriller with enough twists and turns and plenty of action to keep you entertained for almost all--it's a tad slow introducing all the players--of its 2 hours and 15 minutes. "},{"Title":"A totally awesome movie!","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a very good movie!  It will keep you in suspense the whole time, and  get your blood rising.  It gets you to the point where you feel the cops  pains and you wanna be in there and help him out!  It is worth what you pay  for it and it will keep you on your seat and entertained.  Spacey does an excellent job in his role as well as  Samuel L. Jackson in his. The movie starts out in black and white...a true  sign of a good movie (like the Fugitive and others).  Go see it..you'll  like it. "},{"Title":"Immensely enjoyable ... and forgettable","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kevin Spacey is good at what he does. Jackson is stuck between lousy dialogs and superficial action (Maybe he should've really caught the BUS). The plot is very predictable. The film is good entertainment but is definitely not something for the archives. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Negotiator leads the audience through a series of twists and turns while building the plot to a couple of action sequences and a great ending.  The characters are great, and although the movie is by no means a comedy, there are a lot of laughs to be had during some scenes.  I would highly recommend this movie to anyone who is old enough to take it. "},{"Title":"No Oscars here, but most excellent flick..","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you love excellent action flicks like The Rock, or like to see big budget blockbusters, a la ID4, this is the movie for you.  If you are expecting another Usual Suspects or Pulp Fiction forget about it.  Spacey and Jackson are awesome in this movie.  The script and direction are all that keeps this film from becoming signifigant.  I found myself so entertained and drawn in by the overall story, that I wished I was a little more stupid, so the plot would be a bit less predictable and the lines a little less awkward.  In the end though I highly recommend this movie.  It won't touch you, or leave you shaken, but it'll really get the pulse pounding.  "},{"Title":"Tension Abounds.","Date":"20 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Samuel L. Jackson is a lieutenant on the Chicago police force. He's chatting with a colleague who tells him that he's discovered something wrong is going on with the police retirement fund. Some of Jackson's friends may be involved. Later, the friend has his head blown off, the police search Jackson's home and find evidence incriminating him in the skimming of money from the fund.Jackson, innocent, bursts into a room in the police department and takes half a dozen hostages. Since any of his friends may be anxious to see Jackson killed, just to shut him up, Jackson demands that an outside negotiator be called in. The stranger is Kevin Spacey.Jackson and Spacey, together with help from the skills and knowledge of the several hostages, discover the heavies and all is resolved, but not before tear gas, stun grenades, bullets, bloodshed, and the destruction of several items of office furniture that probably came from WalMart and are more easily replaced than the corpses.It's really a tough film and it's filled with suspense. There are holes in the plot or, at any rate, questionable developments that are left unexplained. Two stone-faced FBI agents take over the situation, straight out of Dog Day Afternoon, although it was unclear to me exactly what their jurisdiction is. Moreover, they call for an immediate breach of the hostage space, when, in fact, the FBI has a highly skilled division of negotiators.It's filled with electrifying moments but it's a rather dumb movie too. Not because of the lacunae in the plot but because it sacrifices so much of the human dynamics for the sake of action. It's a crime drama that seems to yearn for action-movie status. When the cops breach the room, or when they try to sneak in, or when they surround Jackson and Spacey while they hurriedly try to collect evidence that would exculpate Jackson, there are simply too many explosions. The cutting is instantaneous. There are flashes of flaring automatic weapons; instead of a startling stun grenade there are half a dozen. The room is demolished by plunging bodies.And, at the climax, when the principal heavy is on the lawn, wounded and surrounded by a horde of now wised-up cops, Jackson is allowed to pick up a pistol, walk in slow motion to the downed and grimacing villain, raise the pistol, point it at his head, he finally turns the weapon over to the Chief of Police without firing it. All this is in very slow motion, designed to draw out the suspenseful scene and keep the audience breathless. But how stupid do they think the audience is? Everyone knows that Jackson, a decent man who has been framed, is not going to pull the trigger now.If the director wants to manipulate us, okay. But this sort of thing -- an abundance of fireworks and a stupid climax -- is cheap. Hitchcock would have handled it all with class. This is aimed at an audience that's assumed to need an adrenalin fix every few minutes. "},{"Title":"It might not be classic now , but definitely will be after 20 years..","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" How many perfect and crunchy hostage movies , you ever watched? Dog Day Afternoon , Die Hard , Speed..Well this stands above all.The main drawback of crime thrillers is ,their plot always developed with same old concepts , but all that matters is the way they handled things...execution of The Negotiator is crunchy and differs it from all other thrillers.I've seen most hostage movies till date and i can honestly say , The Negotiator is one of the best hostage movies ever.It is the story of an Sincere hostage negotiator who was accused of murder , then he takes a hostage situation only to find the true murderer and prove his innocence. Its all about trust and Innocence mixed with Intelligence...If the place we are living is honest as they say, Samuel L. Jackson must have won a Oscar for his outrageous performance in this film....Once again he was disappointed , because of dirty Oscar'tricks'..Kevin Spacey , also the negotiator of gives his best.But Jackson steals away the show from him....The rest of cast is good enough and performed their best.The movie starts up slowly , but picks up its pace when Jackson and Spacey enters the scene and also within no time..The direction of F. Gary Gray is good ,Writers can be much more good , but Screenplay of thew movie brings the life to it..Even the movies runtime is about 138 minutes , the editor worked well to give the final cut..The movie is unpredictable and gripping , edge of seat Fast paced Intelligent thriller..If you are reading this review without seeing the movie , then you are already too late..There's not much coming to the mind after watching it except the word GO SEE NOWIf you are into Intelligent,Fast Paced,Action Thriller then its a must watch and also YOU WONT REGRET IT , EVEN IF WONT LIKE HOSTAGE THRILLERSMY RATING 8/10 "},{"Title":"Best Movie of This Kind","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't know why this movie did not receive 10 starts at the top of this page. First there are A1 actors, even if sometimes that does not guarantee success, this time it does. What I like is that there is no one man kill all of them scene. Everything is perfect in this movie from acting, cameras, its action keeps you tense and you will not fall asleep watching this movie. I honestly recommend this movie to everybody. Being cluttered up with new movies from 2000-2007, I somehow realize that last good movies were left and made in late 90-s. Only few movies from 2000 have some dignity so we can call them art. This movie is must have piece of art in you collection. "}{"Title":"Gives you the element of suspense without compromising the action","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ace police negotiator DAnny Roman(Samuel L.JAckson,who,contrary to conventional wisdom,is actually quite capable of NOT YELLING EVERY LINE in his movies;his art is a slow build-up TOWARDS loudness)is very good at what he doesnamely,negotiating hostage situations effectively enough so that few,if any,casualties are allowed. But when his longtime partner on the force dies under suspicious situations,Danny finds himself at the center of an I.A> investigation and about to be ridden out of the force on a rail. Desperate,but not stupid,Danny decides to tear a page out of his work play-book from the other side,taking the downtown police office hostage and demanding that he get a negotiator of his choosing,which is one Chris Sabian(Kevin Spacey,at possibly his most human and yet crackling performances to date),another well-renowned negotiator from another precinct. His style differs some from Danny's,but Chris may be the best ally and element Danny has.Directed by F.Gary Gray,this film is a long(clocking a little over two,tension-packed hours)endurance test,as JAckson's Danny sweats out finding out who's been framing him and Spacey's Chris Sabian tries to put the pieces of this puzzle together with little help or outside knowledge,all while various innocent(And not-so innocent) hostages,loved ones and friends have to wait this one out. I saw this film in the theater almost ten years ago and saw it again,in pieces,on two different cable channels. While the censoring elements are a tad distracting,this film still is able to deliver an effective psychological and emotional punch. Great supporting turns by Regina Hall(As DAnny's wife),David Morse(as a type-A S.W.A.T. team leader),Ron Rifkin(as the not-what-he-seems chief),J.T>WAlsh(as the less-than-reputable bureaucratic boss),Paul Giamatti and Siobohan Fallon(as unlucky office workers,stuck in the middle of this situation)are able to add depth to this story. I'm sure this could be made into a worse movie,but the script by James DeMonaco and Kevin Fox is strong enough that it never allows itself to drop the intensity or focus of the story(not to mention as well as it gives the actors good lines to work with). This won't top the lists of films that most everyone in it has done,but it's still worth a look. "},{"Title":"Thrilling Action and non Peacefully Negotiation!","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When i think about the word negotiation, the first thing i think is business, second i think of a kidnapping payment and third and last i think about is the hostage situation. This film is about the last of the three; the hostage situations are put on screen one more time in a splendid way on this film, the movie isn't peaceful at all, it shows very hard and critic hostage situations, with a lot of gunshots and action; this is good, because for the ones that love action films with really good action shots and based on intelligent scripts, this is one of the films to watch. The script is deep and makes the movie strong on its basis, the directing and cinematography of the film is great, with some Die Hard style, the acting roles are performed great by Jackson and Spacey. This movie took me, grabbed me to finally spend one of the most pleasant 1 and 1/2 hour of my weekend.ABOUT THE FILM Samuel L. Jackson is here Ltt. Danny Roman, a police officer expert handling hostage situations, and negotiation with criminals. When Danny's partner Nathan (Paul Guilfoyle) was killed in some confuse events, Danny is taken suspect and some false evidence was set in his house to make him look guilty. Danny heard that Nathan knew something about some corruption on the Internal Affair division of the Police, so Danny suspected of them as the responsible of Nathan's death. When no hope was there for Danny, he decides to take as hostage the Internal Affair offices with some of the people who work there, including Insp. Niebaum (J.T. Walsh), the one that Danny tough as mostly implied in the events. With a lot of support of his wife Karen (Regina Taylor) during this hard events, Danny manages to bring an external negotiator, Lt Chris Sabian (Kevin Spacey), that's someone far from his division in order to try to probe his innocence. In this hostage situation, a lot of interest takes place, the same partners of Danny try to put an end to this by all means. Some of Danny's partners are Cmdr Adam Beck (David Morse), Cmdr Grant Frost (Ron Rifkin) and Chief Al Travis (John Spencer). The kidnapped involved in the building besides Niebaum are Niebaum's secretary Maggie (Siobhan Fallon) and Rudy Timmons (Paul Giamatti).8/10! great film of F. Gary Gray "},{"Title":"OK, if nothing else.  And it did affirm Paul Giamatti's presence on the silver screen.","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For the most part, The Negotiator is kind of a cliché a Chicago hostage negotiator (Samuel L. Jackson) gets framed for something and has to take hostages to prove his point, so another negotiator (Kevin Spacey) is brought in to talk everything over with him. But in this case, there's the interesting balance of both men trying to outdo the other. And among other things, this was one of four movies in summer, 1998, that affirmed Paul Giamatti's burgeoning presence in movies (the others were The Truman Show, Dr. Dolittle and Saving Private Ryan).Anyway, this movie is worth seeing. You just might learn some good things about hostage situations here. Also starring David Morse and J.T. Walsh. "},{"Title":"The best. WOW!","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Samuel L. Jackson stars as a negotiator who is accused of killing his partner after he found out some of their partners were stealing from a disability fund. So Roman takes the law into his own hands in a building filled with hostages including his accuser, Insp. Terence Niebaum. Knowing the rules and the tactics of a negotiating team, Danny calls the only man he can trust, fellow negotiator Lt. Chris Sabian (played by Kevin Spacey), a complete stranger to Danny. It's a race against time to find the men who set him up, and find his partners killer. This is one of the most intriguing thrillers I have ever seen. It's one of the best movies ever. Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey are great in their roles and everyone filled out their role perfectly,****/*****. "},{"Title":"Solid action thriller","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the better action film's of the late 90's.  Its got a good cast, a good script, and solid direction.  I thought that Samuel L Jackson and Kevin Spacey had very good chemistry together and the rest of the cast was solid too.  Even though it runs over two hours, its exciting throughout and is never dull or boring.  The revealing the criminal at the end was surprising but believable, and over all this is a solid action thriller and its highly recommended.  4/5 "},{"Title":"Overall The Negotiator was an enjoyable film, but with flaws.","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  So let's cut to the chase, shall we? The weak points of the film were as follows The plot. I found the plot to be very confusing. It's not giving anything away to say that Samuel L. Jackson's character is set up early on in the film. He is the top hostage negotiator in the city of Chicago, and when he's set up, he takes people hostage himself. So, no problem there. But the reason he was set up, how he was set up, why he was set up, who set him up, all that is a little hard to follow. In fact, thinking about it, it may not have been because it was too hard to follow, it may just not have been explained at length. For a movie that was more thriller than action-adventure, a strong plot line is necessary to drive the film. And I don't think the ending really resolved any of my questions. It was too simple an ending. I do like the idea of a hostage negotiator taking people hostage. That part worked for me, but the plot itself was weak.Second problem the dialogue. It seemed very choppy at times. The feeling I got was that it was written with previews in mind. A lot of what was said seemed like it could be used in commercials. A lot of hard hitting one liners that would grab the audience. That works fine for previews, but when a movie is full of them, it doesn't sound right. A lot of it seemed cheesy as well. Sort of cliche, taken straight from a manual. For a bunch of first rate actors, I wish what they had to say was better. Which brings me to the strong point of the film the acting. When you have two top rate actors like Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey, very little can go wrong. As I said before, the dialogue was weak, but these two actors can make anything sound good. They had a strong supporting cast as well, lead by the late J.T. Walsh. Jackson and Spacey are in my opinion two of the best actors working today, and they made the movie for me. They both have this quiet power about them. They manage to take control of the screen when they're on, and when they're on together, they just about blow everyone else away. But once again, I just wish they had better dialogue to speak.So overall, if you get past the plot, and concentrate on the actors, you'll enjoy The Negotiator. The only reason I didn't grade this movie lower was because of Spacey and Jackson, so if you don't like them, then you might not like the movie.  "},{"Title":"Very entertaining and good movie.","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie a lot.It is about two negotiators who have to face each other after one of them has taken some hostages. The movie has everything from good dialogue and humor to thrilling action scenes. Kevin Spacey and Samuel L Jackson performs wonderfully in the two leading roles. The story is also very clever with a surprising ending. "},{"Title":"Two top leads show their style","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With Mr Jackson and Mr Spacey topping the bill it would have been a difficult to make a poor film (but, not impossible eg MI-2). Luckily we do get to enjoy a good movie. Several of the supporting cast do play the roles in which we always see them in, although it is typecasting, their performances are none the worse for it. The movie starts with bang, slows, then builds very nicely to its conclusion. This engaged me nicely and gives my popcorn a decent extension in the cinema ( I always eat slowly when a films grabs my interest).Despite a couple of small holes in the plot which a could have easily have been sorted prior to release this is a very good movie and i'd recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Excellent action film with brains","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think this film manages to bridge that most difficult gap in modern filmmaking - an action film with a good script and excellent acting.All of the principals are good, especially Jackson and Spacey (as always). The supporting cast, including Morse playing against type a little all work as an ensemble, which is a tribute to the director - F Gary Gray.Camerawork is all good, as is camera work and photography.All in all, an excellent film. It's only fault is that it sometimes falls between being a Die Hard and a Blood Simple, but if you like both kinds of films, then this is unmissable.It's a little sad to know that J T Walsh died just after finishing this movie, but it's a fitting end to a grand career - if only Raul Julia had had such an tribute. "},{"Title":"Intense!","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Intense thriller with Kevin Spacey in brilliant form (as usual), though Samuel L. Jackson's character gets a little tedious at times. Conventional until it gets juicy, but then the finale tries to surprise (which it does a little), but you just know it's going to have a Hollywood ending. Still a great thriller. 8/10  "}{"Title":"Action Galore - But Script Suffers","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Good story, with lots of action. One cannot help wonder how the movie will end. The biggest disappointment was the script. After watching The Usual Suspects, the script for this one does not come close. Spacey still does well anyhow.There are a few flaws, but they are drowned by the loud, intensive action. I give it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Performed Tense Thriller","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In paying tribute to the late J.T. Walsh, director Stephen Frears praised Walsh as the consummate character actor. Frears presented the importance of such actors declaring that you cast a veteran character actor in a small, but crucial role in your film and you can just forget about that part because you know that whatever they do will be right. Character actors blend into the scenery, but even still, you always remember their faces, as if they'd come some close to stealing a movie from the stars, but not quite. Character actors rarely come entirely out of the background, but they make it so that the background is worth watching as well. Walsh truly was uniqu e, nearly stealing films from Robin Williams, Tom Cruise, John Cusack, Nick Cage, and Anthony Hopkins. No matter how evil or conflicted the character, Walsh presented equal measure of regret, reluctance, or weakness. Nothing was ever easy. When he died suddenly of a heart attack, Walsh departed with two movies already in the can including The Negotiator.Clearly F. Gary Gray, the director of The Negotiator subscribes to Stephen Frear's confidence in Hollywood's most underappreciated workers, as he goes Frears one step further. The Negotiator is a movie where *every* role is filled by an actor more appreciated as a character actor. While the film's ostensible stars Samuel Jackson and Kevin Spacey had both top-lined movies with great critical success, but both are still critical darlings more than major box office draws, so what kind of moron would have them starring as police negotiators in an explosive summer action movie? Probably the same genius who would back them up with Walsh as an Internal Affairs investigator, Ron Rifkin as the chief of police, John Spencer of LA Law and The West Wing as another cop, David Morse as a S.W.A.T. team leader (!!!), and Paul Giamatti as a snitch. Because of this amazing line-up of super-actors, ever character has performance-related depth and the film works despite a script redolent of the middle ground of Die Hard clones and a running time a full twenty minutes too long.So Jackson's a negotiator, inevitably the best we've ever seen, but when he's framed in a murder and some kinda crazy benefits scandal, he finally has taken too much and he takes Walsh, and the people in his office hostage. But he's tough because. he knows the rules of engagement. Or something. He says that he'll only talk to Kevin Spacey's West-side Chicago negotiator, while all the while the members of Jackson's squad want to take him out. Why? Because it's all a damn conspiracy. Well duh.Every second of James DeMonaco and Kevin Fox's script feels recycled, but it doesn't matter because the cast is used to underwritten characters and they work hard to sell every line. Jackson is remarkable, essentially carrying the film. Spacey is electric in what really amounts to little more than an extended cameo. He arrives a while in as things are already threatening to lag and he lifts the film up with him. There aren't many scenes where Jackson and Spacey actually share the screen, but when they do, it's something special. It's like watching the Royal Shakespeare Company perform the collected works on Joe Eszterhas. You don't know why it should work, but clearly it does. Otherwise, it's worth it to watch Walsh cheat expectations on just how crooked his character is, or to watch David Morse play a soldier. Rifkin and Spencer have played nearly the same roles before, but they're pros and that's what counts.F. Gary Gray holds it all together by giving the actors room to work, while borrowing his more staged scenes from films as diverse as The French Connection and that little movie with Bruce Willis, Alan Rickman, and the guy from the Bolshoi ballet. Even if the action looks familiar, it's well paced and with Titanic cinematographer Russell Carpenter behind the lenses, even that great cinematic cliché, the police funeral gets a new look, even if that scene's most powerful moment is still an extended close-up of Jackson's tears.Usually in movies like this the tension comes from a pounding score and quick editing. And while Graeme Revell (providing the pounding score) and Christian Wagner (with the quick editing) do their jobs, there's more excitement in watching all of the acting pros at work. This is a solid 7.5/10 testosterone fest.  "},{"Title":"Suspenseful action-thriller that will keep you guessing!","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Negotiator is not only action-packed but it is a mystery and an intelligent one at that.  Jackson, Spacey, Morse, Rifkin, Walsh, and Spencer are an all-star cast and each of them plays their part well.  The intense conflict that lies at the heart of this film would be nothing without the duo of Jackson and Spacey.  The story along with the film making make this a great film that is well worth the time you put into it.  "},{"Title":"Kevin Spacey stars in this mediocre movie","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  And to think I went to see it for the mere presence of Samuel L. Jackson. His play was totally obliterated by Kevin Spacey. Kevin really makes this not so very special movie one you'll want to have seen. The story is crappy alas and filled with scenes and jokes you'll have seen many times before. "},{"Title":"Do Cops Really Talk Like That?","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found this to be a trenchant, generally fast-moving policier, with two standout lead performances by Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey, ably supported by a large cast. For something this well-performed and cleverly written, I generally give full thumbs-up, but I have to say that I found the language to be too harsh. The distinction comes up because of the degree of professionalism Spacey's Chris brings to the proceedings when he first shows up, clearly delineating the need for clear, calm thinking. Now, it is true that many of the other characters have sincere motivation to make things as emotionally distraught and confusing as possible, but I'm not sure that having them repeatedly insert the F-word into their expostulations really needed to be the mechanism for this. Perhaps it substitutes in today's film culture for actual subplots, designed to divert the protagonists from achieving their ends? Not sure, but gotta say, I would have enjoyed this film far more if the use of profanity had been more judicious. "},{"Title":"Good cast...poor logic","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  > Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey overcome enormous plot holes and > embarrassing lack of understanding of correct police procedure to make an > interesting pairing. What was needed was more face to face sparring between > two great actors and less misdirected dialogue trying to save the lame plot. > Watch it for the cast, including the late J.T.Walsh who once again excels at > playing the man you love to hate, and don't worry about the plot. It just > gets in the way. "},{"Title":"top action/suspense","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the top action/suspense movies of the year, similar to the Die Hard stuff but more in depth acting and plot, the kind of movie Bruce Willis would like to do -)   Sam L. Jackson at his best, very intense.  Some good plot twists at the end.  -Bob  "},{"Title":"Negotiate your way out of the room if this comes on!","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I find much of Hollywood's deafening testosterone offerings to be like eating an MSG snack an hour after you see them, you're hungry for entertainment again. Con Air, The Rock, and Armageddon are mindless examples of the breed, big budgets but drive-in concepts. The Negotiator is a wannabe to this pantheon, but made me starved for a real movie half way through (and it's a long way through to the end, a very, very loooong way). While I agree that Spacey and Jackson are excellent actors, even they can't get blood out of this turkey turnip. Director Gray dwells so long on the film's one gory scene, he'd embarrass Verhoeven (he even does a slowmo flashback, I guess thinking it added drama). Composer Graeme Revell's derivative score is intrusive; he should have said, Look, if you want Hans Zimmer, get HIM. And the script! Note to Hollywood writers actors don't naturally feel comfortable swearing. Want to see believable swearing? Try Glengarry Glen Ross or Midnight Run. It's believable because the characters are believable, the plot's believable, the characters are believable. They aren't in The Negotiator. And loose the first 20 minutes. Tighten, people, tighten. Grade D. "},{"Title":"8 on a scale of 10","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Negotiator was a pretty well crafted movie. Most movies of this type of genre (action, suspense) have far too many holes and depend far too much on special effects. The really nice thing about this movie was the attention to ACTING, character development and plot. Don't get me wrong. It wasn't exactly Oscar material, but I was very impressed none-the-less.Naturally, there was some need for suspending belief, but it was much less than normal and well within reasonable standards.The unique thing about this movie was the intense interaction between characters. Mixed in were moments of riveting action which worked especially well because we cared about those being affected. "},{"Title":"Decent movie, ... bad, bad, directing.","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found that many moments were predictable, and although the acting was good, the music and the camera angles ruined everything. Sure, the ending is pretty good, provided you don't find the whole thing too cliche and you don't press REWIND before you get to it...  "}{"Title":"Written by a 14 year old, directed by an 18 year old.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let's face it, Spacey and Jackson are wasted in this turkey along with everyone else. Totally implausable storyline, mediocre directing, and acting out of The Stepford Wives.What a waste of talent, money and my time. No wonder the tape was only played through half way when I rented it. Prior to viewing I thought the former renter was inconsiderate, after viewing I realized they had taste.  "},{"Title":"Starts with a bang ends with a whisper...","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Negotiator has a real grabber of a beginning. We see Samuel L. Jackson doing a great job at negotiating the release of a terrified girl hostage. Next, he is framed for a murder he didn't commit. Finally, he takes hostages himself in order to gain time to prove his innocence. Then the problems with this movie begin. While character development is acceptable in the case of Samuel L. Jackson, there is very little anywhere else. J.T. Walsh is especially wasted. A no-name actor could just as easily played his part. At 140 minutes, the film seems to never want to end, and while their are plenty of helicopters buzzing about, and posturing among the police, in the end (and especially with the ending) I was letdown. - MERK "},{"Title":"Better than average thriller due to the dual energy of solid action and tow strong leads","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Police negotiator Danny Roman's partner is murdered when he begins to find out more and more about embezzlement within the department.  When Roman looks into it he is framed for his partner's murder as well as embezzlement.  In attempt to clear his name Roman goes to see the head of Internal Affairs but finds himself almost unwittingly taking hostages and clearing the floor.  With his SWAT colleagues stacking up outside and internal forces keen to enter the room and finish the siege at any cost Roman demands he only talks to Chris Sabian &#150; an negotiator he can trust as he is from another precinct and not connected to those Roman suspects of being behind the embezzlement.  A war of words begins between Roman and Sabian while behind the scenes some one seems happy for the siege to end in Roman's death.On paper it sounds like a fantastic proposal &#150; the fireworks of your average action movie topped with verbal sparring between two very well known actors who have great screen presence.  It almost comes off as well &#150; it does have moments of action and tension and the two leads do spark off each other as the tension builds.  The plot itself is pretty formulaic but the delivery does help it rise above the norm.  The action is good and the sense of tension is well sustained throughout the film.The verbal sparring is good but not as overall as I'd hoped.  For the most part the two leads are separated by space and this doesn't help.  Happily both actors manage to carry their own bit of space well.  Jackson is great as Cannon and feels increasingly fenced in as the film goes.  Likewise Spacey does well as the scale of what he's dealing with becomes clear to him.  The support cast is deep and all do well even if they have minor roles.  Rifkin and Walsh are both strong and minor players like Morse, Spencer and, err, Giamatti all add class.Overall this is not perfect and the long running time means that it does have it's dips.  However the tension is pretty well worked and the two leads each hold their end up admirably.  Not perfect but sparky and enjoyable none the less. "},{"Title":"Spacey & Jackson in mediocre movie(making)","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw a lot of great movies lately.. for example L.A. Confidential, American beauty and Heat... With the Negotiator i knew i wouldn't get the kind of excellence that those other movies brought me.When i started watching the movie... i was really dissapointed, i didn't like it. For the first 45 minutes really, i had the idea i was watching a sort of 'Con Air' movie. With actually no storyline whatsoever, and just a little bit of BS strapped together. But after that when Kevin Spacey entered the movie i was glued to the screen. Immediatly the plot thickened, and Jackson performed a whole lot stronger than in the first part of the movie.For the people who don't know the plot, Samuel L. Jackson plays a negotiator who is wrongfully accused of killing his partner and decides to take some hostages himself (corny, isn't it), and Spacey is there to negotiate Jackson out of this mess. This is a very brief lowdown on the plot. The outline of the story is actually pretty good. It starts developing very strongly after the dramatic first 45 minutes.It was very cool to see Kevin Spacey become very mad, and frustrated when certain things and procedures aren't going his way. I haven't seen that (acting)side of him yet. And i saw some pretty magnificent roles of him, let me tell ya.. I remember seeing an interview with Spacey on the set of American Beauty where he totally ditched the movie in a way. The interviewer noticed that Spacey was more happy than when he gave the interview on The Negotiator set, he said that he liked the acting much better on American beauty because it is a good movie, unlike The negotiator. But overall it wasn't such a bad movie, with some nice elements. Being that those elements reside completely on Kevin Spacey, and in some lesser form on Samuel L. Jackson. So i think it would be fair to say that this would be a very horrible movie if let's say Eric Roberts and Jean Claude van Damme played the leading roles. Let's just be gratefull that's not the deal... "},{"Title":"A blur in my mind","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What exactly happened in this movie?  And do I really care?  Unlike a lot of the people who saw this film and obviously liked it a lot, I thought that it was medicre at best.  True, it had two of my favorite actors (Spacey and Jackson), but even their presence did not allay my boredom, since the script was so poor.  This story needed some twists and turns regarding the baddie cops.  By the way, who WERE the baddie cops?!  All the antagonists looked the same to me and no one stood out distinctly as suspects to watch out for when we were supposed to wonder if they could do Danny Roman (Jackson) in.  Maybe they could have had more suspense when they cracked into the computer...or ANYTHING that was original.  Some people compared this to Die Hard.  On a scale of 1-10, I would give Die Hard a 10, because it was exciting and a totally original premise at the time. I gave this a 5, because it is a tepid copy years later when someone should be thinking up something new. "},{"Title":"Predictable and long-winded","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The events of a good cop trying to prove his innocence are totally predictable and long-winded. In the end the good guys (Jackson and Spacey) obviously win, but it doesn't get very clear what the whole fuzz was really about. The bad guys suddenly appear to be some stormtroopers who come out of nowhere and the genius behind it all is an old man, who potters around in the movie, having nothing useful to do. "},{"Title":"Been there, seen that","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While not an entirely unenjoyable experience, there are far too many eye-roller lines in the script of The Negotiator to really take it seriously.  It borrows the typical stock characters from similair cop thrillers and combines them with plot turns so predictable the audience knows what's coming way too early.  Because of this, the suspense and tension levels are kept to a minimum.  We know who's innocent, guilty, and about to get off'ed half an hour into the film.  Its saving grace(s) come in from the performances of Samuel Jackson and (especially) Kevin Spacey, who makes his every scene at least palatable.   "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson  Was Fantastic !","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Samuel L. Jackson,( Lt. Danny Roman),S.W.A.T.,'03, was a very well respected Police Officer of the Chicago Police Department and wound up being placed in a Web of trouble and suspicions. Danny Roman watch his entire life turn upside down and fought desperately to gain back his self-respect. There is plenty of action in this film and when you think you are about to figure out the ending, you wind up getting blasted out of your seats. There is great photography through out the picture in the LOOP of Chicago with helicopter scenes and lots of SWAT Teams throwing tear gas all over the place. David Morse,(Cmdr. Adam Beck),Hack,TV Series,'02, gave a great supporting role and really gave Danny Roman a very hard time. If you love Samuel L. Jackson and his great acting ability, this is the film for you. "},{"Title":"Not as intelligent as they would have you believe, but","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An engaging way to spend 140 minutes. The Negotiator gives us stock characters, unfortunately, and you'll be swept by waves of deja vu as you recall other films with similar premises; but it still is somewhat intelligent and engaging...up till the end.I can't slam the ending without giving away secrets, so stop reading here if you haven't seen it.It transpires that the ringleader of the gang of crooked cops is one of the hostages, Frost. He's also the first hostage released. And another hostage, Niebaum, knows Frost's secret, but doesn't protest or say anything at all to Danny when Frost is released. This is, frankly, absurd...he doesn't otherwise appear to be dumb as a brick, he should have easily guessed that he would be in great danger as a result of this.The final scene between Sabian and Frost is moronic. Neither man had any reason to trust the other. And...Sabian shooting Roman? Your typical Hollywood exaggeration. People die from gunshot wounds like that.Too bad...this movie was (slightly) above average until the last 15 minutes or so.  "},{"Title":"C'mon, let's be reasonable!","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't think this was a very good movie.  As Roger Ebert pointed out, it is very formulaic, though I can get past that.  What I can't get past are the illogical plot elements.  Case in point Danny Roman (Samuel L. Jackson) gives Chris Sabian (Kevin Spacey) 20 minutes to talk to him or he's going to kill a hostage.  The cops call Chris, he gets in his car, high-tails to the scene of the crime in downtown Chicago, and contacts Danny on his cell phone as he's getting out of the car.  This plot element has two illogical aspects.  First, it was established that Sabian is not on the local force, at least not from the local precinct.  If you have ever driven in and around Chicago, you would understand that you can't get from anywhere to anywhere in 20 minutes, even on a good day.  He could have given him five minutes and it would have made as much sense.  Even so, I can deal with this, impossible as it can be.  But here's the thing  why didn't Sabian get on his cell phone while he was still stuck in traffic?  Why did he have to wait until he was practically standing in front of the building?  Why risk a hostage's life?  We're not supposed to think about that sort of thing.  We're supposed to accept at face value that they couldn't communicate until Sabian arrived at the scene.  Dumb!Something else we're not supposed to think about  no matter how great the motive, it's AGAINST THE LAW to take hostages, especially if you do so at gunpoint and threaten to kill them.  We are led to believe that, because Roman was vindicated of his alleged crimes against police, that all was forgiven and life goes on happily ever after.  Don't think so.A thriller is supposed to take us to the edge by weaving in strange twists (there were none), or by  weaving in the almost impossible (NOT the impossible).  But don't insult our intelligence.  Get real. "}{"Title":"Another farfetched summer action thriller","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The only thing that saves this film is the acting by Jackson and Spacey, with several good supporting performances, too.  But wowser! the script is awful!  If Jackson's character had any kind of lawyer, none of the action would have been necessary.  But in the fantasy world of Hollywood producers, stupidity reigns supreme. "},{"Title":"One great concept.  Two great actors.  But a 3 out of 10.  Disappointing.","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I live in Chicago.  I have dealt with Chicago cops first-hand on more than one occasion.  My husband is an attorney for the state of Illinois.  AND we watch the local news (and thus all the details on the latest police corruption scandals) nightly.  So for all of those reasons, when one character in THE NEGOTIATOR furrows his brows and says you know how we feel about police corruption in this city, my husband and I simultaneously burst out laughing and said yeah, you PROMOTE it!And that's about as realistic as it gets.  Second moment of total sheeyeah, RIGHT when the ENTIRE POLICE DEPARTMENT (not to mention his partner's wife AND his own defense attorney!) decides, in the blink of an eye, that Yesterday's Hero and Today's Scapegoat Danny Roman MUST be guilty of the murder he's being framed for, sheerly on the basis of circumstantial evidence and a lot of insinuating glances. Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey *do* deliver strong performances, given the thin script and embarrassingly unoriginal direction.  There are two fine supporting performances to be noted, too  J.T. Walsh, in one of his last roles before his death last year, and Paul Giamatti as a small-time crook who helps Jackson crack the case.The main problem is that the key relationship -- the interplay between Jackson and Spacey, and the question of how much either of them can risk to trust the other one -- is constantly undercut by Gray's direction.  Just as soon as their conversation gets interesting, he throws in a bang, or an explosion, or a trigger-happy second-in-command, or a weeping wife, or an obnoxious reporter.  For god's sake, I wanted to scream, just let these two men (both the real life actors and the fictional characters they portray) INTERACT!  But no, Gray treats the film like an MTV video (which, apparently, is high praise for some people - but not me) flashy, fast, incoherent, and ultimately unsatisfying.  When it finally ends, it is truly not with a bang, but with a whimper.   "},{"Title":"When in doubt, blow it up!","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What could have been an intense psychological drama turns into just another when in doubt, blow it up thriller -- and I use the word thriller loosely.  The fact is that action is used to cover up the weak execution of a strong plot.  It gets pretty predictable as well.  The Negotiator could have been better if put in the hands of a competent director.   "},{"Title":"All the worst characteristics of big-budget action thrillers","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a total waste of good talent. Both stars, Spacey and Jackson, are good actors, but oh, what a stinker of a story, overblown beyond any semblance of reality. Commit about 3 dozen felonies to prove your innocence of a  false charge, and it all turns out OK (after blowing up a building) in the end.Yeah, right.Only the stereotypes and cliches are more abundant than the breaking glass, gunshots, fires, and explosions. "},{"Title":"Contrived, predictable nonsense","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" BORING! That's what I shouted aloud when the credits finally began to roll. My buddy fell asleep 3 times throughout this film and he even managed to stay awake throughout Sense and Sensibility. Don't get me wrong. I like intelligence in my action movies but this film was just so over-hyped and incoherent it was appalling. The story was contrived to the Nth degree and it had a very TV-movie feel to it. F. Gary Gray is not a good director at all and will never amount to anything more than pedestrian. I honestly don't know why people like this clichéd rubbish so much. Don't let the opinion of others influence decision of whether or not to watch this trash. But if you hate it, remember what I told you. "},{"Title":"The Good & The Bad Of The Negotiator","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"29 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The GOOD - The movie sports an interesting cast, actors who usually entertain, such as Kevin Spacey, Samuel L. Jackson, J.T. Walsh, David Morse and Paul Giamatti. Spacey, as The Negotiator, has the best role. The story is interesting and very intense in spots and keeps you involved without the need for a lot of violence. There is just the right amount in here and the film looks good on DVD. In fact, the DVD transfer elevates this film another star.The BAD - At 138 minutes, the film would have been better being trimmed 10-15 minutes. It could also been less profane. Over 70 f-words is too many. I get tired of seeing cops portrayed as dirty most of the time or just trigger-happy. It ain't so, at least as often as Hollywood likes to show you. Finally, the end stretches credibility just a little too much.Overall, worth seeing but with a big caution light with the language. "},{"Title":"Nothing to Negotiate. It's Awful.","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Negotiator (1998) Dir F. Gary Grey / Cast Samuel L. Jackson, Kevin Spacey, David Morse, J.T. Walsh, Ron Rifkin Everything about this film has been borrowed from other films. The plot is every bit as familiar as a Jehovah witness coming up the walkway. We know at first glance that this film is about the kind of compromise that runs deeper than your run of the mill deals. Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey play negotiators who must rely on each other. Jackson's partner is shot dead in his car and he arrives in time to be arrested. He knows that he is being set up so he takes some people hostage in the precinct. He demands that Spacey be the negotiator. Pure formula to the highest degree of amateur screen writing, but well directed by F. Gary Grey who can only hope that his next project has a more ambitious screenplay. Spacey and Jackson are two fine actors typecast. Jackson played a role similar to this in A Time to Kill where he was also on trial for murder. The two leads are deserving of material that compliments their abilities better than what is given here. In dreary supporting roles are David Morse and J.T. Walsh. Sometimes the film establishes effective dialogue regarding negotiations before resorting to the standard run of the mill action scenes. Perhaps the filmmakers should have negotiated something without the clichés. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Crazy is on the Bus","Date":"10 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the decade of exploding action films with plenty of clichéd characters and plot points, The Negotiator manages to avoid most of the predictable moments and keep you on the edge of your seat throughout the film. This was also the beginning of the endless Samuel L Jackson action flicks with an overwhelming amount of quotable lines. But as much as I liked Jackson, I loved the supporting cast. When you have people like David Morse, Paul Giamatti, and Kevin Spacey rounding out the cast, the film is in good hands.The film tells the story of a police negotiator who gets his world flipped on him when he is accused of murdering his best friend and corruption and is forced to take matters into his own hands. I like the idea of having what you try and stop everyday as a living, end up being the very thing you're doing to prove your innocence. It's an added bonus that the film takes place and is filmed mostly in Chicago, my hometown. There are the inevitable slow-motion shots and occasionally questionable one-liners, I think the film tends to stay away from the grain. The story definitely seemed fresh, and the back and forth between Spacey and Jackson was the best part of the movie.I will say I was pretty worried about how the film was going to end knowing the whole movie took place in one location. But I feel the movie tended to get a little bit obsessed with itself towards the climax. A few of the characters motives were questionable at best and it felt melodramatic at times. With that said, this is definitely one of those movies that if it comes on T.V., I probably wont want to turn it off as it has endlessly re-watchable scenes with classic Spacey and Jackson performances, not to mention just how funny Giamatti is here as he is the one and only source for comedic relief.+Spacey & Jackson dynamic +Chi-town +Giamatti is hilarious +Tends to stay away from the clichés -Melodramatic towards the end -Some character motives 7.6/10 "},{"Title":"Overrated and predictable","Date":"29 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When u have Samuel Jackson and Kevin Spacey in a film you know the acting is going to be good . apart from that the movie is average at best . predictable twists and turns seem part of the whole movie. the movie starts at a good pace . After the initial 15-20 minutes all hell breaks loose. The desperation shown by Samuel seems unwarranted . but would say the movie is watchable for the acting and screenplay . It is an totally commercial film . the other officers are only making tough faces and talking tough . what the movie lacks is suspense and realism . Kevin was also not completely utilized in his role . friend turned foe has been tried , tested and abused since ages in Hollywood . "},{"Title":"Not bad, but clearly not good","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" (Un)spoiler #1  hero is negotiator in a tense hostage situation. So it will be either cliché # 1a  it turns good, hero remains hero and will have serious problems afterward but still wins at the end cliché # 1b  it turns bad. ex-hero will need rest of the the movie to redeem himself, wins at the end, but perhaps dying in the processBingo! It's cliché 1a, at least first part(Un)spoiler #2  hero is informed of some kind of conspiracy by his partner. So it will be either cliché # 2a partner is going to die sooncliché # 2b no cliché # 2b availableSurprise It's cliché # 2a(Un)spoiler #3  partner asks hero to rejoin him at some nowhere in the middle of the nightSo cliché 2a rejoins cliché 1a  hero will be framed for partner's killingNow hero becomes hostage taker, an other negotiator is called on and the movie can drag and drag and drag and drag and drag and drag and drag and drag and drag and drag, and include some stupid scene with the hero's annoying woman and drag and drag and drag and drag and drag and drag with more clichés on the way (faking an hostage killing for example and drag and drag and drag and dragand eventually come to a stereotyped happy end, including comeback on screen of that annoying womanBut when you look at recent movies, this one has at least some technical qualities. Competent actors, no CGI and no shaking cameras "}{"Title":"Before they get to me they'll kill you","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Top Chicago PD hostage negotiator Let. Danny Roman, Samuel L. Jackson, gets the word from his partner police officer and undercover man Nathan Roenick,Paul Gulfoyle.. that a number of police as well as members of Internal Affairs have been stealing from the police disability & pension fund and that his life, in knowing who they are, is now in mortal danger.Just when Ropman was to get the lowdown on who's responsible for this unspeakable crime he's gunned down by a hooded assassin while sitting in his unmarked police car. To make it look like Roman was responsible from his partners murder evidence is planted at the murder scene to implicate the totality innocent man. Not someone to take things lying down Roman in a wild and unexpected move, after he was to have his both gun & badge taken away, takes a number of police personnel hostage in the Chicago Municiple Building including the head of Internal Affaires Terrence Niebaum, J.T Walsh.Samuel L. Jackson is perfect as the Danny Roman The Man Upstairs, on the 20th floor, who's both out to prove himself innocent as well as expose those who framed him in this high powered action drama that never lets up for a moment with the entire Chicago PO as well as local FBI Agents hot on his tail. There's also Kevin Spacey as chief negotiator Chris Sabian who after realizing what's happening in regards to the so-called crimes that Roman is accused of joins forces with him in exposing the real murderers of Nathan Roenick as well as a number of other person who got wind of what was happening with the Chicago Police retirement and disability fund. Where as much as $2,000,000.00 mysterious disappeared right the Chicago PD's noses.***SPOILERS*** As we soon find out to both our shock & surprise the very police who are trying to rescue the hostages held by Roman are the very ones involved in the both embezzling of the police pension fund as well as murder of officer Roenick! During the rescue attempt those involved in rescuing the hostages go out of their way to murder the head of the Affairs Division Terrence Niebaum in fear that he'll spill the beans on them in order to save his own hide. It's now up to both Danny Roman & head of the rescue team, who was since relived of his duties, Chris Sabian to uncover the web of lies that was directed on poor Danny Roman and expose the real person or persons behind all these horrific crimes. And it takes for Roman to almost lose his life, in a staged and flak murder attempt, in doing it. "},{"Title":"A Fine Cast Almost Wasted","Date":"28 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Fun in Watching this Attempt at High-Concept Action is all the Fine Actors that are on Screen and Make this More than it is. A Cliché Ridden and Ridiculous Story about Corrupt Cops Siphoning the Police Fund and Framing the Supreme Hostage Negotiator that must take Hostages to Prove He is Innocent.There are some Unforgivable Goings-On here. Like when the Movie's Momentum is brought to a Suspension of Disbelief Halt when the First Negotiator to Confront this Savant is Brought On Line, He turns out to be so Contrastingly Incompetent that Contrivance is too Good a Word to Describe what Transpires Between Them. There is also a Similar Stoppage for Many Quotes from the Negotiator Manual. It Reeks of Bad Movie Stuff.But Overall it is Worth a View with Low Expectations and a Really Really Heavy Suspension of Disbelief and a Couple of Anti-Cringe Capsules. "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson, framed for murdering his partner, takes hostages to uncover the real killers","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Some movies are better as you view them than afterward when you think about them, like The Negotiator.The Negotiator has good acting that carries it and some well-written scenes and characters.On the other hand, the plot actually has many implausibilities. For example, no man who negotiates for a living is going to take hostages until he exhausts other avenues of detecting who is framing him and what their crimes are.The ending is overly sentimental and a few scenes before that are also too soupy.Spacey made a stalwart effort at being tough. He really doesn't look tough or have the physical presence to come across tough.I like the police corruption theme, but Hollywood misses the boat on this. The police don't have to steal from pension funds!! They can steal via SEIZURE. That's how it's done.Where Hollywood gets it exactly right in its depiction in movie after movie after movie of the gung-ho police (and FBI and other federal police forces) who are using excessive force. This is happening all over America.Samuel L. Jackson is a very capable actor. He's also a high-grossing actor. He's the Bogart of the times. "},{"Title":"Two Wrongs making Two Rights.","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" THE NEGOTIATOR would have scored higher cucumber-ratings had it not opted for melodramatic Hollywood-speak and Samuel L. Jackson's penchant for delivering didactic lines as if he was Jules in PULP FICTION explaining stuff to Vincent Vega.Jackson is police hostage negotiator Danny Roman - the best at what he does - who is framed by what he believes are crooked Internal Affairs officers, so takes them hostage to prove his innocence. Danny's compatriots are at a loss on how to talk him down (when they decide on someone to negotiate with Danny, it is not the stable David Morse or the icy captain; to comply with dramatic comedy protocol, it is the jumpiest guy in the room), until Danny himself requests the services of ANOTHER hostage negotiator who is also The Best At What He Does, Chris Sabian (Kevin Spacey).Isn't it obvious by now that crooked Internal Affairs officers is tautologous? You can take it for granted in movies that if a cop accuses Internal Affairs of being corrupt - they are. So though red herrings and minor twists abound, it is quite obvious that Danny's main hostage, the IA guy Niebaum (played by a sneering J.T. Walsh), is, in fact, corrupt.In one of those cringeworthy didactic scenes, Danny describes to Neibaum how a person's eyes give them away by looking up and left towards the visual cortex when they are lying. Now why explain that to an intelligent criminal you are trying to get the truth out of? Then he backpedals for us audience, It's not just the eyes, it's a thousand things! Dare we ask for more didactic explanation? Kevin Spacey puts that dead speaking delivery of his to good use as negotiator Sabian, but even he is seduced by the dulcet over-explanations of Jules describing why he's as innocent as a foot massage to Marcellus Wallace's wife. So we end up with TWO hostage negotiators against the police.And all sensible talking breaks loose.Action, deception, counter-deception, gunshots, explosions, Paul Giamatti as a jumpy computer hacker hostage, David Morse as an ice-cool cop; THE NEGOTIATOR is well-produced and intriguing, but resorts to dumb dialog and pat action more than it needs to with such a compelling storyline as its base.It is not implausible that this situation might occur in real life - a cop's partner is killed and he is framed by other cops for the murder - but I find it impossible to believe that the framed cop would stoop to hostage-taking to prove a point. Even if Internal Affairs is hellbent on incarcerating him, the cops in Danny's department would have legally wangled their way out of having Danny spend any jail time. Did he really have to overact this much to prove a point? "},{"Title":"If you don't see the movie you're not missing anything","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A hostage negotiator (Samuel Jackson) takes hostages of his own when he finds himself framed for murder ...A good cast & a promising setup are let down by a belief that having actors running around yelling at the top of their lungs is the same thing as character development. You can add to that heavy-handed incidental music that tries to bludgeon you into feeling emotions that aren't there & an irritating performance from Paul Giametti as a small time crook accidentally caught up in events. The clichés are never ending - the loyal wife who won't leave the scene, a cringe-makingly cutesy intro for Spacey, the police marksman who can't take the kill shot because ol' Sam is one of their own, a corrupt cop who has one expression (shifty) & whom hack director F.Gary Gray cuts to every single time the corruption scandal is mentioned just so, y'know, we know that he's a baddie. When Kevin Spacey as ace negotiator Chris Sabian is introduced & he & Jackson begin an impromptu discussion about the merits of Shane you really do wonder if this is nothing more than a sop to Jackson's role as the pop culture obsessed hit-man of Pulp Fiction. As the story unfolds the events become increasingly hard to swallow, managing to be both predictable & ludicrous. The Negotiator may not be a bad picture (although that's debatable) but it's certainly no more than routine. I suppose what distresses me the most is that it has that cookie cutter feel of so many studio movies these days. It's loud, brash & noisy yet at the same time hollow, mechanical & wearyingly familiar. What should be a tight & claustrophobic experience feels bloated & overproduced. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie!","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Inspired by his success as a police negotiator, Lt. Danny Roman (Samuel L. Jackson) had earned, somewhat, the status of a 'hero' amongst his fellow lawman. It felt good to be a cop, especially when things go right and someone is still alive because he did his job well. Suddenly though, almost overnight, he finds that his status as a 'hero' had vanished and been exchanged for a new one, one on the opposite side of the fence. The table had turned 180° and he sees that his reputation, career, and life are shattered. Bewildered, Danny finds himself framed by his own. His chief, sergeants, other lieutenants, detectives, people that he had worked with and known for years' turn against him, act as though he were guilty, and just walk away. Some just don't want to get involved, but just the same, they abandon him.His partner, his true friend, had the information he needed to get out of this mess but he's already dead. Desperate to prove his innocence and find the real criminals, Danny takes hostages himself and concentrates his energies on his own investigation. This time, he's negotiating for his life. This time, he's going to use hostages as a means to get what 'he' wants, what 'he' needs, in order to save himself. After all, what does he have to lose? The coin had already been flipped, and it landed on the other side.From this point on, until the conclusion of the movie, it keeps you in nail-biting suspense! Will he be able to save himself? You'll just have to watch and see. I loved the movie! I gave it a '10.' I'm a 'Samuel L. Jackson' fan anyway, but I think that The Negotiator, is flawless. The acting is great. The plot is great. The actors chosen to play in it were great! What more could you ask for out of a movie? Hum . . . except for some free tickets, free DVDs and videos, maybe some memorabilia from the movie . . . Oh, and possibly an interview or meet with the actors first hand . . . That's not a lot to ask for; is it? "},{"Title":"One of the best edge-of-your-seat thrillers I have ever seen!","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wow! THE NEGOTIATOR, in my opinion, is one of the best edge-of-your-seat thrillers I have ever seen! If you ask me, Graeme Revell's riveting score was excellent, especially the beginning and end themes! My absolute favorite part was Travis' (John Spencer) birthday party. This was because I enjoyed watching everyone there dance, laugh, and have a good time. In addition, I loved it when Sabian (Kevin Spacey) was giving orders or being aggressive. Also, even though I thought that J.T. Walsh (Niebaum) gave a good performance, I really didn't like his character at times. It's hard for me to explain why. Even so, I thought that everyone involved in this film gave a great performance. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey have scored big time! Now, in conclusion, if you're a fan of Samuel L. Jackson or Kevin Spacey, and, you haven't seen this edge-of-your-seat thriller, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"8 of 10, but definitely not for the plot.","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first had this movie in my hands I was so exited. Two of my favorite actors and my favorite composer in the same movie! But boy, was I bored with the plot. First of all what happened to in Dubio Pro Reo? And what kind of a lawyer is this? I think I'd fire him at once.And then the very minimal story itself. OK, it's just a cop flick, not a mystery masterpiece like The Usual Suspects, but why waste so many good opportunities for interesting sub plots?Another thing I didn't expect because of the title of the movie (wich I find rather unfitting) Whenever there is some interaction between characters, and I'm starting to think now we're getting' somewhere *BAM* another action scene nullifies the previously build up suspense. Don't get me wrong - I like action in a movie and a cop flick is supposed to have those scenes, but not like this. Then I thought it was going to be another Die Hard, when the building appeared on screen - at least I was untroubled by this. But I think I'll volunteer for a lobotomy before watching another (new) big bucks cop movie made in Hollywood.So the 8 points I voted where mostly for the excellent job of the actors (main and support) when they get a chance to show their talent and the score. "},{"Title":"Tense and intelligent thriller","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is not the type I would usually go and watch, but I found it fairly exciting, tense, well-written and well-acted. Samuel L Jackson and Kevin Spacey ran away with the acting honours in what could have been a contrived hostage tale, while JT Walsh appeared against type in a complex role.'The Negotiator' is better than I expected, although there's the usual glut of four-letter words you get in all action thrillers these days. Without them, and with a less clichéd plot, it could have been one of the superior films of the 1990s.Is it worth your time? Possibly - there's a fair amount of talk alongside the violence, and the story is an intriguing one, even if it doesn't quite come off. "},{"Title":"The Negotiator!","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Negotiator is an excellent action film in My opinion! Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey have great performances! Big David Morse also was very good and so was J.T. Walsh and Paul Giamatti! Also good in the movie are Ron Rifkin and John Spencer. The movie boasts a lot of great acting, exciting action and mystery! The direction by F. Gary Gray is very good and I love the the close ups of the actors because in My opinion it make the film much more intense! The music by Graeme Revell is very good. If you like the cast mentioned above and thrilling action films with great suspense then i strongly recommend that you watch The Negotiator today! "}{"Title":"Two-thirds of a good movie.","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Negotiator is a gripping film for the first 80 minutes. Then it rides off the rails in a confusion of fake negotiations, firepower, Chicago-FBI conflict and unbelievable plot twists. The movie is at least half an hour too long. Overall, however, the cast is excellent. Jackson does his usual fine job, but he's most effective in his movies when he is NOT screaming and shooting people. J.D. Walsh can do more emoting just by staring at someone than most actors can achieve with eight minutes of dialogue. I'm trying to remember how movies were made before the existence of computers, the Internet and cell phones. Without them, most of today's flicks would be relatively empty "},{"Title":"An intense thriller","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  God, I love Kevin Spacey. He is an amazing actor. His performance was flawless in this film. And Samuel L. Jackson is just as perfect. He gets into his characters with such passion. I love it. The Negotiator is a remarkable film. I was really impressed. I was a little curious when I went to Blockbuster I saw the film on display. I love Kevin Spacey, but ever since the incident of House of the Dead *shudder*, I check IMDb first. I saw that it had a rating of 7.2. I figured that I'd give it a shot. I'm glad I did. This is a great movie. You should watch it if you are a Kevin fan. Or a Samuel fan. Especially if you loved movies like Die Hard, Terminator, or Lethal Weapon. I would highly recommend it. 10/10  "},{"Title":"Coming back to old plots","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Technically it is an interesting material with good acting of Samuel L. Jackson but not the best of Kevin Spacey, who is here the well-doing man of the film. This film reminds me in its plots all those serials of the 30s where a particular person is always supposed to be the villain and at the end you discover that you are wrong because the one who looked good was in fact the real villain. Good to see it, with a lot of excitement.       "},{"Title":"A well-acted thriller","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A supremely intelligent and well-acted thriller in which a police negotiator Samuel L Jackson is wrongly accused of both murder and stealing from the police pension fund. Jackson then takes radical steps by holding colleagues J T Walsh and Ro Rifkin hostage and demanding that an independent negotiator bebrought into mediate. Enter Kevin Spacey - and the sparksbegin to fly. "},{"Title":"A very good constructed Thriller","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Negotiator is a very good Thriller with lots of twists and two great performances by Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey. The story is constructed very well, the pacing is good, so that the movie isn't boring for its entire 140 minutes. Jackson gives a very strong performance as the man who's got nothing to lose as well as Spacey as Chris Sabian, the top negotiator of Chicago. The supporting roles are also top, especially those of J.T. Walsh and David Morse. This is definitely one of the top Thrillers of 1998 and it's a shame that here in Germany almost nobody saw it. It's definitely not a movie of the size of Forrest Gump, but I think it deserves much more recognition than it got. "},{"Title":"A gem of a film","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found this a gem of a film.I bought it, when it was released on DVD pretty much on spec.  and was very impressed.It does contain 2 of my favourite actors, namely Jackson, and Spacey, and also David Morse, whom I rate very highly.All the plots and spoilers will be in these pages, but suffice to say this is an excellent film, which has not received the plaudits it fully deserves.It's in my collection and should be in yours, very highly recommended.8 and a bit out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Excellent cast---8/10","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" My favorite thing about The Negotiator is the excellent acting by the amazing cast. Samuel L. Jackson, Kevin Spacey, David Morse, and the late J.T. Walsh all give great performances. The story follows a crack hostage negotiator (Samuel L. Jackson) who is falsely accused of murder. He then takes over the FBI building until he can prove his innocence. Another thing i like is that it is a change from your average action movie. It centers more on mystery and suspense than mindless shooting and explosions, which i love but there are other movies for that. The Negotiator is a slick and clever film with an outstanding cast and a great story. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent cast in a decent movie","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" First of all I don't understand why people call this movie a thriller, I see it as just another action movie. If this is a thriller then so is Die Hard...The story is actually pretty standard and full with cliché moments that all have been done before. However the movie still knows how to be original and still has some surprising moments in it. The biggest strength is the cast, Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey are awesome together! J.T. Walsh is always excellent and so is he in this one, in one of his last movies before his sudden death in 1998. Without the wonderful cast the movie would just have been another Die Hard clone.The movie starts good and promising but after a while the story descents into cliché moments and what follows are some action sequences that in my opinion are poorly done and nothing we haven't seen before. The ending is pretty far fetched and in my opinion very unbelievable. The movie is also a bit too long and could and should have been shorter.Still I like this movie and I can still recommend it to you.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"damn good","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was well-written and got a tremendous boost from the veteran cast involved!  F. Gary Gray is in my opinion one of the most underrated directors today and deserves credit for putting this together.  The backdrop is pretty strong as it involves crooked cops skimming out of the cops emergency fund and setting up one of their own to cover it up by killing his partner whom was aware of the shortage.  Samuel L. Jackson in his A Time To Kill days is present and shinig in this alongside the equally great Kevin Spacey as the hostage negotiator brought in by Jackson's character in order to get to the bottom of this since he knows he can't trust anyone in his own precinct until this is done and over with.  This was a genuine cop flick with some very nice action accompanied by the drama.highly recommended "},{"Title":"F. Gary Gray's Underrated Masterpiece","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think this film will eventually be to F. Gary Gray's career what BLOW OUT is to Brian DePalma's - the great film he directed that nobody saw. THE NEGOTIATOR is nothing short of brilliant, particularly in the way it's a story all about talking (hostage negotiations) and stars two actors KNOWN for their vocal performances in Kevin Spacey and Samuel L. Jackson. Watching these two play off each other is riveting, and the well-written, intelligent story allows them to truly be at their best. It's exciting, suspenseful, and again, VERY underrated. I worked at a movie theatre where it was playing and was disappointed at the low turn-out - this is on my all time favorites list, and at the top of my underrated masterpieces list.  "}{"Title":"Excellent Cast Pulls Movie Together","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers Within.This highly enjoyable movie has two of the biggest names in Hollywood these days, Kevin Spacey and Samuel L. Jackson.  Both deliver, and as a result, the movie is an entertaining, high suspense thrill ride.While the styles of Spacey and Jackson are noticeably different, this only serves to accentuate the difference between their roles in the movie and definately adds to the overall quality of the movie.  The plot of the movie, while seeming shallow at first, actually has a fair amount of depth. There is the inner turmoil of Jackson's character, the inner turmoil of Spacey's character (whether or not to spare Jackson), and then there is the backstabbing of the FBI and the police to Spaceys character in his quest to resolve the situation peacefully.The other real highlight of the plot is the change of Kevin Spacey's character.  In the beginning, he is just brought in by Jackson to be used to get a good deal out of the negotiations.  However, as the movie progresses, the police turn on one of their own and Spacey joins Jackson in his quest against police corruption.The movie is filled to the brim with suspense and excitement, as the audience never knows what the mind of the unstable Jackson will do next in his quest.  Fans of the genre should adore this movie, while many others can probably appreciate what it has to offer.Rating  4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Superb Action-Thriller!!!  One of the best to date!!!","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a truly original, interesting and intense story.  Well, I guess in the sense that it is about a cop that gets framed for a murder isn't all that original, but the rest of the plot is.  I really enjoyed this film from start to finish.  I like that this film introduces the characters very quickly and gets right to the point.  The story is very smart and incredibly well done.Not only is the story great, but the acting is excellent as well, on all accounts.  Samuel L. Jackson shows his truly excellent acting abilities in this film.  There is just something about the way he delivers certain lines.  Kevin Spacey is just as excellent, showing off his acting talent as well.  David Morse, Ron Rifkin, Paul Giamatti, J.T. Walsh, John Spencer, Siobhan Fallon, Regina Taylor, Nestor Serrano and Paul Guilfoyle also deserve some special notice.  All of their characters were very well executed.  I don't know much about director F. Gary Gray, other than he directed Friday, a radically different film than this one.  Nonetheless, he did an excellent job with this film and I hope that he will make films of this nature in the future.I would strongly urge anyone that likes cop thriller films to see this one.  I do not think that you will be disappointed.  There's even a touch of comedy throughout the film and every instance is right on and very funny.  I truly hope that you enjoy the film as much as I did.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"fancy a ride","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you want to see an exciting thrill ride of a movie, then this is for you. At well over 2 hours it doesn't let up for a second, it's engrossing and very entertaining. Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey are both excellent and there's strong support from the other actors. Not sure how plausible the plot is but when your having this much fun who cares! (8/10) "},{"Title":"REALLY GOOD ACTION-THRILLER","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was impressed by the great performance by superstar Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey. The plot is not really credible in every detail and some scenes are predictable but anyway I think it is one of the best action-thrillers I have ever seen in the past. If you want to have some action and suspense this one works. This DVD will find definitively a place in my best of collection. 7/10. "},{"Title":"One of the best edge-of-your-seat thrillers I have ever seen!","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow! THE NEGOTIATOR, in my opinion, is one of the best edge-of-your-seat thrillers I have ever seen! If you ask me, Graeme Revell's riveting score was excellent -- Especially the beginning and end themes! My absolute favorite part was Chief Travis' (John Spencer) birthday party. This was because I enjoyed watching everyone there dance, laugh, and have a good time. In addition, I loved it when Lieutenant Sabian (Kevin Spacey) was giving orders or being aggressive. Also, even though I thought that J.T. Walsh (Inspector Niebaum) gave a good performance, I really didn't like his character at times. It's hard for me to explain why. Even so, I thought that everyone involved in this film gave a great performance. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey have scored big time! Now, in conclusion, if you're a fan of Samuel L. Jackson or Kevin Spacey, and, you haven't seen this edge-of-your-seat thriller, I highly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Story!","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Negotiator is a brilliant movie! I was thrilled from the beginning until the end of the movie. I couldn't guess the plot of the movie, which is good, because if you could guess the plot easily a movie would be boring and uninteresting. But this movie has a smart story and actors that fit in their characters! "},{"Title":"Very clever,and worth my money","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very clever.The movie is basically about a guy being screwed,then getting even more screwed,and then having to face someone just like him,a negotiator.This movie is probably the best hostagesituationmovie I saw in my entire life,the actors are in their best performances(most of them)and this movie is also the chance of seeing J.T.Walsh(the crazy truckdriver of breakdown)one last time.Really worth seeing,worth buying,and worth my money. "},{"Title":"Action Packed","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Negotiator is a very intense, action packed thriller.  There are many places in this movie when you want to hold your breath waiting to see what happens.  Samuel Jackson is wonderfully cast as Danny Roman.  He has just the right moves, attitude and facial features to play the part of an officer/negotiator whom is being framed.  David Morse (Adam Beck) once again comes through with his tall/quiet stature, but when the heat is on, he comes through with necessary attitude.  The stern Chris Sabian (Kevin Spacey) is wonderful in his performance of leading the negotiations at the personal request of Roman, despite arguments from others.  When he is forcefully 'released' from his duty, he completely turns the ending around, once again putting you on the edge of your seat waiting to see what is going to happen next!All in all, this is a wonderfully cast and very action packed movie. Would recommend. "},{"Title":"a PERFECT flick...","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rated this one 10 out of 10. Why? Because there were no weak points in this movie. Top notch acting from Kevin Spacey and Samuel L. Jackson, excellent directing, great cam-work, superb plot. 100% action/thriller! "},{"Title":"There's nothing wrong with a good burger.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sometimes, I feel like having a different meal. So I go to a restaurant, pay the 50 bucks, and get a different meal. But usually, I just like a burger. Even if I did eat it about a million times already.  The Negotiator is much like that burger. It will instantly remind you of a dozen other movies you've seen before, I.E The fugitive. It's got the good guy, the bad guy, and the ever-so-helpful neutral guy. It's got the usual action scenes you would expect from this kind of movie. The acting is very good(Jackson and Spacey.. Duuh..) and when the movie was over, I went hey that didn't seem like 215 hours!, which I think is really important for this kind of movie. So, all in all, don't expect excellency from this one. It's just a fun movie. But usually that's what we want, isn't it ? )  "}{"Title":"Flawless action/drama mixture with superb actors","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A superb thriller with excellent performances by two of today's leading male actors. Nothing wrong with this movie. A clever plot which keeps you guessing until the end. A well blended mixture of action and drama shot in a Chicago office building. Bruce Die Hard Willis should enjoy the location. "},{"Title":"good and intelligent","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Danny Moran (Samuel L Jackson) is set up and accused for the murder of his partner, Nate. Seeing that everybody is against him and he has no way of avoiding jail, he takes hostage the guy who he thinks is involved in the case, trying to prove his innocence.The movie is really good, tensed and intelligent. And this is mostly because of the situation an expert negotiator - Kevin Spacey - gets to negotiate with another expert negotiator - Samuel Jackson. From this an avalanche of thrilling scenes and well written dialog appears and the movie is exciting all the way.I also have to say something about the actors. They are both amazing, just like they always are in all the roles they play. Samuel L Jackson is for the moment, along with Denzel Washington, the best black actor in Hollywood, and the unbelieveble Kevin Spacey is also one of the best. And when you get 2 of the best actors in Hollywood, all you can get is a great movie.Watch this one, you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Tense thriller","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Samuel L Jackson and Kevin Spacey are effortlessly cool in this tense, slick thriller.The plot may be overplown, but the acting, the pace and indeed the story make it worth watching.  You aren't sure what Jackson is capable of, and conversley you don't know what Spacey can do.  Their interations on and off screen are amazing to watch.Also making an appearance is the late JT Walsh with a role he often played so well, and he plays this just as well.I am impressed of this film and it has changed my mind about Hollywood films, maybe their action films and thriller films will become more better - this is certainly a step in the right direction.I enjoyed this film, and I'm pretty sure if you would too.My Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Intelligent and exciting, an edge of your seat film.","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tense, fast paced, edge of your seat action thriller. Spacey suits his cool character, the new negotiator with Jackson as tough and believable as all his performances. Morse is also very good as the hard line swat officer. This film had me engrossed from the outset, it's more intelligent than other films in the same genre. You soon find you're questioning everyone else's actions and soon you can't trust anyone either. Although it seems a quick conclusion, it doesn't take away from the excitement and entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but director could've done better.","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, it's over-the-top but still, this picture is quite interesting to watch.Technically, the film is quite good, the photography is fine, Chicago looks terrific, and some great shots! I must say that the framing was really disappointing especially in the first 30 minutes. The frame was used pretty poorly, half the characters were cut-off, I couldn't understand why the director wanted this because it came across as very annoying. I think the anamorphic approach would've been more ideal. The editing is disappointing too, why the many edits to close-ups which do not help the story to move along. Directors must remember to use the camera to tell the story and not always the editing.We have 3 great actors, Spacey is brilliant, he's always good. Then, we have Sam Jackson, the guy is cool in my book. And, then we have the late and very much admired, J.T. Walsh, always perfect in his roles. The other performances are good too.The story is interesting but it's way over the top, and loses credibility when the computer technology gets going. There is a lack of character development for Sam Jackson, we never get inside his head at the start.Overall, a fun picture to watch but the director's framing and editing was very disappointing.  "},{"Title":"Spacey + Jackson = firework","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  F.Gary Gray, the not untalented director of the consistently underrated 'Set it Off', has been able to get a picture of remarkable novelty out of material that sounds like it has been done a thousand times. In a time in which special effects flourishes, a very important aspect in filmmaking seems to be overlooked every time plain old acting. Spacey and Jackson interact perfectly, and after working together on the equally stunning 'A time to kill', it's obvious how much fun these guys must have had while filming 'The Negotiator'. In the scenes in which Jackson has to point a gun to Spacey (and vice versa) you can almost see a glimpse in the eye of Spacey as if saying; 'Don't be silly my friend'. But it doesn't dent the effect.There are a few flaws, though. It's only after 40 whole minutes that Spacey gets introduced (a real shame), and the whole film seems a bit over long. Still, the director keeps the pace up, and the two actors (or better geniuses) keep you interested all the way through, so basically, there's nothing to complain about. ****(out of five)   "},{"Title":"Sapcey and Jackson at their best","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is one of the most intelligent action movies that I have ever seen.  The plot twists are intriuging, and not as shallow as the average film in the genre.  The story is very origional, and the cast have characters that aren't the normal skin deep/sterotypical overblown, testosterone filled heroes.  Each has definite flaws, which adds flavor and dynamics to the picture as a whole. This is a movie all involved can be proud of! "},{"Title":"With Spacey and Jackon two of the most talented actors in hollywood what could go wrong?","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jackson plays a just-turned psycho who is holding a few people in an office block with Spacey on the end of a phone trying to convince Jackson to come down but then Jackon finds out about some kind of conspiracy yadda yadda yadda. The plot isnt fantastic but the dialogue is and so is the action. This film, thanks to its relatively unknown director and its two stars, manages to rocket along at a blinding speed even though when it boils down to it its just a lot of talking. In spite of the inclusion of my two favourite stars something just isn't there I don't know what but it just left me feeling 'This is a brilliant film but.....' "},{"Title":"Sharp and Tense","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Negotiator is a film that effortlessly combines several short, high paced action sequences with a script that creates the atmosphere of a hostage situation perfectly. In fact although I was expecting more action from the film, I found that the dialogue between the always excellent Jackson and Spacey kept me entertained far more than the film's more violent moments did. All in all it was the combination of these actors and this script that combined together to make the film the rare treat that it was.  "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of ****; Grade B+","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fantastic action film about two hostage negotiators trying to outwit and then help one another out of a dangerous police conspiracy.  Jackson and Spacey once again prove themselves to be actors of exceedingly high quality, and the pairing of them simply exponentiates that effect.  Stylish direction, solid pacing, and some terrific dialogue and action scenes elevate this far above the routine. "}{"Title":"Edge of the Seat Stuff","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Watched this film from start to finish, and it is wow stuff ! Has you on the edge of your seat from start to finish ! Very surprised that this wasn't more hyped in the media ! Lots of good twists ! "},{"Title":"An intelligent and innovative thriller","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an excellent actionthriller.  It relies more on an excellent cast,tension and an innovative story rather than ultraviolent action.  Samuel L. Jackson`s character is accused of murder and corruption, and he takes hostages to prove that he is innocent.  This is one of those movies where you don`t know who the real villain is until when it`s all given away in the end. 8,5/10   "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining thriller !","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an intelligent, entertaining thriller. I cant say this movie is original but it is certainly captivating. Spacey and Jackson delivers great performances, as well as the late J.T. Walsh (This movie and Pleasantville were his last ones). The premise is more original than the ending who is somewhat predictable. Nevertheless for any fans of thriller this movie is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Very thrilling, great performances","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I happened to see this movie through a funny incident and I hadn't really planned to see it until they broadcast it on TV. Luckily I got the chance to see it earlier, because it is really really great. The story has many interesting twists and the acting is excellent, especially by Samuel L. Jackson (who I loved in A Time To Kill) and of course Kevin Spacey (who couldn't top his American Beauty performance, but he was still gorgeous). It's an intelligent script and the movie had me entertained the whole time even tough it ran longer than 2 hours. I rate it 9/10. "},{"Title":"Expert acting, professional directing, lift it above mediocrity","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"       The script of the film-despite attempts at literacysuch as quotations from Nietzsche and Abraham Lincoln- is an assemblage of cliches, coincidences, and f-words.Whole plot elements are lifted from other films..and I don't means hommmages, I mean genuine plagiarism.The basic story is so improbable as to beggar belief . However, in spite of all that, this is a pretty good film. For one thing, despite all of the gunfire, there is not much gratuitous violence or gore. In addition, The directing is smooth, fluid and efficient.The acting, not only from Spacey and Jackson, but from ALL the principals,is uniformly good. Spaceys and Jackson's fine performances  point to the most interesting thing about the film Its a thriller with intelligent heroes. Jackson and Sabian are clever, resourceful figures, who rely just as much on their brains as their weaponry. In fact, Spaceys character doesn't even use his weapon until the end. "},{"Title":"One of The Best Movies That I have ever seen","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There was not one part of this movie that bored me. It kept you on the edge of your seat and had a great ending. I definitely don't want to wreck it for you by saying too much. So the last thing that I am going to say, is that if there was a movie that you wanted to see, you should make it The Negotiator "},{"Title":"one of the best action/drama's i've seen","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was EXCELLENT! It's has TONs of action but has a very nice story line like that of LA Confidential. KEvin SPacey and S.L. Jackson was superb! I've still yet to see Samuel L. Jackson in a bad movie. This movie is very gripping and you'll be glued to the set for the entire time. A MUST SEE!! i give it a 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A good action film.","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you love action movies that are not too stupid, you will probably love this one. Kevin Spacey and Samuel L. Jackson are both excellent in their roles. The dialogue is believable(no cheap one-liners from what I remember...) and the story is very good(for an action movie). It feels a lot like Die Hard without the one-liners Bruce Willis did. It is not cheesy and is believable(except for the ending, which was too much...), two qualities that are hard to find in action movies. If you love action movies, without the cheese, this movie is for you.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A SMART action film","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  We rented this, not expecting a lot, & ended up glued to the screen.  It's a fast paced action film that appeals to the intellect (with one or two very minor exceptions). Excellent acting by the leads -- great chemistry between them too. "},{"Title":"extremely engaging and smart","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved The Negotiator. Though the beginning is a bit of let-down, the whole product is very good-looking. It is the kind of movie that gives exactly what one expects and more. The two leads are incredible. Both  Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey have been in all kinds of movies and they have excelled in all of them.  Jackson was in Deep Blue Sea a very effective horror movie, in Star Wars Episode 1, a fantasy movie and  in Red Violin a drama. Spacey won an Oscar for the drama The Usual Suspects and is nominated this year for the same award for his work in American Beauty. The movie is extremely intelligent. Once it catches you, it never lets go. I really believed that Jackson had  killed that soldier, yet I hoped that it was not true because he would no longer be a hero. Kevin Spacey  appears mostly in the second part of the movie, but he makes his performance equal to Jackson's. Even the  actress playing Jackson's wife, Regina Taylor, though with a small part is surprisingly three dimensional. The ending is masterful. Did you believe it? I did not. But it did not matter because it is very well done and  smart. For anyone who saw Strange Days (one of my favourite movies), remember the ending is just like  that. Unbelievable, yet beautiful.     I recommend this movie and I give it 9/10. "}{"Title":"Watch this movie","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, this is one of those well-scripted movies that glue you to the seat not because of blazing guns, sex or action but by dialogues. Both Samuel Jackson and Kevin Spacey put in powerful performances as negotiators. On the lines of Face-Off one guys has his role reversed. This is must-see movie. "},{"Title":"Slick and Well Acted","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was surprised at how much I enjoyed The Negotiator.  As implausible as the plot is, the great job by the actors fills in those gaping plot holes the way the brain compensates for partially lost vision.  The plot involves the framing of police negotiator Jackson for the murder of his partner and theft of the police emergency fund.  What could be lower?  Anyway Jackson responds by taking his own hostages, and demands that an other police negotiator, Spacey, come in to handle the negotiations and set things right.  Surprisingly to me the actors and F. Gary Gray pull this off very well with a minimum of Die Hard/Lethal Weapon pyrotechnics. Well, maybe not that much of a minimum. Anyway, this gets my recommendation for a Saturday night rental. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful And Satisfying","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Negotiator is a teriffic thriller that has alot of suspense, this film will not dissapoint you (that's why I called it satisfying). This is much smarter than most action films with an outstanding cast that gives outstanding performances. This film only did O.K. at the box office but it should have been a huge hit. I highly reccomend this film for anybody who wants to be terifficly entertained. "},{"Title":"The thinking man's action film","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With all of the brainless/hokey action flicks which have been served up over the last few years, it's  nice to know that there're still some educated directors/producers left in Hollywood... and The  Negotiator is evident of that! Sure, the premise is a dead horse Good Guy gets set up for a murder he didn't commit and thus  must prove his innocence. But you could easily forgive this big cliché because of the direction the  script takes it. The suspenseful plot keeps you on the edge of your seat through out the film--with a  few unique plot twist thrown in for good measure. And while some potential villains stick out like a  sore thumb from the get-go, others keep you wondering till the very end--still while other are  obvious decoys who's acting is set on overkill!In a perfect world, Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey  would've scored Oscars for Best Actor  and Best Supporting Actor (eventhough Spacey's Eastwood style Make my day! scenes with  Jackson didn't impress me that much), but we knew that wasn't going to happen in the monopolized  Oscars.. still, they scored in my book!Rating 9P.S Who's going to pay for all of those broken windows? "},{"Title":"Somehow a good movie","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is kept up with two great performances by Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey even though you can sense it is not Samuels cup of tea to be intimate with his wife. Those scenes seem phony to me.But all in all they deliver great performances.The theme of the movie has been seen a thousand times before. A man gets framed and is all alone in his pursuit to find the guilty ones. And off course this one has a happy ending too.The main problem with this movie is that you do not know the bad guys until very late in the movie and when you finally know the names of them, then you cannot remember who they are and what role they have had until that point in the movie. That makes the closing scenes a bit like Scream 2 - Hurry - we only have 5 minutes left - we need a couple of villains - any volunteers?.If I had loathed either Samuel, Kevin or both of them I would have given this movie 3 out of 10. But I admire both of them and they can be proud of their performance in this movie so I give it a 6 on the same scale. "},{"Title":"Very Well made","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"    This movie swept me up into it's thrill ride.  The tension in the scenes was palatable.  The script was excellent, and the score was thrilling.  The thing that made this movie work were the performances by Kevin Spacey and Samuel L. Jackson.  They chew the scenes apart when they are by themselves, but when they are onscreen together, it's explosive.  This is only their second pairing, after a brief (but incredible) scene in 'A Time to Kill'.  If it weren't for them, I'd have tried to count the amount of crimes the two main characters committed, than figure out defenses.  Overall, a well made, logical action film that would have been nothing without Spacey and Jackson. "},{"Title":"Very skillfully made formula-movie, great acting","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The script of The Negotiator isn't really special, it's just a formula-movie. But I voted 8 out of 10 anyway, because it's a formula-movie at it's best! Great acting, interesting dialogue, a story that wasn't great but that nevertheless managed to keep me absorbed from the beginning until the end. Great entertainment!  "},{"Title":"Proper destruction of computer hardware","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Seeing computers properly damaged in this movie greatly pleased the Luddite in me.  Far too many Hollywood computers are destroyed when some bad guy fires a few rounds through the monitor; while this makes for some interesting shattered glass and fun for the special effects crew, it leaves the actual storage devices unscathed.  In this movie the evildoers are happy to pump a few rounds into the hard drives rather than go for the more visually-satisfying exploding peripherals.  Bravo, technical consultants! "},{"Title":"A Superb cat and mouse thriller","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Negotiator is a great non stop cat and mouse thriller which does not dissapoint in any way. Samual L Jackson and Kevin Spacey play a couple of Chacago cops who are trained in Negotiating in hostage situations. When Jackson finds he is being set up he Starts his very own Hostage Situation. Jackson is Superb in this film , but i'm not to sure about Spacey. If there was one ctitisism i had to level with this film is it is maybe too long, it could have been cut by 20 minutes. One other thing, The Late great J T Walsh is also in the movie in one of his last roles before his sad death. 8 out of 10    "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When my friends first rented this movie, I'll admit that I wasn't interested at all in this movie...  well, that changed very quickly.  I loved this movie, which was a surprise because I usually don't change my mind like that.I felt that Kevin Spacey and Samuel L. Jackson were fantastic in this movie.The roles that they portrayed were very convincing and fun to watch...  The plotline was understandable and real to me, but then again I know nothing about real police procedures...Plus, the whole idea of who is the bad guy kept me guessing til the **very** end too!This movie is a *must see* and I encourage renting it asap! (8/10 stars)  "}{"Title":"Jackson at his best in a gripping movie.","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Whatever film he is in, Samual L Jackson manages to give it credibility by the bucket load and overshadow every other actor with his performance.  Here he plays the role of a negotiator who is framed and has to take his own hostages to pursuade the police that he is innocent.Jackson gives one of his best performances as the stressed out policeman, while Spacey is a good solid actor.  The plot is only too believable as soon as you see Jackson strut his stuff.The action in the film is well thought-out and not too frequent. This film will appeal to everyone who likes Jackson or action movies.A real popcorn movie!     "},{"Title":"A solid action flick","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Negotiator is one of the best films of it's release year,in a summer of loud dumb flicks. This is a well crafted and smart action flick, that does not cheat the viewers. I loved it, and rate it high..great performance by Spacey and Jackson and a solid cast all around.  "},{"Title":"Keeps you guessing right 'till the end.","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just who are the bad guys?The only thing you know right from the start is that Danny Roman (Samuel L Jackson) is innocent. Trust no-one else. Right up until the last scene there are some great twists, but the you can still tell what's going on...Someone is out to get Roman - but who is it? Chris Sabian (Kevin Spacey at his best) is the impartial stranger Roman calls on to help him out. Or is he?It's a great suspense thriller, and I can't stress enough just how great the script is here. Coupled with strong performances by Jackson and Spacey....a great film. "},{"Title":"Great Original Action Movie","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'd have to give this movie a nine for its interesting plot turns.  It's nice to see an intelligent action movie come along that basically has never done before.  SLJ was excellent as always.  Spacey was excellent too but I think that the only problem in the film is that he was miscast.  I think that Spacey is one of the top actors out there but did not buy the tough guy image he projects when he has scenes with Sam.  I think the sporting cast could have been more stocked although John Spencer played a pretty good chief.My biggest problem with the movie is that it did not do well at all at the box office.   "},{"Title":"Engaging but uninvolving.","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Negotiator is yet another big hollywood action blockbuster which dos'nt seem to run over the two hour mark very gracefully. The best thing about it is probably the acting.Kevin Spacey,as ever,is superb.Magnificent,even.Samuel L.Jackson is also quite great as a baddie.Yet,despite these great turns,there is a strange lack of excitement throughout the movie.You're interested in what happens,yet you find it hard to pay much attention to what the charecters are saying.It's an original concept and a very intriguing one.It just wears somewhat thin after a while. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Someone told me that I should see this film because it's a really good film, and it turns out that that person was absolutely right.  The Negotiator is a powerful film that stars two of the greatest actors around Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey.  In fact, I decided to see this film mainly because Kevin Spacey was in it.  In this film, Spacey once again demonstrates his enormous talent, but this is Jackson's film and he is superb in the leading role.  Jackson plays a police negotiator who is framed for a murder that he didn't commit.  Determined not to go to jail, he holds some people hostage (including a police commander) in a building, with the intention of keeping them as hostages until he can discover what they know about the murder and who the real killer is.  He requests to deal only with a specific negotiator (Spacey) during the whole ordeal.  Jackson must first prove his innocence to the negotiator, in order for the negotiator to help Jackson put an end to the situation.  This movie is filled with great action scenes, the interesting plot takes some surprising twists, and you get to watch Jackson go head-to-head with Spacey.  Those elements will keep you glued to the screen throughout the length of the film.  It's a clever film, for an action film, and it is one of my top ten films of 1998. "},{"Title":"Waste of 2 very good actors","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The main problem with this film is that you never feel any moral ambiguity towards Jackson - you always know he's the good guy despite some pathetic attempts to keep you guessing.  So there's no tension whatsoever.  The script requires major leaps of faith on the viewers part, the dialogue is patchy.  I guess this passes for an intelligent movie in Hollywood nowadays. When are they going to realise that a good film grows out of the characters, from the INSIDE. Rating 3 out 10   "},{"Title":"Kept interest level high and not what I expected.","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went into this skeptical thinking there could be only one inevitable ending.  However, I was surprised and pleased with the ending and the logical steps that brought it to a conclusion. "},{"Title":"Interesting and entertaining but flawed","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a movie I thoroughly enjoy to watch. One of the reasons being the brilliant acting, I am of course talking about Samuel L. Jackson and the great Kevin Spacey in particular. One thing is also for certain, F. Gary Gray has improved more as a director than I thought possible after watching the extremely boring Friday. Not that Gray had much material to work with on that movie (no offense to Ice Cube though). I don't know if he had much to work with in this movie either. The script isn't the most original script ever written, even if the idea of a negotiator negotiating with a negotiator is pretty brilliant. But as viewers we can pretty much see where the movie is going from the first frame. I think we can be grateful, though, that the original ending that Spacey talked about in an interview in Empire (the evidence in a locker and 150 cops all pointing guns at each other) didn't happen.In spite of everything said above I really like this movie because it is interesting, engrossing, exciting, and it has characters that I really cared about. Not to mention the acting and the great music... "},{"Title":"Impressive cast only real asset","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What ticks me off about this thriller is that it appears to be, and the creators seem to think, that it is a highly original work of fiction. Well it's not by a longshot! If you've seen your share of movies you should be able to predict just about every move it makes, and by then you start wondering how they -with this script- managed to persuade this fantastic gallery of great actors. Because that's this movie's only real plus the impressive pair of Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey, with support from David Morse (I love that guy), Ron Rifkin, John Spencer (and I love that guy) and the late genius J.T.Walsh (and that guy!). And let's not forget, the marvelous Regina Taylor who's been criminally underrated since her leading role in the touching TV-show I'll Fly Away. Impressive cast! And with a slick appearance, this drama -about a hostage negotiator who experiences his worst nightmare- ALMOST gets away with it. How disappointing. "}{"Title":"Wow","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is the best film I've seen in ages. Samuel really is a good actor. The first half wasn't that exciting, but the end...  "},{"Title":"For a movie so awkward, observations are negotiable.","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How you make significant observations about THE NEGOTIATOR depends on how you felt watching through 140 minutes of awkwardness. Samuel Jackson strikes with maddening rage as a cop who becomes a criminal, admitting that he did not kill his partner Nate. It is thrilling and suspenseful with rage as it should be, but the script sounds too awkward. Try to judge for yourself to seewhich side really is innocent or guilty, because this may be the key to solving the movie's identity problem. Accept this one for not getting so half-bad, as plenty of solid fun and excitement makes for a great time. Acting is quite good, including Jackson's part for being the fun lovin' criminal who's doing what he's supposed to do. If you can withstand the glitch, then this will not be all that bothersome.     "},{"Title":"Oh dear, another one.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Why did I so naively think Negotiator would be any different than all those other action movies out there? There is a plethora of bad ones waiting for us out there, waiting for us to shell out money so we can sit through two hours of an action movie that fails to deliver, well, action. When will action movies once again be action movies, redeem themselves and become pleasures instead of bores? I ask myself such a question when watching a movie like Negotiator.Sure, it has some action, but not the same engrossing action films like Rambo, Terminator 2, or even Die Hard had. Call me cynical, whatever but when I watch a movie, I want to be captivated, I want the film to hold me in the palm of its hands and not let go until the credits roll down. What has happened to the good ol parameters of action films? Have they crumbled? It sure seems like it nowadays.The only thing saving the Negotiator is the acting, not to mention the sudden L.A. Confidenital sort of twist at the end. Spacey, as usual, is strong as Sabian, the negotiator talking to a fellow negotiator seeking justice after being framed (Samuel Jackson). Jackson is also good, yet all too often I get that feeling that these two were put together simply to rake in heavy profits. Though, I have to admit, the chemistry between them isn't that bad. Stronger dialogue should have made it more of a pleasurable feed instead of the burnt omelette they gave us.The film is in dire need of a more economical script; Negotiator is like taking the elevator instead of the stairs--it wastes a lot of time it didn't need to. There could have been more to this film is all I'm saying. I swear seeing Die Hard for the millionth timne would have given me a more potent fix to satisfy my appetite for action. We go to these types of movies to be entertained, yet as the years go by and heaps of action films are shoveled on us like snow, these same films are losing in large increments in their attempts to sizzle and stir as they are supposed to.Movies like Negotiatior try really hard to awe us but can't. A million shots of police cars simply doesn't do it for the average moviegoer. After all, we can just watch the five o'clock news instead. "},{"Title":"Very good thriller","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My impression, from reading comments on the newsgroups, and reading other user comments here, is that snobs who only love art movies hate this movie. C'mon guys! A diet of just filet mignon or just junk food will kill you!However, if you like movies besides art movies, you'll like this. Great dialogue, great direction, great acting. A few cliches, but the few cliches are at least handled a lot better than you'd think.  "},{"Title":"AN OSCAR FOR JACKSON","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is good, but the best of it is Samuel Jackson's acting. I think he deserves the Oscar for it.I also loved Kevin Spacey and Paul Giamatti.  "},{"Title":"JT Walsh","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Brilliant, real edge of the seat stuff and a fine epilogue to a fine actor...JT Walsh. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable from the start to the end","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Finally one movie in this genre to be a whole experience, not one of those that makes you concentrate on one single detail that hits the eye and won't let go until the end. This one carries all the way to the end as fully enjoyable AND excellent piece of movie art... "},{"Title":"Go and watch it!!","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It is one of the best films I've ever seen in my career! It is a must for everyone, who likes excellent actors and a story, where you don't guess the end! "},{"Title":"The Negotiator","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Negotiator Danny Roman's life has been turned upside down when he is accused of killing his partner and taking some money from the department. Danny becomes determined to clear his name and find out who is responsible for setting him up. Danny decides to take his own hostages and asks for hostage negotiator Chris Sapping. The chemistry between Dan and Chris is developed well and is fun to watch. The movie has a lot of energy and is action packed. The film is well directed and goes smoothly with its subject matter.I give this movie 4/5. "},{"Title":"Absurd Plot","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Superb performers, very good FX and tight direction do not quite make up for the faulty plot premise. No matter how desperate, no matter how innocent, No one on this Earth could take the law into his own hands in such a terrorist manner and expect life to revert to normal at the end of the ordeal.A little research and a little common sense could make a film like The Negotiator believable without lowering the excitement or suspense on the screen.  "}{"Title":"Holds your interest","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Though a bit unbelievable if you think about it, the acting of Jackson and Spacey -- primarily -- hold your interest throughout. "},{"Title":"The Best and most suspensefull thriller of the year ***1/2 out of ****","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Negotiator starts out as your average, run-of-the-mill action picture with a hostage scene featuring a negotiator named Danny Roman, which, of course, is  the best in Chicago. These scenes are always isolated from any other sequence in the movie and end in a positive but violent note.  After that, I made a prediction that the following scene would take place in a bar with all of Danny's drunken friends. I was wrong. First there was a romantic incident in which Danny talks to his Fiancee about how he'll never take any more risks etc. Then there was the take at the bar. Little did I know of what the following film had in store for me. The smart take-off begins when this highly respected negotiator is framed for robbing the officers pension fund, then the murder of his partner, whom he loved. He is sure the murderers are cops. Little by little, the criminals make Danny look more and more guilty, until his own attorney advises him to deal out. That's  when he goes seemingly nuts, He goes in the police headquarters' 20th floor and takes a room of four workers as hostage so he can prove his innocents. (Yeah, I sided when I thought about that as well, but the actors make this unbelievable situation surprisingly realistic.) One whom he believes is behind this set-up. Unfortunately for the other Chicago police, they really have no way to talk down Danny. Another negotiator does try, but Danny corrects his mistakes like a professor teaching a student. So how can they beat this guy. Soon, however, Danny puts in his own demand, he wants to talk with a negotiator, named Kevin Sabian, another one with the skill he has, a zero casualty rate for five years straight. Why does Danny choose him, because he can relate to him well. The film takes us through a series of plot twist and exiting turns as the characters sink deeper into a web of corruption. This movie is all around great entertainment. The twists are sort of confusing and hard to follow, that's for sure. But thanks to a phenomenal script and great writers, this flaw only helps develop positive depth in the highly intriguing plot. As good as the story is, however, the actors are even better. Oscar winner Samuel L. Jackson is at first an unrealistic character, I mean, who would put presumably innocent pedestrian's lives on the line to prove his innocents. Even if he is, which I will not reveal, he is committing a crime right here, there goes his hope for freedom. But Jackson makes his character so very believable I was sucked into his sorrow and took his side and wondered if I would ever do a thing like that. The Negotiator is the kind of movie that makes you ask yourself these kinds of questions. Kevin Spacy proves he is capable of such nomination as the other negotiator. I was amazed of what tension he brings to the audience. And my opening statement stated that the movie lead to typical romantic and bar sequences, ha. The only reason those scenes existed was to bring in character description and develop a history and background of these people. Like with Spacy, the first time he was on screen he was talking to his family about something. So based on the two minute section, I can tell you Kevin Sabian is great with kids, family oriented, sides with is children and is very understanding. It's not every day that a director takes the time to develop a character like that. The Negotiator is the years smartest, most brilliantly achieved thrillers. I recommend it highly. "},{"Title":"Intelligent twists, ingenious script.","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very nice. If you're looking for a very nice time-passing movie, then this one's for you. No major flaws, great cast(Spacey being one of my personal favourites after I watched The Usual Suspects). Humour is provided too especially by Paul Giamatti playing one of Jackson's hostages, Rudy. I liked it a lot.  "},{"Title":"Great and exciting!","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A great and exciting film full of unexpected twists. This film set in the Chicago police force is a first-class detective film shot in a very unusual fashion. Full of suspense from the beginning to the end.  "},{"Title":"Great script, fine acting","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The underlying  structure of this intelligent film is as near perfect as I have seen in a long time.A short first act, establishing everything you need to know about both sets of characters - the cops on one side and the hostages on the other; a tense second act, with a beautiful opening scene that introduces Spacey's character as a mirror to Jackson's; an exciting third act that ties all the lose ends together, solves the mystery and leaves you wondering how the main characters will deal with their doubts of each other.And woven through all this is the themes of appearaance, bluff, and the eyes being the window to the soul.The performance garlands will go to Jackson, but Spacey is, as ever, magnetic whenever he's on screen. His second face-to-face encounter with Jackson is electric.Then again, there isn't a weak performance across the entire company. Between the ensemble and a cracking story line that covers less than 24hours or real time, I was literally on the edge of my seat. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Top rating movie","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's very good. The best action-thriller I've seen so far. A simple but good plot. The suspense is present throughout the show right till the end. No one would have guessed who the mastermind is. A good inspiration for those who are taking up criminal psychology! "},{"Title":"The best action movie of the year","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kevin Spacey is the greatest white actor at this moment , and Samuel L. Jackson is the best black actor . The writer of the movie is great too . What can you expect ? The greatest thriller of 1998 , nothing more , nothing less .  "},{"Title":"cop killing gone bad","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a smart, well done movie overall.  The casting was great and the  acting was good.  I enjoyed it.   I did not mind spending $7.00 for it.  "},{"Title":"A great movie that requires you to listen more than watch","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was spellbound watching and listening to the interactions between Samuel  Jackson and Kevin Spacey.  Both actors play such great verbal characters.   On top of that, you, along with the rest of the cast, don't know who to  trust so you don't want the two main characters to talk to anyone but each  other. "},{"Title":"Negotiate this #@%#$","Date":"31 July 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Negotiator has been dubbed a surprise summer blockbuster b= y a nameless and well informed duo of thumb-weilding movie critics, and I can not possible hope to compete with such a rating.So, let's just discuss what it means to be a summer blockbuster. Any graduate of 8th grade algebra remembers the associative rule. That  was the one that proved that if a = b, and b = c, then a = c. Therefo= re, The Negotiator is a movie on par with Jurassic Park  (the revenge of ILM) and Independence Day. These movies were huge summer blockbusters, but I have yet to meet anybody who would describe them as good. And of course, neither Siskel or Eibert have been quoted as saying that this movie is good either.   Hmmm. How do you spell Quote in context? Oh, I just did.   I mean, Halloween XVII (Jason vs. Rocky the Flying Squirrel) is a blockbuster Halloween Movie, but nobody is going to try to justify it's existence. It's just too bad to see great actors like Kevin Spacey and Samuel Jackson struggle to save this film. There's just something about the ever-tough Samuel Jackson telling his wife I love you honey, and I'm on that bus of love with you. At least Spacey is spared such tripe self-mockery in his role, though the director still struggles to develop his caring family role with a pyramid of over-used clichés.Character development is only useful if you have some idea how to do  it without splicing in lines from some 1950's screenplay. Why didn't somebody stop this when they skimmed the lines. My only thought was that somebody wanted to make this movie into a comedy, because I openly laughed at several points. I was not alone.   The worst part about The Negotiator is the fact that the action sequences are pretty good, and Spacey actually has a few good lines. The mixing of the crap with the decent parts proves frusterating, and my final impression of the movie was pity for Jackson and Spacey, who  are now asssociated with a generally poor film.Rating ????? (5 Why bothers)   (BTW - no, I'm not really an angry person. This is for your enjoyment & benefit.) "}{"Title":"The Good One","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Intense and smart.The movie caught you between Samuel L Jackson and Kevin Spacey. And both good at what they're doing.It's a battle of ego, and brains, and instincts. The good one. That's all I need to say about this movie. "},{"Title":"Boring.","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was very bored watching this film. I thought it would be so much more lean and entertaining. The direction was nothing special and Spacey seemed wasted. Jackson was pretty good but it was still not enough. Not what I had hoped. "},{"Title":"A run-of-the-mill cop drama that could have been much better.","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kevin Spacey and Samuel L. Jackson are great acting talents but even they cannot bring The Negotiator script and story out of the average category. This is not to say this film has no redeeming moments but there is one unbelievable situation after another. For instance, Spacey's character must phone Jackson by a certain time or hostages lives will be at stake. Spacey, traveling frantically across town,(Chicago) finally realizes he can use his cell phone AFTER he arrives. In another scene, Jackson is yelling directions out of an open window 20 storeys in the air and while a police helicopter hovers with in a few feet. Who is going to be able to hear him folks??? This is not a bomb by any means, but it could have been so much better. I guess if you,ve seen just about everything you want to see in the theatre and are in the mood for a cop type drama, rent it. The one character that is memorable is the late J.T. Walsh as Terance Neibaum, one of the bad guys. "},{"Title":"Routine thriller.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The negociator takes two topicshostage-taking incidents and financial wheeling dand dealings in the police,neither of which is that much very exciting nowadays,threadbare indeed.The first ingredient was already in William Wyler's desperate hours (1955) and reached its peak with Sidney Lumet's Dog Day Afternoon(1975)(Just compare Al Pacino's shakespearian rendering with Jackson's Willis-like superman gesticulating.)As for the second topic,it's hackneyed as well. The suspense is not hitchcockian,that's the least you can sayyou can see through it.You know,for instance,right from the start,that Jackson did not kill his hostage(why would he have gagged him is such had been the case?) Never Hitchcoch would have allowed himself the final coup de theatre concerning Kevin Spacey's character.This great actor deserves better than this would-be intelligent part.He proved it in usual suspects and Eastwood's underrated midnight in the garden ..Poor female parts,as almost always in contemporary cinema,alas!.Laura's character does not seem to interest the director to the smallest extent.And however,she's the victim 's wife!Jackson's wife role consists of crying,groaning and slapping (Spacey) when she's not reduced to a walk-on.  "},{"Title":"2 hours and 20 minutes?","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This may have been highly rated by many in the 1998 but seen again in 2013 it fails to convince.The premise is good - two negotiators on opposing sides set up like two chess masters, each trying to out maneuver the other. This set up is not exploited to the full, if at all. The dialogue is never sharp and there is little by way of maneuvering. A missed opportunity with a cerebral actor such as Kevin Spacey on the books.The direction is claustrophobic, confused and never slick and if you didn't know better you might think it was filmed in the 80's. The Usual Suspects filmed in 1995 could pass for a recent release so I'm not sure how the production of this movie three years later could be so unpolished and dated.And then there is the Samuel L Jackson character who, having appeared to execute a hostage, stands in a blown out full length window taunting the police. They have at least six snipers with red laser sights traced on his chest and not one of them takes a shot. He has four more hostages to execute and they decline the opportunity to end the siege and save the remaining hostages. That is a suspension of disbelief too far and there are plenty of others.Hopefully someone will rewrite the script and give this premise the treatment it deserves well inside the 2 hour mark. "},{"Title":"Spacey i soog","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In terms of plot and story development, The Negotiator offers little that is new. It's a very conventional film. However, it gets a much needed injection from its cast, especially the two leads Jackson and Spacey, whose verbal exchanges are exciting and dynamic.The far-fetched yarn introduces us to Chicago hostage negotiator Danny Roman (Samuel L. Jackson). Roman's partner Nate (Paul Guilfoyle) is brutally murdered just as he is about to expose a bunch of cops who have been stealing from the Disability Fund. All the clues at the scene of Nate's murder point to Roman being the guilty one. Danny is arrested for the killing, but he remains determined to prove his innocence. He violently besieges the Internal Affairs division of the Chicago P.D, taking several hostages at gunpoint, and proceeds to demand that his name be cleared. Hostage negotiator Chris Sabian (Kevin Spacey) arrives on the scene to talk Roman into surrendering his hostages.The ease with which Jackson's character is framed for a crime he didn't commit is hard to believe, and his subsequent decision to take hostages in order to clear himself stretches credibility to the limit. The solution to the mystery - with the revelation of the real killer coming right at the end - isn't especially believable either. However, improbabilities aside, The Negotiator is an entertaining work. As mentioned, Jackson and Spacey's confrontations are quite dynamic and help to make the film compulsively watchable. Siege thrillers by their very definition are exciting, and this one is no exception. Granted, The Negotiator is totally conventional fare, but within its limitations it remains a well-crafted, absorbing and agreeable offering. "},{"Title":"an intelligent, intense thriller","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I get tired of movies being unappreciated because they lack action. For one thing, The Negotiator is a thriller not an action movie. Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey give great performances, and the supporting cast(especially David Morse) is about as good as they come. Everyone seen in this film is believable. Rather than rely on gimmicky action, this film chose to be smart and well-made. I applaude The Negotiator for not being afraid to be different. This is a film that obviously depended on the ability of it's cast, and they did an excellent job. It's just too bad smart filmmaking can't be appreciated. Watch this one, it's definitely worth the time. While it may not be action packed, it still manages to keep you interested. 3/4 "},{"Title":"Good acting underlines a tough thriller","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jackson is fast becoming the de facto actor for tough thrillers.  He understands his character and portrays him in the brightest possible light (good guy or bad guy).  In this movie he is actually the good guy and has a tough time proving it.  Kevin Spacey vies for top honours, but none of the other actors come close.  Nevertheless, an excellent movie for late-night viewing.  Not to be missed.  8/10 "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jackson and Spacey reunite in this action packed film where Jackson holds a siege in the office of the organisation that he is working for in order to make a point to his employers. Kevin Spacey comes in as the negotiator, and the chemistry between the two is electric. "},{"Title":"High regard","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Extremely suspenseful and dramatic heart pounding action flick. I absolutely loved this movie. Albeit, the language was very bad and there was no want for violence. However, the storyline kept me on the edge of my seat all the way through to the very satisfying conclusion.  Perfectly written and directed. The actors and actresses could not have been chosen better, and each one acted their part exceptionally. Huge praise to Jackson, Spacey, and Walsh for their outstanding performances. Fasten your seatbelt; in fact, you'll need a race car driver's harness to keep you in your seat. "}{"Title":"Very good drama mixed with real SWAT tactics!","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"    If you want to see a movie with a very good plot, keeps you guessing, high drama, great actors, and real SWAT teams action this is definitely the movie for you. The only downside is if your a big fan of the FBI (like me) you might be offended by the way the FBI is portrade. It almost looks like the FBI SWAT team is the bad guys (almost)! But this is a great movie, WATCH IT! "},{"Title":"Better than average but not all that innovative or new.","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Not a bad film, but I think there are too many Police oriented dramas out there. You can't watch TV at night without being inundated with cop shows. Some are good, some not so much, like cop movies. This one works because Samuel Jackson is a powerful actor who can hold an audience with the intensity of his performance. Kevin Spacey was a perfect anchor for Samuel Jackson's rocket like acting skills in this film. Lots of flying bullets and male camaraderie, perhaps more than what most women can deal with without bursting out in giggles. Very male dominated cast, and back to old school buddy lines. Like I said, maybe pushes the envelope of what works on screen in terms of how much testosterone can fit on celluloid. A bit long with a tad too many twists, and one or two goofs in the script, or maybe I am just stupid. Stupid or not, I sat through the entire thing. I gave it a seven but only because I couldn't give it a 6.8. "},{"Title":"I loved this film.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think this film is the best film I've ever seen . I saw a lot of films but this one is the best. The story is very good and the music of the opening scene . I strongly advise you to see this film . You must see this film.  "},{"Title":"An enormous waste of considerable talent","Date":"6 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When this movie was brought to my attention a few days ago, I wondered how it could have passed me by, given that I am a voracious film-buff, and given the all-star cast.The review that alerted me was on a list of the best Kevin Spacey movies, and made mention of excellent performances by Spacey and L. Jackson.However, having sat through it, I can see why it passed me by, why none of my other movie-buff friends had ever mentioned it. I've never rated L. Jackson, so did not have high expectations of his role, but it was the most unbelievable OTT performance I think I've ever seen - sillier than Al Pacino at the end of The Recruit. Sillier than Phone Booth and every episode of 24 rolled into one unit. Hell, it's even sillier than the Ezekiel 2517 nonsense that came from the pen of Quentin Tarantino.As for Spacey, it's easily the worst thing I've ever seen him do.All I'm left with is a stronger conviction not to listen to my whims when provoked by some random list on the internet.If you have taste in movies, avoid this one. "},{"Title":"overblown nonsense","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It is at least 30 minutes too long. The plot is full of holes, and offers little to the intelligent mind. It is aimed at the action market, but doesn't have a lot of action. You go to see this for Spacey and Jackson. Spacey wins the battle hands down. "},{"Title":"A strong thriller with two powerhouse performances and a smart script...","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Danny (Samuel L. Jackson) is the best at what he does hostage negotiation. He's the guy who talks people out of blowing their brains out on national television. He's the guy who puts his life at risk in order to save others'. He is the type of guy who everyone pats on the back and buys a beer or two after the day's work is over and everyone is safe.And he's just been framed for murder.The outcome is delicious Danny takes his own hostages, and since he himself was once a negotiator, he knows the rules of the game. He requests that the police eager to shoot his head off get him Chris (Kevin Spacey), a man he has absolutely no connection with. Why me? he asks Danny. The answer is, more or less, that sometimes the people you don't know are the only ones you can trust. (How's that for a tagline?)Danny's ex-pal, Nate, was suspicious that some cops on the force were stealing money and that guys from the ___ were in on it. So he went to Danny with his story, claiming that he had an informant with evidence of the claim. But when he showed up dead with Danny hovering over his corpse, all blame was shifted on Danny and he was threatened with the prospect of jail, losing his badge and his new wife.So he took the man responsible for his arrest allegations (J.T. Walsh) hostage, as well as some of his acquaintances and an ex-criminal, Rudy (Paul Giamatti), whose sole purpose in the film is to become the comedic relief.Danny suspects that Walsh's character is the guy who set up the killing and had convicting evidence placed in his home. And so he says that he won't surrender until he gets some answers. This is an intriguing premise. Hostage negotiator becomes hostage taker but knows the rules of the game, so he doesn't take any B.S. from the hostage negotiator playing against him. It sounds more confusing than it is. Actually, it's quite simple, and the premise of this would in itself work alone--but it's even got a deeper plot involving corrupt cops going, and that makes it more than just a nice premise.Kevin Spacey (American Beauty) is one of my favorite actors, and once he is introduced close to an hour into the film, he takes charge. But the man who really drives the picture throughout is Samuel L. Jackson, who can turn in great performances and sometimes very weak ones (I heard his character dies in Star Wars III Yippee!). This is one of his all-time best.The film loses in the second half when it starts to become too slow at somewhere around two + hours, but the first half is a blast with a clever idea and some powerhouse performances by both Jackson (in arguably his best role since Pulp Fiction) and Spacey (who shouted great in The Ref and proves here that he can do so under dramatic instances). This is in fact one long shouting match, and I never for a moment doubted any single performance in this film--especially the two lead stars' roles. The film is certainly smarter than a lot of movies I've seen that rely solely on a convenient plot, and it knows how to construct and evoke smart dialogue and interplay between its two great leads. This is the kind of movie that people leave the theater saying, They don't make 'em like that anymore.What a nice, refreshing little treat.4/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"The Best Thriller since The Fugitive","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  F. Gary Gray's The Negotiator is as smart of a thriller you can ask for.  It brings together clever screen tricks, thrilling scenes of adventure and intense drama into one big ball of wax (a good one at that).  What really brings it together is smart writing, and terrific acting by the films stars- Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey.  Their actions in the film bring out the best in this smart, tough edged thriller that makes The Fugitive look like The Straight Story.  A+ "},{"Title":"The Negotiator","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It is four stars by the critics, I'm sure I would agree if it wasn't so complicated in many places. Basically Lt. Danny Roman (Samuel L. Jackson) is a hotshot police hostage negotiator, in the beginning we see him help rescue a little girl who had a gun pointed to her head by her Dad! Not long after this, Roman's partner Nathan 'Nate' Roenick (Paul Guilfoyle) is murdered, and they are blaming Roman because of disciplines (or whatever it's called). Roman is temporarily free till a sentence or whatever, but he goes really far to prove his innocence, he locks himself in a room with some hostages. He is demanding to speak to only Lt. Chris Sabian (Kevin Spacey), also a negotiator, and he will let one hostage go at a time if they do what he says to help him prove what he can about a crime he did not commit. Slowly, with the computer, and a little help from Sabian, he manages to prove his innocence, and the man you least suspect to be the cause is one of the hostages, Cmdr. Grant Frost (Ron Rifkin), like I said, it got really complicated, I'd probably need to see it again, but I doubt I'd want to that soon. Also starring David Morse as Cmdr. Adam Beck, John Spencer as Chief Al Travis, Pleasantville's J.T. Walsh as Insp. Terence Niebaum, Men in Black's Siobhan, Regina Taylor as Karen Roman, Nestor Serrano as Hellman and Tom Bower as Omar. Good, what I could understand and liked! "},{"Title":"Don't bother, you will be disappointed!","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I wanted to like this movie, I really did! The overall plot does sound intriguing, however as it plays out it ends up being pretty bad. I decided to watch this movie based on the IMDb 7.2 (at time of viewing) rating, however as discerning viewers know that means absolutely nothing. The movie starts out full throttle, immediately throwing you into the action without giving you any background whatsoever. In what seems like the second scene, the main character (Samuel L. Jackson) is already being arrested and you still have no idea whats going on. The dialog is so terrible it makes your average Youtube video look good, and the total lack of plot makes you scratch your head. Within the first 10 minutes I wanted to turn this movie off. After about 20 minutes I was getting totally annoyed. At around the 30 minute mark I was done and had to turn this crap off. DO YOURSELF A FAVOR, DO NOT WATCH THIS GARBAGE. This movie wont even appeal to the Transformers moron crowd, so PASS if you have any intellect whatsoever. If I could give this movie a zero I would, however unfortunately the lowest rating on IMDb is a 1. STAY AWAY! "}]