[{"Title":"It was funny!","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I laughed a lot at this film! I have always loved Richard Dreyfus, and Jenna Elfman plays her role in this movie with a Lucille Ball-like zaniness. Like Dreyfus she has the ability to play drama as well as comedy. I can't understand how some of the other reviews are so harsh. Maybe you need to know what to expect when you sit down to watch this movie. Don't try to take the story too seriously. For example, if you're an anthropologist in real life, don't try to compare it to reality. Separate yourself from your day job, and don't take the jokes personally. It is a wild and crazy movie that is no more about the real life field of anthropology than Scrubs is about medicine. Lighten up, have a beer, relax, and you will enjoy this movie. Slapstick comedy has its place in the entertainment field. Don't spoil it for the rest of us who still enjoy this genre. "},{"Title":"Classic slapstick at its nouveau best","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dreyfuss has always been a master of high humor and KT is another enjoyable vehicle for it.  Elfman is funny and vivacious, as well as lovely to look at.  Both stars work well together.  I laughed throughout; appreciating the movie for what it was meant to be good comedy.  I recommend this film for anyone wanting a lot of good laughs.  "},{"Title":"A family delight","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I cannot disagree with the previous summary more. Whoever they are, they have no pulse! Just watched the movie last night with my family, and everyone had a great time - and laughed themselves silly. After a bit of a slow start, we find ourselves faced with one of the most inventive families ever - and one begins to lose track of how many lies have been told. The movie also lampoons fads in general. It is truly bizarre what can capture the public mindset, but when fashions are created upon a fictitious tribe, you know they've lost the plot. Jenna Elfman practically Xeroxed her Dharma character from Dharma & Greg, but she was more than welcome. Her charm and energy are infectious. Richard Dreyfuss was at his sarcastic best as well. And the Shelmickedmu? Hamamas! (If you want to know what that means watch the movie). It was a crying shame it was hard to find on DVD, but if you can pick up this gem, you won't regret it. And you'll find yourselves coming back for more. "},{"Title":"Krippendorf's Tribe &#x97; A very intelligent family comedy with a flair for the exotic","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Krippendorf's Tribe has achieved something special, an incredible balance of fun and smarts accessible to all.There's a bit of exaggeration that will hold the interest of those who want primal fun, but little enough as not to displease those who do not want to be submerged by unrealistic situations.The intelligent humor of the dialogs and scenario will easily enthused those who need smarts to appreciate a comedy, but not so much as to rebuff those who do not want to work their brains to laugh.The acting is without reproach, even if a few of the secondary characters are a bit caricatured. The photography, soundtrack, and editing are as perfect as they are invisible, yet remarkable. The story is without logical flaw.A must see, easily enjoyable by anyone. "},{"Title":"Anthropology Students","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think this is a great film for anthropology students. It demonstrates many of the hypocricies that exist within academia as well as the types of pressures that many professionals feel within the field. I also think it's a great introductory example for anthropology students regarding ethics, structures of cultures, and the nature of our own culture (how we justify normally taboo items).I show it to my Introduction to Anthropology students every year. They laugh, they ask questions, and they appreciate the film. I recommend it. I've used it for years in Anthropology classes - I have students analyze the Shelmikedmud and come up with more cultural traits. I then follow by having them simulate the type of cultural creations that scifi writers do - creating their own alien cultures. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable, but funny","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If this movie can be accepted as is (a comedy), it is funny. If totally unbelievable plot and situations are ignored it can still be a laugher. A few of the better instances were Lilly Tomlin (?) in the jungle, the television interview, and the banquet scene. "},{"Title":"Krippendorf's Tripe.","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Krippendorf's Tribe (1998) Dir Todd Holland / Cast Richard Dreyfuss, Jenna Elfman, Gregory Smith, Natasha Lyonne, Lily Tomlin The tribe speculated upon regards a family to its hero in a recycled idea that worked well in Tootsie. Richard Dreyfuss stars as a single parent who has until evening to complete a speech regarding his tribal research. He convinces the board with a phony video of his family playing a tribe in their backyard. Jenna Elfman wishes to broadcast his success so he gets her drunk and involves her in a mating ritual that she will eventually see on the news. Meanwhile there are those whom do not buy the act and set out to prove him a fraud. Recycled concept fully formula with a conceited ending. Director Todd Holland does well with the film's amateur appeal. Dreyfuss and Elfman have fine comic chemistry that translates the only decent comic payoff in the entire charade. Gregory Smith and Natasha Lyonne have the misfortune of playing the reluctant children but their roles are typical and far from elevated. The biggest waste is the usually funny Lily Tomlin playing someone attempting to expose Krippendorf as a fraud by searching for the real tribe. With only its leads pulling through it is a wonder that it couldn't muster up a single original idea. Familiar premise leaves viewers with little other than to wonder what the Krippendorf yard sale would look like. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Dreyfus unfunny","Date":"31 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" University professor anthropologist James Krippendorf (Richard Dreyfuss) returns after failing to find the undiscovered tribe of New Guinea and the death of his wife. Veronica Micelli (Jenna Elfman) is an eager young professor and a fan of his work. She begs to join his team and he relents. Ruth Allen (Lily Tomlin) is a jealous rival. The university expects a lecture after giving him the grant. He decides to fake a tribe named Shelmikedmu for his children Shelly (Natasha Lyonne), Mickey (Gregory Smith) and Edmund to avoid jail time for misuse of grant money.Krippendorf is an unfunny grumpy character. The only thing remotely comical is his relative height to the towering Jenna Elfman. There are no good laughs for most of the movie. There are a few chuckles like showing the circumcision scene in the lecture. However the lie annoyed me for some reason. That diminished any fun from the comedy. It tries to turn into a screwball comedy but I don't actually like Krippendorf. "},{"Title":"College professor fakes the finding of an unknown primitive culture to cover his misuse of grant money.","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dreyfuss at his manic best. This is literally one of a very few comedy films I've watched where I absolutely fell off of the sofa laughing. The funniest part of the movie is the filming of the fake tribe by Dreyfuss' character using a love interest who, being rendered involuntarily drunk, has no idea what is going on. Lily Tomlin adds greatly to the mix playing an uptight, administrative bore. The rest of the supporting cast, who are currently not especially well known actors, blends beautifully with Dreyfuss and Tomlin. The movie has great timing. The plot and characters are plausible enough to create an additional humorous dimension. I would rank this as one of the best movies Richard Dreyfuss has made to date. I would marry, on the spot, any woman who finds this movie as entertaining and funny as I do. As long as she is rich and beautiful, of course. "},{"Title":"Smooth Deception? Hardly.  But An Enjoyable Endeavor All The Same.","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Richard Dreyfus. An anthropologist creates a fake New Guinea tribe to further his career.This sounded like it would be painful to watch, and in some places, it is just that. but overall, this bears an endearing tone, and a genuine humor, which consistently colors the work, throughout.Dreyfus's character, Krippendorf, is a frantic/manic anthropologist who tries to seem as though he is calm and collected, on the surface of the deception he has laid. Dreyfus is a phenomenal actor, who needs another Jaws/Close Encounters to revitalize his career. I wonder if Spielberg is listening? His performances come off as direct projections from the heart, no matter how low the budget they allow him, or what horrendous costars they saddle him with.This work features a quirky story line with quirky subplots, and quirky characters, but none as enigmatic as Krippendorf himself.This is a great way to spend a couple of hours, but as a Disney movie? Disney rewrites known history to suit its ends, and usually does so with great panache, but the return to ethnocentrism is potentially damaging to the field of anthropology. However, if you can suspend belief, which you must do to enjoy any Disney movie, then you may find the enjoyment from it that I did, but as usual, I'm in the minority.It rates a 7.1/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"Spoofing Academia and the Tasaday hoax","Date":"16 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Krippendorf's Tribe (1998) stars Richard Dreyfuss as the titular grieving anthropologist who is compelled to hoax an isolated tribe still living in the Stone Age. Jenna Elfman plays his assistant, Natasha Lyonne his daughter, Stephen Root his boss and Lily Tomlin his rival. As my title blurb says, this movie spoofs Academia and the Tasaday hoax. If you're not familiar with the latter, a supposedly isolated tribe still living in the Stone Age was discovered on the Philippine island of Mindanao and prominently featured in a 1972 issue of National Geographic. In 1986 it was discovered that the Tasaday were simply members of known local tribes who put on the appearance of living a Stone Age lifestyle under pressure from Manuel Elizalde.The movie's silly and fun, but not laugh-out-loud funny, although there are a handful of mild laughs. That said, humor's a personal thing, which explains why some people find this movie funny. I don't, but it's likable and quietly amusing. If you're a fan of Dreyfuss and Elfman it's a must. The film runs 94 minutes and was shot in the Los Angeles area and Ka'a'awa, O'ahu, Hawaii. GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"Amusing hoax ........","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I like Richard Dreyfuss, and he does not disappoint in Krippendorf's Tribe. We get practically the same character he played in What About Bob, only this time he is an anthropology professor instead of a psychiatrist. Both films display Dreyfuss's angst as regards the family unit. Both are comedies, although What About Bob is a far superior film. The problem with Krippendprf's Tribe is that it is essentially a one joke movie hung on an amusing, though not very believable hoax. The film gradually runs out of steam, and some judicious editing might have helped. Nevertheless for fans of Richard Dreyfuss, this is familiar and entertaining ground. - MERK "},{"Title":"pass this film right on by","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Richard Dreyfuss and Jenna Elfman made a very stupid mistake when they decided to add their names to Krippendorf's Tribe, a disastrous film.Krippendorf's Tribe is the type of film that falls under the category of mistake. The script, costumes and performances of the leads, Richard Dreyfuss and Jenna Elfman were all factors that drew me to this conclusion. Even the supposed romance between Dreyfuss and Elfman was a mistake as they had no chemistry.I gave this film my full attention for 90 minutes but it didn't live up to what I was expecting. One thing I noticed lacking from this film was comedy, true comedy. The jokes were poor, futile attempts at laughs. Furthermore, I don't remember laughing at all and if I did it was at them instead of with them.It was a sad sight to watch respectable actors such as Dreyfuss and walk around in awful outfits and star in this awful film. I'm really sorry I wasted my time on this film. The razzies were correct in making this the dullest comedy of 1998. They should have given worst actor awards to Dreyfuss and Elfman as well. "},{"Title":"ENTIRELY ENJOYABLE. SEE IT WITH KIDS. BE IN THE MOOD AND LAUGH!","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  WARNING VERY SMALL SPOILERSue me but I really enjoyed Krippendorf's Tribe. Expect to come away smiling and with a good feeling. For me that makes this movie memorable. I would see it again without hesitation.I looked up the IMDb.com file on the movie while watching it and was disappointed to see that it had just a 4.7 rating. This low rating and the comment on the opening page that the movie should be classed as a miss almost made me change the channel. I'm glad I didn't. I don't remember when I laughed so hard. I think that you need to be in the mood for this sort of movie. I suggest that you watch it with kids. I did and their enthusiasm was contagious.Both Richard Dreyfuss and Jenna Elfman are frenetic actors and perfectly suited for their parts. The other actors were equally good.The director, Todd Holland, deserves special kudos for small touches. For example, there is a dinner at the end of the movie for octogenarians and he has most of them sitting around in catatonic states and being fed by caregivers. It's a small thing but the kind of thing that, IMHO, separates an average director from a good one. Expect to come away smiling and with a good feeling. For me that makes this movie memorable. I would see it again without hesitation.  "},{"Title":"Cute","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I remember when this movie came out, it didn't do very well in the theaters, mostly because it is a comedy that points out peoples stupidity for what it truly is. Krippendorf's Tribe is about an anthropologist who broke down after his wife died. He comes back into the lecture circuit, somewhat forced back because the bills are mounting up and he receives a grant to continue his research on the native tribes of New Guinea. There's only one problem, since his breakdown, he hasn't been to New Guinea to study any tribes. So, in order to stay afloat, what does he do? He invents one.This, of course, leads to the various ins and outs of how to keep the public, and those who gave him the grant, fooled. Those are the common plot points, used in almost any comedy. You need a given situation, then you need the foils. What makes a good comedy from a bad one is the timing and the delivery.Richard Dreyfuss is wonderful in his delivery and there are some funny scenes. There is nothing in the movie that really makes you laugh out loud, but there are some wonderful anticipatory parts which make you love when the ax does fall.The movie is different in terms of its lack of slapstick, but I don't think that's the main point. What it seems to pointing out is not that this one family is kept together by a lie, but that people will believe anything as long as it's presented with the right credentials. That, and those who give you the money are trying to keep their heads as much as the next.If you have nothing else to do with your time then I suggest you see this movie, otherwise it can wait until a rainy day, or perhaps when you need a good giggle after you've had your wisdom teeth out.If you're looking for a movie to watch Richard Dreyfuss, try Rozencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead, it was better written.  "},{"Title":"Terrible film","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had the misfortune of seeing this film on TV, and the biggest mistake was watching it all the way through. I have great respect for Dreyfuss as an actor (Mr Holland's Opus was a classic film, as was Close Encounters and Jaws), but this film hits rock bottom. There was no laughter coming from any member of our household all the way through the film. How this could be called a family comedy is beyond me, because it's not for family (unless you think that teaching your kids that it's OK to get a woman drunk to sleep with her is a good thing), and it's not a comedy, because a comedy is meant to be funny.I rank this alongside Luggage of the Gods as the most unfunny comedy I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Morally bankrupt antiheroes.","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie was fun, but I couldn't help but be disappointed every time something good happened to the main characters.  Although the movie is quite clear at telling the viewer who the good guys are, the only redeeming qualities that they possess are that you feel really, really sorry for the children, and, well, they dress like stereotypical good guys. The moral of the film seems to be that the best way to solve all of life's problems is through lying, embezzling, stealing, backstabbing close colleagues, cover-ups, and gross falsification of research.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing and disturbing (some minor spoilers included)","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't see how anyone can call this a family film. There are numerous phallic references, including a creation of a circumcision scene done with two boys and an axe. Every character in the film is manipulative and dishonest in every way. All of the professors try to take credit for work they did not do, including the work of Krippendorf (which even HE did not do.) I wanted to pity him for being a widower but that issue barely came up and does not excuse his stealing thousands of dollars of grant money for his own personal use. (This is criminal!) But to get away with it, he invents a fictitious tribe he claims to have researched with all kinds of unusual tribal practices, falsifying anthropological research and tainting information about primitive peoples (in the film). This leads to more and bigger opportunities to lie about this fictitious tribe for financial gain. His out of control children live in squalor and he uses them to pull off his hoax, teaching them how to lie, steal and cheat. (The whole family even steals farm animals for this stunt.) Great family values. And we're supposed to laugh when he is disrespectful to his deceased wife's parents when they want to put the kids (their own grandchildren) into a more disciplined school environment? Then there's the annoying Jenny Elfman who pushes her way into a life and takes credit for his research. He wants nothing to do with her until she introduces him to a TV executive who wants to pay him to air films of his research. Then he uses her by secretly filming the two of them having sex dressed as tribe members and selling the video! Then he is offered more grant money to continue his research and she wants half of it (before she even knows about the sex video)--then they get caught in the hoax. But they get away with their theft, fraud and other criminal behavior because the one responsible person in the whole film, the one who earlier voiced a conscience about the misdeeds (his daughter) pulls off the biggest hoax of all to protect him and they get away with this nonsense and live happily ever after, apparently on the fraudulently obtained grant money wrested from the hand of a benevolent elderly lady benefactor.  Shameful. And we're supposed to pity him for a being a single (though incompetent) f "},{"Title":"No moral here!","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The problem with this movie was not only flat, boring comedy (it really seemed to drag on for a 90-minute flick) but the way the main characters got away with lying! Anthropologist James Krippendorf makes up this big lie about a unique New Guinea tribe, whose name is constructed from his 3 kids' names. He keeps piling lies on top of lies and even drags Jenna Elfman down. I would have liked to see him, his family and Elfman get theirs for so much lying; instead an 11th-hour trick by Krippendorf's daughter convinces adversary Ruth Allen (Lily Tomlin) there really is a Shelmickedmu Tribe. At least in The Blues Brothers (1980) they got thrown into prison for all that destruction in the Chicagoland area. Centering a whole movie around lying and deception and letting them get away with it stinks. This movie sent out a poor moral message and was a crappy comedy besides. "},{"Title":"Krippendorf Crok!!!","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is supposed to be a comedy, but it comes across as being funny for the wrong reasons. The professor (Richard Dreyfuss) is supposed to be the good guy, but what is he doing? He (a) misappropriates college funds, (b) tells a bold faced lie to cover up his misdeeds, (c) involves his children in the scam, (d) gets a woman drunk to have sex with her (that's rape as in sexual assault, in case you have forgotten) and winds up televising it to the public, (d) tries to get more money from the college via the same scam, and (e), once the truth is out in the open, is saved via a lie from his daughter. Those that are after the truth are portrayed as arrogant, unfair, and snobbish who deserve to be fooled. The fact that the professor is in the wrong seems to get lost in the shuffle, and if there's a moral to the movie it's don't get caught.I do not recommend this movie, for the above reasons, for children. "}{"Title":"Good cast, substandard film","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It should be obvious from the outset that this is one of those one-joke movies that will struggle to stretch the laughs out to feature-length proportions. It has the same effect as watching one of those Saturday Night Live sketches that seem funny at first but get dragged out way past the point where the humor has been exhausted and what remains is a sense of embarrassment for the actors.The biggest problem is the huge suspension of disbelief required to accept &#150; even at a basic, unrealistic level - the preposterous central idea. Although there have been real-life academic and journalistic shams, this film never pretends to be rooted in any kind of realism, but the material is so weak that even wringing slapstick out of it is a challenge, resulting in some kind of unfunny vacuum for the most part.It's a shame that all concerned didn't attempt to do anything a little more serious with it. Scattered here and there in the script are some telling comments on the clash of cultures and relative benefits and drawbacks of two types of civilization &#150; the hurried lives of cosmopolitan America and the more basic, living-with-nature life in rural South America. Even those few scraps are a wealth of depth compared to the awfully shallow Jungle 2 Jungle.The greatest mystery may be how such a quality cast was lured to such a substandard production. Dreyfuss does his best to carry the film &#150; and this is a good exhibit for his merits as a comic actor, for few others could coax laughs out of such patchy material. Those around him do as well as can be expected, most notably some great lines from Phil Leeds in a cameo towards the end, which is one of the very few rewards for sticking with it to the closing credits. "},{"Title":"This is a family film?","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think not.With all the adult references and situations in this thing I have a real hard time understanding why anyone would take their kid to see it. OK, it involves a family, or rather a widower with three kids, but the buck stops there as far as so-called family entertainment goes. People taking their kids to see this film remind me of the same breed of parents who let their kids watch Spin City The logic being they think it's funny, and because there's no nudity nor gross humor in it, it's therefore okay for kids to watch.Wrong. Kids, like adults, understand words, phrases, gestures, but don't always comprehend their entire context (though they have a hint of the meaning). This is why we have things like Sex-Ed in our schools; to keep them from getting into trouble. But that's neither here nor there, because the films been out since 1998, and most people who were inclined to see it (with or without their children) already have.As far as a movie on its own I'd give this thing a passing grade. It's really the kind of film that would've been made prior to 1970, where cross cultural understanding was just coming out of its infancy. The formula of a lost tribe is a vehicle used in classic comedies (TV and feature film) of eras gone by. In today's age of interconnectivity, just on the most basic level of common sense understanding, it's hard to imagine a tribe of people not having been contacted by modern society. But hey, it's a movie, so anything's possible.It is a junk film on one level. The humor, for what it is, didn't need to be so blatant, obvious, and mildly blue. There was a real opportunity to create something here, but, as usual, the marketing geniuses probably got their hands on the script before either cast or crew, and dictated how many and what kind of jokes were to be in the film. I say that because I have a real hard time believing any intelligent screenwriter would write action and dialogue portrayed in this film... unless hey were a hack B-movie producer.For all that the story's actually kind of likable, and the general look of the film (bright colors and well lit scenes) is rather pleasing. And the acting is actually quite good. Dreyfuss doing his usual high energy stuff is always fun to see. But the meat of the film, the actual words spoken, actions performed, and one disappointing and obnoxious prop protruding from Dreyfuss'es crotch, leaves much to be desired.Frank Parkin and Charlie Peters are given the writing credits for this flick. To them I say Don't quit your day job.  "},{"Title":"Exploitation Vehicle Needs Oil Change and Lube","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A New York dwarf and his unfortunate family create a series of home movies performing as a New Guinea tribe, to augment the actual footage being used as a documentary for some grant or something. Embarrassing exhibition what offends at each turn, and in every possible way imaginable. Beneath the veneer of an imbecilic plot, we discover a prodigious assortment of xenophobic, elitist, snobbish, supremacist humor that would make Sam Kennison wince. The film says to us Hee hee look at the naked funny dark people while the film's producers say, No, no, that is what we are lampooning and exposing to the world, and condemning. Really boys, where's the humanitarian profit going? Richard Dreryfus's career, not unlike the obnoxiously hot summer, has surely run its course. He should go back to selling aluminum siding, and maybe Danny DeVito will do another documentary about him, Tin Men, Too The Big Scam or something like that. That's the only entertainment the guys ever given me. Aside The film's lone merit lies in its unintentional revelation of how most broadcast news media is presented to us by the networks. Know what I'm saying?  "},{"Title":"one of the greatest films ever made","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To be brief, this is one of the all time funniest movies ever made. It is a laugh a minute. Anyone who has spent any time in a university will appreciate the farce of it all. Dreyfuss is at his best and Genna Elfman is terrific. The entire cast is probably the best type casting ever. Tom Postum is priceless as well as Lilly Tomlin. Get the DVD and spend many nights enjoying this movie over and over as each time you see it you will find something new and funny. The book is quite different which is a tribute to the writer of the screenplay for bringing us an American version that is family oriented as well as for adults. Truly you will be in for a delightful experience with this movie. It will take your mind off your troubles and laughter is a tonic.  "},{"Title":"Razzie worthy","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Richard Dreyfuss and Jenna Elfman made a very stupid mistake when they decided to add their names to Krippendorf's Tribe, a disastrous film.Krippendorf's Tribe is the type of film that falls under the category of mistake. The script, costumes and performances of the leads, Richard Dreyfuss and Jenna Elfman were all factors that drew me to this conclusion. Even the supposed romance between Dreyfuss and Elfman was a mistake as they had no chemistry.I gave this film my full attention for 90 minutes but it didn't live up to what I was expecting. One thing I noticed lacking from this film was comedy, true comedy. The jokes were poor, futile attempts at laughs. Furthermore, I don't remember laughing at all and if I did it was at them instead of with them.I am really sorry I wasted my time on this mistake of a film. The Razzies were correct in making this dullest comedy of 1998. They should have given worst actor awards to Dreyfuss and Elfman as well.  "},{"Title":"If it is possible to recommend a film soley on the fact that it has a couple funny scenes, Krippendorf's Tribe is the one to recommend.","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If it is possible to recommend a film soley on the fact that it has a couple funny scenes, Krippendorf's Tribe is the one to recommend. It is not sporadically funny. It is barely remotely funny. But it hits the laugh-mark a few times, and when it does, the results are hilarious.The hilarious scene in Krippendorf's Tribe isn't a potentially smart one, nor a particularly witty one. But it is hilarious, and it had me rolling over on the floor in laughter. Sadly, there are only one or two scenes like this; the rest of the film tries to be funny but just isn't. Blame it on the script, blame it on the director, but don't blame it on Richard Dreyfuss, because you can tell he tried.Dreyfuss plays Krippendorf, an anthropologist researching a legendary tribe deep in New Guinea. The film opens with shots of him filming with his camera. Unfortunately, he comes back to America with no evidence of any real tribe. But the real bad news is that his grant money has been completely used up. And things get even worse when Krippendorf finds out that a person can go to jail for what he has done (misappropriating grant money).The day of his lecture on the tribe grows nearer, and when he finally gets up in front of everyone...he lies.You see, earlier that day, in the spur of a moment, Krippendorf took his three children, dressed them up with Indian-tribe-type cloaks, and painted their faces. Presto. Instant tribe-members. He filmed them in the backyard, then took the video to his conference, where he proceeds to lie to everyone in the room, saying he has found the legendary tribe and has caught them on videotape. He plays the tape, and they all believe him. Whew.But now they want to see more. They want to see the tribe. They want to hear about their lifestyles, their rituals; Access Hollywood, anyone?Because of this plot setup results the funniest scene in the movie, in which Krippendorf sets up a fake circumcision bit with one of his children. I won't ruin that scene, because it is really the only thing worth seeing in the movie.If you want a night-in watching a film, but don't feel like anything profound of memorable, Krippendorf's Tribe is the way to go, but don't expect anything too special. 2.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"A comedy about a thief and liar.","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The summary line tells you all you need to know. How ANYBODY could even consider this entertainment is beyond me. I didn't watch it all the way through, and I never will, thank you very much. Even the amount I saw was too insulting for me.At least it really keynotes the fact that every established film actor has one horrendous movie under his belt that he's ashamed of- or should be. "},{"Title":"Richard Dreyfuss hits bottom","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ever wonder what happened to Richard Dreyfuss?  An academy award winning actor who has really gone downhill in recent years. Makes me think his acting days are over . Back in the 70's and 80's he was a huge star and wonderful. Now hes a has been who should quit. Like Woody Allen ,his career is over. Mr Dreyfuss doesnt have the power or charisma anymore to get good roles. Unlike mature stars  Sean Connery and Harrison Ford who have major clout in Hollywood,Mr Dreyfuss does not have that anymore and should retire gracefully.  Krippendorfs tribe is on par with movies like Meatballs and Porkys, infantile humor and a plot so stupid its ridiculous.   Please Mr Dreyfuss ,retire and enjoy life and stop making stupid movies and kill that lame tv show 'The Education of Max Bickford it is an abysmal tv show. "},{"Title":"Krappendorfs Bribe","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a great film if you would like to see a bearded man making a fool of himself by dressing up as a guy from a tribe that does not exist. Guest appearances include a ferret(who has been in the zoo) otherwise known as Steven Root. The characters are dull, repetitive and stupid, the plot is pants.Only go and see this film if your brain is made of mince.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely appalling","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is bad. It literally stinks. In fact, it is so bad no-one connected with it should ever be able to work in the movie business ever again. So sad for the promising Ms Elfman and the usually dependable Mr Dreyfuss... Honestly, the whole movie is pathetic. The storyline is boring, cliched and entirely unbelievable, the acting monotonous, the script... well, let's just say I really didn't like this movie and doubt that anyone with any taste will. My vote 4/10 - mainly out of pity. "}{"Title":"Oh, the pain!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What a disappointment; and I waited, impatiently, for this movie to come out. Every Richard Dreyfuss film I've seen deserved (very close to) a '10'--and Jenna Elfman was great on TV as 'Dharma' (and more recently in some TV movies)--but this movie was just plain lousy. Fortunately, each of the main characters remained respected actors after this flop.The plot in Kripendorf's Tribe was totally ridiculous, and I couldn't even manage to get one laugh out of the entire film. The idea of inventing a bogus tribe--and of filming his yard while dressed as a member of that tribe--yuk! I couldn't wait for this movie to end--and that is quite unusual for me.In my opinion, this film is flap-stick in nature--totally not my kind of flick. It may be enjoyable to some children, but it was not for mine.Save your money, don't even rent this waste of time! "},{"Title":"IT'S NOT THAT BAD","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sure some of the scenes in this movie are childish, but Richard Dreyfuss does his best, even if he does deserve better film offers. I saw the picture of this in Entertainment Weekly, and i started laughing when i saw the picture of Krippendorf's outfit and makeup. So i went to the dollar theater to see it and i was satisfied, I liked the situation of the film, cuz he worked his way out of a jam. It's not for everybody, but some will get a kick out of it.  "},{"Title":"Loved this movie","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just rented this movie the other night and have to say... I enjoyed it very much!  It was funny and a little adventurous.  I like Richard Dreyfuss's work and always have.  I'd see Krippendorf's Tribe again! ...in spite of what others may think of this movie. "},{"Title":"Terrible acting; blame it on worse script","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is achingly bad, and may well leave you thirsting for spiritual and cinematic salvation.It's tempting to blame the low quality on the abysmal acting, but the abysmal acting is surely the product of the even worse script. Saturated with one-liner duds, 10-liner clunkers and painfully feigned scenes, this movie could be usefully employed in screen writing schools as an example of what not to force your actors to try and portray on screen. I'm disappointed that Richard Dreyfus agreed to take this movie, though a senior academic role could have suited his acting abilities well. Instead he pumps a heinous performance as a simply execrable poseur (we're supposed to sympathize with this guy...right?)--the quality of whose character corresponds well to the cringe-inducing wretchedness of the writing. Every other character in this movie is a paint-by-numbers cardboard figurine. The audience suffers through a ride at least as irritating as the one endured by the (humorously-named?) professor's colleagues. Unfortunately the audience sees each rusty step approaching from miles away, preventing us from at least sharing in the colleagues' mild palliative of surprise. As with many other bad movies this one was banking on a potentially humorous idea that, uh, doesn't quite work out. This movie is of the variation of bad that precludes even enjoying laughing at its radiant badness. Trust me, there will be no laughter. Every part of the movie, from the chokeworthy jokes to the Mighty Mighty Bosstones ska tracks suggests a kind of ironic self-referential humor that we're all (for some reason) supposed to be joining in on. Note to directors next time please drop the irony and just aim for humor. Judging from this movie, that alone would be no small accomplishment! I almost can't believe this thing was released into theaters.If you paid money to see this in a theater or rent it on video...well I'm just sorry. I would expect to see this as a staple of UHF stations' low-powered weekend afternoon matinées for some years to come. But hopefully not for too long! "},{"Title":"A waste of a good cast","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This could have been pretty funny, actually. Richard Dreyfuss,  Natasha Lyonne, and Jenna Elfman are among the various talents assembled here to tell the story of Dr. Krippendorf, a university anthropology professor who creates a hoax by claiming to have discovered an unusual stone age tribe (the shelmikelmu), and who then must recruit his reluctant children to portray the tribe on film, enhancing his relationship with them in the process. Unfortunately, the jokes are few and far between. The problem here is that this movie doesn't know quite what it wants to be - a family oriented comedy or a comedy about a family geared more toward those who might have some notions about the nature of the hoax. The central joke, that those who are in on the hoax are having a hard time sustaining it, gets old quickly. Overall, a disappointment and a waste of a good cast. This might have worked much better had it been done as vehicle for the broader comedic talents of Jim Carrey, and done in a much more over the top manner; it could have been a fine send-up, in the manner of the slapstick comedies of the past, of our own culture's pretensions. Rating = 3/10 "},{"Title":"Top Ten worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Krippendorf's tribe is the worst flick I have ever seen. What was Richard Dreyfuss and Jenna Elfman thinking? I know, let me be in a movie where we appear in blackface as a African tribe. I don't know whether or not this was to be a kids move or for adults but I know it's for no one older than a fetus. Unbelivable, stupid, no plot whatsoever, Not one single laugh. No one. Those are kind of important in a comedy! And nothing more will stop you watching than Jenna Elfman and Richard Dreyfuss (He's old enough to be her father!)getting drunk and act like African tribes people in blackface. This movie sucks. "},{"Title":"I'm neutral on this one...","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, it seems like perhaps my opinion of this film is somewhat rare compared to most.  I didn't like it, I didn't hate it...it was just an adequate time-filler.  There's nothing particularly wrong with it, but it just isn't too funny either, which can be a problem if you're making a comedy.  There's nothing I can really praise or trash about this movie, so I'd say that if you have an extreme need to see a standard film that isn't boring or especially entertaining, then this should nicely satisfy your mediocre movie requirements.  "},{"Title":"Appalling","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An appalling piece of very unfunny smut, masquerading as a family comedy.How could Richard Dreyfuss have possibly descended this far? The acting is passable, but the script is truly dreadful. Embarrassingly bad. "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie of All Time?...Perhaps!","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Richard Dreyfuss himself said in an interview before the release of this  flick (begging)Please go see this movie!...If this movie doesn't do well,  it'll be the end of my career.  Yes, he actually said this. Very disappointing behavior from an actor so many people once enjoyed  watching on screen.  I for one am not surprised.  Mr. Dreyfuss has been  heading down into disgrace for many years now.  I would not be immediately  opposed to changing my opinion of Mr. Dreyfuss, but for this to happen, he  must make some kind of comeback!!  But I will watch with anticipation,  albeit slight, for this comeback. By the way, did you see how pitiful his expression was when the camera  panned by him in the most recent Oscars' past-award-winners-lineup??  The  shame he must have been feeling for the horrid Krippendorf's Tribe was very  clearly seen (I believe it was in theatrical release at the time of the  Oscars).Well, see this flick if you are 1) into masochism, or 2) into laughing at  the downfall of a once great actor (although his ever having reached that  level of greatness is highly debatable).  Thank you good sirs and madams  for your time. Any one who reads this, please feel welcome to email me ntakeda@hotmail.com I am interested in forming an Anti-Krippendorf's Tribe Group. "},{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was an anthropology major in college, and so was especially insulted by the field's infantile representation here. The idea that an anthropology professor could fool one person for one second with the ridiculous B.S. he makes up here is ludicrous. I believe this travesty of a movie has probably done irreparable harm to the field of anthropology. The overriding theme of anthropology is escaping ethnocentrism -- the belief that one's own culture is superior to another -- and by dressing up white kids in blackface and stereotypical costumes and having them run around chasing chickens, this movie is not helping. Now, all this could be forgiven if the movie was actually funny. Then it could be thought of as a comedic send-up of anthropologists, or whatever you wanna call it. But there are maybe two funny moments in the entire running time. Awful. Everything about this movie is disgusting -- From the bathroom humor to the cookie-cutter characters and formulaic script. Everyone involved should have turned down the money and stayed home -- no paycheck is worth being a part of this disgrace. "}{"Title":"OK time killer that wastes most of its cast.","Date":"19 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The plot of Krippendorf's Tribe is not entirely terrible. I would not mind seeing a movie about a college anthropology teacher who needs to find an African tribe but has blown all his money and then is forced to use the family as the tribe. The idea is funny and the movie itself had moments that were very entertaining and the movie is not boring at all. But there is a problem with this movie. The script is mildly funny, but the cast is totally in wrong parts that do not fit their talents. Dreyfuss in particular is good in serious roles which is where he succeeds best. Jaws, Always, and Mr. Holland's Opus are perfect examples of this theory. Now granted Dreyfuss has been good in a couple silly roles such as his parts in American Graffiti and What About Bob? But those films were written for a part that Dreyfuss can play. In both those films Dreyfuss is a comic figure but his mildly comic mostly serious personality works. All in all this silly role is wrong for him and I think this part would have been better possibly for either Bill Murray, Steve Martin or Chevy Chase. Those guys could play a part like this due to their silly personalities. As far as the rest of the film I found Jenna Elfman and Lily Tomlin to also be miscast. Elfman was very endearing on TV's Darma and Greg, and Tomlin had wonderful supporting roles in Nine to Five and All of Me. But how did Dreyfuss,Elfman and Tomlin think their talents would work in a script like this? It is not written poorly and its not the worst movie ever like some have claimed. As far as the writing and direction goes it is mediocre. But the casting is where this film fails because the actors that are cast are do too many sophisticated dramatic and comedic roles that they cannot afford to do something laid-back and silly like this. Its easy to see why the cast of this film (particularly Dreyfuss) have not had much activity in recent years. Might be worth the price of a Saturday night movie rental but you know the cast have been in better roles that fit them. "},{"Title":"too bad for Richard","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had such high hopes that Richard Dreyfuss was possibly heading back up the movie quality ladder, especially after Mr Holland's Opus, but it was not meant to be.  My wife and I like to rate movies A=Worth the $15 to see it at the theatre...B=OK to see it in the theatre if there is no A movie you havent seen...C=Wait until it comes out on video...D=Wait until 2-for-1 night at the video store  F=Leave it at the video store - total waste.  I gave it a D, my wife an F...modest comedy...dont expect too much  "},{"Title":"An opportunity wasted...","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was an opportunity for some truly biting satire, but it was instead a rather pedestrian and forgettable bit of fluff. Reading a description of the plot- An ethically-challenged anthropologist concocts a completely fake tribe and fools the whole world- it should be a brilliant send-up of the goofier aspects of anthropology. Perhaps a digression is in order.Anthropology is a strange field. In their zeal to become as objective as the scholars of the natural sciences, anthropologists have sometimes forgotten that their subject of study is homo sapiens, a species which frequently frustrates attempts at objective scientific analysis (except where quantitative measurement is possible). Because of this, anthropology, during its long history, has seen more than its share of hoaxes, frauds, and rank nonsense (George Psalmanazar, Vilcabamba, the Tasaday, Margaret Mead and the Samoans, The Third Eye, etc). Sometimes anthropologists are taken in by the wild tales of tribesmen playing a grand practical joke on gullible foreigners. Sometimes anthropologists exaggerate local peculiarities, ignoring the great similarities between the locals and Westerners- or, trying to prove that differences are only skin-deep, they do the opposite, ignoring obvious biological differences in favor of cultural explanations. At other times, anthropologists are taken in by complete fraudsters whose elaborate nonsense confirmed those anthropologists' preconceptions.Undergirding and feeding nearly all such hoaxes is one constant- Western observers who project their own fantasies and pet theories onto strange and distant peoples about whom they have insufficient information. Whether it is Rousseau with his Noble Savage, credulous 20th-century advocates of free love, communitarian socialists, earnest anti-racism crusaders, or people desperate to explain away the differences between men and women as nothing more than culturally constructed, anthropological frauds always find a fertile market among people who are more concerned with critiquing their own societies than with learning about strange ones. (None of this, by the way, is meant as a dismissal of the work of serious and sober anthropologists who study and analyze the human animal).This constant is exactly what is missing in Krippendorf's Tribe, and its absence means that the satire never bites or cuts, but only gently prods. As far as the film is concerned, the only thing driving the popular interest in Krippendorf's Tribe is simple prurience- part of the equation, no doubt, but only one aspect of a much larger issue in real-life frauds.A better approach would have been to highlight the way that intellectuals could use a phony tribe to serve as a justification for their own crackpot theories about human society and human nature. Krippendorf's Tribe dances around this slightly, but we don't see much of it. Part of the problem is that Krippendorf himself remains more or less fully in control of whatever information comes out about his concocted tribe, the Shelmikedmu. He only invents things on the spot, based on aspects of his own life. It would have been more pointed to see the Shelmikedmu tribe taking on a life of its own, with other hucksters, fraudsters, and over-zealous academics contributing their own (equally bogus) information and theories about the Shelmikedmu. Surely, someone with experience of backbiting and jealousy in academia could have helped sharpen the rather dull-edged satire here.Another part of the problem is the film's attempt to manipulate us into looking at Krippendorf as a sympathetic character, despite his lies and fraud. The movies uses most of the classic techniques- his wife died, he was under stress, and one lie just snowballed into another in true Fawlty Towers fashion, until other, more sinister people started manipulating him into bigger and bigger lies. We have seen all of this before, and it's not very convincing. A better approach would have been to portray Krippendorf as an unalloyed con artist, morally dissolute and positively eager to tell any whopper to keep the fraud going. This would have opened up many more opportunities for the kind of first-rate satire that this film should have had in spades, but didn't.At any rate, one does not wish to judge the film too harshly. The sexual jokes are crude and not nearly as funny as the filmmakers seem to think, but in most other respects, this film is adequate entertainment for a rainy afternoon in front of the TV. "},{"Title":"Easy Comedy !","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Actually it's a rare time not to find much to say. It's nothing but too many sexual jokes that made a movie ! Yet, what gave me the saddest feeling is that it got some intelligent idea which nobody tried to make the comedy through it, as the whole thing was just cheap sketches around it. I felt the bore out of watching and hearing sex jokes successively and only ! (Richard Dreyfuss) can be more than that unfunny clown. (Lily Tomlin) can deliver more than lines like what a wonderful ass he has. It's the prototype at its worst, and the poor treatment at its highest. The scriptwriter (Charlie Peters) wrote before good comedies (Blame It on Rio - 1984), average comedies (Kiss Me Goodbye - 1982), (Hot to Trot - 1988), or (3 Men and a Little Lady - 1990), here obviously it's his weakest. They wanted you to relax and have fun so this wasn't thoughtful however it wasn't even laughable too. It's not bad but handling that idea that easy was bad enough. If I want to be philosophical, then I must say how that tribe of Krippendorf could represent Hollywood itself (sex, violence, illusion, etc) ! But don't pay attention to that, just enjoy it as it is  a goofy joke. "},{"Title":"Uneven Comedy","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Uneven comedy takes an interesting (though admittedly silly) premise but doesn't quite know what to do with it. Richard Dreyfus stars as James Krippendorf, a professor who attempts to save his reputation (and skin) with a fictitious account of a previously unknown New Guinea tribe. Forced to back up his lie, he resorts to shooting footage in his backyard of he and his children dressed as savages and performing ridiculous rituals. Soon even that lie necessitates further lies until things seem destined to come crashing down any second.Krippendorf's Tribe certainly has its moments, and even when it's not laughable (which is often), it's generally amusing. Still, some segments are painfully awkward and unfunny. One Krippendorf boy's science project, for instance, demonstrates a girl about to be anointed with pig urine before entering menstruation in a hut. And Dreyfus, who is such a better fit as the straight man, gets annoying when posing as a grunting tribesman flown into contemporary society. Both he and the story begin to run out of steam after the first hour.Somewhere within Krippendorf's Tribe is an excellent wacky comedy ready to spring forth. But based on the minuscule box office this picture earned, it's unlikely the concept will be revived any time soon. "},{"Title":"Not the worst comedy film you'll ever see, but far from being the best either.","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I didn't walk into this film with terribly high expectations. It was in the bargain basement bin on DVD at my local store, and quite frankly, since only fifty people have bothered to comment on it on IMDb (so far) for a film made not so long ago in 1998, tells me that this comedy largely went under most peoples radar nets.This is a Richard Dreyfuss vehicle and the basic concept is that he is an anthropologist who has taken out a grant of money from his university to search for lost tribes in New Guinea, but after the death of his wife has kind of let his research go to pot and used the money instead to keep food on the table for his three children - Shelley, Mickey and Edmund. Put on the spot by the university to give a lecture on his discoveries so far, Krippendorf invents a tribe called the Shelmikedmu (an amalgamation of his children's names) and gets them to dress up in native gear in his back-yard to shoot fake videos and keep the university faculty off his back. Jenna Elfman plays the love interest, a fellow professor. The villain, or main antagonist, for want of a better name - a fellow professor who tries to prove that it is all a hoax, is played by Lily Tomlin.It is relatively amusing in places, especially when Dreyfuss puts on the body paint to become the Shelmikedmu Chief, and there are certainly one or two good one-liners to be found within. It's a long way from ever being a perfect 10 as a film, but equally there is no way it should ever be sitting down at the bottom as a 1. There are worse comedy films out there than this, and although somewhat insubstantial and not especially memorable, it is an entertaining enough way to spend ninety minutes of your life. 5/10 "},{"Title":"I saw the movie","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie recently.  Yes I agree it wasn'ty drefuss's best work but I have seen worse movies than this.  I did find myself snickering and giggling at parts of the flick.  and anything with Lily Tomlin in it is indeed worth a peek....I don't know what else to say.  "},{"Title":"Unfunny Comedy.","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Rarely funny or entertaining feature that has anthropologist Richard Dreyfuss fooling all those around him by saying that he discovered an unknown tribe in New Guinea to hide the fact that he has squandered all the money he was granted by his university. Naturally he tries to create the tribe using home movies of himself and his children in their backyard. Jenna Elfman is along for the ride as the love interest and Lily Tomlin struggles through as a colleague who questions Dreyfuss' strange findings. 2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Not Richard Dreyfuss at his best but a very funny movie","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe how everyone is ready to crucify Richard Dreyfuss for doing this movie.  Give the guy a break!  It's light comedy. It isn't meant to be Shakespeare!  Because Richard Dreyfuss has done some marvelous acting in some great roles, he's not allowed take anything but dramatic roles?  Not every movie has to be socially redeeming with likeable, moral characters. This is not Richard Dreyfuss at his best by any means, but it also isn't as bad as everyone is making out either.  I don't think this movie would be judged quite so harshly if it weren't Richard Dreyfuss in the lead role and that is a real shame.  He is a talented actor who is capable of playing a wide variety of characters, not the least of which includes comedy(He was hysterical in Moon over Parador).  Lighten up everyone.  Great actors should be allowed to do roles that aren't necessarily great.  "},{"Title":"From the editing room to the check out counter.","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The pattern of a stinker like this is usually a few commercials on TV advertising the film prior to its theatrical release then the next thing is it's at the check out counter at the local Wal-Mart for a low price. Not much more could be done in the case of this movie. Richard Dreyfuss is the unfortunate actor who will be remembered whenever this film is mentioned. "}{"Title":"Can we say stupid mistake","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Richard Dreyfuss and Jenna Elfman made a stupid mistake when they decided to add their names to this disastrous and lame film. Krippendorf's Tribe is the type of film that falls under the category of films that shouldn't have been made. Everything stunk about this film from the script to the costumes Richard Dreyfuss and Jenna Elfman had to wear. Even the supposed romance between Dreyfuss and Elfman was a mistake in the script. I gave this film my full attention for 90 minutes but it didn't live up to what I was expecting. One thing I noticed lacking from this film was comedy, true comedy. The jokes were not really jokes but attempts at jokes. I don't remember laughing at all and if I did it was at them instead of with them.I'am really sorry I wasted my time on this mistake of a film. The Razzies were correct in making this dullest comedy of 1998. They should have given worst actor awards to Dreyfuss and Elfman, too. No way would anyone make me recommend this film. "},{"Title":"this is the funniest movie ever and its got cute Gregory smith!","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" if i could i would give this movie a rating of more than 10 it was so amazing. finally non cable TV had some good movies on and this was one of them on a Sunday afternoon as i flipped through my 7 channels (if u don't have cable go get it, no cable sucks) i love this movie so so funny. it's got everything you want in it, everything, and for all ages too. there are only about 2 short parts you should cover your kids eyes for a few uh grown up scenes. but the rest is all kid stuff. adults when u see this u will feel like a kid again. it's awesome! everyone should go rent it and i mean it. if you don't like the movie well then u have no fun anyways. it's a wonderful funny hilarious cute sweet movie! go rent it if i can i will buy it and i don't own any movies because i usually think all movies are so so and you only want to see them once but this is a movie you want to see over and over again every time you watch it you will notice something else funny! go rent it! "},{"Title":"Complete Fun","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is complete fun. Richard Dreyfuss does an excellent job of playing the harried unkempt professor of anthropology. Mr. Dreyfuss has complete control of the script and all his supporting actors give him their best support. And what a cast! Check this outLily Tomlin .... Ruth AllenNatasha Lyonne .... Shelly KrippendorfDavid Ogden Stiers .... Henry SpiveyJenna Elfman .... Veronica MicelliMila Kunis .... Abbey Tournquist (Mila Kunis has a bit part but was obviously the cutest one on the entire set. )Gregory Smith .... Mickey Krippendorf (Kudos go out to this rising star b/c he did an excellent job as the son supporting his father.)BTW, I was laughing in places where there were only physical comedy. Dreyfuss is completely hilarious. 9/10-Zafoid "},{"Title":"Not all bad...","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Let me start by making one thing absolutely clear; I watched this movie because of my growing interest in male teen actor Gregory Smith and my seemingly endless crush on Natasha Lyonne. I have seen one other film with Richard Dreyfuss in the lead(What About Bob), so my expectations were sufficiently low. When I say sufficiently, I mean just that. Believe it or not, I somehow actually enjoyed this film to some extent. It's certainly not because it's a good film... most definitely not. It's a terrible mess of toilet humor, crude gags and jokes and a plot that just barely makes sense at all. Most of the humor is based on the idea that gross-out comedy is actually funny. The rest of it is the ever-popular practice of making fun of less civilized people(much like Ace Ventura Nature Calls). The pace is pretty good, you're rarely bored, but the plot is completely preposterous and seems to have far too many subplots for such a short film, compared to what is necessary. The acting is mostly good, the main characters are all credible. The characters are somewhat well-written and interesting. The dialog is at times good, and there is maybe one or two quotable lines in there, somewhere. The gags and jokes work more often than not, and I did kind of like at least parts of the idea behind the plot. The whole film is worth watching if you can do so for free and you have nothing else to do. I recommend it to fans of this type of comedy or fans of any members of the cast. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Crap, pure and simple","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Richard Dreyfuss and Jenna Elfman made a very stupid mistake when they decided to add their names to Krippendorf's Tribe, a disastrous film.Krippendorf's Tribe is the type of film that falls under the category of mistake. The script, costumes and performances of the leads, Richard Dreyfuss and Jenna Elfman were all factors that drew me to this conclusion. Even the supposed romance between Dreyfuss and Elfman was a mistake.I gave this film my full attention for 90 minutes but it didn't live up to what I was expecting. One thing I noticed lacking from this film was comedy, true comedy. The jokes were poor, futile attempts at laughs. Furthermore, I don't remember laughing at all and if I did it was at them instead of with them.I am really sorry I wasted my time on this mistake of a film. The Razzies were correct in making this dullest comedy of 1998. They should have given worst actor awards to Dreyfuss and Elfman as well. "},{"Title":"Dreyfuss is hilarious in this one!!","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the 2nd comedy that I have seen Richard Dreyfuss in that I thought was hilarious -What About Bob being the other one.  Again, I am shocked and appalled at how brutal the other so called expert critics are towards this very funny movie.  Some critics bashed it because of the gullable way in which the college staff and students fell for Krippendorf's ridiculous plot.  Basically, Dreyfuss plays James Krippendorf, a college professor raising his 3 kids due to the untimely death of his wife and professional colleague.  They both studied native tribes in Africa, but the wife dies leaving Krippendorf very depressed and unable to continue with these tribal studies.  The college is unaware that he hasn't continued his research in spite of the generous grant which was spent on everything except the research for which it was intended.  He devises a scheme involving himself and his kids playing native Africans from a lost tribe being filmed on location to have something to show for the misappropriated grant funding.  His film is a big hit and he is forced to continue to make up additional stories and film on this lost tribe.  Jenna Elfman plays Veronica Micelli, a fellow teacher and admirer to his work who unknowingly gets duped into becoming a part of this scheme (by getting drunk and having sex with Krippendorf while both are made up to look like African natives in a hut!)  Lili Tomlin plays a jealous professor who doesn't like all the attention that Krippendorf is getting from this lost tribe and decides to investigate whether this tribe exists (by flying off to Africa to see this tribe herself).  Although this movie has a ridiculous premise (who would really believe that the lost tribe films were authentic in real life), it is still very funny and deserves a better rating than the 4.9 that was given.  I would give it a 7.5 as a comedy because it has many funny moments.  Krippendorf standing in front of a large classroom and nervously weaving his tall tale of the Mike-a-moo tribe with a blank sheet of paper as his research notes and the way which this story escalates makes for a very entertaining comedy.  Some critics should learn to develop a sense of humor and not bash films such as this for not being realistic in content.  "},{"Title":"Unbearable Even For Insomniacs","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's 230 am, I'm lying in bed, and I can't sleep. Flipping through channels, I see a company logo indicating a movie is about to start. Whenever this happens, I am mentally and physically unable to change the channel until I know what the movie is. Seeing that it stars Richard Dreyfuss and Jenna Elfman, I know immediately it is Krippendorf's Tribe, which I remember being advertised but never saw. Not having anything else to do, I keep watching.That was my first mistake.The second thing I did wrong was to continue watching past the first commercial break, and on to the end credits. I was completely fascinated by how utterly terrible this movie is. I don't think I've ever seen a movie this awful with so many recognizable, decent actors taking part. Dreyfuss, Elfman, Lily Tomlin, David Ogden Stiers, Stephen Root, Natasha Lyonne, Siobhan Fallon, Elaine Stritch, Tom Poston, Susan Ruttan...all names I know, all actors I've seen before, never in anything this ridiculous and pointless.During the opening credits, we see Professor Krippendorf and his family in New Guinea, hanging out with a local tribe. Next we see the Professor on his couch two years later watching his video of this trip. It is soon revealed his wife has died, and apparently he has been on this couch ever since, because Jenna Elfman shows up at his door to remind him he has a presentation that night about the lost tribe of New Guinea. She's supposed to be his former student, now fellow professor of anthropology, but she spends the entirety of the movie acting as agent between Krippendorf and a cable network. Sounds like the writer really paid a lot of attention to this character.So he sits at McDonalds with his unruly children and tries to write a speech for his presentation, but comes up with nothing. When he arrives at the lecture hall, hundreds of people wait for his groundbreaking research to be revealed. Of course, he doesn't have any research. Whatever this lost tribe is, he never found it. So it's still lost. But I'm asking myself, what lost tribe? I just saw the video footage of him with a tribe in New Guinea! Is that not them? If not, who are they? Why are all these people at the lecture hall expecting something of him? If he didn't find anything, why don't they already know that? Where did they get their expectations? Why can't he just say I didn't find that tribe, and my wife died, and I've been kind of depressed? Why didn't he tell them that when he got home from New Guinea?Other stupid questions Why did he buy a big screen TV with the grant money? Why didn't he use the grant money to pay his mortgage and his bills instead of allowing his home to near foreclosure? Why is he so close to losing his house if he's still on staff at the university? If he has an office and friends there, why don't they have any idea what's been going on with him professionally for the last two years?I realize a supposedly screwball comedy requires there to be a great deception during the first act, which must then be supported through the third act until all is revealed. That's fine, but as far as the story being told, there is no reason for them to expect anything, so there is no reason to lie. It's my understanding he'd have this presentation to tell them what he found. If he didn't find anything, why can't he say so? Why do they expect something amazing? Who told them something amazing had happened? And why is this business of a lost tribe being brought up as if I knew what they were talking about? Is that why he went to New Guinea? To find a lost tribe? Why has this exposition not been supplied to me? All I know is, the movie opened with him talking to members of a tribe, and now he's saying he lost the lost tribe. That makes no sense. None of the first part of the movie makes any sense.That's only the beginning. The rest of movie is filled with jokes that are either totally inappropriate or just plain fall flat. Jokes about circumcision? Is this the funniest thing they could think of? One of his kids puts on some kind of show and tell about a native girl's first menstruation. Why? The only good thing about this scene is the one-line role of a young Mila Kunis as his classmate playing the native girl. He's even unwrapping a bloody cloth in the next scene. I just don't see the point, or the humor.Nothing in this movie is funny. Everything plays like a bad old sitcom at best. Three minor positive notes One - the aforementioned Mila Kunis, who has a spectacular voice, though as I said she only has one line, but it was nice to see her. Two - Jenna Elfman's butt. In her underwear. Not exactly a reason to see a movie, but if you are watching the movie, it's there in a pair of brief scenes; yes that pun was intended. Three - cinematographer Dean Cundey, always a pro with the pretty pictures. Why he chose to work on this movie, I'm sure I'll never know. I hope they paid him handsomely. "},{"Title":"Whoa, people","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie had all the makings of an 18th century comedy.  People perform stuff like this on stage, and they're regarded as classics, cleverly crafted etc., and judging by the comments, most people think this is the worst movie of all time.  Yes, it was using some low humour, but I personally loved the absurdity and all the social commentary allusions to our own tribal way of living.  That's what a farce is.I particularly thought the middle child did a superb job, knowing the family of two anthropologists would definitely produce that kind of a family.  It appealed on all levels of humour I thought, and had something for everyone to laugh at, except the Richard Dreyfuss fans from what I've read. "},{"Title":"No, no, this is great!","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I cannot imagine why so many people say it is a bad movie! It should be graded at least with a 8! I wonder that's because they can not see this is not very far from the truth, or at least from possible or almost the truth, of what can happen in the process of making science. Nice movie, very creative and full of interesting citations. "},{"Title":"This movie rocks ...","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don't let those other reviews keep you from checking out this movie and fashioning your own opinion.Richard Dreyfuss isn't washed out; he's just showing us his funny side (like Stakeout).  Its nice that a classic drama actor can move to comedy and still be successful.This is a clever movie, with even more clever lines.  The banter, the pretense - heck, the whole movie had be chuckling from to start to finish. The sight gags aren't overdone - in fact, so smoothly executed (even by the kids) you'll be laughing all the way through at the antics.Look for a priceless appearance by Mila Kunis (known as Jackie on That 70's Show) in the classroom demonstration. "}{"Title":"DIRECTION RISES ABOVE PEDESTRIAN TIDE","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Krippendorf's Tribe was presented with the unenviable task of having to stare down the steaming blockbuster Titanic and manage to get people to leave their tear stained seats long enough to realize that other films were released in early 1998.Director Todd Holland, who has won emmys for direction of The Larry Sanders Show and Malcolm in the Middle, was presented with a less than stellar script but still managed to present movie goers with some visual delights. A pre-Dharma & Gregg Jenna Elfman lit up the stage and stole the movie from a pre-requisite brittle Dreyfus. The audience that I watched this film with had a fair amount of kids and they enjoyed the pacing and overall performances.Remember folks, that's what this is supposed to be about, entertainment. For those Richard beaters who take precarious delight in his and his projects downfalls look in your mirror and meet the new Dreyfus, same as the old Dreyfus. "},{"Title":"If you're not rolling on the floor by the end of the film, you lack a funny bone.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  And why hasn't it been released on DVD?I can see how one might think this movie was meant as fodder for the mentally infirm, especially considering their casting of Jenna Goofy Eye Candy Elfman opposite Dreyfuss, but it is well-paced and overall a hilarious movie.Krippendorf Dreyfuss is an anthropology professor who has been in a funk since his wife passed away.  The film opens on the day in which he needs to give a presentation -- the same day he gets notice of the presentation, for which he is completely unprepared, having done no work since the passing of his wife/research partner.I had no desire to see this film in the theater, and only watched it on cable one night when it was the only thing on.  By the time it was over, I was rolling on the floor.  By the end of the second viewing, I knew I wanted to see it again and again.  Here I am watching it again and laughing so hard I can hardly type.The cast is first-rate and the writing brilliant.   "},{"Title":"Krippendorf's Tribe....Funny but at the same time a waste of Richard Dreyfuss's talents","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For some unknown reason I actually enjoyed watching the movie.  It was only after a few hours that I began to realise how bad it was.  The question then begs as to does that make it a good movie then if I enjoyed it whilst I was watching it?Lets look at the plot...In essence its stupid and insults ones intelligence to think that that we are expected to believe the nonsense.  Yet I enjoyed some of the comic elements of Richard Dreyfuss and Jenna Elfman as they frauded the anthropolgy community.Lets look at the actors.  Richard Dreyfuss has certainly seen beeter days.  James Krippendorf is not going to go down as his greatest character, and this movie is certainly not his career masterpiece.  Havuing said that, he wasn't bad in the movie, it was the movie that was bad/Jenna Elfman is gorgeous and chirpy/  Her character Veronica Micelli is similar to her Dharma character.  This begs one to question the limits of her acting range.From the reviews I have read of the movie, it seems it got bagged by many/  The average rating at IMBD of 4.9 (as at 17/12/99) suggests that everyone else agrees.  Yet I gave it a 7/10 on first viewing.  View the movie without expecting to think too much about the plot....You may just enjoy it.... "},{"Title":"Not as bad as others say.","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Frankly, this is the funniest movie I've seen this year.  I laughed my head off at the incredible extremes that Richard Dreyfuss' character goes to in order to placate his fellow academics in this.  Granted, I don't know if I would show this to young children, but still I liked it very much.  Great slapstick! "},{"Title":"Very original and funny movie","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In the 90's there haven't been too many films that are completely original, but here's one! This movie is one of those rare comedies that actually takes the time to set up a plot, and allow time for character development. Richard Dreyfuss is one of the best actors ever, and Jenna Elfman is soooo cute! "},{"Title":"Funny, funny, funny","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A barrel of laughs gush forth as a stressed out professor tries to hoodwink his colleagues into believing he has discovered a lost tribe in New Guinea. His plot is put in danger when a suspicious rival goes to the island looking for the tribe, rightly figuring it to be a hoax. Good stuff. "},{"Title":"Can you say the reviews that said it was bad were all wrong?","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't understand HOW people could say this movie was bad. I myself am not a fan of stupid comedies but this was actually good! Never mind the reason I rented it was to see a person in it who had one line. The plot was really original, and the acting was okay. It was actually a funny and enjoyable movie. Out of five stars, I'll give it three and one fourth. Sure, it's not the greatest movie, but it deserves a chance! Professor James Krippendorf is supposed to find a lost tribe in New Guinea using the grant money he receives, but instead spends the money on food, clothing, and shelter for his family. So then he has to present a speech about it and the only two words he writes are good evening, so he has to make up the whole speech as he goes along. The end didn't make a whole lotta sense, but I got the general point of it. This is a comical movie that you will get a few laughs out of. Rent it at the video store if you want a good, (fairly) clean comedy. "}]