[{"Title":"A long time favorite...","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw subUrbia in probably 1997, and since then I have shared it with countless people and watched it plenty myself. Its not the sort of movie that you can put in, and then not really watch, to me it requires a bit more concentration. At th same time, the events that unfold for the characters in this movie always strike me. Another major bonus with this film is the issues it takes the time and consideration to cover, sexism, racism, classism, urban sprawl, the third world, and more... Its not a movie for people that don't want to see that ugly side of humans, but then all too often in day to day life the suburbs serve to show the ugly side of humans. Not a movie for children, and I wouldn't watch it with my grandma! Its a powerful and real story of life past high school, but not dealing with college. Of life feeling stuck, trapped, sometimes defeated in your current place, here suburbia. Its not a movie that offers a ton of hope, but its a powerful movie nonetheless! "},{"Title":"Dead-on accurate","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Linklater is treading in some of his familiar water ... one night in the night of a group of adolescents dealing with that difficult period at the end of high school, when one stops being what one must be and starts being what one chooses to be.This film is not Dazed and Confused, however, except that the two films share a spot-on accurate portrayal of familiar American characters. This movie is darker, preachier, deeper.This time, instead of the rituals of the last night of high school, the film centers around the return of a former crony who has made it really big as a rock star. He's their friend, and the nicest guy in the world - just a former geek who struck it big and realizes how lucky he is - nobody could hate him.And yet some do. Some hate him because he is a winner in the roll of the dice, and several of the gang are on their way toward becoming losers, and they know it. Their life consists of hanging around outside a convenience store.For all its concern with the accuracy of its portrayals, the film has a curiously innocent denouement. The most simple and naive members of the group end up heading off to look for their dreams, and the cynical and jaded can see that their lives will repeat infinitely in their home town. In a sense, the succcess of the gentle stoned guy injects an almost impossible hopefulness in an otherwise despairing ending. As Graham Greene once wrote, baseless optimism is so much more appalling than despair.Still, that was the choice of the filmmaker, and it wasn't an unfair one. Sometimes things do work out like that in real life, and this movie is all too close to real life. So close it can make you feel uncomfortable when you see yourself reflected in one character or another.This and Dazed establish Linklater as an outstanding filmmaker with an uncanny eye for real situations and characters. One hopes he will soon realize his great potential with something better than The Newton Boys "},{"Title":"Really Enjoyable Movie","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If Dazed and Confused was the 'high' then SubUrbia if most definitely the 'down'. It's basically the flipside of Dazed and Confused, where youthful hedonism has been replaced by 20-something boredom. It's a post-college movie where characters have found themselves unfulfilled in every capacity. It's a pack mentality, where you hang-out with the same gang from high school only to find you've out grown each other and resent one another's ambitions because you know you yourself lack the impetus to do anything constructive with your life. These characters are losers in every respect, clinging on to their high school way of life, reluctant to take initiative and move on. They constantly put each other down, bicker and make efforts to humiliate, yet the depressing thing is they have no one but each other. This is a quality film that remains one of Linklater's most under appreciated efforts. No one has the ability to present young characters with the insight, skill and craft Lanklater possesses. He is truly one of America's finest filmmakers working today and SubUrbia is a great film that still holds up. "},{"Title":"Too harsh for the masses...","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you like 90 minute movies (over the course which each character becomes a better person), characters with whom you can deeply sympathize, complete resolution of all conflicts, and happy endings, don't rent this.  subUrbia is too harsh, too honest, and too painful.Ribisi and Katt are amazing.  Katt was great as the wisecracking Stacy in the movie The Limey, a role similar to his in subUrbia (Tim).  Overall, the characters are too angry, poisonous, and disillusioned to be likeable.  I didn't find this to be a bad thing, however.Adding to the numbing ache of the movie is the fantastic score- Sonic Youth's droning guitars and a nihilistic soundtrack all add to the depression in Linklater/Begosian's Burnfield.  Enjoy.  Or not.  "},{"Title":"Great film...","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I consider this one of Giovanni Ribisi's greatest acting roles... because it is so real. The entire cast portrays this in the way that I think many 20-something-year-olds can relate. I know that when I had all of my friends watch it, they could see themselves in many of the characters. It showed us that we are not the only young adults, living in suburbia and our mother's houses... thinking about the things that we'll never do with our lives. Steve Zahn gave his usual comedic act, without taking away from the seriousness of the film. I believe that this is much easier to relate to than the earlier Dazed and Confused, because it shows the American Dream in action... that series of hopes that are easier said than done. What is wrong with us? "},{"Title":"A very deep comedy!","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not big on comparing movies, so in watching this movie I abolished the fact that some of the same people who worked on Dazed and Confused did this movie. Depending upon what you expect of this movie determines what exactly you will think of it impressionably. Suburbia is a comedy, but more so a strong story delivered by great actors. Its moral is one of those undefined feelings that will never truly be diagramed, and then again that's not its point. Suburbia unleashes characters that are filled with life and dimension beyond the threes' parallel. It's a story about not caring, about doing, and becoming. It leaves you with a decision in your own self. Deep for a comedy, but simply an excellent movie! "},{"Title":"Superb SubUrbia","Date":"13 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" According to Thoreau, the masses lead lives of quiet desperation. Which in turn leads to a paralyzing self absorption or self pity that most of us don't recognize until it's too late, if at all. And that is the theme of this extraordinary film.The plot revolves around a group of middle class suburban kids a couple of years removed from high school. Jeff (Giovani Ribisi) is a college dropout who lives in his parent's garage. Tim (Nicky Katt) is a former high school football star who did a brief stint in the Air Force before chopping of part of a finger to get a disability discharge. Buff (Steve Zahn) is a stoner who's life revolves around his next buzz and his next sexual conquest. The trio whiles away their aimless lives drinking at their old high school hangout - a convenience store now run by Pakistani immigrants. In addition, there's Jeff's girlfriend Sooze (Aimee Carey), a budding artist; her friend BeeBee (Dina Spibey), a recovering alcoholic; and an old high school buddy named Pony (Jayce Bartok), now a major rock star who drops by the old stomping grounds while in town for a show. Of the group, only Pony and Sooze have any ambition in life - Pony is well on his way to achieving his dream, and Sooze is preparing to move to New York to pursue her career.Except for those two, and the convenience store owner who is studying to become an engineer, every character in the film suffers from a kind of inertia that prevents them from taking charge of their lives and achieving any meaningful success or happiness. Tim has seen the third world, but has no sympathy for its inhabitants or appreciation for how good he has it. Buff is mired in perpetual adolescence. BeeBee lives vicariously through Sooze, and, despite her own sordid history, cares little for the substance abusers she tends to as a nurse's assistant, .Then there's the liquor store clerk whose life revolves around the local high school football team, and Pony's slutty manager (Parker Posey) the rebellious poor little rich girl who went into the music business against daddy's wishes. Jeff is the one character in the film who is truly sensitive to the plight of others, but he is immobilized by his own self-pity. That is, until one night on the town with Pony when he realizes that he indeed controls his own destiny, and decides to strip away his shackles (represented by his clothes) and move to NY with Sooze. But, ironically, it's too late... Sooze hooked up with Pony while he was experiencing his revelation.At the end of the movie, the Pakistani store owner belittles Jeff and his buddies for being so stupid as to throw away all of the opportunities they are afforded by living in the greatest, most prosperous country on earth. But he, like everyone else, is blind to the desperation of those around him. Desperation that can engulf even the lives of those in the land of plenty. Thanks to the mesmerizing script by Eric Bogosian, the outstanding direction by Richard Linklater, and the performances of the stellar cast, the audience gets the message loud and clear. "},{"Title":"I don't need a limousine to know who I am. At least I know I don't know&#133;SubUrbia","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Always having been a fan of Richard Linklater's work, it confounded me that his film after indie darlings Dazed and Confused and Before Sunrise has never been released on DVD. SubUrbia is the kind of movie you hear that fans of his work love, but never found a place in cinema history. Flipping through the movie channels on TV, I happened across the film and could not stop watching until it was over. Much in the same way as his other work, the movie is dialogue driven and concerning a small group of people talking about life and what comes next for them. He has compiled a very nice cast, all of who take their character and roll with it. It is a scary thing, post high school, deciding what to do with one's life. Having been stuck in the suburbs for so long, one begins to wonder if they can survive outside it.The compelling thing for me in Richard Linklater films is the general waxing philosophic feel they all seem to have. These are kids that are college age who have things to talk about, questions to have answered, and are not afraid to ask them when they are surrounded by those they trust. This group of friends is caught at a crossroads, not knowing if what they are doing is the right way to go. Many have tried their hands at something, but ultimately gave up to continue loitering around their corner convenience store. When one of their friends, who found success in leaving the small town of Burnfield becoming a rockstar, happens to come home for a show, the group's equilibrium goes off-kilter as they face what could be. Some feel that if they had applied themselves they could have been successes as well, while others see the shell of a man their buddy has become after being sucked into the machine. The return home opens everyone's eyes to the situation they are in and for better or worse changes the way they decide to continue living their lives.While a drama, there are many funny scenes. When a few of them begin talking about the reason Pony became a rockstar, to be able to tell the world his thoughts, to have someone listen to him, they say how rough it is to feel like no one can hear what they are saying. Through the entire conversation Giovannu Ribisi's Jeff is trying to be heard chiming in with his own ideas. The irony of the situation may be a bit heavy-handed, but it is also very true to form. Ribisi shines in this role as an intelligent youth who has never applied himself, always being content with hanging around his troubled friends. He soon realizes that the freedom he has is more important than selling out for fame and fortune, it is the people he cares about that keep him going, not the material things in life he could have. Steve Zahn is again brilliant in one of his earlier roles. He plays the idiot comedian to perfection while also evolving into someone who uses his cheery disposition for success. You begin to see that he knows exactly who he is and is in control at every moment. It's a shame he now only gets roles that are one-dimensionally that stupid guy there for laughs. It is also a pleasure to see Office Space alum, Ajay Naidu in a good role, touching on the bigotry of American small town life. The success his character is having, while not being American, prays on the jealousy of those who feel their heritage should entitle them to happiness. The lazy toughs around town would rather pick on the foreigners for working hard instead of doing the time themselves.Rounding out a very good cast is Dina Spybey and Nicky Katt. Spybey is great in a tough role. She is the lackey friend of one of the main group members and tries to fit in. It seems that every time she begins to connect, she is ultimately left alone. The depression her character feels comes through at all times; the despair of someone that troubled around you without knowing how to help is tough. There is so much going on this night that her anguish gets pushed aside until there is no turning back. Then there is Nicky Katt who makes the film. He is an intellectual trapped in the body of a jock who has partied and been king of the town for too long. He sees the world around him for what it is and hates himself for living amongst the grime. Toying with the emotions of his best friends, he seems to have a death wish to just end his suffering. No longer the star football player, the character of Tim can't apply his intellect constructively and instead uses it to help the others while self-destructing himself.Linklater is one of the most consistent directors working in and on the fringe of Hollywood today. His films always seem to have a message coming through them, trying to uncover a truth of life. Every one of his characters is true to themselves and connecting with humanity at every step. SubUrbia is so much like his other smaller films that I was surprised to see it was written by and based from a play from Eric Bogosian. I am a fan of his acting work, but after seeing this I might finally wipe the dust from my copy of Oliver Stone's Talk Radio and check it out. Also, maybe I will turn on the movie that started it all for Linklater, Slacker, and see the true evolution he has taken. Hopefully SubUrbia will find its own way to DVD, maybe even the Criterion Collection will release it to join the other Linklater masterpieces it already has. "},{"Title":"Before midnight","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Eric Bogosian has written and performed extensively for the theater. I have seen him as a solo performer, as well as his plays Talk Radio and SubUrbia. Having admired his work on the stage, one wondered what kind of treatment those plays would get. Luckily, he was able to adapt them to the screen, himself. I had seen this movie when it came out, so when it showed on cable recently, I decided to take another look. While it's a work that perhaps was marketed as a comedy, this work is much more than that. This film dares to take a look at one of the most prevalent problems in the American society.Richard Linkletter was perhaps the right choice for directing SubUrbia since he has a keen eye for the slackers in our society. These individuals are perhaps puzzling to a lot of other cultures, but it appears there's a trend among young people all over that come from homes where parents and children inhabit different worlds.The phenomenon of the American suburban youth is well presented in this movie where there is no parent authority around to supervise what these kids are doing. The culture of hanging out without any purpose, or meaning, is a problem in that in most cases, leads into drugs, sex, and alienation from what is known as normal society, thus creating people like the ones this movie is portraying.In a way, Hollywood films have added to this anti hero sub culture, so prevalent in the country. When there are no strong figures either at home, school, or government, young people tend to gravitate toward friends who they feel comfortable with, shying away from reality and responsibility.It is the convenience store owner, a Pakistani, who puts things in perspective. While these kids are wasting their time, he is working on his degree and will make something out of himself, which is a theme that has been explored by other great American writers, like Arthur Miller, in A Death of a Salesman. The same American dream, where everything is possible, is wasted in these young people. At the same time, it's the immigrant who wants to make that dream a reality in his life because he has experienced hard times in his own country.Mr. Linkletter's choice of a cast is brilliant. He gathered the talents of Giovanni Ribisi, Parker Posey, Amie Carey, Nicky Katt, Steve Zahn, Jayce Bartok, Dina Spybey to give life to these lost souls in search of identity in the heart of the American counter culture that is generated by the boredom of the suburbs and the erosion of the family in this country. "},{"Title":"Smart, witty, compassionate look at contemporary life","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After avoiding this film for years (thinking it was for kids) I caught it on cable recently and found it completely engaging.  What struck me is that while it is about younger people, that audience might not embrace it.  I found it smart, witty in a very dry sort of way, yet also a compassionate look at the contemporary American youngster. Absolutely worth viewing. And the dialogue is, well... snappy.  "}{"Title":"The Wizard of Oz for Slackers","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  No one else seemed to mention it, so here goesSubUrbia is The Wizard of Oz for slackers (underemployed post-high school young Americans)Buff is the Scarecrow (he lacks a brain)Tim is the Lion (he lacks courage)Jeff? is the Tin Man (he lacks a heart)Sooze is Dorothy and Bee-Bee is TotoThe Wizard of Oz is Pony and his publicist, Erica, is a bit of a witch.Obviously, SubUrbia is a comic-tragedy (black comedy), but the question is do the main characters gain the brain, courage and heart that they lack at the beginning of the film? I think soTim and Sooze will move to New York (she's seen through Pony's smoke and mirrors). Brainless Buff seems smarter and clearer at the very end of the film. Tim's heart is awakened when he picks up dead Bee-Bee on the roof of the convenience store.mmorse-2  "},{"Title":"The burning clock of time.","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First of all, this is NOT a comedy. Not in the least sense of the word. I heard that people say that it's black humour. Personally, I've seen alot of black comedies in my days, and Suburbia is definitely not black humour. This is tragic, and it is tragedy at it's best.The plotline is really about nothing at all, which is exactly what the characters lives are about as well. The big rockstar Pony comes to meet with the good ol' guys (our supposed protagonists), but he isn't exactly met with open arms. Both Nicky Katt (Tim) and Giovanni Ribisi (Jeff) deliver great acting. Although their roles may seem simple and plain, but I doubt greater actors could have gotten more out of their roles. I just finished watching Suburbia for the fourth time, and it still manages to bring me down. If you're looking for a movie to lift your spirit, this is not it. I talked to a friend of mine earlier and since he's feeling a bit down all in all, he was really, really, reluctant to watch Suburbia.Suburbia went straight to video in Sweden, and I can easily say it's the best straight-to-video flick I have ever seen. If you want to see a movie whose hopelessness stays with with until you got to sleep, and maybe the next day as well, Suburbia's the one to get. A depression wetdream. "},{"Title":"A little dated, but truly a fantastic film and an overlooked masterpiece....","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Suburbia is without a doubt the best movie I have ever seen dealing with young adult angst. No, there is no excessive drug abuse and there is no moral tale to tell about the dangers of leading a overly hedonistic lifestyle. In fact, Suburbia steers clear of the usual teen/young adult stereotypes found in films such as Kids and Requiem for a Dream. Unlike those films, this movie will not give you the comfort of being a spectator watching a train wreck of a life. Instead Suburbia will show you something so realistic that the characters on screen could be you and that their problems could in fact be your own problems, which is what makes this film so unbelievably powerful.Released in 1996, this overlooked gem is about a group of friends who waste their days hanging out at the parking lot of a local convenience store. The film centers around the story of Jeff... a twenty-something guy who doesn't know what he wants to do with his life. Jeff's girlfriend, Sooze, is a zealous feminist performance artist wannabe with dreams of someday going to art school in New York. Jeff's two friends, Buff and Tim, are also drifting through life and not doing anything especially important. Buff works at a local pizzeria and does nothing but make up stories about getting laid and Tim spends his days and nights drinking alcohol. And Sooze's friend, Bee-Bee, is a recovering alcoholic and drug addict fresh out of rehab. The only person to leave and escape the suburbs was their old high school friend Pony... who left the suburbs and is now returning as a up and coming rock star. When Pony arrives onto the scene in a limousine with his nicely dressed publicist Erica the cast of characters react to his presence in variety of different ways. Buff and Sooze are both intrigued by Pony's success while Jeff and Tim are jealous of it. Bee-Bee is pretty much forgotten.... and she never let's her feelings be known to the rest of the characters.... She takes everything deep within herself and is perhaps the most self-destructive/self-loathing one out of them all.In the end, Suburbia doesn't provide you with any clear answers or solutions, but it does raise a number of relevant social questions. As a young adult, this movie had a massive affect on me and it made me question the direction/course of my own life. I really think that this is one of the best movies I have ever seen and the script, acting, and filming was all top notch. However, there are certain things and elements in this film that make it sort of dated. This movie is obviously set during the 90's, but I really think that the messages found within this movie could still be applied to today's youth. This film really paints an ugly picture of the suburbs as a flat, plain, dull, and genuinely depressing landscape that breeds apathy in people.Check this movie out. You will not regret it. "},{"Title":"very disturbing, excellent movie","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A story so simple, yet very touching, excellent performances, and a strong soundtrack makes this a movie you can't get out of your mind. Some people regard this as a comedy, and maybe in the beginning you may regard some of the lines as funny, but actually this is a very tragic tale of youth and the lives they live.  "},{"Title":"Great film...","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Eric Bogosian does it again.  He made a great film with Oliver Stone (Talk Radio), and here he works wonders again with Richard Linklater (of Slacker fame).  Giovanni Ribisi is marvelous.  Prior to viewing this film, I thought he was just a teen actor.  Steve Zaun is also wonderful (the scene where he impulsively jumps up and hits his head on the street sign for no reason is a fave).  Parker Posey (growl noise).  Yummy.Good film.  Some plot problems, and a few issues here and there, but the wonderful Bogosian-penned dialogue makes up for it all.All in all a solid 8-9. "},{"Title":"A great ensemble piece.","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great story with a great cast of indie icons.  Giovanni Ribisi does a convincing and sensitive portrayal of his troubling character and Steve Zahn continues to satisfy with his venue of off-the-wall characters. Indie queen Parker Posey pops up halfway through the movie, and even though, she's not in it that much, she still maintains her magnetic screen presence. Eric Bogosian's dialogue is a key element to making this film fantastic. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the best film to never see a DVD release","Date":"21 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Without a doubt, this is one of (if not the) best films to never see a DVD release. It's honestly nothing short of a travesty that, even in 2011, one cannot even purchase this excellent work on any modern format. Mind you, thanks to streaming sites like Netflix, one can still get their hands on this one, even if they've long since put-away their old VHS player, but that doesn't do much for those of us who pride ourselves on our film collections.Overall, this is a truly exceptional film with a fantastic cast, great soundtrack, and plenty of the amazing dialogue that Linklater's films are known for. If you haven't seen it- please do yourself a favor and give it a look... if you're anything like me, you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"doesn't really work","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I would be curious to compare this with the original play, which I've never seen. Bogosian is a great writer and Linklatter seems like an odd choice to match with a strong dialog writer, since he goes for this numbly, seemingly improvisational style. That style fits this subject matter perfectly well, and he does capture that bored, pointless bitterness, but I'm wondering if a different director with the same script might have managed to make something that felt a little more intense. This movie just sort of ambled along with interesting little bits of drama here and there. It's all sort of interesting, the performances seem pretty good, but I was never drawn into this and I never cared about the characters, although they were convincing. "},{"Title":"A movie that overestimates it's effectiveness...","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wow, what a preachy mess.Instead of being subtle, Eric Bogosian lays it on thick with impossibly silly and stupid characters. When it's all said and done, Bogosian thinks he can make the moral of the story sound less preachy if a Pakistani clerk delivers it.It fails on every level. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My friends and I watched Dazed and Confused and loved it.  When Suburbia came out, we noticed these two movies shared the same director.  Suburbia was very disappointing, all the characters are ignorant and think they aren't.  This movie portrays the fight for status among a group of idiotic young americans.  The only smart person in the movie is the foreign jiffy store owner.  The acting is fair.  Parker Posey has definitely the most likeable character, and she plays her part well.  Steve Zahn highly reminds me of Jim Brewer, and he does basically the only funny action in the entire movie.  This movie had great potential, but the characters are unwilling to listen to reason.   If you want to see a similar movie, watch Dazed and Confused.  If you want to see one a little more mature, watch Swingers.  I have to say I wasted $3.00 renting Suburbia. "}{"Title":"Why Should I Care?","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Some movies I dislike because they are not entertaining. Some movies I dislike because they have no importance. Some movies I hate because they lack reality. Then there are those special films, that actually manage to fall in all three of those categories. Well, Suburbia is that not so rare film, that manages to hit all three. I am trying to think of one thing that was good about this film. Problem is that it has been one week and I still cannot think of one. I live in Austin, where Linklater is from and he is considered a movie-making god down here. Everything he does is sacred. So getting an unbiased opinion about his films from a local is pretty rare. Perhaps Linklater does not share all the blame on this one. Much blame should be handed to Eric Borgosian for just a dreary and stupid story. However, we must get back to Linklater and beg the answer, why make it? This movie illustrates the lackluster, going nowhere, exploration of the slacker/Generation X. Here, you have several losers that have no plans or aspirations. Moreover, they feel superior to all of the others that have actually made it out of their crummy town or who strive to someday to make it out their town and accomplish something. Wasted intellect, wasted talent, do nothing people, that sit around feeling superior to people that work for a living. My problem with the film, is the lack of a character that you give a damn about. There are none. Each character is a loathsome, unlikable and pretensious jerk. Yet, we are supposed to care about them? Why? I just didn't care about anybody in this film or see why anybody should. "},{"Title":"A must not see","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have often said that the only thing that I look for in a movie is that after I am done watching it I don't think to myself that it was two hours of my life I wasted. In the case of SubUrbia I felt as if I had lost years of my life. The title seems to say it is a picture of life in the suburbs of America, it is not, I should know for I live there. The dialogue is a sad imitation of Clerks, Mallrats, and Singles, the characters are poorly drawn one sided and not at all likeable. Going through this movie I had the deep feeling that the writer has never lived in the suburbs and is trying to mold the generation X with high school kids and adding a pot head, and a biker. The bottom line is avoid this one. "},{"Title":"People liked this movie?","Date":"30 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There isn't one single character in this movie that I didn't want to kick in the face. All I saw for the duration of this film were a bunch of self-absorbed a-holes walking around and whining. We're meant to feel that this is somehow a coming-of-age for these youths who feel completely disaffected with reality crashing down on them. However, not one lesson was actually learned. No one, at any point in this movie, could manage to look outside of themselves and acknowledge anything outside of their microcosm of existence.Not every film needs a stated lesson, that's true. Kids got away with not having one for a couple of reasons 1) The lesson was implied. We actually KNEW what was going on, and how to feel about it. This movie didn't for one minute arise any emotion in me other than Good God, these kids are all dip****s. As we drifted from one confusing scene to the next, I tried to figure out what they were building up to. Ultimately, it was simply that every character in this movie deserved to be hated. It's the only thing I actually learned.2) Kids actually had enough real drama to speak to it's audience without needing a well-defined lesson. A scene which is powerful enough will speak for itself. We know that it's simply a representation of art imitating life, and we come away understanding the realistic horrors that it exemplifies. All that SubUrbia had was a bunch of laughable melodrama. A bunch of arrogant, disrespectful little dillweeds who despite their whining and wishing for change, never come away with the fact that THEY are the biggest reason that they're being held back.It's not that I don't get it. It's not that I didn't grow up in the 1990's (I did). It's not that I don't understand the slacker/Generation X cultures of the era (It was slightly before my time, but I still understand it). It's not that I didn't feel just as confused, angry, and depressed as any one of these kids at that point in my life (or for that matter, before and after). I understand (on some level) how these characters felt and acted. However, when I was expecting a coming-of-age film to actually come of age, this one didn't. It went nowhere. It showed no development in character. Most characters are just as one-dimensional at the end of the film as they were from the start. Sure, they can identify their flaws. However, they can't seem to come to terms with them. All the while, I'm expecting for these kids to learn something. Instead, I'm shown that they're devoid of decency, and seem perfectly content with being so.The only emotion I could feel was anger. Anger that I spent two hours watching a bunch of snots with no regard for anyone but themselves act out some lousy melodrama. The fact that afterwards, it's not shown or implied that they will suffer any consequences for their stupidity or selfishness. At least in Kids, it was understood that many of the characters would have dire consequences for their actions. Thirteen as well. Provided, both movies were more dark than this one. But SubUrbia certainly tried to be heavy. It failed. Sure, some of the characters (despite the fact that virtually all of them are despicable, shallow, self-centered a-holes) are relatable to anyone who was ever a teenager. But that doesn't make them good, nor does it make the film in which they appear in good either. I'm not arguing against this film like some crusty old man who forgot what it was like to be young. I hate this film when I was 17, and I hate it now. SubUrbia seemed to think that relatable characters would be enough to carry the rest of the film. It wasn't.It's like when I watched Clerks for the first time. Throughout the movie, I tended to sympathize with one of the seemingly luckless main characters. But then when another character gets sick of his b.s, he laid it all out to him as to why he was being a yutz. Then I thought to myself about that exchange just as much as the characters on-screen were meant to. See, that's why Clerks worked, despite the fact that the entire thing was mostly comedic melodrama. Because the film moved from one emotional platform to the next in the context of growing up and understanding life. That is, it CAME OF AGE.I hated SubUrbia. It's is obnoxious and shallow. It may have attempted to be obnoxious, but I know full and well it wanted to be anything but shallow. I kept expecting either a lesson to be learned, a character to have sympathy for, or a powerful enough segment that spoke to me above the level of simple young adult disaffection. This film accomplished none of that. It was melodrama without any real resolution. There was no one to feel sorry for. Nothing to think about. It's a coming-of-age film that failed to do so.For more on absolutely terrible films that attempt to show despicably shallow, arrogant, and ignorant disaffected youth in a protagonistic light, see Reality Bites. Nostalgia Chick did an excellent review of Reality Bites, which in fact inspired me to write this review. It helped me truly pinpoint WHAT it was about SubUrbia that I really hated for all of these years, because she hated RB for the same reasons. "},{"Title":"This a paper I wrote for class, just thought I'd share.","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Richard Linklater definitely has an eye for America's mundane middle class, his films Slacker (1991) and Dazed and Confused (1993) brought an artistic perspective to the experience of the suburban miscreant that in many ways becoming the defining discourse on youth in the 1990s. Highlighting the ritualistic 'Friday night' and purposeless afternoons, Linklater uncovered the hidden cultural vibrancy within a section of the population who are so often maligned as 'cultureless'. In a particular montage from Dazed and Confused, images of young people cruising the main drag are flashed within a backdrop of the neon twilight typical of America's commercialized sprawl. From the eye of the uninspired, the environment seems completely homogeneous, yet Linklater's intrinsic sensibility of the suburban aesthetic succeeds in portraying this as a scene of excitement and all out possibility where the characters look alive and enthusiastic amidst such an artificial and wearisome environment&#151;it is a defining moment in Linklater's uniquely modern depiction of the sublime, his triumph to find beauty in monotonous. Linklater's adaptation of Erica Bogosian's play subUrbia (1996) follows the same current as the scene in Dazed, yet sans the youthful idealism and expanding upon the central theme of Bogosian's work suburban decay.SubUrbia is stock full of familiar images of the suburban aesthetic 20 years down the road from Dazed (Both filmed in suburban Texas) and backed with a soundtrack courtesy of Sonic Youth (a band whose sound I would argue replicates the feeling of 1990's America.) In a consistently sedated tone, the film follows a group of substance abusing 20-something nobodies in their stagnant town of Burnfield. Terrified to actually confront any progress or purpose, these pseudo-adults stand around in a convenience store parking lot talking about themselves in self-congratulatory manner (the film's particular capitalization of the second 'U' in the title speaks to this theme of self-absorption.) The story's protagonist Jeff (played very convincingly by Giovanni Ribisi) is a jaded, unmotivated anti-hero with seemingly good intentions, but never the follow through to back them up. Consequently, he lives out of a pup-tent in his parents' garage, barely holding a part time and satisfying his latent intellectual streak with a night class at the local community college. Jeff's girlfriend Sooze (Amie Carey) is a sort of caricature of the suburban bred artist set on 'escaping' to New York, while Sooze's character hints at aspects of the genuine, she is ultimately malleable to outside forces such as the romanticized escape dream and the reemergence of a former fellow burnout turned rock star 'Pony'(Jayce Bartok.) The others group in the group of misfit are decidedly more volatile, killing time with a self-destructive consumption of booze and harassing a Pakistani convenience store owner Nazeer (Ajay Naidu) who they xenophobically refer to as 'Mohammed' even though his real name is not revealed until the film's closing climax. Jeff's best friend Tim (Nicky Katt) is the prime perpetrator of the racism towards Nazeer, referring to him as a 'brown bastard' and yelling sexual and racial epithets at the store owner's wife after she pulls a gun on him during one confrontation. Tim is far and away the least likable character of the film, and it would be easy to write him off as a cut-out racial bully, yet he is also the films most powerful representation. Tim alludes on several occasions to his service in the air force and success as a high school football star, but never does he portray his experience as being in any way glorious or important, nor does he speak of anything in such a manner, he seems numbed by his blasé surroundings and only displays emotion in the context of anger or violence toward outside forces. He is the archetype of what a harsh suburban environment creates an angry, ignorant addict trapped in his own misdoings. Interestingly, Tim is the only one of the characters who does not in at least some way attest to being an 'artist'. Jeff justifies his laziness with a hobby of creative writing, Pony has found success with his songs (a success that Jess and Tim highly resent) and even goof-ball druggie Buff (played with the now familiar zaniness of Steve Zahn) claims to make videos. The motif is very ironic for the filmmakers Linklater and Bogosian, as it seems to critique the salience of white, suburban-raised voices in the artistic world. The group of friends exists in opposition to the film's only pragmatic character, Nazeer, who takes pride in being a business owner and on his way to a computer science degree, while the likes of Tim and Buff drift through life with their only goal being to wake up the next more and start the cycle of decay over again. Jeff sits on the fringe of these two worlds as evidenced by his civil interactions with Nazeer and being the only one to actually ask for his real name. There is a sparkle of enlightenment in Jeff, and he even reaches his own cathartic epiphany, screaming passionately about the privilege of being able to be alive, yet the motivation draining presence of his friends and environment ultimately appear to have him cornered. In the films closing scene, a lesser mentioned friend of the group Bee Bee is found on the convenience store's roof having suffered an overdose. Nazeer looks directly at Jeff in disbelief and sadness, saying You have everything and you throw it all away! Jeff says nothing in response, just staring back at Nazeer blankly, his face distraught but blank in the same moment&#151;he recognizes the plague of his situation, yet remains incapable of action. ******** "},{"Title":"Solid film hampered by bad ending///may be spoilers.","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well written by Eric Bogosian, but the ending leaves a bad taste in my mouth. It seems that the moral of this film is to stab your friends in the back and to sell out to succeed in life.Nicky Katt's Tim is my favorite character in cinema history. He brilliantly portrayed an ex-soldier with gallons of hatred stored up inside. I saw a lot of myself in that character, and it was quite a wakeup call.The actor's did a great job, especially Katt, Giovanni Ribisi and Ajay Naidu. I couldn't stand Amie Carey's character, and applauded Nicky Katt every time he told her off. This is the best film for the Gen-X crowd ever made, as Bogosian perfectly creates these youthful characters who are too old to be young and too young to be old. I find myself reciting Giovanni's rants on society often.I highly recommend this film, but the ending may disappoint you. "},{"Title":"What happened?","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is what happens to people who don't like where they at in life and are bored and self-absorbed. I can't see the point of the movie. The only one of the group who actually ended up better off was the goofy perverted stoner who's thoughts never went beyond sex fantasies and getting wasted. The ending was obtuse and open-ended.  Nobody seems to get it. Supposedly it's one of those cutting-edge growing up flicks but best I can tell, it was a movie about a pack of idiots remaining confused in the suburbs.  "},{"Title":"A great great drama movie!","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I actually saw this on on Tv just now (15 mins ago) and I got really impressed! I was stunned by this one!This movie is based on the conversation and dynamic between the characters. It is almost only conversation and it is so beautifully done. A great script and dialogue and great directing. The director really got a great atmosphere and feeling into this movie. It is a serious and intelligent drama that really got me thinking.It really sent the message of isolation, and the longing to get away from the dead suburb. With little means they create a tense and interesting dynamic and overall a intersting film, from the beginning to the end. The acting is great form all involved.I really cant explain it all in words, but I definetly would recommend this one! Go see it and as long as you have a somewhat developed taste in movies (not the average Armageddon lovers that is) you will probably like, if not love, this one! "},{"Title":"Suburbia review","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Suburbia is a very memorable film filled with deep, well written characters by playwright/screenwriter Eric Bogosian.It revolves around a group of disenfranchised 20 somethings hanging around a local convenience store in fictional Burnfield, during a night in which an old friend turned succesful rock musician (Jayce Burtok) returns to visit them.The center character is Jeff (Giovanni Ribisi), who seems to be the most intelligent, well spoken and good natured one of the bunch, but is just as confused as the rest. His friends are Tim (Nicky Katt), a surly air force dropout who is becoming an alchoholic, and Buff (Steve Zahn), a zany, off the wall slacker who's life seems to revolve around pizza, sex and weed/alcohol.Joining them are Jeff's malcontent girlfriend Sooze (Aimy Carey), and her friend, recovering addict Bee-Bee (Dina Spyby). Sooze is an artist wanna-be with dreams of leaving Burnfield behind for New York.Rising tension mounts not only when Pony, along with assistant Erica (Parker Posey) enter the scene, but with the escalating feud between Tim and the Pakastani store owners, Nazeer and Pakisa (Ajay Nauida is the voice of them, and reason).Suburbia is a dark, entertaining film bolstered by strong performances, the standout being Nicky Katt as Tim, who seemingly becomes more and more of a monster as the night goes on (and he gets more drunk).It's one not to miss, a lesser known gem of a film from the writer of Talk Radio and the director of Dazed and Confused. "},{"Title":"Utterly incredible.","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not in any way is this a comedy. It is a disturbing tale of love, growing up, and how people change. It's really a drama with some funny lines, but it's a beautiful film. The entire movie, well, really just the main character Jeff, spews truth with every line. I believe it should be mandatory everyone should see this. "},{"Title":"Another great character piece by Linklater","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not much of a plot, but that is to be expected. Parker Posie was at her best as usual (see Daytrippers). Although its obviously a stage play caught on film, Linklater is once again able to bring you in and make you forget about the medium (see Waking Life)  "}{"Title":"Very good","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  At least I admit I don't know.  I know that things are f-ed up beyond belief, and I know that I have nothing original to say about any of it, all right?  I don't have an answer.  I don't have a f-ing message.Really enjoyable, and totally not in the same vein as the empty genre American Beauty has carved out.  In fact, the type of characters one would find in the aforementioned movie is the butt of the joke in this movie.  See, living in suburbia can be very miserable, but the protagonist is fortunately on an entirely different level than the fish-out-of-water spoilt suburban kid usually projected on screen.  This is a definite well-rounded movie.  Aside from great dialogue, the acting and comedic timing is excellent.  There are many times during the movie that I just doubled over with laughter, and of course there are plenty of smiles throughout.  Thought-provoking without biting off more than it can chew.I have to say that one of my favorite parts is when the ritzy publicist says, I love Anne Rice.  And Ribisi just smirks. "},{"Title":"Favorite Movie","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Let me just start off by saying that Richard Linklater is a genius. All of his movies, ok except for Newton Boys, are in my top 20. Suburbia is my favorite however for a few different reasons. 1.) Excellent dialogue, you can tell it is from a Begosian play, and of course Begosian rocks. 2.) Great Directing by Linklater, he makes the witty dialogue work in limited settings and time frame of one night. 2.) Great Acting by Giovanni Ribisi, Nicky Katt, Steve Zahn, and my favorite actress Parker Posey (I love her). 4.)It is a real intelligent movie as it analyzes different aspects of society. I have friends that call it a teen angst movie about how Suburbia sucks and I couldn't disagree more. It has a much more of universal point of how life goes on and to not let life pass you by. I have read previous reviews of this movie and people have said, I don't know anybody who acts like the characters do in the movie. That is such crap. You never wondered what you wanted to do with your life and were scared of change? I think everyone has experienced that at some point in there life, that is why the movie is so important to me. I recommend this movie to anyone who wants to take a chance on character driven movie that just might touch them. This is not a teen comedy as it has been marketed. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The loser version of American Graffitti","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that leaves you laughing and thinking, and hard combo to pull off.  It deals with the lives of people who let the world blow by them.  It deals with their everyday shenanigans and chicanery, as well as their deep inner regrets and needs.  It's like peering into a whole world that gets thrown up on it's hinges and spun around.  SubUrbi@ is like a loser version of American Graffitti, and deserves as much praise as Lucas's version.  The characters are dynamic, real people, who, despite their best efforts, are forced to make a decision.  I recognized friends in the characters, and met new ones as I watched.  It features great acting and a story line of everyday melancholy that almost everyone can identify with.  I would recommend this movie to anyone who has ever felt that their life is going nowhere.  This is one of the best movies I've seen, it excels as both a comedy and a drama, and that in itself, is a Herculean feat worthy of praise. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Films I've Ever Seen","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I cannot stress enough the impact this made on me the first night I watched it.  Anyone swimming in their own suburbia are familiar with the character archetypes seen in the film, and can probably relate to at least one of them.  Youth has never been so successfully captured on film-- it felt like looking into a mirror for the whole short span of the film.  The fact that some people call this a disappointment is unsettling-- not only is it Linklater's best, it's one of the best films ANYONE has made.  Considering it a comedy is also strange-- though it is very warm and human, it's also realistic in its depiction of life, thus, not exactly a laugh riot. "},{"Title":"Thanks to this site I bothered","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I wouldn't have bothered to watch this film if it weren't for the reviews on this site.  I found it real and gritty and overall very well done. Suburbia is tight and close and personal and well worth a look.It had a quality I usually associate with Australian films, less on the expensive bulls*** and more on the quality of the script and acting.  I like that.  Like a lovely woman without makeup. "},{"Title":"continuing to affirm linklater as one of 90's greatest dir.","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is rather strange but I think it really gets at the basis of modern post-high school life and depression from the eyes of the slacker. I couldn't find any flaws in any of the performances.  A good vacant sort of 'character' flick.  Big on character development almost nothing on plot. "},{"Title":"What happens when you don't graduate from high school","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   For youngsters out there who are considering dropping out of grade school, watching this movie is a pretty good indicator of what would happen. The film, which lacks a plot (perfectly explaining life with no diploma) focuses on a small group of twenty-somethings who mingle on the side of a mini mart in the middle of nowhere and spend most of their time drinking or harassing the two Pakistani managers. When the group finally gets reunited with a friend who has since become a rock star, there was some rewarding material, but it came off more as a soap opera and didn't seem very believable. A connection like that is only a dream for all dreamers to the industry everyone wants to be in, and half of the group would rather continue staying with their parents and loiter in front of their beloved mini-marts. One of them thinks they'll make it big as an artist in New York, but living in New York is not easy thing - most people arrive unprepared, not expecting the high cost of living and the hard time getting into a desired profession.   The end of the film was ironic, (and not too surprising) and didn't have to offer much except the major excess of slacking (interesting reference to the director's earlier film) and the bleak consequence of substance abuse. But overall, an accurate prediction of repercussions for delinquent or truant kids.  "},{"Title":"For Mature Audiences Only","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Based on plot, cast, score and director, it would be easy to mistake this for a teen flick. Based on the comments posted here, many viewers did just that, and got angry when the movie didn't meet their expectations. That's a shame, because beneath the pop trappings is a mature, thoughtful character study.SubUrbia the movie gets to the paradox at the heart of suburbia the place growing up in utopia can be hell. The story revolves around the return of a kid who 'made it', but the central conflict is the one between the Pakistani convenience store manager/student who works tirelessly to achieve his dream of a suburban life, and the and the angry man-boy who wants to throw it all away. For each, the other represents a threat to their world-view, and each responds by demonizing the other foreign interloper and spoiled brat. But both characterizations are wrong. The Pakistani isn't trying to displace anyone. He's trying to make a place for himself beside them. The kids aren't acting out of willful childishness or greed. They're striving for something they can't even define, but without which they will whither and die.SubUrbia offers no simple answers, nor does it retreat into the pseudo-profundity of pretending there are no answers. What are we doing here? What gives our lives value? These aren't questions that can be settled in the space of two hours, and Suburbia has the good sense not to try. "},{"Title":"Dazed was better","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I know that may sound really bad. Because I shouldn't be comparing. But come on! Everybody who saw Dazed first was comparing somewhere in their head.This is suppose to be an accurate portrayal of teenagers. Well, I'm a teenager and I don't hang around the local Circle K (Circle A in the film) all day, I do, but not that much. And I especially don't sit around and bi--h all day and night. That is why I think Dazed is a better film. It shows how teenagers really are. We don't complain all day. We go and hang out at parties and have fun. Not try and make up some philosiphy about why are life sucks.I could relate to the characters in Dazed. They were more fun to watch, too. The dialogue in this film sometimes is very weak. And I'm not saying I think people who talk through an entire movie is boring, it's not, view Clerks. Some scenes in this film seem to go on for a lot longer than they need to. And then some just didn't need to be there at all. If I was writing or directing the film I probably would have added some scenes in there and then taken the ones that were useless out. Like, I think it would have been interesting to see what went on at the Four Season's. They could have added a lot more humor into the film. And what was the whole point of the (SPOILERS DO NOT READ UNLESS SEEN FILM) thing with Tim telling Jeff that Erica was dead. It was stupid and should have been cut.On to my next complaint. Why is this labeled a comedy? There were several humorous parts in it (all involving Steve Zahn). But not enough to clasify this as a comedy.And I just want to note something I did enjoy. In the morning when Buff went to buy coffee. That is one of my favorite things. After along night of partying or whatever, I love going into the Circle K and buying me and my friends a cappachino and coffee. It seems like it is the most real time for me. In the morning, when we all settle down and have a good conversation with our drinks in hand.I'm going to add points to the film because of that scene. Plus I do like how it ended. So overall a 6/10 "},{"Title":"not the best, or among the best, but not bad","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm getting ready to do a small 8mm documentary of my own suburban nightmare, so lately I've been renting countless films on the subject.  Having already seen Suburbia 2 years previous, I figured this was the best place to start.  While I never really picked up anything from the film that I could use, I was reminded of its ungodly ability to reach down into the everyman's soul.  This movie made me think.  It was raw, uncensored, exactly the way I know people in my own hometown.  It's depressing as spending a Friday night with your grandparents (sorry, ma), but makes you reevaluate your standards so that you can be half-glad about who you are.  I think that this was Richard Linklater's last great film before he succombed to the flamboyant pettiness of the mainstream.  No matter.  It made me want to continue making movies, and I will for years to come, whether it be on 8mm or 35mm.  I LOVE MOVIES.  And this film is one that I will never forget as a genuinely touching film.      "}{"Title":"A movie that hits home.....","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For the juvenile delinquents, slackers  of the world this movie rings true. Its a good movie but can only be understood by those that lived it. Its about a bunch of kids that chill outside a convenience store. It goes through there problems and is sort of melodramatic. It shows the human side of  those children that you spit on as they try to change their world  to paraphrase David Bowie. All in all its just a movie for teens to watch and find comfort in. Its not as good as Richard Linklatters other films....... I recommend Slacker. "},{"Title":"it really makes you think..","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i didn't even know the name of this movie when i first watched, but how was i to know it'd become my most favourite movie?the story is a satire about kids in a typical suburban city in the USA. a group of friends who hang around their local Circle K each day are a few years out of high school and are soon to discover one of their old friends (..or not!) who actually made it out of the suburbs and got famous after high school is coming back to visit.through pony's visit, the gang soon discover new things about themselves. sooze wants to leave for new york, her boyfriend jeff doesn't want her to go. tim was discharged from the army and doesnt care much for leaving the little niche he's got himself in, and buff.. well buff just wants to get laid.pony seems to become an ideal for sooze, and she seems to get more and more caught in his little nice guy who can help you out trap as the movie progresses. jeff's protests against pony dont seem to help his cause. and buff.. well buff's still trying to get laid.all in all, the film really makes you think. a lot of people come out of high school and then they're lost. they don't know what they're doing, or they do, but they just can't get out of their rut. kids in the suburbs.. suburbs where houses are all built the same, everyones taught the same, the stores are the same, the brands are the same, the tv is the same.. all of this shows how many people can lose their dreams and become stuck in this rut they soon become comfortable in. they come out of high school thinking they can conquer the world, soon to discover that they cant, that they just have to end up stuck in suburbia like their parents. some, like sooze, try to make it out. others, like pony, do make it. the irony of it all is that it shows how people like sooze need to jump on the back of someone like pony's bandwagon to get out. others, like nazeer, are actually working hard to get by in life. im sure everyone who sees the movie will even see parts of their own psyche, or life experiences, through these characters.another great aspect is the great choice of actors who were chosen to play the characters. giovanni ribisi (just recently in 'gone in 60 seconds') plays Jeff perfectly. other notable mentions are steve zahn as buff and parker posey as erica.its hard to explain the message it's trying to put across. you just need to watch it to understand and i think the track by gene pitney, a town without pity, which is played during the titles sums it up quite nicely. "},{"Title":"A good thought provoking movie","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A good, thought provoking movie that manages to cope with quite a bit of issues within two hours and does it surprisingly well. The movie basically revolves around a group of friends being paid a visit by their high school friend who became a pop star, and the events that follow.Some of the gang develop a my friend's a star and i'm not syndrome, with the star friend trying to explain that it's just me. I found that part especially interesting since i hope to become a star myself and hope none of my friends develop any syndromes...I like to think that anyone who makes their dreams come true is a star, weather by becoming a pop star, or the best heart surgeon, or a writer, or a popular high school teacher or gym instructor or... you get my point. It's too bad most of the gang in this film didn't do enough to make their dreams come true, one of them preferring to just moan on about the world all day.I like to think that they eventually do succeed. After all, hangin' around drunk in front of convenience stores can become a drag after a while...8/10 "},{"Title":"great film!!!!!","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I would like to say that the movie subUrbia is the best movie I have ever seen. Me and my best friend Aaron both agree that no movie is better. This movie is available in the comedy section of most Blockbuster Video locations nationwide, so I strongly recommend to anyone who hasn't seen it to go rent it as soon as posible. It is about young adults trying to figure out what they wanna do in life. I've seen this movie countless times, and every time I see it I get more and more out of it. I is the best movie ever made. I'd give it 20 thumbs up. ********* "},{"Title":"TWICE AS LONG AS NECESSARY","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i rented this movie because i'd heard from several people how good it was. boy, was i disappointed! basically, the characters, while weak in the first half of the movie become almost unbearably annoying in the second half. i ended the movie intensely disliking every single character, and not caring what happened to them. also, it seemed like there were two distinct parts to the movie, and i thought that the second half was completely unnecessary. "},{"Title":"A film that shows the awful reality of young peoples' lives.","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I absolutely loved this film.  It depicted my exact feelings about America and how boring it is for young people.  You will like this film if you enjoy dialogue-based youth films like Clerks and Dazed and Confused.  I especially identified with Jeff and his point of view on several issues.  Linklater does well directing but I think he lost some of his sense of humor with this script.  An otherwise great film.  "},{"Title":"Giovanni Ribisi is a God!","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Every once in a while there is an actor who renews your faith in the questionable talent pool that Hollywood draws from. For me Giovanni Ribisi is just such an actor. He is what changes SubUrbia from a decent film about the darker side of teen angst into a moving story of a guy who, like most of us, hates his middle class world but is too apathetic to actually do anything about it. Giovanni Ribisi has the ability to turn annoying drivel, i.e. Friends, into something actually watchable. I can only hope that when Hollywood starts giving him roles that don't involve him either dying or getting injured at the start of the film (Saving Private Ryan, That Thing You Do) he'll make smart choices and not end up a joke, a fate that far too many talented actors fall into when they start to get famous. I can't wait for him to get the chance to show us all he's capable of... "},{"Title":"An honest movie","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Suburbia may not be the most interesting story, but it is one every one should see. The main characters are ones we all can identify with in one way or another. The honesty the characters show is painful, but it is in fact, the truth. These people are at a point where they can move ahead with their lives or be left behind. The main character Jeff eloquently states,at least I'm not afraid to say that I DON'T know! That I don't have a clue, or a f*cking plan! I saw this movie on a total fluke and immediately went out and bought it. It changed my look on life, and it might change yours "},{"Title":"Loved It!","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I truly and thoroughly enjoyed this movie. The character of Buff, played by Steve Zahn was oscar worthy. He was zany, hilarious and completely believable. You can't imagine a guy being able to play someone so crazy if he weren't really that way. The story was interesting and very entertaining. Good acting by everyone. I give it a solid A. "},{"Title":"Suburban angst!","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is about hopes and dreams of youth in small-town America. Where the film comes out as unique is in the way it approaches its subject. The plot is subsumed in the characters as they ponder over their future and their views of life during a night of 'just hanging out'. The narrative presents a 'situation' more than a proper plot. It progresses as each character grapples with personal, psychological problems of growing up.All characters are given equal importance and scenes gently merge into each other. The approach is reminiscent of Robert Altman's multi-character, multi-narrative films. The performances are casual and convincing. Director Linklater has developed sophisticated and personal style first seen in 'Dazed and Confused'.    However, the immigrant experience portrayed in the film borders on parody. In contrast to the other characters the department store owner and his wife are shallow and stereotyped. Being an Indian myself, I see that the few Hindi dialogues are extremely contrived and are amateurishly delivered. Otherwise a very refreshing film.  "}{"Title":"subUrbia's not for everyone...","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I, personally loved subUrbia. It is a true reflection of youth and I think everyone who sees this movie can compare themselves to one or more of the characters. The reason I think many people don't like it is because of the language, and that it doesn't seem to have a point. But the point is, there are so many people out there just like the characters in this movie, waiting for their lives to go somewhere. Plus, the performances were very good, especially Giovanni Ribisi and Steve Zahn. "},{"Title":"Thought Provoking Slice of Life","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is great for those who like to take a step back and examine their own lives.  You can find yourself within these characters, who are amazingly real.  Although there isn't one particular thing that this movie is about, it moves you.  Some of the speeches given by Jeff are simply amazing in their pure truth.  An excellent movie that doesn't try to dance around the touchy parts of life.  Realistic and appropriate.  "},{"Title":"Great soundtrack.","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you don´t want to see this movie (which you should) at least hear it. It´got a great soundtrack which really takes the movie higher. Songs with Beck, Sonic Youth, Butthole surfers among others really captures what this movie´s about.  "},{"Title":"if you can stay awake for the first hour, you'll be alright","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is my third Linklater film. I liked it the most, which is not saying a whole lot. What I hate about him (and since bogosian was writing, I had hoped this wouldn't be a problem this time) is that his films tend to be as aimless as their subjects. Most of his characters are about as interesting as any loser you could randomly hit by throwing a rock in a high school hallway. In this case, however, just when you are ready to throw in the towel, it gets really interesting. (And  Parker Posey really livens things up when she appears in the latter half of the film. I mean, how could she not?!)First half D Second half A- "},{"Title":"Harsh and realistic view on youth today","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Suburbia ranks as one of my all-time favorite films simply for the fact that it presents youth today for what it is cynical, lazy, and jaded.  While other movies show you the Hollywood idea of youth, Eric Bogosian's original stage play strips away the glamour and the best times of our lives view that most mainstream movies strive to portray.  The ending grabs you, shakes you, and makes you think.  In my humble opinion, it's one of the most harshly realistic movies on the Kids In America produced thus far. "},{"Title":"Good Summary Of Our Youth Today","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Suburbia was a great movie. I saw it when it came out, and at the time, I'm sad to say, The movie was an exact portrait of our youth today. Maybe one of the best portrayals of our youth. I hate to say, but my friends and I are kinda the corner store bums too. The Movie Rocked and Giovanni Rebisi rules all!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"2 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  SubUrbia is one of those movies that stay in your mind forever. With gripping dialog, funny characters, and the strange reality that makes you believe this movie is happening while you're watching it. Dina Spybey gave a great performance even though the movie didn't include her as much as I hoped it would. Everyone else give incredible performances. Plus, it 's a Parker Posey movie, what else could you ask for. "},{"Title":"Sad commentary on America's youth","Date":"13 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was originally a play. As a result, the movie has a lot of dialogue and not a lot of action.  But the dialogue is very funny, and you do feel sorry for these kids. It's hard to believe that any of the characters will end up anywhere, except for the suburban wasteland of Burnfield that they reluctantly call home.  I thought it was a very good movie, though a sad commentary on America's youth. "},{"Title":"Why don't you swallow your cock and choke on it.","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've always been a fan of Giovanni Ribisi, and seeing this film really made me realize why I like him so much. His performance is just amazing. This is a film based off a play by Eric Bogosian, which centers around a group of friends that pretty much spend their days and nights hanging out in the parking lot of a convenience store, drinking away their future. One friend in particular had broken away to become a successful pop star which only stirs up jealous feelings from his former childhood buddies upon his return. On a whole I think this film really offers something for those that are interested in movies that are intellectually stimulating. There isn't a whole lot of action, and the entire movie pretty much takes place at the convenience store, but for what it lacks in scenery and effects it makes up for in dialog and acting. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Not Original","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It was a play first, vey often produced over the last decade. Linklater can't be blamed for the story or any of that. Its a film version of a play.. like house of yes, or the upcming Angels in America, or the LAramie Project. And, the main difference between a film and a play is that a play's script is not up for discussion along with the action as it is not a unique single act, it is an interpretation by a director of the playwright's words. A movie script on the other hand goes hand in hand with the action as it is meant to be created as one entity.That aside as a common misconception for so many people I see reviewing plays like they were movies (leave the script alone talk about acting and direction), I like Suburbia.  "}{"Title":"Have you ever met a bigger group of losers in your life?","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Chances are, you probably have. You probably know one (or several) of the characters in this movie, if not now, then at some point in your life. Maybe you were one of them. I know I can understand their frustration, but these kids are just too damn old to be this dumb. And it all works for me, because of the magnificent script by Eric Bogosian. Eric is one of those guys who could be making millions in Hollywood by writing scripts full of zingers for Jerry Bruckheimer, but instead he writes plays and does one man shows, and I think has developed a bit of a cult following. Talent most deserving of wider recognition.Ribisi and Zahn are the two actors who stand out in this little ensemble. Zahn is a riot as the drunk and/or stoned Buff. I like this guy. Ribisi is always great, isn't he? His face is not quite Hollywood enough to play the lead in movies, but he does very well in a lot of supporting roles in some big films. I like the fact that he's a busy guy, but he never phones it in.It follows a group of bored (many would say boring) kids. Except they're not really kids. Some are in college or dropped out, another has toured the world, but now they're all trapped in Suburban hell. But is trapped the word for it? We get to see several of their peers that have taken real jobs or have followed their dreams and made something of themselves, and this group still hangs out at the dumpster behind the convenience store. They are just to old to be this stupid, and it drives them nuts. Ribisi's character wonders Why he isn't rich and famous like his old friend Pony the rock star. He comments on life too, so why not him? The difference is, he does it from the local burger joint, while Pony has the sense to put it in song form and sell it to thousands of screaming teenagers. And the rebel without a clue, wrapped in self pity, who was almost a football star but instead became a drunk. And the former alcoholic teen. And the one that thinks she'll just go to New York and they'll welcome her with open arms because of her unique artistic vision, but we all really know she will end up a junkie and starve to death instead.It captures that time in your life (late or early teens) when you hate the world, but you can't form a cohearant reason why you're so angry all the time. I'm not sure where the ending to this movie is, or why they decided to go in such a dark direction in the third act (I think they could have done without it), but this is a terrific film. Clever and very funny at times, it makes you thank god you're not still a kid again. The confusion does melt away at some point, it just takes a little longer for some. 9/10 stars. G'night!  "},{"Title":"Great cast in underrated film","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Excellent, underrated dramatic comedy feature.  The cast fit the roles, including Giovanni Ribisi.  The plot is simple yet convincing.  Its setting is ordinarily subtle.  However, there should have been more material at the end.   "},{"Title":"SubMovie","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a fan of Richard Linklater's homage to the 70s Dazed and Confused (like many people, apparently), seeing his name attached to this piece was the sole reason I went to see it. Like Dazed, I expected a rambling '24-hours-in-the-life-of' movie with a strong cast of virtual nobodies (at the time). And while this did occur (the movie starts and ends merely for the sake of having a beginning and an end), it falls, WHAM! Flat on its pretentious face!How come? I mean, Dazed was cute and stupid at the same time, funny and outrageous, senseless and meandering. SubUrbia on the other hand, plays out like a godawful after-school special - it seems everybody has a token problem. There's drugs! Bullies! Angst! Suicide! Fitting in! I kept waiting for a Nancy Reagan cameo, bleating about society's ills and telling Giovanni Ribisi that life would be 'cooler' if he didn't cuss so much. And f---, does he cuss. I never thought anyone could outwhine Bill Paxton in Aliens, but Gio here takes the cake and crams it down his gullet. His cronies fare no better, considering a talented cast including Parker Posey and Steve Zahn (coasting through this one in full Reality Bites cutesy-cynic mode).Linklater obviously had experience to draw from in creating Dazed. SubUrbia may be a slice-of-life, but not his. Not by a long-shot. The movie seems based on second-hand experiences, like someone telling you this is what your life is like. Truth be told, no one knows what your life is like, what you go through growing up except you. 'Nuff said. I'm starting to sound like an after-school special myself. "},{"Title":"Unbearably Awful.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  *** Warning Spoilers! ***Suburbia is an absolutely awful waste of film. The movie revolves around a bunch of 30 year old actors playing teenagers getting drunk and high outside of a Kwik-E-Mart where they harass the Pakistani clerk because of his skin color (they only think your a racist if you harass black people; I guess Hollywood loves making pigs out of young people). Then some guy who sings country songs from Hollywood comes down and they act like total jackasses in front of him and his girlfreind. Then the virgin girl gets drunk and dies on the roof of the convinience store. Then one of the characters threatens the clerk. And that's the end. I've seen better ends on donkeys (get it?).  "},{"Title":"A truthful and inspired movie","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is refreshing and unique in that the messages and ideas put across are filled entirely with truth. The dialogue seems to say exactly what the rest of us are wanting to say, and in this way, you leave the film inspired. The performances are excellent and the direction by Linklater is, as always, a pleasure.  "},{"Title":"interesting indie loses tension after Pony","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's the suburban neighborhood of Burnfield in Austin, Texas. Slackers hang out behind the convenience store that is operated by the Choudhurys. Jeff (Giovanni Ribisi) is dating Sooze (Amie Carey). She wants to go to NYC to do alternative art but he refuses to do anything. Jokester Buff (Steve Zahn) works at the pizza joint. Tim (Nicky Katt) is ex-military with anger issues. Bee-Bee (Dina Spybey-Waters) is Sooze's friend. They come looking for Pony who was Jeff's friend and is now famous. A confrontation with the Choudhurys scatters the group. Pony (Jayce Bartok) shows up with publicist Erica (Parker Posey) and find the group. Jeff holds some resentment as he has a different memory of the start of Pony's band.It's one rambling night in the burbs written by Eric Bogosian and directed by Richard Linklater. It has some good actors. For some reason, I keep thinking of 'Waiting for Guffman'. In that movie, Guffman is a red herring and it works better. This movie turns aimless after Pony arrives. He's the goal and the movie loses its emphasis. The movie would be much better to climax with his arrival and end with a complete blowout with Jeff in that parking lot. The last half loses all the tension for me. The movie is 2 hours and could easily lose some of the second half. "},{"Title":"Why You Don't Like This Film","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You don't like this film because it's pretentious. It makes a statement that is high-minded and artistic, and it dares to speak the unpopular truth about life in this America. You don't like this film because there's no real action, at least not very much. You don't like this film because maybe the snooty, arrogant immigrant is the good guy, and the why can't we all just get along boyscout might be the bad guy, and the really bad guy isn't a bad guy at all, he's just a guy who is screwed, and probably always will be.Sometimes we come by our hatred honestly enough, but where it leads us is a hollow place, devoid of even the drama we wish for in our emptiness. And that's a lot of statement for a mere movie, with people talking, and acting stupid, and doing nothing of any consequence really. This film is pretentious art-house flop for so many, but for me, it was beautiful, and it was only because I waited for my reward, after a long time of wondering if maybe the negative reviews were right, and if maybe it was a piece of crap.Well it spends most of its time on screen teetering on the brink of craptitude; ready to be some pointless, angst-filled pseudo nightmare of profanity and cheap voyeurism, which is all the rage these days, but then it turns out it was something far above all that.It was a work of love. The writer did us all a huge favor, and told us something very simple, and very true, and the filmmaker told us that story without any pretense at all, after fooling us into thinking he was trying for the top prize at Cannes, or just to get into bed with hot French chicks.Life is a gift, and you can use it how you wish.I hope that's not a f*cking spoiler. "},{"Title":"pay attention to the how the characters end up interacting, the truth and awkward, flat-out lying, and pure tension and depression- it's 90s (and today's) youth!","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Richard Linklater's adaptation of Eric Bogosian's subUrbia is revelatory in the smaller sense because, like any good play, it follows the characters personalities by way of where they're at in the location(s), and their conflicts, even if things involving the characters are fairly simplistic. With these guys and girls in their early 20s, there's not much to do, and little to aspire to. Jeff (Ribisi) knows he doesn't know what he wants to do, and is almost perfectly comfortable with that, even if his frustration comes out all the time; Tim (Katt, maybe his best performance, if a little limited) is an ex-dish washer from the army who is about as aggravated as imaginable, but often with a seething angst under the surface as faux anarchist aspirations; Soozie (Carey) is the typical girl who wants to get out of town and do something and bring along a guy- in this case quasi-boyfriend Jeff- who isn't too interested in it for reasons of hesitation in the guise of pragmatism; Buff (a pure goof-ball Zahn) has had his brain melted by alcohol and marijuana, and yet is very sweet and like a kind of Harpo with a Beavis & Butthead complex; and Pony (Barok) is the nerdy goodie-too-shoes who got out of town and became a star, but plays insufferable music and is a Primadonna.Around these characters, plus a semi-rehabilitated alcoholic Spybey's Bee-Bee (who reveals this only later on in the film, maybe the most TV-movie but disquieting in suburban tragedy of the bunch), Linklater uses Bogosian's impressive dialog to make this occasionally very funny, mostly due to Zahn's random antics involving himself throwing around objects (including people sometimes), and with the zinger one-liners from sardonic Ribisi, but also more contemplative about the nature of the 90s youth slummers. It's appropriate that Ebert made comparisons to Waiting for Godot, as it has that quality of digging very harshly and in a half-satiric half-naturalistic manner. It may be a parody of pretension seeing Sooze do her interpretive dance, but maybe it isn't at the same time, which lends the humor of seeing her as a double-edged sword if one's around this age, if not even from this generation, there's probably someone in a group like this who has misguided creativity. Or Katt's character, who is maybe the most stereotypical, particularly in the heated arguments with a convenience store owner (Naidu, far removed from his Office Space role if just as anxious), but has inklings of truth to him as a representation of the real losers among the slackers.And then Ribisi, the 'hero' of the story, is actually kind and 'true', as he tries to see it, but is there giving commentary on situations, like Pony doing an impromptu musical performance for his former high-school buddies in a laundromat parking lot, and is also only so much critical of himself. It's basically a small view into people who you probably might see sometime going to a 7-11 if you're in a suburban malaise kind of town where all the practical things- eating, finding maybe one girl or guy, getting laundry done, getting good and drunk, and education- can be done, but it's also a trap where the loop inspires feelings of change, minor fun, and indifference, as well as the usual disgust. Towards the end if does lean towards the preachy the altercations between Katt and Nazeer are the least effective portions, and even the disturbing fate of Bee-Bee reeks of a contrivance that can only come from a play. But there's a lot of rich material here- if not as wholly successful as Linklater's most successful portrait in Dazed and Confused, or as ambitious as Slacker- and it merits a repeat viewing sometime, most likely without the aid of much alcohol, which the characters here take as a sort of assist in making things even more dull and, if you're Zahn, a lot more fun in a distanced way. "},{"Title":"For those who like to not only think, but feel.","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a great film to me, but it might not be so great to every kind of person. I'd say that it's good for people who have ever felt like no one understands them. If that's how you are, you'll find that some one does understand and that you aren't the only one who feels lost. Don't make the mistake of thinking this is some ultra-sappy drama/romance. It has it's share of dramatic and romantic themes, but the main theme is just different peoples' journeys into their own heart and mind. It's a movie that shows that the author is not afraid to bear his own feelings as if they are comlpetely normal, even thought it's hard to know if anyone else does in fact feel the way you do. For that, I salute the author. The directing was nothing special, but it does the job. The thing I love the most about this film would have to be that if you can really get into the movie, it will take you on an emotional journey because you feel what the characters are feeling. My only warning is that if your emotions are easily influenced by movies, then by the end of this movie, you might feel changed. It's the kind of movie that could make you look at life differently. "},{"Title":"I don't doubt that it's realistic.","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ah, the suburbs. That wasteland to which white people move so that they don't have to live around ethnic folks. It's hard to tell whether movies usually idealize the suburbs or trash them, but SubUrbia certainly does the latter. Portraying several people's empty lives in an unidentified suburban land - although I assumed that it was LA; it was plastic enough to be LA - they pull no punches here. One of the aspects is that you can see how they treat the one ethnic person (Ajay Naidu). But what can you say about the suburbs (except maybe that they're a hell on Earth)? Anyway, Richard Linklater was showing some of the skills that he later brought to Waking Life. This is a movie worth seeing. Also starring Nicky Katt, Parker Posey, Giovanni Ribisi and Steve Zahn. "}{"Title":"One of the most reflective  young adult  films  I've ever seen.","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHIt's seldom that movies about teenagers have the depth that this one does. SubUrbia deserves to be up in the top of the heap in that respect as I can recall few other movies of this type that get the accuracy of youth in suburbia so absolutely RIGHT. The people, the dialog, the issues-it was all there. In addition the movie was actually interesting.As in movies like Clerks and Breakfast Club this film takes place in a short period of time, one night actually. I'm not going to get into reviewing the whole plot as that's not my thing but I will comment on the essence of the movie and on just how vividly the characters are brought to life on screen. This is a much darker movie then the above mentioned two and an unflinchingly honest Picture. Deserves not just good but excellent status.For anyone who has experienced their own days of hanging out in suburban parking lots there will be a lot to relate to. It's almost inevitable for anyone with a past to be able to find aspects of themselves or a fellow suburbanite or two, in many of the characters. Sometimes it's a little uncomfortable to watch as it may feel less like watching a movie and more like eavesdropping on yourself and your friends. This isn't a fast times type of picture, this reflects the darker aspects of youth.This movie really did remind me of Clerks a lot in that the whole film took place in a night and because of the slice of life aspect of the movie. Then again there's a tad bit of River's Edge in this as well(a must see if one hasn't seen it.) There have been few movies since Rivers Edge that have so effectively captured the inertia and Disconnect of growing up suburban and this one does. It's a fantastic picture.I don't necessarily see these characters as people who don't have dreams. Rather in some aspects they seem to dream far more then many. And when Pony, another suburbanite who had the same dreams which just happened to come true, returns to town, resentment is almost inevitable.I'd recommend the movie but maybe not when one is in a bad mood. It's one of the most reflective young adult films I've ever seen and is a must see for anyone who likes a dose of reality and poignant story to their films. This is a 9.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Better than expected &#150; well written and performed to produce an interesting character piece on the youth of suburbia","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In a small American town a group of friends have little to do other than hang around on the corner outside a convenience store drinking. Some have ambitions, some have none but they are all still there, much to the chagrin of the owner. Their empty lives are challenged though when a former classmate who has gone on to become a famous musician returns to the area for a gig and drops back to the corner to say hello.I was a bit worried that this would be a rather lacking comedy from Richard Linklater and was pleasantly surprised to find a well written drama played out in this rather stagy film. The plot is not really that strong but it doesn't matter because the story is in the characters and their lives; it is a direction that needed good writing and fortunately Bogosian has done a good job of making these characters convincingly real while also turning it into a look at the nature of life in suburbia. It does go to extremes in terms of plot devices and the events of one night but it still works well on both levels. I'm sure not everyone will enjoy the direction it takes but for me it was interesting to et to know the characters and see them change and interact over the course of the night.The cast sounded like a risk on paper but they actually do well and generally give good performances. Ribisi stops his character being a spoilt member of the whatever generation and, although he is that, he brings more out as well. Zahn is his usual annoying self but this time it is intentional and, in that regard I guess he did a good job. Bartok is a bit wishy-washy for his character whereas Katt actually fits pretty well. Support from Naidu, Carey, Posey and the rest is all pretty good and they support the film's focus on character and the look at suburban life for this generation. Linklater tries his best to move the action around and make good use of his locations but the stage roots of the script shows through and it does feel very stiff and stagy for the majority.Overall this is not a perfect film but it is much more interesting and engaging than I expected it to be. The characters may not be to everyone's liking (which will be a problem for many viewers) but they are still well written and well delivered by the mixed cast. Worth seeing and I'm glad I took the risk. "},{"Title":"Linklater stumbles with this film","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm a big fan of Richard Linklater's Before Sunrise and Before Sunset, as well as the excellent, yet little known 'Tape' - but this film, SubUrbia (silly 'U' in the title), doesn't live up to the high standard of the latter mentioned films. Linklater obviously has respect for drama and dialogue, but he's let himself down here because a lot of the action and words in the film are silly, and delivered by a bunch of caricatures. We've got the irritating feminist, the famous guy trying to hang out with his old friends, a rich bitch with a heart of gold, a drunk who cant take his beer, a drunk who can, a girl out of rehab and a guy who holds everything together, simply by being more drab than the rest of them. The cast try their best with their characters, and the film isn't 'boring' - but it stinks of a decent film striving for greatness, and it never even nearly achieves it. The plot is basically about a bunch of Americans 'kids' that hang around parking lots, as they have nothing else to do. The film takes place around the same time that some guy they used to know, now a big rock star, is coming home to 'hang out' with them.Not much of this film is really believable. I don't think that Giovanni Ribisi's character would ever go out with the irritating feminist, for example, and a series of things like this make the film really difficult to get along with. The film is based on a play by Eric Bogosian, so it's unfair to blame Linklater (who I actually like) for the film's shortcomings with the characters; but to be fair, his direction is lethargic and doesn't really get along with the hip style that the film feels like it should have. Most of the characters are annoying rather than likable, and this means that by the time of the ending; you really don't care what happens. This is made worse by the fact that this is one of those 'ambiguous' films that leaves itself wide open at the end. Writers really need to learn when to, and when not to, use an ending like this. Ambiguous endings simply don't work when it doesn't matter what happens, and rather than making you think as the writer intended; it just turns you off. I appreciate this film a little because I like dialogue; but to be honest, there isn't a lot I can recommend it for. I do like the song, A Town Without Pity, used in the opening credits though. "},{"Title":"This movie was very, very well done.","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are 72 comments for this movie so I guess this will be 73. It's 146 am and I'm really tired so I'm not going to read anymore. I was compelled to open the laptop as the credits rolled; WOW I wanted to know more.... I read 8 comments; the first 7 were favorable and then there was number 8. It wasn't, so I was inspired to leave this comment to bring the curve up This movie was very, very well done. The acting was unbelievably good. In fact, I don't believe it was acting. The girl tap dancing and that drunk guy. No way. He really was drunk. That girl really does want to move to NY. This was a true story. Either that or the writer, director, and actors have created something so close to real life that, well, . Let's put it this way. This movie isn't a painting. It's a high resolution photograph. It played well for me since I'm asking myself the questions it raised; this movie may not please a real life upper middle class girl from Bel-Air, but it might. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie a few years ago, it was one of the best films i have ever seen. The fact that this was not a blockbuster hit made this movie just that much better. Defentily worth seeing. If you are a Giovanni Ribisi fan, this movie is for you, he plays an outstanding role. "},{"Title":"A good movie with strong performances","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  'subUrbia' is about bored people in a boring suburb called Burnfield. I can't believe you still live here, says the only person of the group of friends who actually did leave. His name is Pony (Jayce Bartok), he left and became a rock star. As the movie opens his old friends are waiting for him on a parking lot next to a supermarket owned by Pakistanis (Ajay Naidu and Samia Shoaib). His old friends include Jeff (Giovanni Ribisi) and his girlfriend Sooze (Amie Carey), the crazy Buff (Steve Zahn), Tim (Nicky Katt) who is starting to be an alcoholic and Bee-Bee (Dina Spybey), a former alcoholic. They talk about whether Pony will arrive in a limo or not, they drink a lot, they get in a fight with the Pakistanis. They all seem like losers wasting their lives, although Sooze is about to leave for New York to go to an art school. Jeff seems to be smarter than the others but he is wasting time as much as them. Then Pony arrives with his publicist Erica (Parker Posey) and they continue with their talking. And their drinking. And their time-wasting. Some other interesting things do happen.Here is a movie where the characters could be real people. The rock star Pony for example doesn't think of himself as the big man, like most characters like him do. Buff is getting more wasted and more crazy every second in a way I have seen it for real. There was one scene where he takes something that doesn't belong to him and I laughed hard because I recognized the situation very good. The dialogue in the movie feels as real as it can be in a movie and the performances are all very good. Especially Giovanni Ribisi, Steve Zahn and Ajay Naidu give great performances. Sometimes it is pretty intense and disturbing but it is probably very true. I can imagine real people doing the same kind of stupid things, the same kind of wasting their lives. With the very good direction from Richard Linklater ('Dazed and Confused', 'Tape') this is an interesting movie. "},{"Title":"grrr....the pits!!!","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is quite possible that this is the worst movie ever made....I love Parker Posey but that was the ONLY asset to the film....it seriously made my skin crawl with all the whining and cursing....That was all the movie was about....  There were no Meaningful moments I honestly couldn't find any real Meaning  to even having made that film.... "},{"Title":"How can you idiots call this a comedy?","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Has its funny moments (to me)but it hardly comes across as a comedy, or preachy, or.. even MEANT to be entertaining.. look, i'm relatively sure R. Linklater didn't have any grand notions about doing important social commentary when he made this, he probably just believed in the play by Eric Bogosian, and i'm glad he did.. to me, the film has a lot to say, a lot of messages.. but to try and summarize it, to try and distill ONE meaning out of it is just rather silly..sure, i like the performances, and Steve Zahn is damn entertaining in it, but.. didn't you know people like this? or weren't you or aren't you one? maybe i'm reaching......      the title is pretty apt, as SubUrbia is short for suburban utopia, and utopia is an idea that can never exist in reality.. rather ironic, now, but the developers who coined the suburbia term back in the 50's (??) i'm sure thought it more than simply some clever marketing ploy; i'm sure they really thought suburbia was some great idea.. well humanity is kind of a long line of failures, for the most part, isn't it? sure, there are geniuses amongst the billions of idiots, also, but without the idiots what basis would there be for qualifying someone as genius? ok, i'm drifting..to call it a bad movie is rather shortsighted.. if it annoys you, great! i don't think it's meant to be light entertainment.. and as i said, i don't think it's meant to be grand social commentary on the state of much of ameriKKKa, but it's hardly a film that spoonfeeds you a message - if it seems to then you've probably got it wrong, and you should go fall off a cliff and do the rest of us a favor so that we don't have to be subjected to the opinions of mouth-breathing halfwits like so many of you humans are..giovanni ribisi turns in a good performance too, as does nicky katt and parker posey.. come to think of it, i can't fault any of the acting.. i just don't see how anyone can call it a BAD film - are there any plot holes? no. are there any badly exposed scenes? no. are there any explosions, any bits of eye-candy, any filler for halfwits to eat up and be tittilated by? hardly, but maybe that's why some peoples dislike it.. there are no easy answers, people, and the sooner you admit that, perhaps the better.. i seem to like this film more each time i see it, much as i do Slacker, Dazed & Confused, and Waking Life.. i haven't seen The Newton Boys, and i'm not too infatuated by Before Sunrise, but i did think it quite well executed, and there's some interesting ideas in that one, too, along with good performances from ethan hawke and julie delpy.. Tape was cool, too.. but i didn't mean to go on about all the other Linklater films i'm aware of.. this one has certainly got a lot of things about it which could be called 'trademarks' of his films, though..so, before you listen to anyone who tells you it's crap, perhaps you might take a look at it for yourself, and realize that people usually tell you their opinion, but rarely can anyone say definitively that a film is BAD, and be correct about it..i thought lord of the rings was a bad movie - the score wouldn't let up, and it certainly didn't add much.. sean astin and elijah wood are downright annoying, and i much prefer the BOOKS in the case of that story.. oh well, they want to make $$$$$$$$$ now, don't they "},{"Title":"One of the worst films ever made","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst, most pointless and idiotic films EVER CREATED. It offers zero insight into Suburbia by examining a tiny microcosm of brain dead slackers and passes it on as the norm. Well it is far from it. I have lived all over the US and in other countries and I can tell you with 100% assurance NO ONE exists as they do in this wretched film. The people in this movie, stoners and slackers, are just that. Worthless, pathetic and wastes of space. They don't carry on intellectual conversations, they don't ponder the meaning of life, they don't CARE about anything. That is why they are stoners and slackers. They are useless, worthless pathetic excuses for human beings that will never be anything better.The kids in this movie spend all their time sharing their thoughts on life with innane monologues and trite and meaningless dialogues with each other. It's pretty sad that the writer/director just assumed he could make a movie he knows nothing about which in this case would be modern day suburban kids.This movie is not interesting, it is not compelling, it is not moving, it is not thought provoking. I felt nothing for any of the characters and was not enlightened in the slightest about what they thought or supposedly felt.To top it all off, Steve Zahn was a major character in this movie. I don't know about the rest of civilization, but I have a strong distaste for this man. He is annoying and one-dimensional, always playing the mornoic buffoon in every role. He falls just short of being the most annoying movie character in the history of the screen. The overall acting in this film is not terribly bad, but did you ever think why no one even got a thought of an Academy award?All in all, this movie is a complete joke and highly unfulfilling. It is not a comedy by any means, although a soft chuckle may arise now and then if only from Steve Zahns laughable attempt at acting. I guess you can call it a drama, since everyone seems so dramatic, just like slackers in stoners in real life. Always having intellectual conversations and pondering life. NOT. Terrible, terrible movie. I give it a -100. "},{"Title":"Rebels without a clue.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  SubUrbia shows us a night in the lives of a bunch of California suburban young adults who coalesce to share their comradery in a minimart parking lot. Everyone in the group of temporarily lost youths are brooding, angry, depressed, and/or rebellious. A plotless drama and character study en masse, the film offers some good performances by some talented young actors and little else. SubUrbia shows us nothing new and in the end the audience may feel a little masochistic for having sat through two hours of drinking, puking, cursing, expostulating the futility of life, etc. with no apparent purpose, point, or meaning. "}{"Title":"talented cast in depressing comedy","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"     This  film  is about  a group  of  20 yr olds who hang out  in the parking lot of a fast food restaurant, waiting for there friend who has become a rock star.  the entire cast seem to be down & depressed.  & thats what hurts  this very well acted film  It is based on a play by  Eric Bogosian  & it definitly is stagy.The leads are  Giavonni Ribisi, Steve Zahn, Parker Posey & others who  all give top notch performances,But for a comedy  It is far too long,& the people are a sad lot.I will recommend it though for the fine acting only, & for the music scoreas alwaysJay Harris "},{"Title":"An awful movie.","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie to me was close to awful. No amount of political philosophizing, social evangelizing or explanation of teen angst or any introspective look at the decadence of American society can cover for a very poor movie. 'Full of fire but really getting nowhere' is how I would describe the characters. So what's the point of the movie? Don't hang around and get a life? I know this is loosely based on the life of a scriptwriter but give me a break here. There must be something worthwhile for viewers to spend hours of their time. But alas no. Not only is this movie without direction, but it's also loud, obnoxious and boring. The actors do a good job portraying their parts, but it is the scripting and direction that fails big time. "},{"Title":"Sophomoric garbage a la Bogosian....","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a shame. So much talent on screen & off & what a piece of embarrassing amateurism, phew! The thing is so stagy, the characters are like someone saw Breakfast Club in the third grade & did  an homage & guess what? Here it is! Bogosian stole it off the kid. Hard to believe that Linklater made the absolutely brilliant & extremely original Slacker. Keep trying, Richard, I still believe in you. "},{"Title":"I was disappointed","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't care one bit about these characters... I was looking forward to this film because I loved Dazed and Confused... but I really couldn't stand any of these characters at all (not even Parker!). They were irritating for no good reason. Disappointing. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably awful!","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have become a big, big fan of Richard Linklater's work over time. Waking Life and the Sunrise/Sunset series are some of my favorite films of all time. It was with great enthusiasm that I tracked down this lesser-known film in the Linklater canon.Now I understand why it is lesser-known! Despite the contributions of great actors like Parker Posey, music by Sonic Youth, and of course Linklater's own direction, this movie is almost unbearable to watch! I blame the atrocious screenplay. This is the only instance I'm aware of where Linklater has not directed his own work, and it shows (although, I have to fault the director to a degree for even *taking on* such tripe). Every single character in the film is a one-dimensional cardboard cutout with a sole issue they are each working through. The writer attempts to say something about racism in America through the contrived storyline with the Pakistani convenience store owner, but the racist diatribes spewed from the mouth of a character we are meant to sort of identify with makes the message disturbingly muddled. Also, any supposed insights about life in suburbia are laughably one-note and clichéd. Linklater already addressed these issues with a thousand times more finesse in Slacker and Dazed And Confused. Why he would choose to take on such an inferior screenplay that's a total third-rate rehash of his favorite subject matter is beyond me.Thank God it seems this awful film was just an aberration in his otherwise stellar directing career! "},{"Title":"Just about as bad as it gets.","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the worst things I've ever seen.  I sometimes think to myself You know, maybe it really wasn't that bad.  Then I pull out the VHS copy I have (and that I keep around for just these occasions and watch it and find it much, much worse... "}]