[{"Title":"Beautiful film-- but definitely not for everyone","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"118 out of 135 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Here's a brief guide to help you determine if you should see The Million Dollar HotelIf you...a) Enjoy Jerry Bruckheimer and Michael Bay collaborations b) Thirst insatiably for explosions, car chases and sex scenes featuring silicone-enhanced blondes c) Are considering this film only because you're a Mel Gibson fan...THEN DON'T RENT THE MILLION DOLLAR HOTEL! YOU WILL LIKELY HATE IT!Otherwise, you might want to give this one a shot. MDH is far, far off the beaten Hollywood path. It's a quiet, understated film that finds beauty and grace in very unlikely places. Bono and Wim Wenders have put together a love story so unconventional that it nearly defies description... it is certainly NOT a tragi-comic, romantic whodunnit, despite the IMDb plot summary. It's a tale of quiet desperation and pervasive sadness that dares to violate pretty much every unwritten rule in the movie business... further off the wall than Being John Malkovich but infinitely more subtle and ultimately smarter.On the surface it's a tale narrated by an idiot (a dead one at that) which signifies very little. Set in a run-down hotel in which mentally-ill derelicts and freaks are squatting, the film primarily follows Tom-Tom (Jeremy Daviess), a deceptively simple fool who is madly in love with a schizophrenic girl (Milla Jovovich)--who is a heartachingly beautiful hybrid of the Virgin Mary and the Whore of Babylon. The plot is fairly intriguing-- Hardass cop Mel Gibson is investigating the mysterious death of a tycoon's prodigal junkie son. The crazies at the hotel devise an elaborate con job to profit from this tragedy... provided they can bluff a snooty art critic and keep the cops distracted.Some humorous moments ensue. But the plot is almost irrelevant here. The film works because of the engaging oddball characters (especially Peter Stormare as an obsessive Beatles fan and Jimmy Smits as a bizarre Native American artist), because of the brilliantly surreal, postapocalyptic cinematography, and because the sheer naked unhappiness of the film crawls inside of you and doesn't go away for several days. Bono's script, like the best of his music, is deeply cynical about society, but retains a faith in the salvation of individuals. It is neither a comedy, a drama, or a romance... it really just plays out like a bittersweet existential ballad. The only romantic scene features an idiot and a schizoid whore who never actually have sex... but it's one of the most touching love scenes ever captured on film. If that sounds like your cup of tea, check out The Million Dollar Hotel. I don't think you'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":". . . suicide at the best moment of your life . . .","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"43 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Million Dollar Hotel is a beautiful movie, and one of Wenders' best recent efforts, considerably better than The End of Violence or Lisbon Story, but with a smaller worldview than Until the End of the World or Wings of Desire.  The State of Things is also one of my favorite Wenders. I can understand how many people might not like this movie.  It's a young person's story about suicide and first love at the very moment when you know it's the best moment in your life as it ever will be, before you get jaded and caught up with the familiar chase after sex, money and power, when your sensations become dulled and your body not as agile because now you're older.  It is concerned with poetically defective mentalities and has a drug-like sensibility to it, so you may not get it if you're a normal social conformist with a happy childhood.  But then, I had this kind of youth, too, living in drug-addled international student hostel dives around Greenwich Village in the Eighties, purposefully unemployed because it seemed more open to possibility and potentiality than the unphilosophic nine to five.  Suicide can really be a statement of momentary happiness rather than the mundane postmortem understanding of a troubled youth, the movie seems to say.Jeremy Davies gives a fantastic, inspired performance, reminding me a bit of Leonardo DiCaprio in What's Eating Gilbert Grape, but much more nuanced as to require second viewings, or Johnny Depp in Benny and Joon.  Admittedly, the story is not completely credible, because while the Million Dollar Hotel seems real enough (think Chelsea Hotel if it were in downtown LA), how all these misfitting characters can survive financially and end up living together in this amazing place cannot be scrupulously pondered.  At the same time, it's good that Bono helped write the story, because Wenders' plots tend to be otherwise somewhat inchoate.  So in the end, it's an atmospheric fantasy.  (Why do so many movies of the late Nineties-early Thousands have people jumping off of roofs?  Open Your Eyes)  Nor is all the acting uniform, although Davies especially, Jovavich and notably Stormare stand out.  Although Gibson is focused big on the center of the video box, it's really not his movie, as he's just along for the chance to ride with Wenders.  The dialogue mixed in with the Beatles lyrics is quite clever.  The camera effects for those moments where Tom-Tom and Eloise seem to move in slow motion for several parts of a second are neat, as if the two of them are not completely in the same dimension of our reality and are in danger of somehow being shaken loose from this world.  I can't believe this movie was never widely released, as I just found it on the shelf in the video store, don't know how I ever missed it, and I agree that it is destined to be a Wenders cult favorite.  "},{"Title":"Fresh, brilliantly acted, under-promoted film","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"47 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I bought this film pre-viewed on DVD because of Mel Gibson's face on the front cover and the promise of bonus features on the back. After watching it, I wondered if it was released on the heels of 9-11, as nothing else could quite explain why I had never even heard a one-liner about this fresh film with it's very believable, and wonderfully eccentric characters. The cast is first rate; Mel Gibson in his most complex role to date; Jimmy Smits, an absolute natural; Gloria Stewart (Titanic), Amanda Plummer, (The Fisher King; Freejack)  Peter Stormare, (Chocolat; Armageddon) Julian Sands (Boxing Helena) and even Bud Cort (Harold and Maude; Pollock) support the two leads, Jeremy Davies,  (Saving Pvt. Ryan) and Milla Jovovich. (The Messenger; Zoolander)The DVD is a treat with U2's haunting song The ground beneath her feet the perfect accompaniment to the opening menu, as it sets the tone for the film beautifully. (Ok, I'm conveniently ignoring the opening song, The First Time, as well as the actual opening shot, but after that ordinary opening, the movie gets deep and interesting quickly.)When we first meet Tom Tom, he is preparing to jump off the roof of the Million Dollar Hotel. As he runs across the roof and launches himself through the air, our emotions are still not with him, for we only know three things about him, 1.) he looks peculiar, 2.) He is throwing himself off the roof of a hotel in some big city and 3.) he has not connected with us on a human level... As he sails spread-eagled through the air, we hear his voice proclaim Wow, after I jumped, it occurred to me... life is perfect. From that narrative voice and beyond, this film sucks you into the lives of  the Beggar's Butler, a retarded man and splendid mimic played to perfection by Davies,  and the girl of his modest dreams, Eloise, played by Milla Jovovich. Tom Tom's best friend, Izzy Goldkiss (Tim Roth) died from a fall from the same roof and special agent Skinner (Gibson) is brought in by media mogul and Izzy dad, Stanley Goldkiss to find or frame a killer. The residents band together to stand up to Skinner and perhaps make a few dollars for themselves in the process. The film is well acted and unpredictable and by the time we watch Tom launch himself over the edge at the film's conclusion, we have come to care - to really care - about this human being and the motley crew of characters who people his world, and that brings a genuine welling of emotion and a spilling of tears. Not many films today can claim as much. "},{"Title":"Love, Brotherhood, and Television 10/10","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"32 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Million Dollar Hotel is not for passive watching where you are led by the hand through the familiar landscape and characters of a mystery movie. Nor are you given musical cues to know how to feel in a particular instance. You have to work off your senses and intellect to perceive it, and to be patient if it takes you in a direction opposite to your wildest guesses.It can even get irritating - as you are about to blame the movie for having no spine - or in truth, for lacking, entirely, conventional twists and turns. It throws you off as you are figuring out whether to perceive it as a film of crime or suicide, romance or a freak house, comedy, mockery or living poetry. Like life, this film has it all.Yet in a sense, the movie is transparent in foreshadowing its three major themes and their resolution - coming from its very heartbeat, the lyrics co-written and performed mostly by Bono.  In the opening scene, a young man Tom Tom hurls himself from the roof of a dreary flophouse - The Million Dollar Hotel in downtown Los Angeles - committing suicide with a strange joyfulness. The mystery of his exuberance in this moment becomes the driving question of the film as we then review the last two weeks of his life. But in the moment itself, Bono's song which accompanies Tom Tom's rush to the brink contains three revealing verses`I have a lover... She shows me colors where there's none to see Gives me hope when I can't believe...'`I have a brother... I spend my whole time running He spends his running after me... But for the first time I feel love.'`My father is a rich man... He said I have many mansions And there are many rooms to see. But I left by the back door And I threw away the key.'Love, brotherhood and father-son relationships so outlined in the song are treated here entirely unconventionally. And the breakdown of formal conventions simply occurs with a `surprising' shift in accents, or values - when love is more important than mystery solving, and a cop treats his suspect as his brother...In the world of this movie, the love of a slightly odd boy towards a prostitute, awkward at first, ends up transcending death. And so does the brotherhood binding the colorful resident freaks of the Million Dollar Hotel; though verging on parody, it's rooted in that same longing of the heart, `a Sleeping Beauty` which `dreams to be awakened.`  And we forget the commentary on the bizarre events and characters are made by a dead `brother' telling us of the best two weeks in his life.As the movie rolls back in time, we learn of a similar fate, falling from the hotel roof, of Tom Tom's best friend - who had come `from money and power' yet rejected them to live `with bums and Indians.' The son of a Jewish multibillionaire media king whose `people decide truth in 60 countries every morning,' the Father who has many mansions, the God of Television, of the reality game which so charms the hotel residents and Tom Tom... until Tom Tom begins to have a life which is `much better than television.'And while you are still trying hard to follow the intrigue, all of a sudden your heart is being cut open... but then is mended together. Broken to be healed. To find a new meaning in death that brings the living together, and love that brings one to death, yet brings out even more love. The death after which `things finally hit you,' when you see it all that clearly that `life is perfect... full of magic, beauty and opportunity' but which we `only really feel when it's gone.'  It's not the same as television. `For the first time/I feel...'One character talking, the other doing the action at a different place seem to convey the shared experience of living. One distinct voice, of a poet retelling us the story in his songs, is Bono's. He appears in a flash as a silent cameo mixed with the crowd of the Million Dollar Hotel residents. A powerful voice of Tom Tom's innermost self, the voice of his soul, Bono's singing exceeds anything I've ever heard before, reaching straight into your heart. `I come back above/Where there is only love...' his voice is fading, as if calling from above, sensitizing you to the very tips of your fingers.  All the while the uplifting images from under the sky of downtown Los Angeles take you up to another dimension.Mel Gibson, whose `Icon Productions' co-produced the movie, waived his star fee. His contribution to the film as an unconventional cop, somewhat resonating with his directorial debut, `The Man Without a Face', has a unique flavor you should discover on your own.  The brilliant casting, starting with Jeremy Davis' finely tuned performance as the blessed fool Tom Tom, is topped by Wim Wenders' ever  masterful charting of unknown territories in filmmaking. The artful cinematography and editing are yet another reason for film adepts and students to see this one.Nevertheless, The Million Dollar Hotel played in U.S. theaters for only a week.  I recommend this movie to anyone who believes film is not just for escapist entertainment but for awaking our senses and stirring our minds. As with a good book, you can embark on a journey through The Million Dollar Hotel-DVD over and over again, as if reading it each time for the first time.  "},{"Title":"Poetical cinema. Art lovers recommended","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"31 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've been impressed and moved as I haven't been for years. One of the best Wenders' films. Famous for road movies Wenders bewitches with flow movement and sound. The sound struck me most this time. All voices are very characteristic and exquisitely orchestrated. Besides they are imperceptibly interwoven into U2 music. Speaking of U2, their music is I believe of the same nature as Wim Wenders cinematography art - smooth flow and yet very disturbing and full of latent force. So this combination is not accidental.Certainly this is kind of film once you like it you look forward to watch it again and again. There is drug quality in it. Knowing a plot (not essential) won't decrease the joy of being taken to the world of live feelings. Feelings flitting like a butterfly of the main character. That domed love state of the film is colored by the good humor too, which is a good sign for a real artist.  "},{"Title":"It Almost Flies","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"34 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the kind of story that made Agatha Christie famous. An FBI detective is sent to solve a murder case in the close environment of a hotel. Routine? Not at all, as everybody in this hotel happens to be some kind of a mental case, with a broken life story and a character due for the supporting act Oscar. Even Mel Gibson's FBI character named Skinner (irony towards X-Files?) keeps a skeleton in his life's closet.   Good acting and cinematography keeps the viewer interest alive. Yes, there are logic flaws that fellow reviewers must have bashed to death until now, but this is not what this film is about. Seeing this film reminds more the pre-revolution Russian writers stories a hundred years ago - what is the million dollars hotel but a Night Asylum at the beginning of the 21st century. A long and expected end spoils something from the overall impression, but this is however a movie above the average crowd  "},{"Title":"It is a very nice movie that puts the question  Who is mad?","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I read only negative critics about this movie and I don't confirm that. I found it very interesting. I was even often laughing where everybody in the cinema around me were silent!! I have to admit that I had big questions after watching it but this is usual for the most movies of Wim Wenders. Anyway he is the director from whom I watched the biggest number of movies. Some crazy people (in a way or another) live in the Million Dollar Hotel where everything took place. At the end I was asking myself whether they were crazy at all. I even felt that inhabitants of this hotel are an allegory on the whole crazy world! Or maybe they were sane and the others were insane!! There was certainly a critic about many aspects of the life in USA. It is for instance certainly not a coincidence that a personality in this happens to be a big Jewish media boss who manipulates the FBI and the Media in the way he wants!! Why was the FBI agent a half cripple? The were many other questions. One thing is sure, and that is that I was not  bored at all. The photography was great as expected from W. Wenders. The music is also very nice and U2 (or Bono) put a lot of their (his) talent inside it. I surely should not forget the actors. They acted all very good and in a persuasive manner. Anyhow I expect that many people wouldn't like. It doesn't have the typical kind of stories that are generally common and beloved by the most of the public but it is right variety for me. "},{"Title":"The film version of a literary style known as Magical Realism","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"30 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's a screwball tragedy, a term made up by someone else to describe this film. There are no others of this type. It's a love story without They lived happily ever after; it's a mystery (the essence of real) in a subtly surreal world. Not only is the story unique, but so are most of the characters, which seems to be a problem for some viewers. I don't want to paint this movie as too weird, but its differences are some of the best things about it.Cinematography is classic, sharp, lots of deep focus. Exteriors, interiors, non-traditional lighting, a dawn scene shot before the magic hour, it all looks great. I can't recall a scene with foreground in focus while background is out, or vice versa.U2 contributed a tune or two to the soundtrack, as they have for all Wim Wenders films since the 80s. The rest of the soundtrack is jazzy. It supports the film beautifully, and is available on CD.If you've liked any of Wim Wenders films, I think you'll love this one. "},{"Title":"If seen without any expectation, it might be a nice surprise!","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I avoided this film, because of the bad criticism it got in the newspapers. But then I decided to see it at a low price cinema. And I thought, it wasn't all that bad as the critics said. I admit that one has to be in the right mood for this film, and I might alter my judgment, if I saw it a second time. But this time, I enjoyed the way it showed me how colorful life can be, even if it is a difficult and not generally admired one. Each well played character has a different story to tell, and one has to think a little about them. In the end, I took a lot of positive thoughts home. But you have to let yourself go, otherwise you will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Four Stories In One - Three Out Of Four Work","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It is a love story, social commentary, crime drama and personal narrative all wrapped up in one film. It all works but the personal narrative which almost works.The movie begins with the narrator jumping off the building. It sets the bar high for making sure the film provides enough motivation to support that act.  It sets a high bar for the viewer to care when he leaps. It fails on both counts. The leap bookends the rest of the action. Bookends are functional but not necessary to keep books together. This leap is not necessary to keep the film together. It functions to allow you entry into and exit out of the story.  In this it is very effective making its lack of motivation forgivable.This is about life on the edges. Most characters are on the edges of society, high and low. Most characters are at the edges of sanity. Some approach the edge, from both directions. It takes the Network envisioned world showing how that world impacts people at the edges. One character's desire to keep an event from getting to TV in an unfavorable light drives Detective Skinner's involvement. The involvement of TV is courted by another group of characters to enhance their economic status.  All the time TV is pushing to get a taste of the scandal in order to profit itself.The love story is inescapably intertwined with the crime story. Detective Skinner plays cupid to discover the truth. What begins as an uncomfortable failure to reject by Eloise turns into a warm and caring relationship. The pain it causes Tom's love interest provides the only compelling reason, aside from general principle, for caring about the narrator leaping.Social commentary is on several levels. On top are we need better health care and marginalization of the mentally ill. Underneath is the issue of power. The media mogul, the detective, Eloise, and the collective residents all make use of power to influence outcomes. Political influence, personal attraction, the lure of a better life, physical and verbal abuse are all in play.  A small irony is that the `powerful' media mogul is probably less effective in exercising power than the `marginal' residents of the hotel.The crime story works well.  That a crime was committed is up for grabs as much as who did it. A dark joke is that someone from the LAPD is assigned to the FBI agent to make sure he follows procedures.  The LAPD liaison is totally ineffective and the only truly powerless character in the entire movie.This movie is a visual treat.  Editing is unusual and effective.  It is smooth when that works and it is jumpy and ragged when that works. From the opening shot to the end each scene is an eyeful.  "}{"Title":"`Blade Runner' Turned Inside Out","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This is some very risky stuff. For once, we have a camera perspective and directoral stance that mirrors the story. We've had collections of wierdos and madmen before, but you can't get more engaged than this, by having part of your own frontal lobes compromised..Very fine collaborative acting in the theater tradition, including Milla! (Will she get better?) Except for Mel, who deliberately acts like an actor here. I thought I would never forgive Mel for the travesty of `The Patriot.' But he gets some ground back here in my book, taking (partly) as big a risk as the rest of the crew. This and `Payback' show that he isn't going to rot willingly. But as I understand he disavowed the film after release, he loses many points.This director knows a thing or two about about syncopating the framerate. Some of his visual blues riffs of speeding and slowing made my heart stop, beginning with the first scenes of meeting Eloise. So much of the framing and lighting was evocative of Tom Tom's last brief appreciation of life. Just watching it makes me glad to be here.This would have worked for me with just the directing/photography and the acting. I'm a little puzzled about the script, and I admit it is because I assume Bono is a nitwit, to judge from his lyrics. It IS pushing the cleverness envelope, especially the John Lennon bit. That part didn't integrate with anything else -- it pointed only outside the film to Bono. But all the other stuff about Skinner's third arm and the tar covering masterpieces and the varied references to freaks are aptly self-parody. Clearly the director felt that way. (`Its all so much TeeVee.')I wasn't prepared for Davies. I'd only seen him in `Ryan,' `Twister,' and `Up at the Villa.' and though he was servicable, the taint of those films stuck a little I guess. He is very good here, with his attention shifts very much in the same rhythm of the director's punctuations. I wonder what vocabulary they used to coordinate that?See this if you love the cinema part of cinema. "},{"Title":"Planning to watch it again. And maybe again.","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Subject Million Dollar Hotel (2000)A lovely, lyrical, magical film about many ideas, not the least of which is the strength of the weak. The plot revolves around several loonies in a hotel for those with no where else to go. Billed as a murder mystery, I suppose it is that, too. Barely. I had no interest in who the killer was. Just wanted these people's lives to unfold before me forever. Mel Gibson does a very interesting and funny parody of his cop persona; the actor who plays Tom Tom is terrific as a presumably dim-witted gopher to the various inhabitants (he calls himself the beggar's butler),Milla Jovovich is a leading lady of sorts, a constant smoker and reader who describes herself as fictional; and, Jimmy Smits as Geronimo, a Latino Indian-chief wannabe, an artist in hiding and up-front scam artist. I'm not a film reviewer, and I have always been partial to Wenders' films. That being said, I'm going downstairs now to watch the film again. P.S. Bono! Who knew? "},{"Title":"The beginning of the end or the end of the beginning","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Million Dollar Hotel sees Wim Wenders make another brilliant film about American life. Sure, this movie is not like his classics, such as Paris, Texas or even Wings Of Desire, but I know this movie is a great one.I know a lot of critics and audiences DON'T like this film, but as one person said You have to be of a certain personality to like this film.This maybe true. But when you watch the end when we find out that Izzy actually jumped, not pushed, a normal person should feel a ray of emotions at experiencing this end and everything before it.10/10Thanks for listening, viewersDr. Pineapple "},{"Title":"A great big poem of a movie.","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The acting was so realistic you could almost smell the hotel. To quote Tom Tom,The heart is a sleeping beauty and love the only kiss it can't resist. Even if its eyes lay open wide, there is a heart that sleeps inside. And it's to there you must be hastening. For all hearts dream, they dream only of awakening.  "},{"Title":"Dante Revisited","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Here it is, and of course it took a Laureate such as Wim Wenders to do it. Here we have in a twisted, nowadays way pretty much (if not all,) of the DIVINE COMEDY, with Gianni Schicchi, Francesca, and ...,  and,... and Virgil (never look back, special agent...) and a very temptatious yet evasive Beatrice. And then there is poor Tom Tom, combining too many characters from the glorious book to save his own skin. There are many pits and falls and rises and ... humor and freshness in this film !!!This is a grand movie, and if anyone dared to doubt the genius of Wim Wenders, well .. look at this 'accessable' film again. "},{"Title":"Great movie genius AND story.","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought I was inside a PK Dick story here.  The peelback of the reality onion was superb.  Bono and Wenders scored here with a charming moebius plot.  Dying to watch this over and over again.  Characters had interesting stories develop over the whole movie, not just the beginning and end. Some people might be crazy, or as I think, each of these characters are kings and queens in their own realities.  Too many people have reviewed this movie in a linear fashion.  It just isn't that simple of a story or an artistic presentation.  Scenes throughout touch base with reality and then twist away, airy, and come back with charm and certainly more questions than answers.  Just the way I like.  No one should be allowed to touch a PK Dick story except these gentlemen, in my opinion.  They've crafted an original here. "},{"Title":"Better than its reputation","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Why Mel Gibson trashed this film in the press, I don't know. Perhaps it's because he isn't the star, and he has few chances to grandstand. In any case, MDH has gotten an unfair tag as a boring film, an odd little film, something not worth seeing. After finally getting to see the film after anticipating its release for over a year (since it never came to my town), I can finally say that this film was worth the wait. Davies and Jovovich give good performances, and even Gibson is sympathetic despite early shades of the bad guy. Jimmy Smits proves that his range extends beyond the type of roles he's usually given. Bud Cort appears in a small role, one of his more high-profile performances in recent years.The excellent soundtrack (available in the US for months) includes music by U2, frequent collaborators Brian Eno and Daniel Lanois, and some vocals by Jovovich. Wenders has become almost as well known for his excellent attention to the way music and film can work together as he is for his filmmaking talent.My only complaints it's sometimes hard to hear what characters are saying (one scene involves Davies and Jovovich speaking with their hands on each other's mouths, making important dialogue difficult to understand), and it would have been nice to give more of a back story on these two characters.This film is mystery, romance, comedy, and sci-fi rolled into one, with splashes of surrealism. First-time screenwriter Bono and co-writer Nicholas Klein have created a script filled with subtleties, surely resulting in the kind of movie that will improve with repeated viewings. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Hypnotic masterpiece of film making.....","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I recently rented the DVD of The Million Dollar Hotel and was very impacted. The Hotel occupants were initially disturbing but then I began to realize that the characters themselves had a better grasp on reality than most people I know.  I soon became engrossed and found myself wanting to see the world as Tom saw it.  In all of his innocence and naivety, in all his childlike ways, he became the oasis in the desert of mad at the hotel. The positioning of Detective Skinner (Mel Gibson) directly opposite of Tom Tom was brilliant.  I enjoyed watching the detective try to get inside the mind of Tom Tom.  It seemed at first a task he counted easy but by the end of the film realized that he had no business intruding into that territory. Cold, calculating and relentless, the detective met his match, I believe, in the blind faith and passion of this fragile, chameleon-like, young hopeful romantic.  I loved how Tom Tom saw nothing but treasure inside of Eloise, even to the point of seeing her as almost angelic.  I honestly believe he saw wings on her although it was never mentioned in the movie.  I think Jeremy Davies was made to play this part.  He is a true actor's actor.  I wonder Jeremy, will other parts that come your way be as satisfying to you? I hope that others tales to be told will be able to match your abilities. You have a gift.  You made Tom Tom shine.  Thank You. "},{"Title":"Too much cliché makes you blasé","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's always difficult to know what to expect with Wenders it's either great or really bad. And the interesting part of it is, it's the very same kind of features and the way he chooses to tell a story that will keep you interested or bore you. Although not exactly a boring film, the Million Dollar Hotel gets caught in its maker's defects. The problem starts with the story. Written by rock-star Bono, the story is something like a rock ballad trying to be a movie. Worse, it tries to be a sort of alternative moral tale. This tender love-story between two marginals in a hotel full of sympathetic lunatics is so full of rock cliches, it ends up being a huge cliche in itself.You watch it, you want to like the plot but oh, again that thing about the weirdos being better people because they are so much more poetic and innocent than normal people. You want to like the characters but oh, again we're supposed to fall for a delicate, innocent child-saint-whore woman. You want to like the performance of the actors but after a while, can't help thinking people, let's get on with it, shall we?. You even want to make the effort of agreeing with that lovely universal message in the end  life can be so beautiful, pity we realise it too late but oh, haven't you read that somewhere already? Chinese cookie, was it??...The Million Dollar Hotel tries so hard to be deep, it ends up being shallow. It tries so hard to be rich in thoughts, it ends up being cheap and pompous. It tries so hard to criticise mainstream values and self-righteousness, it ends up being mainstream and self-righteous. And you try so hard to like it... you really do... that you end up thinking  oooh pleeaaaase! "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" How do you give an opinion on a movie with no plot (None!) and no characters?Occasionally, the boredom is interrupted with a little strangeness that leads to the thought that something might happen, but then nothing does.It's boring and then it ends.Don't waste a second of your life on it!!I am writing this part because I'm required to add more words. Jimmy Smits is such a good looking guy. I'm having leftover chicken, green beans and crescent rolls for dinner. (That is more interesting than anything in the movie, too.) "}{"Title":"The million dollar disaster (rental)","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" U2 + Wenders + Gibson + Jojovitch + Smits for 2 long hours of boredom ! Well, this movie is the living proof that money, success aren't the key to art and brilliance !However, the movie begins well  Zooropa's « the first time » played with LA rooftops going down to MDH was great but as the character, the movie just falls and then splashes onto the ground  In fact, it's not a hotel filled with bums but rather a psychiatric wards filled with dumb and irritating characters  i couldn't grasp their lines, they were overplaying their eccentricities and it was too much  i just watched the scenes with Mel and forwarded the rest. As Mel is truly borderline, he was great playing this bizarre investigator (why Fbouille by the way for an usual crime?). The scenes in downtown were also interesting as it shows how American cities can turn into a nightmarish and decaying Gotham! If the idea of having suspects in one unique location, personally, i would have try to give a personality to the hotel instead of using so much annoying characters. Finally, the movie ends as it has begun  an excellent U2 song with LA overground...Maybe the only interesting thing with this movie is that it opens my #3 filmography run, featuring Mel. I discovered him at a bad time for me (in summer 1989 with Lethal Weapon 2) and his energy just energized me to face this high school start ! The next years, he was more peripheral but with his « beaver » (my movie of the year for 2011), i just concluded that he's definitively a great actor, very close to my opinion to Al  same compassion, same stature, maybe less emblematic voice and more dark side as well... "},{"Title":"Wim Wenders inspired by Asia","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Watching this movie was like slogging through a vat of syrup.  That's why it seemed like one of those slow-moving Japanese films, where the pacing is excruciating but the rewards are great.  Make sure that you see this movie in a theater.  That alone will insure that you will be enveloped by this strange world.  Remember all those movies where we've seen dysfunctional folks??? This is the end-of-the-line for these movies.  Everyone has strange and severe psychological quirks (even Mel Gibson).  The visual effects are quite subtle; the music enhances that mood of loneliness.  Julian Sands is a hoot!  Hats off to Wenders, for showing us another way of seeing ourselves! "},{"Title":"Future cult status","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Could this be the next big cult film? It was panned on it's initial release, and now it is slowly gathering a few followers who can see the perfect insanity of it all. Maybe it's the combination of Bono, with Wim Wenders and Mel Gibson thrown into it. Or maybe it's the whole damn mess of it that makes it so weird and fascinating.I think the whole premise of the story began with Bono's interest with a hotel full of down and outs. These weird and wonderful characters have a lot to offer for a story and Bono decided to tell it, with the help of Wenders. Midway through the movie, I realized that this was a song with images, with surreal verses and a chorus about America and the peculiar characters that inhabit it.I can forgive it for its clumsy story structure, but that's what gives it a little more interest. The main thrust of the story are the characters. All the elements are there, a hyperactive kid who sees the world differently, a young girl lost in the world of books, a Detective with serious issues and a whole bunch of characters that make up this crazy world we live in. There is also a mystery death, secret lives, stolen art, and masks to hide behind. All is not what it seems in the Million Dollar Hotel, and it will never be.My favorite bit will have to be when Mel Gibson's character, Detective Skinner, reveals the scars on his back from a major surgery, apparently from a third arm that was growing out of it. But to me those scars represent the angel wings that were clipped from him (yes, I'm thinking of Wender's classic Wings OF Desire). To me Skinner was an angel lost in this world and attempting to help the lost souls in this hotel. There were too many souls to help, but at least one will walk away from it all with something to gain, thanks to Skinner.To some, this will be a curious piece of where Wim Wenders went wrong. To others, it will be their little cult film. "},{"Title":"A fine line between art and tar.","Date":"28 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is hilarious. Pay no attention to the DVD cover which makes it sound like some sort of thriller action spy mystery. That couldn't be further from the truth (and it's probably why there are so many disappointed critics).No, in true Wenders style, this is a very deep, philosophically charged work of art. But what sets it apart from Wenders' other masterpieces (Wings of Desire, Paris Texas, etc) is the humour. All the characters in this movie are certifiably insane. Mel Gibson plays an uptight FBI agent who literally looks like he has a pole up his posterior in every shot. Despite his punctilious nature and impeccable shoes, he is clearly the most insane of the lot, and we watch with joy as he slowly devolves into a total nutcase like the rest. Jeremy Davies is brilliant as the retard--more or less a kind of Shakespearian fool who knows the secret to everything but is too busy being an idiot to tell anyone. Milla is another looneybird in a role she was made for. And then we have a host of minor characters who are so funny they steal the show.My review probably makes it sound like a madcap Mel Brooks extravaganza but not quite. The key is deadpan. The whole film is so straight-faced deadpan that 90% of the audience won't get the jokes. When I saw it, I was the only person choking with laughter while everyone else thought I had lost my mind and/or swallowed a hairball. That's the kind of movie this is.If you enjoy the humour of Jim Jarmusch (Coffee and Cigarettes, Night on Earth) or Vincent Gallo (Buffalo 66, Arizona Dream) or even the biting satires of Paul Verhoeven (Robocop, Starship Troopers), I think you'll love this movie. There's so much wit and commentary, but it's so subtle you need to pay close attention.The other stuff beautiful cinematography, great acting, wonderful story, etc. Of course that's in there, as with all Wenders films. But as far as I know, this is the first time Wenders has tipped into full deadpan comedy. I think it was a smashing success. But what do I know? As the film implies, there's a fine line between 'art' and 'tar' (you'll understand if you watch it). "},{"Title":"Gibson Is More than Just a FBI Man","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is more interesting than most but far from great. The best thing in it is Gibson and his character, who is a freak (like the residents) but who has managed to function in the outside world. I'm not sure that I understand the meaning of the character's now corrected deformity (an amputated third arm) but I think that there is meaning in the odd effect made by his visible steel brace, which shows as a sort of suit of armor beneath his suit of clothe. In that rim of visible armor, just barely showing, Gibson's character becomes, literally, an odd meshing of two characters. In part he is the modern equivalent of a literal knight in shinning armor who is on a quest and comes upon a very troubling situation. He tries to save the victims, especially the fetching damsel in distress but he is more than a knight in the shinning armor that rings his head in every scene, he is also the Tin Man from Oz, searching for his lost heart. In this melding of steel and tin there is a hero and a wonderful performance by a consistently under-appreciated actor who can be frantic or still but always interesting with a wonderful face and those expressive eyes that, in this part, seem to be seeing more than what the camera shows us. "},{"Title":"...and poetics in cinema","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The million dollar hotel is Unique, strange, and poetically, not on that way which the theatrical trailer shows (a thriller about finding somebody's killer!) But a quite requiem on a simple and naive love. The million dollar hotel draws a thin line between a film-genre and poetic cinema, and moving with elegance on it. The film uses the elements of classic cinema, putting two individual character (Tom-Tom and Eloise) in a fiction (can be called a thriller), and representing a new image of a European avant-guard in Los Angeles. The Frames with a lot of beautiful crane moves which flies us into the room of two lovers, (+marvelous colors and compositions) has the main role in the poetry of the film. Tom-Tom, the main character, talks not much, but when he talks, he talks on poems and with a sense of poetry. The Million dollar hotel is a poem in praise of love. On one side we have Eloise (namesake with Beethoven's lover) walks on wet pavements of Los Angeles bare foot, always reading books, and on the other side there is Tom-Tom who doesn't even know how to read a book, or how to pick up a good one between all of those. For him, everything is new, the sun after a night full of love on the face of beautiful Eloise to dates on his room's wall&#133; and is poetry something except than a new way of seeing? "},{"Title":"...","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After reading so many bad reviews and comments on The Million Dollar Hotel movie, I decided to write one. Unlike most of them who have seen the movie, I must say that I perceive The Million Dollar Hotel as a good stylish film. I personally think that movies should sometimes be listened to instead of just watched in order to get the best of it. This one is just magical. I believe that the characters themselves had a better grasp on reality than most people I know. The soundtrack is absolutely beautiful and the cast is amazing. By that I mean especially Mila Jovovich and Jeremy Davies. He gives a fantastic and inspired performance. He is a true actor's actor. Jeremy is also brilliant and impressive as a narrator and gives the film a special drill. Besides all that, the script is so capturing that some parts of it like  a man's home is a man's castle will stay in my mind forever. Maybe the movie is not for everyday's audiences, but I would recommend it to anyone who believes film is not just for escapist entertainment but for awaking our senses and stirring our minds, because there's no doubt that this movie is a thinker. "},{"Title":"One incredibly strange movie....","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Million Dollar Hotel is quite literally, one of the weirdest movies I have ever seen that features a two time oscar winner such as Mel Gibson. Gibson plays a beyond straight arrow of an FBI agent named Skinner, sent to investigate the mysterious suicide of a millionaire's son (an unbilled Tim Roth) in a seedy hotel that is host to a group of the poor mentally ill. Tom Tom (Jeremy Davies, eschewing Private Upham completely from Saving Private Ryan), is a half wit delivery boy for the hotel with odd hair who's got a thing for a screw up (Milla Jovovich). Skinner performs a drastic investigation on the hotel who's inhabitants include the Fifth Beatle (a convincing Peter Stormare playing a good guy), an Indian (LA Law's Jimmy Smits!), an old lady (Gloria Stuart, far from her Titanic role), Harold, oops! I mean Bud Cort as a recurring alcoholic, a weirdo (Amanda Plummer, in another fine character role), and others. Definitely an eccentric film that is far from Hollywood. Gibson is quite, to describe it lightly, strange as an FBI agent not to be trifled with. His face alone is that of something that's out of a Stephen King novel. Jeremy Davies seems as if he's had way too many No Doz pills to fulfill the lead role, one that requires him to barely speak. Filled with small roles from recognizable character actors, this is a film that's for an acquired taste, because this is very out there for a movie. "},{"Title":"A weird film","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen The million dollar hotel , and I think that It has everything to be a big blockbuster film ,Mel Gibson ,Bono script. But behind everything a weird story gives you a strange feeling that your watching a very deep film.The story of this movie turns about a suicide of an insane in The million dollar hotel.The movie is dark and very sad.You went out of the cinema heavy.It's not a good experience. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated films I've ever seen.","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When I looked up information on this film on various sites, it was heavily criticized, and so I decided not to watch it. However, my curiosity grew, and I once decided to put it in to the DVD drive. It exceeded all of my wildest expectations. The movie I saw was a subtle yet profound story of the losers of life. I loved how a random array of not-quite-right-in-the-brain, the drunk, and the just plain unlucky showed emotion that would make any of us collapse to the floor and have a fit. I loved how Mel Gibson managed to reveal beauty in the type of people referred to as gutter trash. I loved the eventual revelation that Tom-Tom really was the killer, and yet in a way that was so subtle that we cannot think of him as a killer. I love how a person who may even be revolting (unclean and mad) eventually endears us and makes us feel such compassion for him... Why did this film flop? Why does it have such a low rating? Granted, it's not the best film of all men and ages, but it definitely belongs in the top 50 of all time. Well, maybe top 100. WARNING This is a rather queer film. At times, it may seem hard to follow, and it may seem like a waste of time. If you get this feeling, stop watching for now. Watch it again some other time. This film deserves your attention, but you have to feel and think on your own. "}{"Title":"This film is a very personal insight into a love story of a different kind - one which touches viewers who pay attention long enough to understand what it means.","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" At first I thought this film was pretty poor - owing to the ponderous pace, almost random dialog and hard to understand narration - until I understood that Tom Tom actually is 'special' and not just annoyingly peculiar. I think that the opening scene where he leaps off the building ties the story together well - it added a sense of tragedy to the plot and I was intrigued as to who he was waving to, which kept me going.The mix of characters also maintains humor and interest, and the part where he is used by his friends made me quite angry and frustrated. The film's strength is the wonderful soundtrack and the lovable Tom, who makes up for a string of poorly written characters. His death was so moving because he was used by such a cruel world and though he was a witness to this he retained such a sense of purity and childlike wonder I was at the same time touched and enraged.I was drawn to this film through being a fan of U2, and was disappointed up until the third act, when everything was explained and given so much more weight. It is a very unusual and unconventional film; probably because it was created largely by musicians (but altogether rewarding for those of a sentimental disposition). I think it's flaws almost make it more complete, in a strange way, because the characters are so flawed themselves and their environment so damaging. It personified mental illness in such a way that I almost felt like signing in to the Million Dollar Hotel myself. "},{"Title":"Underrated but Flawed","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I see a majority of viewers didn't care for this film. I can easily see why, though I enjoyed myself. It's Mel Gibson doing a very un-Mel Gibson film. It's made by Wim Wenders, who isn't exactly a mainstream American filmmaker (and it stars Jeremy Davies and Peter Stormare, for God's sake! How mainstream were you expecting it to be?) and whose films tend towards the ethereal, the abstract and the esoteric. So if you're expecting broad comedy or action or predictable... anything, really, then this film will be a disappointment.On the upswing, the performances and camera-work are, I thought, consistently good but frustrating, in the sense that I'm not sure anyone on the set of this film was on the same page. It's entirely possible everyone involved was seeing the movie differently as they were filming it, because it's far from cohesive or even coherent in some spots. And yet it's disjointed and occasionally brilliant enough to stand out in my mind even years after having rented it. It may not be a perfect cinematic experience, but it's those flawed attempts that usually create something worth seeing. "},{"Title":"wacky and funny","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I remember seeing this DVD in the local video shop. I remember a friend seeing it and saying it was cool. So I decided to give it a try.This film is really worth watching. Deep and at the same time funny.  Jeremy Davies' acting is really great. He was hilarious in the scene when he was imitating Skinner (Mel Gibson) in his room.It's really worth a try. "},{"Title":"Amazing story, but also a little morbid","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie.  It's had a pretty common plot, but adding in the little bit about the people being slightly retarded makes this movie better than any other.  I love ALL movies with Milla Jovovich in it so this might have a little effect on my rating but I don't think so.  I will love to watch this movie again and again.  Many of my favorite quotes of all time came for this  "},{"Title":"Not a Mel Gibson movie","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For those of you who are big Mel Gibson fans. This is not your movie. This is for Wim Wenders and U2 fans. This is an art film, though it is made accessible by the performances of Davies, Jovovich and Gibson. It is a very simple, character driven film with a host of great actors. (It is nice to see that Bud Cort is doing something interesting.) The best films usually take a simple story and do it very well. Such are the films of Kubrik and Kurosawa, two of the greatest film-makers of all time (if you don't agree there is a good chance you wont like this film). This film (as opposed to just movie) has a very simple story, but it does it beautifully. I recommend it to any film lover.PS If you like this one check out Dersu Uzala by Kurosawa and Purple Noon (trans.) by Clement. "},{"Title":"pretty nice","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  the film was a pleasant surprise to me. Mel Gibson was on the cover of the videotape and that's why I didn't suspect such a laidback movie. You have to be in the mood for it, but once you're into it you like it. All the actors, including Mel Gibson which is not particularly my favorite although he did a great job in Braveheart, we're great especially the two main actors. One plays a retard very convincing and the other one is pretty f*cked up, but is really smart. If you wanna see a nice, laidback, surprising, retarted movie you'll like this one. "},{"Title":"A Wim Wenders film that's accessible to the MTV Generation","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was mostly interested to see if Bono could write a movie script aswell as he does lyrics. Look out, Hollywood, this Irish lad can write!MILLON DOLLAR HOTEL was funny, tragic and all togetherimaginative bringing out overlooked performances by an incrediblecast Jeremy (SAVING PRIVATE RYAN) Davies, Milla (FIFTHELEMENT) Jovovich, Amanda (PULP FICTION) Plummer, Gloria(TITANIC) Stuart, Bud (POLLOCK) Cort, Julian (WARLOCK) Sands,Tim (ROB ROY) Roth as well as Mel Gibson and Jimmy (NYPDBLUE) Smits as this crazy Indian artist named Geronimo.The story, half murder mystery and half crazy love story, takesplace in L.A.'s Million Dollar Hotel, a haven for America'shealthcare dropouts where the loonies and depraved congregateside-by-side for $5 a night. Gibson plays a straight-laced FBI agenton the trail of his boss' murdered son, Izzy (Roth), whose lastresidence was the Hotel. Upon his arrival, Gibson discovers twothings Izzy might just have committed suicide and that Gibson isjust as much a freak as everybody else there. Which, of course, isprobably Bono's way of asking, `Who is normal anyway?'The catchy music, provided by Bono, Brian Eno and Hal Willnerbring that Modern Rock edge to the film that even helps Wenders'usually-way-too-long cinematic passages to flow. The onlydisappointment I had is that this film wasn't shown to a wideraudience. I look forward to Bono's next story.  "},{"Title":"to dream of love","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, this movie is pretty incredible, unique, beautiful.  Especially the character Tom (played by Jeremy Davies).Still reeling from its beauty, which really, was in all the little details. It was made like a dream, some characters over the top, some more real than real.See it if you can. "},{"Title":"Well paced and thoughtful movie- One of my top 10!","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is both well paced and thoughtful, and it works on many levels, which gives it a richness that so many movies lack.  While the plot moves the movie along at a good pace, the movie has a philosophical grounding that very few movies possess.  This grounding provides an intellectual breadth that enables a legitimate discussion (not dictation) of who we are, what are we worth and how we value of our relationships.  Though religion is not mentioned at all, I consider it to be a religious movie because it explored questions that provoked (at least in me) questions about G-d.The music by U2 is excellent.  It enhances the visual by complementing the visual with the appropriate tone and mood.The cast is very good, Jimmy Smits is excellent, Mel Gibson gives an outstanding performance and shows he's a great actor whose talent is indeed independent of his star power, but clearly the movie is bigger than any of the actor's performances, as well as it should be.The only negative is the performance of Milla Jovovich.  I've found her range so very limited in the past (not much beyond  a frantic expression).  Here she does much better to the point where her performance is, if not adequate, then tolerable, but she still falls significantly short of what the role offered.  Luckily the story supports her and her inadequacies as an actress does not impair the movie.I gave it a 10 despite Jovovich.DM "},{"Title":"Dont get the point","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Saw the movie with much expectations since I am a Wenders lover. I left the movies' with a strange feeling. Not a bad movie, not a good movie. What stroke me most was the soundtrack I felt it had not much to do with the movie and with Wenders. I loved photography. Think the cast was good, except for Mel Gibson... Still quite slow. Felt the story itself was not important. I am happy I have seen it and probably I will it see a second time, but the million dollar hotel will not be THE movie, but remain a movie. Sorry for Bono, good attempt but not enough. Still the soundtrack by itself is really good. "}{"Title":"Really simple, but really original, really psychological","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Behind a kind of bad love story , really common ,there are some feelings , some behaviours you can't forget after having seen this movie , it looks as if everyone was fool , but, you manage minute after minute to understand them , and think like them ...don't watch it,  as a ridiculous appearing love story ... "},{"Title":"Favorite Movie of All Time!!!","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Tom Tom plays such a riveting part in this film. I first saw it on the Independent Film Channel and fell in love with it at first viewing. I suggest that anyone who can see it should. It left me feeling thankful for everything and seeing everything in brighter colors. I might be only 16 but I am a deep lover of Independent Films and this along with the movie Brick has to be my favorite movie of all time. Mel Gibson plays a creepy yet intriguing part as the detective. The conflicts between him and the major characters in this movie make it that much more amazing. The dark cinematography mixed with the comedy of the half insane characters makes for an interesting mix of a movie. I have absolutely nothing negative to say about this movie. I encourage that everyone see this film if it were the last movie you ever watch. Every time I watch it I find something else I love about it. And i have a question too. Does Jeremy Davies have a mentally challenged brother or sibling? Because he plays a crazy person all to well. Once again i love this movie from its dark setting to its quirky characters and from its well written screen play to its semi-amateur and simple script its a perfect blend and everything an independent film should be. "},{"Title":"Hard to take, but highly appealing","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's quite paradoxical that some independent films have as many Hollywood stars as your average big budget promotion-fest. With Mel Gibson, Milla Jovovich and Tim Roth--not to mention Bono penning the story--Million Dollar Hotel proves this point by delivering a harshly artistic film that will probably turn you off as many times as it inspires you.Using a mentally handicapped man to drive and narrate a story is always a gamble. The director risks alienating the viewers or even having the movie get on their nerves, and MDH does both in the span of its two hours. Luckily actor Jeremy Davies portrays the title role as an every man even with his apparent disabilities, making the viewer connect with him rather than feel sorry for him. The acting remains great right down the line with each player fitting right into their roles. Mel Gibson is actually perfect in MDH as he is kept in one emotion throughtout the film, not giving him a chance to overact.Jovovich too is great as always--only she can be so hauntingly romantic while playing a dirty, destitute and disturbed twenty something (the alliteration was not meant).The story itself is not unlike some of Bono's songs. While all the components are moody and depressing it is strangely uplifting overall. (The opening song, done by him, truly captures the movies tone as any titular piece should)One can tell pretty easily that director Wim Wenders was going for a specific feel throughout the film. With sepia toned shots and mystifying editing he fills the viewer witht he feelings of schizophrenia and disilussionment most its characters possess. The cinematography coupled with great lighting and interiors make the hotel in MDH truly feel more like a mad house than an apartment complex.There is a lot to be said in MDH about life, the human spirit and the human animal. The problem is that MDH says it to early and too often until the viewer grows tired of the point. Luckily the points are made so artfully as to almost forgive the writer and director for overkill. Sometimes directors get so wrapped up in their message that they forget the medium. Wenders is guilty of the opposite, making the film almost more artistic (and longer) than it needed to be.MDH is not exactly an easy film to watch, even if you have been weaned on films by men such as Paul Schrader or Christopher Nolan. But if you are willing to give director Wenders a couple hours of your time he will take you to another world that in a very dark sense resembles our own. "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest Scenes Ever","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This one left me speechless. But I'll try to review it, even though I tend to go from speechless to wordy.Did I like it? Kind of... Did I think it was appallingly bad? In a way... There is too much of high quality in it for it to be dismissed as mere trash... The direction, the acting (except for the painfully out-of-place and self-conscious Mel Gibson)... But it is just too deliberately and rigidly bizarre for the first hour or so for the beautifully rendered pathos of the last reel to touch the heart as deeply as it should.  I couldn't forget how I had been slapped in the face with an old lady known for her refined sweetness screaming the F-word over and over, and hit over the head a hundred times with shots of the intellectually challenged main character hopping about and squealing like a brain damaged chimp in front of a mirror. Self-sabotage may be the operative word in assessing this movie's basic trouble.True, I ended up being intrigued and moved by the character and predicament of Tom Tom . That's the accomplishment of Jeremy Davies. I just wish that the director and screenwriter had stayed within more traditional dramatic lines. The crucial scene in which we discover who if anyone dunit didn't have enough behind it to  work. In itself this scene is so compelling, the tragedy involved in the  moral  and psychological crisis of a single moment so grippingly presented,  that most people, I think, who saw it as a clip, would be astonished and disgusted at the rest of the movie's frivolous weirdness. Jeremy Davies might easily have won an Oscar for what his performance in the movie worthy of that scene would have been. (Outside of the Gospels, no one is more welcoming than Oscar to the blind and the halt and those with divers ailments...) It's cool if a filmmaker follows his Muse out of the Hollywood mainstream into areas at which the little golden idol tends not to nod. It's just dumb if even a decidedly indie filmmaker goes out of his way to spoil not only his Oscar chances but a haunting tale of not-meant-to-be love, and fascinatingly ambiguous murder, with scenes of black with purple polkadots comedy as atrociously unfunny, as obnoxiously lampshade-on-the-heady, as the one in which Mel Gibson sits in a lotus position in the lobby of the hotel (the last thing his straight-laced character with the crew cut would do)and browbeats the howling and cursing freaks and losers who populate the eponymous hotel.And yet... What do I know? Yes. I have uttered the ultimate movie critic blasphemy. But there may have been no place in the MILLION DOLLAR HOTEL which I think SHOULD have been for one of the most profoundly hilarious movie scenes I've ever seen; it's probably the quirkiest thing in the movie. Quite a few reviewers pointed it out as something special. That came as a kind of relief. So I wasn't the only one who noticed!It's the rendition by Peter Stormare, playing Dixie, a John Lennon lookalike who claims to have been a Beatle who wrote a lot of Beatle songs whom the other Beatles never met or knew of, of I Am the Walrus. What makes the scene is not so much Stormare's amusing badness as a singer, nor Dixie's oddly endearing delusional aplomb  as he offers asides about how he came to compose this particular song, as the reactions of a character (played by Bud Cort) who up to that point has been one of the less sympathetic hotel residents. The poor slob with the bad toupee is a drunk and a loser, and along with his  Million Dollar neighbors has just suffered his biggest loss ever in the lottery of life (the fraud conspiracy- another first-hour false start and blind alley in the screenplay). Now he is sitting in the lobby, in his cups, gazing off into space as he listens to the Fifth Beatle, tears welling up in his eyes... The way he responds to Dixie's claim of being the Eggman...but I must say no more. All I can say is that I was brought back to my college days, to occasions on which I had to BEG the most intelligently funny guy I knew to stop with the sublime silliness of his routine,which was wickedly attuned to the weaknesses of my particular funny bone,  because my laughter was starting to be excruciating. But the scene is throat-grabbing as well as side-splitting. I shall remember it as long as I live. Because of it alone I'll probably end up buying the MILLION DOLLAR DVD. Twenty, thirty years from now I'll be at least smiling at my memory of how hard I once laughed. Till I cried...     "},{"Title":"A film that sucks you in and doesn't let go","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Been meaning to watch this for ages. Bought the soundtrack a long time ago on release, due to liking U2 and especially Daniel Lanois. Bought it on DVD but just got round to watching.Superbly filmed which you'd expect of a Wenders project. The cast are superb with Jeremy Davies and Jovovich playing their respective parts to perfection. I liked the John Lennon alike, despite his accent being dodgy at times but that was all part of the character for me. A great rendition of I am the walrus. The music is sublime and there are many parts that make you really feel the emotion. There are also many funny dark moments.  I don't want to give plots away but not once did I feel bored or it was going slow. It just sets the scene and sucks you in until you find out what happens. And it's certainly something I'd watch again.A sort of Fight Club esque film in the fact that you have to think and watch. My only gripe at times was Tom's very quiet dialogue, I had to rewind a few times to make sure I didn't miss stuff on the speech. Overall superb though, I gave it 8. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was the funniest, most intellectually based whodunnit I have ever seen. This can only come from the mind of Bono. Gibson is fantastic and this is a true change of character. Jeremy Davis is very impressive in his narrative as Tom Tom. "},{"Title":"Milla Jovivch's Best Film","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film because I'm a huge Milla Jovovich fan.  I saw her first in Resident Evil, and have since seen many more of her great films.  Every time she has proven herself to be a great talent, but this time she has outdone herself.  Her character, Eloise, was a troubled young prostitute who called the The Million Dollar Hotel home.  And she was one of the many characters to get involved in the mysterious death of Israel Goldkist, the son of a billionaire who also lived in the hotel.  When Special agent Detective Skinner of the FBI (Mel Gibson) comes to investigate Israel's death, the lives of the hotel's tenants are changed forever. Tom Tom, a young retard that lived in the hotel and was best friend to Israel, falls in love with Eloise, but will their love be able to survive? This story was wonderfully written.  It was co-written by U2's Bono, who also sang the beautiful songs for the film.  The soundtrack lends to the excellent atmosphere.  The feeling of sadness and poverty in his lyrics is deeply touching. Wim Wenders imagined a dark, gritty setting for this tragic tale.  This was brought to film with amazing skill.  I have seen few films that have ever looked this good.  It's dark, but the camera angles are always so unique, and so interesting, that they always capture, and hold the attention of the viewer. The acting was top notch.  All of the actors did an excellent job.  I even thought Mel Gibson did a great job, and he normally disappoints me. An excellent film, that ranks among one of the best of all time.  I'd say see it immediately. "},{"Title":"Loony Tunes","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One of the other user comments said for you to stick it out to the end. I agree. It took some time for me to really get into the film. The residents of the rundown hotel are all loony tunes in one way or another but if you don't or can't feel sympathy for them you have no heart. The excellent U2 soundtrack doesn't scream at you but quietly plays in the background and fits the dark atmosphere perfectly. The acting by the entire cast is top notch from start to finish. 4 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Not only because I'm a U2 fan, this movie is really good","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really really liked it, it's sweet, and makes you realize important things about life, because although the plot is not really complicated, the context and the characters are very deep and very well done. I recommend it, and the sondtrack...ahh...Don't miss it! even if you don't like u2 that much.Great filmmaking. "},{"Title":"where did it come from","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had never heard of this film. I was just perusing the cheap DVD rentals and saw this one. I knew I had never seen it, and was not sure it was going to be that great from reading the box, but thought, heck, there was not all than many others I had not seen, so decided to give it a try.I was very pleasantly surprised. I thought it was well directed, well acted, and a great script. The music was great also, went well with what was going on during the movie. There was a lot of talent involved in the making of this movie.This is probably one of the best movies I have seen in several years. So very interesting, so much different than any movies in awhile. If I had to compare it to another movie, I suppose it is like taking The Grand Hotel, just pushing the envelope a lot farther. Really on the dark side, but such a great love story. The characters were very interesting and really believable. The action, especially in the background, was so interesting to watch.I give this a gold star for effort, a gold star for result, and a gold star for innovation. Rent it, and see it for what it is, an interesting story about some interesting characters told in an interesting way. "}{"Title":"A movie that got under my skin","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A gentle story - no great enlightenment - but really pathetic.Good actors and a great stage director help us to dive into a world of lovely loosers. In this movie you can start to wonder and understand.. "},{"Title":"Different, funny, emotional, beautiful, and never boring","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie became my favorite after I saw it.  It was funny and playful at first...cute.  After learning the situation and the characters, there was still an innocent fun, though you began to sympathize a little.  Finally, you are completely (if you let your self be) sucked into the emotion & plot. I don't want to give away alot, but want to say that the visuals were artistic and nothing less than excellent.  The acting was fun and never overdone.  This is a must see! "},{"Title":"... and worth even more!","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Million Dollar Hotel is the best Wenders movie for a long time. After the disappointing last one The End of Violence this film represents what the The End of Violence probably should have been. What seemed there confused and lacking the specific atmosphere is realised in The Million Dollar Hotel in a fascinating way. Wenders creates a surrealistic and a the same time very realistic mood with the support of his brilliant actors, the great music and the superb photography work by which every single picture is perfect for itself.The film's magic can of course not be found in the plot, which could be told in one sentence. What makes this film special is Wenders' ability to create a world of its own, which is as freaky as it is of a thrilling realism. Every character is interesting and pictures a single microcosm. While in the beginning one must think all the time of David Lynch and his idea of a FBI special agent in Twin Peaks, the film slowly becomes an impressing study of two both fascinating and still very strange people. Yet it never becomes moralistic or tries to reach a political correctness in the sense of `Respect handicapped people although they are freaks!'. Wenders' aesthetic approach is to make their world visible on the screen. And in the perfection he does it this is very much.The Million Dollar Hotel is Wenders as his best. You shouldn't expect an action movie or a drama with the plot complexity of King Lear. But if you like the subtle humour of Lynch combined with Wender's perfect art of photography and the charm of an European deconstructing LA (there has never been a better characterisation of LA as far as I know), you'll love that film. I did.  "},{"Title":"I thank my lucky stars I've screened this movie.","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" First I've screened this film on New Year'2000 and 30 times since then... Being a fan of Bono and Mr. Wender's direction I consider it to be a very delicate work, the film is full of dramatic irony, romance and humor and once you've screened it you deeply fall in love with it. This film made me change my mind and start my movie career.Wow, after I jumped it occurred to me life is perfect, life is the best, full of magic, beauty, opportunity... and television... and surprises, lots of surprises, yeah. And then there's the best stuff of course, better than anything anyone ever made up, 'cause it's real. Million Dollar Hotel - U2 "},{"Title":"Terrible movie","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"                  I was shocked when I read some of the comments viewing the movie as good or better. In my opinion it was the worst movie I've seen so far this year or any other year for that matter. It goes to show how varied our tastes are. Isn't the fact that it didn't have a theatrical release (or did it) say something about the movie? Oh well back to GWTW. "},{"Title":"Not for me","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" While this movie had some humorous moments, for the most part I found it boring. Another problem I had with it was that there were times I couldn't hear or make out the dialogue. Either the actor was talking way to softly or they had their hand over their mouth muffling the sound. There were some interesting characters but the whole thing was just too slow and hard to understand. I stayed with it through the end just wanting to know what really happened to Israel but I would definitely not recommend it to anyone. I purchased this one as a previously viewed at the video store and had never heard of it before. So glad I only paid $1.50 for it! And now I am trying to get this thing to submit but it keeps telling me it isn't long enough -o.k.now it will go thru. "},{"Title":"The Million Dollar Waste!","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Why in the whole world was this movie made? How could it of been released with such a story and who would want to make a film with such a story and its sub-angles? Even more questionable is why in the world did Mel Gibson even think if he'd want to be in this film? Beats Me! This movie is so incredibly stupid its even worse than a than asking a very grouchy person a question a hundred times in row! Gibson's great talent is so misused here. I am surprised that this didn't hurt Milla Jovovich's career. Tim Roth is totally wasted in this film. And what in the world was with Jimmy Smits' character? His character was so unnecessary. I won't even go about Bono! Many films that are good are on the IMDb Bottom 100 list. Why isn't this? This needs to replace one and quickly too! I don't recommend this film to anyone unless they want to see great actors being total jokes in a sucky film.  "},{"Title":"One of the most boring mysteries you'll ever experience...","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Besides the fact that there's a place for messed-up people, I don't know (or particularly care, for that matter) what the point of this film is. And don't even get me started on the characters. OK, I'll get myself started. While Detective Skinner does provide the film with some spark, he is otherwise pointless. In fact, this movie is like the characters in it boring, not worth caring about, and annoying. Giving us a detective just as kooky as the people he is investigating doesn't help. I understand the people in the hotel are screwed up, but is that any reason for the film to be so boring? I think not. Even Gibson himself said, I thought it was as boring as a dog's ass. I couldn't agree more. I read this in a Rolling Stone movie review just before writing this review. When the news crew arrives to put Tom-Tom on TV, the movie slightly improves, but it is still very strange. Tom-Tom does eventually kill himself, but he should have done so sooner, because out of all the characters, he is the most annoying. Not to mention his narration. And what's with his haircut? This movie may be one of the reasons Jeremy Davies no longer acts. Or at least I haven't.*1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Roots and devolution of a filmmaker","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Watching some 15 years later, I did not enjoy The Million Dollar Hotel but was surprised how well it fit into Wim Wenders' film history, despite its quirkiness. Here's my reaction.I became a Wenders fan early on - he became my favorite director in the '70s after I saw a premiere of Wrong Move in NYC at MoMA and then earlier works including The Goalie's Anxiety at the Penalty Kick on a special trip to Pittsburgh. I read his early writings of film and music criticism and was primed for following a major artist.I got to meet Wim in 1982 when I interviewed him and his partner Chris Sievernich in NYC about their new indie film distribution company based in NYC named Gray City. Wim even showed me a segment of his film Hammett -the original version he shot in 1980, before he was instructed by boss Coppola to re-shoot the entire thing with a new cast.So looking at Hotel I see many threads of Wim's interests and talents woven into what I consider to be a failure - a mish-mash of elements rather than a fully-realized film (which his earlier German features were, at a classic level). The music is there with Bono's participation including story credit; Wim's fondness for semi-improvisation (several of his best films including Kings of the Road were shot with scripts written overnight or on a daily basis to keep everything fresh & spontaneous). The quirky ensemble with 100% certified goof-ball talent like Amanda Plummer and Bud Cort in the cast (somehow he missed casting Brad Dourif and Crispin Glover) is a Wenders specialty -he even discovered Klaus Kinski's daughter Nastassja and gave her a career-starting jail-bait role in Wrong Move that is among her oddest.But the dreamy, drug-induced mood of the narrative is typical of what's wrong with the whole indie movement. I started covering indie cinema in 1980 as a Variety reporter, attending the IFFM (indie market) in NYC annually even before Sundance Institute was created. John Cassavetes and his pseudo-improvisation (a great influence on Wenders) was the Godfather of this movement, but 35 years later it has become enshrined as part of the establishment - a paean to oddball and quirk that results in terrible, often unwatchable movies (which find an outlet on the internet or cable channels) that were not subjected to the useful quality controls of the old Studio system. It is no accident that Lionsgate, a company that made its nest egg with Black exploitation and horror films before becoming pretentious in recent years, released Hotel. So self-indulgence permeates Hotel, especially in Nick's script which would certainly have been turned down by any studio, whether for the correct reasons or just because it is patently uncommercial. Peter Stormare's extended John Lennon impression is just the sort of thing that causes chuckles at a story conference, but on screen it is idiotic and tiresome. The cast members desperately vying for attention, with talent like Cort and vet Gloria Stuart lost in the shuffle, is fairly embarrassing -almost as irritating as watching a dozen or so moronic Republican candidates for the presidency trying to get a word in edge-wise against Donald Trump in a televised debate. Quirkmaster general Jeremy Davies is intriguing but ultimately floundering in the lead role, and it is not surprising that he was also the co-star of Werner Herzog's choosing in Rescue Dawn several years later, also a quintessential indie picture but exceedingly mainstream in theme and even treatment by the usually avant-garde Herzog.Ultimately I tend to categorize indie films like this one as vanity productions, a dishonorable cinema tradition that goes way, way back. They are easy to spot, as in Anthony Newley's infamous Can Mercy Humppe...?, which i didn't see until more than four decades after it was shot and found to be the poster child for trippy self- indulgence, or the works of Conrad Rooks (Chappaqua and Siddhartha). Perhaps a genre of films made under the influence of drugs or hallucogens would cover the issue. Perhaps Cassavetes' best film was his A Woman Under the Influence, just a coincidence in titling, and that film was also significant from a distribution point-of- view in that like another indie pioneer, Tom Billy Jack Laughlin, Cassavetes invented new forms of four-wall distribution for its theater bookings. Unfortunately film history took a different turn and four-walling by indies led directly to Jaws and mass- booking of thousands of screens at a time by the major companies, a format that thrives today with indie product pushed to ancillary markets or subsidized theatrical showings (latter being film festivals or gimmicks like NYC's IFC center). Wenders is fully capable of connecting with an audience and making his themes palpable (he's in the history books with Wings of Desire, Paris, Texas and the documentary that nearly won him an Oscar), but sophomoric material like Hotel should have been relegated to the category of juvenilia and not released to the general public. "},{"Title":"Really dreadful - wish it wasn't but...","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There can be a moment early in a film that's failed to kick off in any direction, when you suddenly realise it's not going to get any better. Gloom sets in and the fingers begin to entertain the idea of watching maybe just a bit of it in Picture Search. Then a bit more, then a bit more...then, oh - we've got to the end credits.I really did want to like The Million Dollar Hotel but I found slightly more than a million reasons not to. The characters are off-beat and odd but it feels like they're simply that way *to* be off-beat and weird. The cast, notably Gibson and Jojovitch, are capable of so much more than the film takes from them. Bono's story is muddled and although indecipherable ambiguity can work great in musical lyrics, it can get on your wick in cinema.If you're determined to get it, buy the videotape version instead of the DVD because you can't tape over DVDs. "}{"Title":"interesting","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" part of a trend, it is only good exercise to fall rules. chaotic at first sigh, mixture of need of freedom, teenager ambitions and flower power romanticism, using the trick of madness as window to real life, against the system, can not be a surprise. Jeremy Davies does a good work and Mel Gibson is the useful spice for story. a film who reflects only the tradition of a protest form. nothing new. nothing more strange. refuges, dialogs, love, errors, a large gesture. slices of comedy, exotic characters and inspired music. the absence of the new can be basic source of frustration. and the desire to be a film for everybody - the story and the cast as tools. in fact, it has a precise public. and that fact does it real interesting. "},{"Title":"Painting with tar on art","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is not a very successful project. It's interesting but terribly awkward, eloquent with mood but so transparent that everything is on the surface, all the mechanisms about self-referential fiction plainly visible and diffused into the broad. Broad sentiments and yearnings, broad ideas about meaning.So the scaffold that brings an FBI agent to investigate in a hotel populated by eccentrics is a whodunit about the suicide of a junkie painter. His paintings (made of tar, a smudge of blackness that an art guy evaluates as 'large dark garbage' that he can sell) posthumously attain great value and the rest of the hotel inhabitants conspire to make a fortune out of them. So it is about art that holds all the secrets and a bunch of people trying to decide what to do with it.Now come the interesting stuff, all about the fakery of apparent reality. The paintings are not his but someone else's. Later we discover that underneath the tar are hidden actual, valuable paintings stolen from art galleries (art=/tar). And the entire thing gains value momentum only because it's broadcast on TV, the public eye that magnifies and distorts yet dictates what is real and what not. There's also a guy who claims he's the unknown fifth member of the Beatles and wrote all their music.Inside of this Wenders paints an evocative romance between two awkward people at the fringes of life, pained human beings trying to hold onto a world spinning madly out of orbit.But there's not much to mine in either the romance (which is so earnestly, awkwardly consummated by the two of them) or the parody about TV. It's all readily available, every sentiment and gesture. So what is left is that eloquence of mood, the flatline between bitter and sweet that Jarmusch likes to walk late at nights. Even that feels overprocessed though, like Sofia Coppola does it.It doesn't take much to understand why the film didn't find an audience. As something with Mel Gibson's face on the cover, it must have confounded a mainstream audience. As art-house it's rather easy and doesn't demand much.Considering his antics and the films he makes, it was a pleasant surprise that Gibson funded and lend his name to this. It won't change anyone's life, but it's out there for anyone curious enough to notice. "},{"Title":"What is normal?","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In a dirty, cheap urban hotel, a man dies. Well, outside of it, to be more precise. He goes over the side of the roof. An FBI agent is sent in to investigate, and discover if it was a murder or suicide. We will find out before it ends, but it really isn't the focus(and don't expect a thriller, it isn't and never tries to be). This is not for everyone, and I won't claim I understood everything about it; I will explain what I did get. It holds a look at the losers in this environment, the freaks. Sociology and the current state of relationships are important aspects of this. This is the only thing by Wenders that I've watched, and I don't know if this is a typical example of his work or not. Some have pointed out that there is no subtlety to the portrayal of the mentally ill(who all stay in this one dump as they cannot afford medical insurance), and one could call the characters irritating. They are strange, and this doesn't shy away from that or downplay it. There are those that will hate it just for that. We have one who thinks he's in The Beatles(without it being acknowledged officially), and I suppose you either love or hate Tom. He's the happiest person in this, very naive, and he gets a huge crush on Eloise(something I can certainly sympathize with, as I got this purely for Milla, and she is cute in this in a role with not much dialog), and their romance is pretty impossible to resist, for its realism and how incredibly heartfelt it is(this film *really* gets to you). And the first thing we see is him leaping from the hotel, and the rest of this is narrated by him, in retrospect. Gibson's performance is deadpan or tongue in cheek. He's one of the names in this. They tend to give great acting performances. The style very effectively builds an atmosphere; not everyone will enjoy it. This was thought up by Bono, and U2 do songs for it. There is a little sexuality, disturbing content and strong language in this. The DVD comes with two sets of good interviews, about the cast(with a running time of 27 and a half minutes) and the movie itself(14 minutes long), and a trailer. I recommend this to those open to a slightly different kind of picture, and a sad and genuine lovestory. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Definitely a film to watch","Date":"31 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I got this film because I liked all the faces on the front of the box and the plot really pulled me in but to be honest you need to be in the right kind of mood to watch this film because you will fined its a bit on the strange side of this. Also in parts it tends to drag but over all I really did like this film but then again if I was to see it a second time I might change my mined. I do really like how we first meet the main character Tom Tom with this surprising leap off a building witch make you thing huh? and also makes you want to keep watching. As I got through most of the film I started to get a little bored but was determined to watch the hole thing and I'm glad I did because towards the end it got really good and ended leaving me with a lot of unanswered questions. This film might seam like a drama but it also made me laugh in bits where other people may have stayed silent witch I really like. I thought the acting was amazing and I must say it is definitely a film to watch. "},{"Title":"leap of faith","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" a very interesting movie to say the least, don't expect lot's of action cause you'll be sorely disappointed. this is more of a character study into the lives of mental patients, or the poor who can't afford health insurance, a little detective story thrown in the mix, you have Mel Gibson, who plays an FBI agent who's himself a little of his rocker. Jeremy Davies is great in the lead role of Tom Tom.. Milla Jovovich is also great in here role as Heloise. The supporting actors and actresses are great as well. Wish i would have seen a little more of Tim Roth,, but that's okay. The film is a little long, and some spots seems to drag, but just when i wanted to turn it off or skip, something kept pulling at me,, and low and behold, presto chango, the film kicked in to shall we say overdrive. It's a very interesting piece of work,, the music is great featuring Bono, and U2, Bono had the idea for the story, after shooting the music video Where the Streets have No Name. he made a bet with edge,, edge said he could make the 10ft jump to the roof of the next building over.the film opens with one of the most interesting premises for a beginning, and the best line i think so far ever, for away for the first lines of a movie,, thumbs up. "},{"Title":"good and boring at the same time","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is really a crazy movie,i would never have seen or heard about it if my mother havent bought it for me.In a scale of 10 i would give it a 5,its a mediocre movie,the main characters are crazy,and its rythm is lame.Even so i dont know why i enjoyed this movie,its got somekind of art,i really hated that tom tom,his love story is also lame,but behind that theres a so so detective story and a good soundtrack.You also get to see a busted Mel Gibson playing a secondary role.The best thing of this movie is the soundtrack,i never heard about the director before,overall its good and bad at the same time,its just mediocre.I wouldnt buy this movie for my collection,but since its here i dont mind that it stays. "},{"Title":"It doesn´t stand out!","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Million Dollar Hotel is not a bad film and it is beautifully shot. This is however the only thing there is to say. The film does not stand out in any way! It fails to catch the viewers attention. The film lacks Wender's normal abilities to create a fascinating story, characters and atmospheres.The Million Dollar Hotel is not a Wim Wenders film. It is a standard anglo-american production of the kind that tries hard to be intellectual but only succeeds in being pretentious. Peter Stormare is however terrific as always, this time as the secret member of the Beatles.See the movie, but do not set your expectations too high. "},{"Title":"Wrong In Some Many Ways","Date":"23 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When you see a movie and you don't like it you usually have a slight idea about what you disliked.Well, when I finished this one, I had the terrible notion (maybe the first time I ever felt it) that it was a complete waste of time. It is without any doubt the worst movie ever done by Win Wenders and I can point what is the biggest problem of this complete mess a script written by Bono Vox. The story doesn't make any type of sense, the acting is very poor and the context is just out of context. I realized that I was losing my time when after one hour of movie I had no idea about what was the movie was about. This is a true personal opinion more than a review, but as a movie addicted, this was one of the biggest disappointments I've ever had. "},{"Title":"Dark but bewildering feel to this movie.","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I like the feel of this movie. Even though it is dark, it is surprisingly wicked awesome. There are lots of hot chicks in it. And i went through a case and a half of beers while looking at it. You can feel like you are living in the hotel also. And you can be all like milla is SO hott!... Also, Mel Gibson is in this movie. And the wuss from Saving Private Ryan. Do you like movies that are different from other movies? Well, then... go ahead and look at this movie one time. You know you want to. And you also know that reading books is for loosers. So get out there and take control of your pathetic life, and don't forget to buy some pretzels to go with your beers! I'm going a hot dog eating contest now... bye! "},{"Title":"i love this movie!","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  as much as i adore mel gibson; his boring as a duck's ass comment on this endearing, charming piece is completely lost on me. c'mon mel, well what do you honestly think of 'what women want?' or 'when we were soldiers' then? as opposed to your typical high gloss hollywood blockbuster; i'd much rather spend a couple of pleasurable hours watching a gem like this anytime. some of the photography is absolutely beautiful and wenders' depicts an alternative side of l.a. which is rarely shown in celluloid and is matched by an efficient, quirky script by u2 frontman bono.  all the performances are top notch especially mel, jeremy davies and an uncredited performance by tim roth. the basic premise of a standard whodunnit turned on it's head is also quite effective and commendable. well worth a million dollars!  "}{"Title":"2 hours of my life I'll never get back!","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I never saw this one coming.  It had the makings of an interesting murder mystery.  It had many things going for it, Mel & Milla.  However, that being said, it was all it had going for it. The characters are all down and out people with various psychological ailments.  That could have added to the plot if it hadn't been hammed up to the point where it was just plain annoying.  The director concentrated way too much on the quirks of the characters and not enough on the paper thin plot.... perhaps that's why.  This movie had potential and fell woefully short.  Mel should be embarassed. Take it from me and save 2 precious hours and don't watch this piece of garbage.  I wish I could have those 2 hours back, don't make the same mistake I did.  "},{"Title":"unique and worth watching","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I rented Million Dollar hotel because I saw the names Mel Gibson and Milla Jovovich, knowing nothing about the movie.  After watching it, I found it to be a very interesting and different movie.  Contained in it are lots of random and interesting characters, and a story that tries to teach a lesson as it moves along.  Whether or not it is successful is up to you to decide, but the point of me writing this was to stress that I think this movie is definitely worth watching.  Also of note, U2's lead singer Bono helped write the story, and produced some new songs for the film, so if you're a U2 fan, as I am, don't miss it.  "},{"Title":"What in the unholy heck?","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers As a huge U2 fan, I've literally been waiting for years to see this movie. It was on pay per view the other night, and I was overjoyed. After about twenty minutes, I started reading a book. What in God's name was going on?! Why, at nearly the end of the film, did we find out that Skinner was some kind of circus freak? Who cared at that point?  A couple of wacked out idiots jump off a roof! So what? I found it impossible to feel sorry for any of those people. Jaws demanded more sympathy. After enduring this movie for two hours, I wanted to jump of a roof! "},{"Title":"ALTERNATVE TITLE FORGET WALDO AND FIND BONO","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  U2 just played a concert here in Lexington last Friday night and the midnight movie at the Kentucky Theatre was the Million Dollar Hotel. So, I was one of the few people to see it on the big screen.  This is the best way to watch it, especially if you want to catch cowriter/coproducer Bono in his all too brief (if you blink you'll miss it) cameo. The opening ariel shots were breathtakingly beautiful. You'd swear the theatre was flying every time the camera becomes elevated. There are imediate shades of director Wim Wender's Wings of Desire as we watch Tom Tom (played by Jeremy Davies ) take a flying leap off the Million Dollar Hotel. The only other person who could have played this character -an obvious extension of Bono- would be Bono himself (and what a shame he didn't). Nevertheless, we know bono or no that right from the get go Davies perfomance will be rewarding, and it truly is. In fact, Davies manages to break every rule of acting and get away with it. His interaction with Detective Skinner (played by Mel Gibson) is halarious - especially in the resturant scene. The supporting players seem to be having a good time too, most notably  Peter Sormare - who steals the show as the menatally illusioned fifth Beatle- a dead ringer for John Lennon.  The story itself is so autisicly told and eratically paced, it demands repeat viewings (the hallmark of many a cult film). Overall a weird and rewarding experience.  "},{"Title":"get over it","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was a beautiful movie that held my attention from beginning to end. Although it might seem slow to some, i felt that it flowed with a perfect pace that reminded me of the Kubrick film Barry Lyndon.There were some genius touches... tar covering stolen masterpieces, with the critic seeing thru it... Skinner being comfortable with the freaks, since he was a freak himself; although he seemed normal there was something strange and unexplained about him (his third arm)... the synchronicity of two imperfect lovers making perfect love... "},{"Title":"In need of a 'write off?'","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Mel Gibson, Milla....what more could I ask for? How about some glue! Its not enough to have a unique story, creative and exciting photography, talented acting and finance. You have to make it all work together. This film was like an omlette. So many tasty ingredients yet somehow failed to compliment one another. I found it irritating wanting desperatly to follow along yet not allowed to. No wonder this went straight to video. A self indulged idea by a creative singer that started with promise yet could never quite come together. Yet as always, only my opinion.   "},{"Title":"I would never have thought I could hate a Mel Gibson Movie....","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Then My roommates and I saw the Million Dollar Hotel.  This movie was pretty terrible.  It had frightening characters and a weird and morbid story line.  It did have some good performances, but there were a number of things I just didn't feel were well explained.  The one good thing I can say about this movie is that Amanda Plummber found the role she was born to play. After seeing it I can understand how it only made 52,000 in the theater. "},{"Title":"Anxious to see film that doesn't pay off","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had been anxious and waiting to see this film for several months.  When I finally did I was disappointed.  The movie had its good points and it was well-written.  However, the movie moved far too slow for my tastes.  And a lot of the people (Jeremy Davies especially) spoke in really soft voices that was hard to hear over the music that came up every time they started to speak.  Good music, good idea. It just wasn't done right. "},{"Title":"Encouragement for huge, disastrous falls","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There's a surprising, hard-to-resist charm to this daffy, palpablyheartfelt romanticization of Los Angeles' Skid Row. The director,Wim Wenders, has a faster and lighter touch than he has in recentyears (aided by his BUENA VISTA SOCIAL CLUB?); this mysteryabout a suicide that might be a murder in an L.A. welfare hotel hassome of the sweet delirium of a good Alan Rudolph movie. JeremyDavies is the idjit best friend of the deceased heir to a billionaire;his Gumpesque twitches and smirks are tolerable for the movie'sfirst half, then start to grate. Davies doesn't do wonders for hisopposite number, a bookworm fruitcake and vision of heavenplayed mostly superbly by Milla Jovovich. (The Milla has problemswhen Davies pulls her into a tic-fest. The two of them seem to loveplaying retards jumping up and down on a bed.) And the sleuthsniffing out the mystery is a ramrod-straight, neck-brace-wearingMel Gibson. His detective sneers at the down-and-out wackos,and one senses an unconscious irony Gibson the mega-moviestar is also uncomfortably out of place in this quintessentially indiecosmos.Stiff and gradually psychotic, like a cross between Oliver Stone'sNixon and his own Martin Briggs, Gibson gives one of his bestperformances. (Gibson has attacked the movie in the press asbeing as boring as a dog's ass. I am willing to accept Gibson'sawareness of the level of interest of a dog's ass; movies, not somuch.) And Wenders and the great cinematographer PhedonPapamichel (who shot Todd Haynes' SAFE and Bruce Wagner'sWILD PALMS) give the scummy locations a freaky, almostoffensive luminousness. (This is one of the most beautiful-lookingmovies about Los Angeles in many, many years.) There's morethan a touch of Bukowski-style wishful thinking in this movie'sgallery of lovable losers. But so what? It charms, it works, andwhat a fantastic bunch of losers! As a guy who thinks he's the sixthBeatle, Peter Stormare has never been so appealing. And HarrisYulin, reprising his cold, corrupt dude from DePalma's SCARFACEin a tycoon's clothing, proves that he can put icicles on even themost perfunctory dialogue. THE MILLION DOLLAR HOTEL is full ofstuff that can make you roll your eyes,  but it's probably Wenders'most fully realized and most captivating movie since WINGS OFDESIRE. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie with no expectations and I hadn't even heard of it before settling down into my seat at the theatre.  A friend of mine had won some free passes to the screening and I just tagged along.Unfortunately, this movie was so bad that I could not sit through the entire thing and we ended up leaving about 1 hour into the film.  I've seen several Wim Wenders films in the past and have always enjoyed his work.  I did enjoy the photography and cinematography of Million Dollar Hotel as well as some of the unique shots and perspectives that Wenders interlaces throughout the film.  However, this movie suffers from an incredibly bad script, poorly developed characters and horrible dialogue.  In particular, I think Mel Gibson is terribly miscast as the robotic, crippled FBI agent -- I mean, what was Mel thinking??!?!  He certainly doesn't need the money!Overall, I cannot recommend this movie to anybody.  Even though I didn't have to pay anything to watch this movie, I still couldn't sit through it and had to walk out. "}{"Title":"Clear waste of celluloid.","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What was Mel Gibson thinking when taking part in this movie? It is slow, unexciting and crowded with annoying characters that are impossible to connect with unless you are emotionally challenged. So what if Wim Wenders got an award in Cannes once for making one of the slowest movies ever(Paris Texas).You simply need a good screenplay to make a good picture. The story doesn't take off. At least it didn't in the first three quarter hour and by then i just didn't care. It is unfocused, drifting like a ship in a storm. And Bono's music doesn't help either. "},{"Title":"Seen it twice already, will sure love it the third time too!!!","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just had to go and see the movie for a second time! Yeah, it's that good! And I gotta tell you guys that I still found it absolutely and unquestionably BRILLIANT! And then I read some of the comments about it here at IMDb. What really really surprised me was the huge number of rather hostile criticism I read here. I was quite taken aback! But... I can certainly understand them perhaps. -) I can! Honest! It's just that it'd never ever occur to me that there can be (quite a few...) people for whom this film could be a disappointment and not a great great pleasure to see.With all the small details! Like the small futuristic car that keeps reappearing in different colours (subtle reminder that it's the year 2001?), or the references to the Beatles and Beatles songs, so brilliantly hidden in dialogues. (Look at all those people. Where do they all come from?), and the _hilarious_ lines (explanation at a voting the Y stands for why and the N stands for why not, or Smoking can kill you. And sometimes you can even get cancer...). And then there are the actors! Tom-Tom (Jeremy Davies) is exceptional! The way he talks! And the way he moves! Unbelievable! And then there's Mel Gibson whom actually I don't really like, but he proved an excellent choice for this character! And _all_ the other characters are just perfect! There are so many things about this movie! The actors, the lines, the music, the colours. Magical! Go check it out! You might as well end up loving it, so N! (Why not?) "},{"Title":"long and inconclusive","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm really surprised by this film by Wim Wenders, one of my favourite directors. I wonder why he decided to make a movie with such a poor and inconclusive screenplay! The way of filming is really great but,you know, it's the hand of Wim Wenders, that's obvious! Take a look at the first scene of the film it's really impressive! But the film! Long, boring; I haven't understood what is its purpose to show the way of living of people isolated from society? These characters are described such in a superficial way that I can't think that the purpose of Wenders was to show a particular social situation! Then we have the strange lovestory which is,in my opinion,ridiculous. The dialogues between the two lovers are really without any sense, and sometimes so stupid! I did not like this film at all. I think that every film, even if long, must follow a guiding thread in this film it is impossible to understand which is the guiding thread. There are too many things put together without connection. I hope next Wenders film will be more impressive than Million dollar hotel  "},{"Title":"Great movie; outstanding characters","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, every movie requires at least a minor suspension of disbelief.  Some require this more than others, but once done, they can be incredibly rewarding.  Are the secondary characters in this movie who seem to have one-track minds terribly realistic?  Probably not.  But they serve a purpose - to advance the plot along, to highlight the protagonist's nobility, or Skinner's desperate villainy.  As for the main characters themselves - their eccentricities may turn off the average viewer who feels that they just can't relate to the mildly retarded hero.  But a look below the surface reveals something else.  It becomes a story of selfless love, sacrifice, and redemption in an almost Dostoevskian way.  Add to this the theme of the visual (in this case, television broadcasts) assuming a level of reality more real than real, and you have the common theme in many of Winders movies.  Finally, the U2 songs are perfectly placed for maximum effect - my second viewing of this movie elicited just as many tears as the first.  If you're looking for sex and violence, look elsewhere.  If you're looking for a touching, funny movie with awesome actors and characters, look no farther. "},{"Title":"Wenders' worst movie I've seen so far.","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In spite of the brilliant bird-eye/Himmel Uber Berlin-like beginning the director is unable to give any kind of psychological depth or simply credibility to the dumb characters  acting through this overly slow psychological detective story. This flop is not only Wenders' fault. Co-written by Bono of U2, plot develops poorly and predictably adding useless sub plot twists to an already insignificant story. Mel Gibson is floating through the story without even being able to play the sort of character he always plays (hard boiled FBI detective,  formerly three armed freak..yeah right!).  Milla Jovovich performance is colorless, not to mention the annoying main character (Tom Tom) played by Jeremy Davies. Hopefully, in the future Bono  will spend his time in more productive activities, e.g. song-writing. Would please Mr. Wenders bring us back the director that made movies like Paris-Texas or So Far Away So Close? "},{"Title":"Be Your Own Judge","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  You may have heard poor reviews because of the slow moving action (other people's opinions with which I do not necessarily agree) of the film.  Go for it - BE YOUR OWN JUDGE!!  If you like a David Lynch-esque feels with great urban cinematography with non-traditional chartacter development in a life that is often more true than fiction then DEFINITELY SEE IT.  If you're looking for a Hollywood fantasy film filmed in Los Angeles, stay home.  The film is more real in many circles than a typical Hollywood movie. "},{"Title":"The other side of truth","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Wim Wender's The Million Dollar Hotel is an impressive movie. Quite at the beginning, he shows his audience, where the following 122 minutes will take place right beside the shiny, glittering towers of America's wealth, in a dirty street, in and around a dirty hotel, once been one of the top accommodations.The guests of the Million Dollar Hotel form a kaleidoscope of the bizarre; from drug-junkies to criminals- the plain losers.What the movie is all about is to tell us the story of how it took two deaths to bring the social-zombies in this hotel back to life. One plot is a charming love story (incredibly performed by Jeremy Davies and Milla Jovovich), the other one is a criminal story in which an FBI agent (Mel Gibson) tries to solve a case of homicide (or is it suicide?) by stepping right in the midst of the hotels weird scenery. "},{"Title":"The Wim Wenders movie you can like","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  On the surface, The Million Dollar Hotel is about a mysterious suicide. But while Mel Gibson investigates as  Special Agent Skinner the story shifts from whodunnit to character study. The Million Dollar Hotel is populated by people who are not quite normal but not completely crazy either. People living in their own world(s). What this movie accomplishes is to take you right into this world. There are no maps or guidelines, you're on your own, and you have to decide how far you want to go. You could find this movie boring, a complete waste even, but you could also fall in love with the characters. Just give it a try. "},{"Title":"somewhere in the distance ...","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yep, what would some of Wim Wenders movie characters have said about this one? A quite interesting experience of course, but as we, intellectual Europeans are used to say not enough Wim for this time! Sorry!  Mel Gibson's perfect screenplay for this kind of alien appearance .... But I don't know, perhaps Wim tried only to play the role of an American director at 100%, useless, even when he affirms that this hotel existed for real. I am very, very disappointed, what the hell this supermodel of Lovich thinks she is? Another boring intellectual, 100 years of solitude in her hands ....  Is that true romance? This film is a crap, even more ********. Sure, Nasty Kinski would have said Yep, and so what? "},{"Title":"Some nice pictures could not save a completely boring film","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Some nice pictures could not save the whole film from sinking in an ocean of boredom. Once again I asked myself why I have made the mistake watching a Wim Wenders movie. Try to avoid it - or watch some of his old films which are better (e.g. Paris, Texas). "}{"Title":"An artist with compassion","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" How can't you love the way Wenders creates and shows a believable yet totally fictional world? How can't you get tired watching Davies evolutions in the air, all gestures and arms? It is poetry in movement, sick poetry, with an impossible innocence around it. How can't you deny the irony behind this madhouse, the delusions denounced by the most delusional of all, the special agent Skinner? I simply love the way Wenders takes me for a ride inside his imagined world, populated by so heterogeneous characters, so defined, so well structured. And the constant in his movies, the joyous affirmation of life as an experience that we all have the opportunity to enjoy, no matter how poor, how impaired, how delusional.It takes compassion to see the hidden beauty in the dark corners of the human soul, and artistic skill to show it. Because Wenders has both, I admire him and his work. "},{"Title":"didn't like it !","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have to point out that I don't like Wim Wenders way of telling stories and the screenplay he chooses at all. It doesn't meet my taste. The same holds true for The Million Dollar Hotel. So if you're a fan of this style, please don't this comment affect your decision.The Story is simple and short, its telling in my point of view too slow and long. However several characters are interesting to watch and partly the movie has good approaches. Nonethless it felt too sluggish to me. Besides what's also interesting about it is the fusion of digital video and film. TMDH is an early example for experiments with High Definition video technology. I'd say it's still possible to tell the difference between analogue film and video, but it's getting harder and harder.In short If you like Wim Wenders style I presume you might like this one too, but I don't know. But if not I'd say there's no need to watch it. "},{"Title":"Hmmm - too twin peaks.","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There's no doubt that this movie is a thinker. I watched it mainly to see whether Bono could put a story together. In fact I think the story is the best thing about the whole movie - I just believe it wasn't given the treatment it needed. Sure, there's some fabulous imagery, and great scenes, but to me it just ends up like a long episode of Twin Peaks - all midgets and washed up freaks. The scene was just set too dark for the special comedy of the situation to shine through. During Act II, I considered switching off, but after watching through I'm glad I did. Watch out for (or remember) the I Am The Walrus piano montage scene - wow. Anyway, watch it, stick it out, and make up your own mind.... "},{"Title":"An above-average attempt, a sub-average result.","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I must admit the film had great photography and a very unique cast of characters.  The story was rich and the twists were well-executed, BUT.I was disappointed in the story's flow.  Just when it seemed cohesion was building and there might be a pace I could join into and become involved in, it got bogged down in excessive displays by the characters - after the first few wow, these guys are weird it became more like ok, ok, we get the point.  Get on with it!  Creativity and artistic license were in no shortage here, but they interfered in the flow of the story and made the plot bumpy, alienating or putting to sleep a larger potential audience.There were amazing one-liners from Tom-Tom in there, and I must admit the two lovebirds were convincing in their lunacy and romance (such as it was).  The music definitely overpowered some key points of dialogue but I must admit their gestures and non-verbal acting were strong.If this show wasn't so long and slow I would have enjoyed it more.  The same story could have been told with just as strong an effect by editing it down to 2hrs or less.  Smoothing the flow would make it easier to get involved in and care about.  I'll be the first to admit this film had great potential, and I hope for a second effort with greater success, but in the drive for artistic expression too much was sacrificed, especially the elements that make a good film.  Much as I'd love to endorse this show, I must say that the length, speed, and flow make me advise against seeing it.  The directors and producers squandered great possibilities and came away with a poor result.  4/10. "},{"Title":"My first walk-out-of-the-theatre movie","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Really, I expected the most Wim Wenders, Bono, Gibson, Jovovich, Davies, the soon-to-be-star-wars Jimmy Smits and Peter Stormare in the best secondary role... and what I see is the absolute worst, a supreme dulness in the story which seemed to walk around and around and around, never leaving the same place. When they start with the philosophical thoughts, my time was over... and I walked out of it, thinking that no aspect of my life was even barely changed by it. I understand the people who liked it, but I was really annoyed... I didn't like it, since I think a story which revolves around a building full of crazy people, when a masked robot (or whatever) tries to find out who killed who, goes where? Bahh!!!  "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I agree very much with the review coming from the Italian reader Wenders' latest film comes nowhere even close to the wonderful Himmel ueber Berlin or the director's first american movie Paris, Texas. The characters are underdeveloped, most of them unbearably freakish (those who dismiss American Beauty for its character spleens will find it comparatively reserved after having seen The Million Dollar Hotel, I'm sure).Jeremy Davies, who can be a very good actor (if I remember it correctly, he was in Terence Mallicks The Thin Red Line), but Tom Tom is just too childish as a character to be taken serious. Well, we know he is meant to be the typical innocent Wenders so often portrays in his films, but it doesn't work. Sadly, this can be said of practically every part of Bono's and Nicholas Kleins' script the film fails both as a love story and a whodunit, though Mel Gibson played Skinner really well (and I usually really despise Gibson, having played in some self-indulgent roles and really idiotic movies). Milla Jovovich gave a decent performance and Jimmy Smits did the best with his role of Geronimo - if only they had get a better script. Admittedly, the movie offers some worth seeing cinematography and Bono wrote some really atmospheric score, but all in all The Million Dollar Hotel didn't live up to my expectations. Though Der Himmel ueber Berlin (or Wings of Desire as the film is called in english) is also rather slow, it is still the most poetic and artistically successful german film of the last 15 years and instead of going to see Million Dollar Hotel I recommend you to watch Himmel ueber Berlin on video. (4 out of 10) "},{"Title":"A very disappointing work","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen this film together with my wife and we both had the same idea at the end Two hours spent for nothing. The story is not for much. The only highlight is Mel Gibson, nevertheless he acted better in other films. "},{"Title":"disappointed","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Poor movie, almost no action. Very average storyline... Mel Gibson wasn't even acting because he must have been so bored. Too psychotic for my taste. "},{"Title":"One flew over the cuckoo's hotel","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the most boring cinematic experiences I've had in a long time, and it's directed by - well, surprise, surprise - Wim Wenders. A bunch of good actors is mainly lost in this overly pretentious talkfest about nothing much happening in a hotel full of not too bright people. And during the unbearable extended running time of two hours not one of them seems to get too exited about anything. Including the audience. Sleep while watching, you won't miss much! Or buy a ticket of something good instead, something without a voice over. "},{"Title":"Terrible......","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" WOW!!! Thankfully I only paid $5.50 for this movie at Wal-Mart. It looked like something I would like...boy was I wrong. The only thing more bizarre than this movie was why I watched it all the way through. I guess I figured that I did pay for it and I should watch it all the way through if I was going to comment on it. As the movie began I was already regretting my decision to buy it and I almost pulled it out and put in another movie. I hoped it would get better as it progressed...but it didn't. It was poorly written, if you could call it that. And the guy's voice narrating it was really creepy. I honestly don't know what Mel Gibson was thinking agreeing to do this piece of crap. "}{"Title":"Pee-uu, it sorta stinks","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Boy was I disappointed on this one. The trailer looked so cool, the music sounded sweet, and the cast sounded awesome. But unfortunately, I got my hopes up.I wont say much about the film, I dont think it deserves much except some of the shots are cool. I would NOT rent this one. I like a lot of movies that are slow, sorta artsy, no real storyline and such, but this one just was too pointless. I dont know why it was ever made to be honest. Im still mad that the trailer tricked me like that and I think anyone who likes it is just forcing themselves to like it cause they wasted time and money on it and are living in denial. A bad movie is a bad movie. Dang, and I love underground cult classics. This wont ever be one!I give it 2/10. Im sad about this one.  "},{"Title":"One of most boring movies ever made...","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie over 3 evenings, because i was bored to death. This is one of the most boring movies i have ever seen.The story is ridiculous, the acting is boring. This movie is for meditation only (or if you can't sleep, this one will make you)The plot.....was there one ?All the lines of the Actors is whispered very low and very slowly, you can't hear all the words, but after a few minutes you don't care anyway.The music fits the movie very well. I was so close to have stopped this movie, but i thought that there would be a point watching it to the end. I'm sorry to say, that i just wasted 3 evenings on this crap.There was a person which wrote in a review on IMDB, that the movie questions Who is mad ? I think it's certainly the director and the other people involved in making this movie.I gave this movie 1 of 10, but perhaps it deserves 1,5. zzzZZZzzz "},{"Title":"Why...","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  ...was this movie ever made, why did Mel Gibson appear in it, why did a number of other talented actors appear in it, and WHAT were those who gave it more than a 1 smoking or drinking when they reviewed it? The only one of those questions I can answer is the one about Gibson, and I can only assume he owed somebody a BIG favor! If you take a look at the box office return on this dog, you will see that I'm far from the only person to feel this way. It took $8 million to make this strange, meandering, pointless film; it made around $12,000. Ouch! I rented this movie because Mel Gibson was in it, and I figured I couldn't go wrong. Looks like there's an exception to every rule. Don't waste your time or your money!  "},{"Title":"The Million Dollar Flop...","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Now here is an odd movie. It is boring from beginning to end, and its biggest star wears a neck brace throughout. Under normal circumstances I would praise Mel Gibson for taking on a small role in a film, but given the film, I have to wipe everything away from memory. But I fear I will never be able to.I should have thought twice when my video store clerk told me this was the most refunded film of the year.The Million Dollar Hotel is about a hotel--pretty obvious. One day, a man jumps off the top, and cop Mel Gibson is sent into the creepy hotel to investigate. The hotel is inhabitated by a group of pure oddballs; they make the Mansons look like the Beavers. One is a strange man who wanders about thinking he is the fifth member of The Beatles, while a strange woman prowls the streets at night. And the narrator is the worst; he mumbles through the narrative and you can't even tell what the heck he's saying more than half the time. He'll start off and slowly his voice becomes so low-pitched and mumbling, you feel like just putting on the subtitles.When Gibson starts to investigate, we realize that he is just as odd as the people in the hotel. Which leaves one to wonder what the filmmakers were thinking. Truly, the characters are so disconnected and odd, they are not even original (which I suppose was the filmmakers' goal). They are a bunch of annoying, mumbling druggies that inhabit a creepy hotel. Given the right director and actors this film could have been pulled off, but the director, who uses a bunch of annoying camera techniques, seems to try and make everything dark and broody--nothing wrong with that, but it gets over-the-top after a while, and you actually start to get dizzy. Why? Well, first you have to strain to hear the narrative, then you have to focus not to get dizzy from the narrator jumping around like a monkey on screen. (He admits to Mel Gibson he is dumb. Dumb is an understatement.) THEN you have to strain to see the surroundings, and the camera techniques make you sick the entire time.The film's idea came from U2 man Bono, and I can imagine how mad he is right now. This film is pure, unadulterated trash from beginning to end, posing as cinematic art. It steals from Blade Runner and any other dark film you can think of. There are no redeeming values whatsoever, and I, the man who will sit through any movie and never say that 90 minutes of my life were stolen, actually started to feel like 90 minutes of my life were being stolen. That's a first.Usually I can watch any film with Mel Gibson, mainly because I think he has a strong yet subtle screen presence, but this film actually made me sick. But I suppose there's some irony, because Mel Gibson himself said at a press conference, I thought it was a boring as a dog's bottom.If you like trash, dirt, grime, annoying characters, ripped-off camera techniques, ridiculous scripts and horrible voice-over narratives in your films, then I highly recommend The Million Dollar Hotel. But if you are like the majority of moviegoers who...hmm...actually appreciate GOOD movies, then I recommend you go pick up something else.Not even the Gibson fans should see this one. As Peter Travers from Rolling Stone said in his review, I suppose I should tell you that Mel Gibson's character had a third arm. It's not important. It's just one of those movies.1/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Bad movie","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Even Mel Gibson couldnt save this slop of a movie. This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Why would mel Gibson make a movie that Im sure he couldnt sit and watch? what was this? A total goofball on some heavy drugs stalking a schizophrinic lady, who was also on some heavy ilicit street drugs. For all the moviegoers out there on heavy drugs; you will love this movie. "},{"Title":"Bleck!","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie just stunk. I know that some people will say that anybody who thinks it is no good just doesn't get it. I like Wenders in American Friend and Wings of Desire. But this is utter dreck. The main character is so annoying that I couldn't care less what he does. He is, as has been said in another review bouncing around like a little annoying monkey. I just couldn't stand him or force myself to care. This is the case with most of the characters who just seem to be trying to hard to be goofey or weird. I liked the Mel Gibson character and the Milla Jovovich characters and wish they would have focused more on them. Milla is of course beautiful, pitiful and you really feel for her and what she has been thru and why she is the way she is. I see Gibsons character as almost Frankenstien like. I just wish he would have save Milla and brunt the hotel down with all the worthless boring characters that lived in it. Milla Rating 10 Movie rating 0 "},{"Title":"What is this mess?","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps I'm just a simple person, but I prefer movies that somehow make me care about the people in them.  I couldn't care less about anyone in this movie.  This was supposed to be a comedy?  Maybe the humor was too subtle for me (all the way down to the nano-level).  The thing about it is, it missed on so many things.  There were characters that could have been funny, but they weren't.  There were characters that you could have liked, but you didn't.  For instance, the guy who thought the Beatles ripped off his songs. There was so much potential there, but all he did was talk like a Beatle and complain about how they ripped him off.  Haha.  And the previous poster talked about the 'I am the Walrus' scene like it was special.  What?  He played 'I am the Walrus' on an old piano and sang out of tune.  Is there an inside joke there?  It sure stank at face value. This movie has the feel to me of a movie people say they like because it sounds 'intellectual' or 'hip' to say you like it, that you get the whole metaphysical art/garbage message the artist is expressing. If you want to be entertained, stay away. "},{"Title":"Million Dollar Turkey","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Pretty pictures with a cool sound track do not constitute a 'movie'. Like all pop promos, MDH's pretentions are are outdone only by its' unjustifiable budget. One dollar spent on this aimless, purposeless dross was one dollar too many. Stick to penning pop songs Bono. "},{"Title":"Abysmally disappointing","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's the one film I almost walked out of, and would have if my friends hadn't been in the movie theatre with me. Normally, even if I don't like a film, I think it's still worth sitting through it to the end. That way, you can really claim to have given it every chance to redeem itself. But with The Million Dollar Hotel, it was so dreadful I just badly wanted the experience to end as quickly as possible. I think I probably would not have been so sourly disappointed if this film had been made by a lesser director, one I didn't normally like so much. But coming from Wenders, it was all the more shocking to behold. I know Bono from U2, a good friend of Wenders's, wrote the script to this abysmal film, and I wonder why Wenders let him, as buddy-buddy as the two may have been. Stick to the day job, Bono, is a sentence that easily springs to mind whilst viewing this mess. Pretentious, disjointed, a mish-mash of every possible contemporary film stereotype, a naive and transparent attempt at coming across as kooky and daring, with the most irritating characters I have ever set eyes upon, especially the leads, Jeremy Davies, Milla Jovovich and Mel Gibson, none of whom I dislike normally. The happiest ending I could have wished for would have been for a nuclear bomb to be dropped on their collective heads so as to get it all over with as soon as possible. On a positive note, the first five minutes of the film are extremely good, with an extremely stirring soundtrack from U2. But the film's opening shots make the rest of the film (which takes a spectacular nose-dive from then on) all the more disappointing as they are a promise of cinematic quality that's just never delivered, not even close. "},{"Title":"not yet","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Coming Soon to Cinemas Directed by Academy Award winner Curtis Hanson (8 Mile, Wonder Boys, L.A. Confidential) from a screenplay by Oscar nominee Susannah Grant (Erin Brockovich). In Her Shoes is the alternately hilarious and heart-rending story of two sisters (Cameron Diaz and Toni Collette) with nothing in common When four young divers discover a legendary shipwreck rumored to contain millions in gold at the bottom of the sea, they believe their dream of buried treasure has come true. But nearby on the ocean floor, a sunken plane full of illegal cargo threatens their find, and one of the friends makes a fatal decision that quickly turns the treasure hunters into the hunted... "}{"Title":"Stamp of a mature director","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I watched this Wim Wenders film, 25 years after I last saw a film by this German director. I have only seen two others Kings of the Road and The wrong movement both made in the mid-Seventies. Wim Wenders impressed me then, he impresses me now. He is a social commentator who loves to deal with alienated individuals.The opening helicopter shot caressing the sleek LA skyscrapers well clad in glass and steel ends up with the skeleton of the Million Dollar Hotel neon sign. In the background an airplane is taking off. Those who recall Kings of the road will remember a similar scene in a lonely landscape.The film is not a mystery film. It is more a reflective, surrealist, social commentary. The first shot of the Mel Gibson FBI character is from his shoes only gradually revealing the man in the shoes. The man in the shoes is a modern Don Quixote, patched up by medical technology. No one in the film is real--each character is unreal with element of realism. Each statement of the script is loaded with social comment. Example you have to vote in a democracy with a Y or a N, a Y for why and N for why not.. Everyone is manipulating everyone the media moghul the media, the FBI the suspects, the denizens of hotel each other, the hotel owner his guests, the music business the musicians..If you are attentive the film is hilarious in its wacky social commentary. It reminded me of the fine Danny Kaye (his last regular movie) film The Mad Woman Of Chaillot directed by Bryan Forbes and based on Jean Giradoux' play, where the characters are equally farcical, while the social commentary is sharp as a knife.Wim Wenders in America is different from Wenders in Europe. He uses American clichés but his cinema remains European. That Gibson contributed his role without pay underlines Gibson's respect for Wenders. Wenders belongs to the era of German cinema (the Seventies) that spewed many talented filmmakers Syberberg, Fassbinder, von Trotta, Schlondorff, Herzog and Hauff. That this film's true content and value are lost on many Americans is a social comment that must have amused Wenders. Wenders has not withered, he is as effective as he was in his prime, combining strong scripts with fascinating images and marrying both with good music. "},{"Title":"far out, dude!","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Thanks to the cable, I have been able to see the million  Dollar Hotel' with, in their opinion, a rating of 1*1/2.....oh well!. As far as I am concerned, in the begnin South California-rounded up by MrSchwarzenneger- it is unevitable. This is Mr.Wenders at is best.I have no idea how the movie went in Europe, being an ex-pat for 28 years.Who cares about the flops of the story, when it is all about compassion put in direction, painting, music, all-giving sincere acting?. Who cares of The Maltese Falcon's plot when one get caught in Mr Chandler,s prose?.  Mr Wenders has many influences. Personally, I always feel the honesty of Mr Samuel Fuller. Having met these two uncorruptible masters at different times-just parties-I feel an uncredible confort in humanity, creativity, idiosyncrasy in a superior way, with true modesty from their parts. Les chien aboient, la caravane passe!. Merci  Monsieur Wenders! "},{"Title":"This one stands out","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  At first I was wondering what this story was all about. The atmosphere was dark and gloomy, and the characters miles away from the usual stereotypes we are generally being fed with. These were dirty, nut, poor, wrecked, complete losers, the antithesis of the American dream. Mel Gibson himself for once plays an anti-hero, an ex-freak. As the story unfolds you get drawn into it and don't wish to miss a single scene or word.Then there is the relationship between Eloise and Tom coming like a revelation that love transcends everything and makes them, even but for a moment, the happiest and richest people on earth.The acting was superb and the John Lennon clone was funny, and his interpretation of I am the walrus is memorable.  I don't think seeing this movie only once is enough because it holds much food for thought.A must see.  "},{"Title":"I cant´t understand this little Rating.","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have to think that the most spectators understands the real sense of this Movie. Great Actors ,  particularly Jeremy Davies. Something different Story. More people should see this film ! "},{"Title":"This movie just plane looked cool.","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie wasn't brilliant but it looked cool and was a nice change from the typical movies bollocks. Its also nice to see Mel Gibson doing a movie that isn't his usual big budget spectacles. I kind of wonder what people who saw the movie just for the Mel factor thought about it.  "},{"Title":"Some reasons why I like this movie","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  1. The music largely written and performed by Bono and his U2 friends, it fits the movie very well. The music is usually kind of gloomy.2. John Lennon is in it! One of the nuts in the hotel thinks he has been a close friend of John Lennon and that he has cowritten all of the Beatles songs. He's very funny.3.  The characters are very unusual, so they tended to surprise me with the things they said and did. They do not always make sense, but that's alright. They surprised me, changed my state of mind and I started to love them.4. It's a movie that stands out. It's kind of slow, but if you can bear with that every scene brings a surprise. I liked the surprises in the plot.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic actors, fantastic movie...","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best movies i ever seen.I really believe that everybody should see this one. Milla Jovovich is great and the movie really gets inside you. A small story that works perfectly with the scenarios and the psychotic ambient. Win Wenders still one of the best directors and Bono give some of his best songs. "},{"Title":"Million Dollar Mystery with excellent wacky performances","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've become a big fan of Mel Gibson and try to watch everything he's done. My favorite so far is a tie for him in Hamlet, and him in BraveHeart.As for this movie, again he doesn't disappoint.  From the moment we see him in traction we start to question this character, and we're always kept guessing.Milla Jovovitch performs just as well, and her ofset TomTom played by Jeremy Davies was equal to Mel's and surpassed him at points.The movie itself, is about the suspects of a murder, or suicide, that occurs before the movie's timeline started.  Mr. Gibson is an FBI agent that has been brought in because the deceased is the son of a famous man, and as such foul play *must* have been the cause.As Mel gets into the hotel, we learn that its full of loonies.  Not just any type.. but I mean hard core, bone to the wind, nut cases, not to mention Mel being one of them!  And thus we begin the whodunit with three very interesting center characters and a cast which weaves in and throughout making the movie fun and fascinating.If you like Mr. Gibson's work, you'll love this movie, if you hate his work, this may have some redemption to offer. "},{"Title":"Can't belive the other reviews!","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  How can anyone, NOT like this movie? I think it holds up as one of the best movies of at least the new milenium! It has an Interesting cast, good directing and the best sound track ever made for a movie (mainly made by U2&friends). but the taste is like the as, divided... "},{"Title":"A good film, but not without its faults","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After waiting a year fro this movie to  come out, I was forced to watch it on  video. It was worth the wait to say the  least, but this is a film that is quite flawed.  Wim Wenders has made a living doing  off-beat films such as this, but this one  tends to lack for some reason. Sometimes  the intersecting stories seem awkward, or  Tom Tom is just a little too dysfunctional or  Mel Gibson seems too cranky. Donal Logue  was excellent, and the scene at the end of the  film with Jeremy Davies and Tim Roth is amazing.  If the entire movie had managed to capture  that essence and power, it would certainly  have been a better movie. But instead, it turns  into some unusual video for weird electronic  music and U2. "}{"Title":"Bono's salute to Raymond Chandler","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie might be confusing to some viewers, but deep down, it's a salute to the Maltese Falcon and the Big Sleep. Here you have a hard-boiled detective, Mel Gibson trying to solve a murder. You have all the stereotypes updated the wealthy disaffected father who would have been Sidney Greenstreet; the nervous kid--Elisha Cook, Jr.; and assortedcharacters throughout. If you enjoy good mysteries, see this film.You also might like King Of Hearts. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but not compelling","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was prepared not to like this movie, but its quirkiness, humor, and irony won me over, to say nothing of the star-laden cast. The performances are uniformly great, with the caveat that the Eloise (Milla Jovovich) character is poorly written (the character changes radically in some of the later scenes, becoming in turn promiscuous and lucid). The direction is confident and at times breath-taking, and kudos to whoever was in charge of selecting and placing all the little tidbits in the backgrounds of the scenes. At the end, however, there is a silly voice-over that is so weighted down with its own importance that it just about ruins the rest of the film. Ah, well. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest and most misunderstood films yet.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Some people might not understand the movie , or think that it drags out but I loved this movie. The performances were AMAZING , and the plot was so .... unusual. What I liked the most about the movie was the way it opened your eyes to a different point of view or `environment` that many people are afraid to see. I hate to admit it , but the film made me cry , and I`m not the type to cry at movies. Like many people have already said , it is a very sad and depressing movie , but its REALLY worth watching. (a piece of advice If your not the kind of person who`s patient enough to sit through a movie that really makes you think , then you most likely won`t think very highly of it) "},{"Title":"This is a quirky movie with a first rate cast and a muddled story.","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a quirky movie with a first rate cast and a muddled story.  This story like many of Wim Wenders tails is about the character interactions with each other in unusual circumstances.  You could not ask for a better selection of odd balls to be in one movie, all of which were acted to perfection.  It's the story that holds the characters together that required more development.The lead character, Tom Tom (Jeremy Davies) was an innocent child-like person with no interactive social skills but being someone who gives away everything he has until there is nothing left.  He is in love with Eloise (Milla Jovovich) but it is the love of a small child that is only looking for recognition and has only a slight sexual element.  The story takes place in a hotel that is filled with mental outpatients and society misfits who all have some delusion they are living under which takes up most of their lives.  A stiffed back FBI man, played to the hilt by Mel Gibson, comes in to investigate the possible murder of one of the tenants and upsets the delicate balance of this on-the-edge environment.  Every part of this ensemble cast is played to perfection by a group of artists (Jimmy Smits, Peter Storemare, Amanda Plummer, Gloria Stuart, Bud Cort and Julian Sands) that is the strong point of the movie.  Anybody studying acting should make this a highlight picture to go onto a greatest hit list.  Every role is a little gem.  The problem here is that the total was less than the sum of its parts.  The story holding all of these off-the-edge players has major flaws like broadcasting a confession tape over public TV before an arrest or the FBI breaking all the rules in public plus many more.  One major point is the fact that all of these completely crazy people can have organized meetings to discuss strategy and arrive at some semblance of a result.  I wish some of the corporate meetings I have to attend were so clear-cut.  These obvious flaws serve to damage this very complex plot. You are introduced to the characters through the process of an investigation one by one and they are played against each other by the FBI man but taken all together the resulting outcome losses its cohesion.  The people were very complex yet the complex plot became fragmented.  The story and soundtrack written by Bono of U2 is a much better soundtrack than story.A good movie for acting students and a look into a story line where this microcosm society is taking advantage of innocent but not a movie I would like to watch again.  "},{"Title":"A true vision","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was sadly disappointed to find out that this movie was going straight to video.  Being a long time U2 fan, I really wanted to enjoy Bono's vision on the big screen.  Now that I have enjoyed this film in the privacy of my own home, I am saddened that more will not get to see it.  It is high on my recommendation list for anyone who enjoys a sense of magic in their reality. "},{"Title":"There's not much here I should have liked, and yet...","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If this movie ever had a theatrical release, it must have been a very limited one.  Basically, it's been put on the shelf since 1999 and gone straight to video in 2001.  Considering that it stars Mel Gibson, Gloria Stuart (played the aging Rose in 'Titanic'), Jimmy Smits and Milla Jovovitch, this treatment suggests that the movie is a bomb that no studio wanted to waste precious advertising dollars on.It is a quirky movie, and it seems to me unlikely that more than one person in ten would like it.  It would have done poorly at the box office, no doubt.  The story is as strange as that in 'Being John Malkovitch', but we're not given to know very much about the characters beyond their surface quirks.  A movie this determined not to tell a complete story or give me enough clues to understand its characters should hold no interest for me, and yet...I kind of liked it, and have no idea why. "},{"Title":"..very good, but..","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  It was very good, but one thing kinda ruined it for me.  Tom Tom.  He was just a little too retarded if you ask me.  He was hopping around like a kangaroo for the entire film.  I liked him better when he was being romantic, but it was almost like a different character.I found it very interesting that everyone had such distinct personalities. Also, I was amazed by Jimmy Smits in this!  I don't know what Mel Gibson's problem with this film was.  It showed an interesting side to his acting abilities.From what I've seen of his recent films, Wim Wenders is starting to concentrate a little harder.  Maybe his End Of Violence put me off a little.  Regardless, this is a very fun movie, and won't alienate someone unfamiliar with his films. "},{"Title":"The movie had potential","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A few weeks ago, my friend and I rented The Million Dollar Hotel. I was looking forward to it, but was disappointed.  It had potential, but was lacking. It was a little too weird and slow for my liking, however, I do at times enjoy certain movies more after I've seen them twice or three times, to get everything.  However, I just hope that I don't fall asleep. "},{"Title":"Great movie for sensitive people","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Many people don't understand this movie. It's not about love it's not about trashdump of society , it's not a criminal movie. Watch it and if you don't understand it - read 200 books written by th best EUROPEAN writters. NOT AMERICAN. If you still won't understand it, call yourself the Hollywood product... "},{"Title":"Sweet, beauty, it's about delusion, us, our world.","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Others have said they don't like The Million Dollar Hotel because it's slow, too deep, too real, too on the edge, a mixture of pieces of genres, personalities, angels.  Rarely has a movie grown on me like this after watching it two evenings in a row.  In the pit of the stomach.  If you don't understand or don't want to, you could talk about yourself and not bring down this film.  When they whisper, that's when you know what it's about.   "}{"Title":"Something truly beautiful","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say that this movie looks at life and love in *exactly* the same way that I do. I KNOW this story, even without knowing it. I have felt the same way about a girl before. I have met and thought about people the same way. And Milla is the most incredibly beautiful woman in the world, especially in this movie. It makes my heart race to just think of her. She is truly beautiful. Needless to say I really enjoyed this movie ) "},{"Title":"Come on, Bono is attached to this movie.","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ok I will admit at times this film seems kind of slow, but the story and dream-like feel more than make up for it.  If you need explosions, car chases, nudity, and other eye candy to keep your attention, THIS IS NOT FOR YOU.  But what do I know, I'm just some kid from the Mid-West. "},{"Title":"surreal and magnifique......","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  i finally went to see this Wenders-Bono movie which i wanted for a long time yesterday...well firstly i had to say that the colors and photography with the choice of costumes and make up stunned me!! Wenders is so talented..the film is somehow flying and surrounding you with a magic cloud which is seen at night with the tones of blue..it is like a dream and i totally agree that the characters are unique..angel Elouise and sweethearted Bogus TomTom..everything from the rooms to the dialogues grab u and pull u into a surreal dream where u explore the basics of LIFE LOVE and US..anybody who criticise this movie about the plot is misleading because plot in this movie is just a gate for us to enter into this world of magic..Detective Skinner is a far too extraordinary cop and Mel Gibson is veryyy good like the rest of the cast..well  afew words for Bono and the soundtrack..the soundtrack is so inspiring touching and fragile and it completely fits with everything in the movie..congratulations to all...and Bono i was a fan of u not only as a musician but also as a person and my respect for your brain and personality has increased so much.. wonderful.. "},{"Title":"Much better than expected","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  OK, I admit it - I was a victim of all that bad word of mouth about this movie. Now I am very pleasantly surprised and I feel something like obligation to put some comment here at least. The Million Dollar Hotel is not only a typical Wenders film - it is one of his best ones. Not only the direction here is great - the same can be said about cinematography (although the cameraman is not Roby Mueller, this guy Papamichael is not worse), the design and especially about the acting. Of course, the music is great. I watched this film in a very large cinema-hall - with some 4000 people around. And noone seemed to be bored or disappointed. This is a perfect movie about America - and once again, it is made not by Americans - the plot is by an irish musician, the director is German, and one of the leads (Jovovich) is Ukrainian. I give The Million Dollar Hotel 8 out of 10. It could be better film, of course, but it could be a lot worse. Not to be missed. Not to be watched on VHS - the large screen is needed here.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant, an unique voyage!","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Right from the moment when the film started, i'd realize The Million Dollar Hotel was going to be something different from the movies I'd watched before. The cinematography, the music, the set - all these merge together and make it so unique. Tomtom is my favourite cinematic character of all time. He got an angel heart, he is lovely and passionate, he saves his girlfriend by giving up his life. Unfortunately, it's hard to find somebody like Tomtom nowadays..... "},{"Title":"The movie of my life","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the most beautiful movie I have ever seen. It has a very strange, original, beautiful, ugly, happy and sad story. It's not like anything I have ever seen, I was very touched by this movie. I was very puzzled with this movie, and I had to watch it alone, but it was worthy, It's the best movie I have ever seen. Milla Jovovich proves herself as a good actress, Jeremy Davies makes the most amazing part and Mel Gibson does the strangest character of his entire career.It's a Good movie, go see it ) "},{"Title":"beautiful and very true","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A man is dead. The murderer is to be found. This is the outline of a movie which goes far beyond a crime-tale. Wim Wenders has created a movie which displays the beauty of life and the treasures to be found in human relationships; his true insights into the personalities of his protagonists are very beautiful and stunning. "},{"Title":"Eager for this promising picture","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    I saw the trailer for the Million Dollar Hotel back in March , downloaded off of Hollywood.com.  The cinematography, music, and performances all looked very offbeat and promising.  I wouldn't expect anything less from the guy who made Until the End of the World.  Mel Gibson's character seems like a stiff-necked 1950's G-Man thrown into a more grungy urban wasteland I like the contrast.  I also noticed some stop-motion cinematography that reminded me of Bill Pope's work in the Matrix.  My question when is this film, starring two actors already big stars in the US, hitting the States?  I looked under release dates, and there still isn't anything listed for us.  "},{"Title":"Good love story with Lynch quality characters in fleabag Hotel","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I went to the theatre not expecting much having been disappointed by Wenders latest narrative works but was wonderfully surprised.  Everyone is good in this, even Milla and Smits.  Music is beautiful, the story great, and Jeremy London plays a captivating ``skateboarding riding half wit´´ who turns out to be much smarter than everyone expected.  Camera work is beautiful, performances excellent, story great. The relationship between Eloise and Tom Tom is inspiring, very romantic.  Also check out Bud Cort and Mel Gibson as driven but compassionate freak, and a fifth Beatle.  Buy soundtrack as well. I did and don´t regret it!  "},{"Title":"It has  very poor direction. The single good thing is Mel.","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie has very poor direction with several confused and misunderstood situations happening all the time. Even seeing good participations as Mel's and Jeremy's, the crazy attitudes made by them make you tired of watching it.Anyhow, it is a mandatory movie to Mel Gibson's fans. "}{"Title":"I was impressed","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I went to the cinema to see this movie just because I am a great fan of Milla Jovovich. I wanted to see her next appearance. But as soon as the movie started, I knew there was something more in it than just a perfect role of Milla.It is a very intelligent movie - it made me think about lots of things. E.g. what is the role of the society in our life, should we accept the way we are being looked at, should we try to change it or maybe deny all contact with our surrounding and live only with a few closest people of ours.If anybody told you that this movie is about the poor living in Manhattan, their life, habits, and sins - do not believe that. The Million Dollar Hotel is about living amongst other people. The main problem described in the movie are the relationships between people who live with each other, but do not know them very well. Other topics include beautiful love, and finding balance between your soul and your body.When it comes to actors, I must say I am not objective. I love Milla Jovovich for almost everything she had done. She is my all time favorite. Believe it or not, but she was great. I find her role the best part of the whole movie. When you sit in the cinema, and Elouise (Milla's character) speaks, try to close your eyes and listen. You will hear that incredible, surrounding, and beautiful voice leading the way to paradise. She is an angel.Roles of Jeremy Davies and Mel Gibson are also noticeable. Tom Tom (Jeremy Davies) is a person considered retarded by everyone, whereas his internal, emotional life is very deep and beautiful. This character represents the misunderstanding that we all have to face sooner or later.There were some slight mistakes in the movie, like terrible song placement. The U2 and the MDH band did a great job in writing and recording the songs, but in the movie they often spoil the atmosphere rather than increase its emotional load. Oh, and one more thing - on the soundtrack album there is a song called 'Satellite of Love' performed by Milla. It is one the best piece of music I have ever heard. Unfortunately in the movie, the same song is performed by Bono and friends. And this version is by no means even comparable to Milla's.The Million Dollar Hotel is absolutely one of the best movies I have ever seen. Intelligent, emotional, sometimes frightening - it makes an incredible impression on anyone, who is at least a little sensitive. I loved this film, and I am sure, that if you are not a very big fan of Arnold Schwarzeneger, you will too. "},{"Title":"Is being different bad?","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There is something special about this film.  For the first 3/4 of the movie, I was like yeah, not bad, not fantastic.. nice camera work but for some reason, by the time the film had ended I was in the mindset 'Wow - wonderful'....  I'm not sure why I thought this... and here sits the reason. There was something special to the movie, something that many other films try so hard, so often to do - but don't.  It's well worth a visit, but do so with an open mind.  Relax, and enjoy.  Definitely one I'll look out for on DVD to enjoy again! "},{"Title":"Great film.","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you enjoyed Atom Egoyan's film Exotica you will, without doubt, have a similar experience with The Million Dollar Hotel. Both films begin at the end and work their way to the beginning of the story, weaving thru a tapestry of broken people. Whereas Exotica keeps it characters locked to a seedy night club Million Dollar is focused around a hotel packed with semi-disturbed individuals each with their own stories to tell. In all, a very enjoyable film that is as intense as you let it be. Featuring a brilliant performance by Mel Gibson and great comic relief from the hilarious fifth Beatle character this film is a welcome escape from the Hollywood movie scene. Definitely one to watch. "},{"Title":"Flying over medias...","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Bono of U2, co-writer of this movie, has pointed out again one of the most critical themes of our present lives The media and the introspective view of it. Wenders hand is very helpful to get straight to the point, mainly because he has the same fears for the television and all others MASS-MEDIAS. See this movie and stay inside of it in order to understand how life is real in spite of what is too often shown on the screen. This breath of non-real reality opens the eyes of the audience on the critical relation between our minds and our everyday world. It is a must see... "},{"Title":"Wenders at his best.","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The most beautiful and poetic movie of the year. Rarely does cinema move you in such a way. Brilliantly acted by Jeremy Davies, Milla Jovovich and Mel Gibson. U2's soundtrack is their best album since Joshua Tree. You do not need to be a Wenders fan to love this movie. The movie already won the Silber Bear in Berlin and it is captivating audiences all over Europe. Critics and audiences agree it is the best Wenders movie since Paris, Texas. DO NOT MISS THIS MOVIE!!!! "},{"Title":"Poetic story, beautiful beginning and ending, but too metaphorical.","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Wenders is still a great visionair of contemporary cinema, but the love story here does not function at all. Beautiful pictures  in the beginning and in the end, but in between he looses the story trying to find always metaphorical and symbolic scenes and that is sometimes boring.  Milla Jovovich and Jeremy Davies are great actors but not convincing as a couple in love. But Wenders music-taste is reliable, a very good soundtrack! So it is only consequent and not a tragic irony that he probably will get his first Oscar not for one of his long fiction films, but for a music documentary Buena Vista Social Club. "},{"Title":"A movie worth a Million Dollars","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I caught this movie at a sneak preview.  I must say i much anticipated it, being written in part by Bono of U2.  The script delves into characters, some strange, and really makes the viewer think passionately about them. Tim Roth?  Where has he been?  Nice to see!  A beautiful movie, give it a chance... "},{"Title":"Enter the Hotel-Cosmos","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Wim Wenders introduces the audience to a handful of unique characters and addresses social developments. Exploring the borders of sanity while circling around the question of need or greed the movie nicely blends together a truly extraordinary love story with the elements of a thriller.Bono's influence is evident the songs move along smoothly with the camera and the story, while the lighting adds some special flavor. The cast also works perfectly - supermodel Milla Jovovich interprets the general lostness of Eloise very convincingly and adds emotional depth to the plot. At the same time Jeremy Davis and Mel Gibson both prove to be perfect matches to their respective parts. So sell your TV and give in to this (European) movie addressing contemporary issues in a fascinating fashion!  "},{"Title":"A misunderstood movie","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I did not really understand why this movie was so criticized. Maybe it was because it had so many themes put into it people didn't really understand it. But i enjoyed the blend and I thought this was a really good Wender's flick. Maybe not the best but one of the best for sure. The acting I found really good especially in the case of Jokovich which i found surprising as i never really liked her as an actress. I really enjoyed the soundtrack, but the photography of the movie is what struck me the most as it blended completely with the ambiance of the film. You could really feel the folly of the characters. A give this movie an 8 out of 10 for people who look deeper into a film. A leap of faith. "},{"Title":"Art-house cheese","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Get it if you have netflix since you can turn it off without regret. I got it because I'm a u2 fan and they did the moody soundtrack under one of their pseudonyms.The movie was slow, plodding, and you keep asking Why? or Surely it gets better than this. On the other hand, it beats most everything David Lynch puts out there in his discombobulated attempts to remake Blue Velvet. Mulhooland Drive at least had babes. Lost Highway had me searching for a nail gun to put out my eyes.But that's the sheer joy of Netflix if you get 3 at a time or more. You can just eject, put it in its sleeve and mail it back and await its replacement.Maybe the problem with MDH is it's too much like real life -- boring, detached, and slow. And real life always has several Mila Jojovich's thrown in -- insanely beautiful and insanely insane. "}{"Title":"Life through the eyes of a bum","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a very difficult film to like I think, I mean is great, a different story but the film is hard to digest, It submerge you in the mind of the weird characters.The music is good, I don't love U2 or Bono in that case, but he does a good job singing other people songs, like satellite of love, he nail it, Milla does it better but he did a very good job.It all begin when Izzy fall of a building, Izzy's father was a rich and famous person but Izzy lived like a bum in a crappy building and have a bad drug addiction, anyway a detective (Mel Gibson) came to solve a murder that nobody did, but there was a big secret within the people that live in the building that had nothing to do with Izzy's dead but it complicated the investigation, as the investigation continue Tom Tom (Jeremy Davies) fall in love with Eloise (Milla Jovovich) and she started to like him. More than a love story is a search to begin to understand what life is all about for anyone.I really liked this film I don't care what other people say, watch it if you can handle it. "},{"Title":"Obscure but brilliant film totally worth seeing if you can deal with it's slow pace","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this film by accident - it was in the wrong box from the video rental store. But I'm a huge Wim Wenders fan (especially Wings of Desire) and was not disappointed. It has that undefinable Wenders-created atmosphere of magic existing cheek and jowl with tragedy that really makes you want to know exactly how DOES he see the world. An outstanding cast headed by the criminally under-appreciated Jeremy Davies, with excellent performances by Milla Jovovich, Mel Gibson and many others.The wonderfully atmospheric score is from a pastiche of sources - something I usually hate - but beautifully chosen in this case, with contributions by Jon Hassell, Daniel Lanois, Bono, and Eno. "},{"Title":"Very German, but with lots of Americans!","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie took a long time to make - fifteen years, in fact. It was spearheaded by Bono and U2, and still it took forever to make. However - and I'm loathe to say this because I'm not big on U2 - this is a great little arty gem of a movie.Wim Wenders does his usual bit. If you've never seen a Wim Wenders movie, just imagine what a film by a man who was born in the ruins of postwar Berlin, had five wives between the years 1968 and 1981 (avg. length of marriage a little over two years)and is the Martin Scorcese of Germany looks like. He is himself above all a cinephile, and left studies of medicine and philosophy and a career as an artist to dive into the world of film. He, like the great 70s Generation in the States, came of age in a time of political turbulence and artistic experimentation, and it shows in his work. He's a director's director, and European to boot, so some audiences are just going to dislike it as a matter of course. For those not turned off by Art House movies, there is a lot here to like.The huge ensemble cast features a menagerie of the best character actors working, such as Amanda Plummer, Bud Cort, Harris Yulin, and others. Bigger actors also do an art turn, like Milla Jovovich as the femme in a love triangle involving a mental case and a rich kid who may or may not have committed suicide, and Mel Gibson as the Fed who's investigating his plummet from the roof.It has a dreamlike quality that legitimizes the extreme characters, who are at turns theatrically poetic and comically absurd, but always bizarre.Basically, this is a love it or hate it flick, I suspect, though many will not be sure if they love it or hate it on the first viewing. I have yet to see it again, but I'm willing to give it the benefit of the doubt.Also highly recommended for the chemically enhanced ;) "},{"Title":"kudos to the actors, director, writers","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I ran across this film quite by accident and found it to be an absolute masterpiece. I adored this movie. Visually stunning and wonderfully artistic with exceptional acting, most notably by Davies and Jovovich, and while I agree the movie may not be for everyone,those with a penchant for 'something-other-than-what-everybody-else-runs-to-the-movies-to-see' may just find this film right up their alley --- Also, the score is beautiful and haunting and compliments the amazing photography perfectly. I guess I'm gushing, but I really, really loved this movie. I give it a four thumbs way up !! "},{"Title":"Gripping and emotional story...","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Million Dollar Hotel is a tragic-comedy/romantic film. The story begins in the middle of an investigation at the Million Dollar Hotel, home to ill people, too poor to afford medical insurance. Detective Skinner (Mel Gibson) is investigating a supposed murder at the hotel, when a former resident jumps off of the roof. The film follows the journey of one character, Tom Tom (Jeremy Davies)as his life changes dramatically. The film also includes the character Eloise (Milla Jovovich) a prostitute of whom Tom Tom falls in love with. The film was gripping and emotional, and left me on the edge of my seat until the end. The characters were believable and lovable, especially Tom Tom, who you grew to love, mainly because of the way he sees the world. Its Uplifting yet depressing and conveys a sense of reality despite how absurd some of the characters are. The setting is very affective, with the way the hotel is grimy and disgusting, to show how neglected the residents are at the million dollar hotel. The camera angles are effective and the story was altogether simple and effective. There is no graphic sex or violence, and all together it was an amazing film. A definite must see for all those Mel Gibson Fans! And even if you are'nt a Mel Gibson fan its still worth a look. "},{"Title":"The Reasons Why This is a Great Film.","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Million Dollar Hotel was a very good movie. I was surprised by the number of people that reviewed the movie, on this page, as a bad movie. As something that they could not understand. To each their own, I guess. For the rest of you that are interested in a good movie, rent this movie at least. Give it a shot. The acting was superb, by all members of the cast. The visuals for the movie are also great in the ways that some shots were taken and edited.Apart from the great acting and great cinematic value of the film, there was also the story. This was a perfect romantic drama that wasn't too sappy or overdone. Don't be fooled to think that it is anything other than a good movie.If its been a busy week and your looking to unwind with a good movie, I highly suggest The Million Dollar Hotel. An over all good movie. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Wim Wenders is a very talented filmmaker and he should know better than to get involved with a musician who wants to make a film. Bono helped write and produce this messy film and with all the talent involved you would think a more coherent film could have been made. They're is a lot of improvisation used in this film and unless your Robert Altman then it can backfire. Altman uses some improvisation but still has a solid story to base everything on. Here in this film its the opposite. Improvisation seems to be the bases and the main story (Such as it is) comes secondary. Mel Gibson is an FBI agent sent to investigate the death of a politicians son in a seedy hotel inhabited by people with mental defects. Reminded me a little bit of King of Hearts. Gibson has this metal neck brace on and has a crewcut. Kind of like Joe Friday meets The Twilight Zone. If I can say anything good about this film then it would be Jeremy Davies who looks very comfortable improvising his role. On the other hand, Mel Gibson does NOT look comfortable. He's not that type of actor. The two styles of acting just don't mesh. Milla Jovovich has been in so few good films in her career that you can count them on one hand and have a few fingers left over. And this is another blemish on her already disappointing resume. Peter Stormare spends the entire film talking like Ringo Starr and Gloria Stuart yells the F word several times! Bud Cort just hangs out and he looks happy to just be working. Tim Roth shows up at the end in a cameo. Film is just trying to be avant garde and be something of an exercise in style. But an exercise in style still has some bases for a story and the blending of acting styles just doesn't work. At best its futile! "},{"Title":"Phoney and uninvolving waste of time.","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I find Wim Wenders output to be maddingly uneven. While I love some of his movies (especially 'The American Friend', 'Paris, Texas' and 'Wings Of Desire'), most of them irritate me beyond belief. 'The Million Dollar Hotel' isn't his worst movie for me, but it is the tritest. The story (co-written by Bono) seems to have taken all of fifteen minutes to come up with, and the gallery of freaks, misfits and losers on screen are with one exception unbelievable and uninteresting. Two previous movies that managed to pull this kind of ensemble off were 'One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest' and 'The Ninth Configuration'. Mostly when actors are required to act mentally disturbed or eccentric they use it as an excuse for a procession of empty mannerisms and bits thinking they are stretching their talent. They aren't. They are just being phoney. This is what Jeremy Davies (who I liked very much in 'Spanking The Monkey') does here. His character didn't convince me for one minute, and his romantic scenes with Milla Jovovich ('The Fifth Element') came across totally contrived and unnatural. The talented supporting cast, who range from Hollywood heavyweight Mel Gibson to the usually reliable Amanda Plummer (see 'Butterfly Kiss') to cult favourites Bud Cort ('Harold And Maude') and Richard Edson ('Do The Right Thing'), are equally wasted on this paper thin premise. The one exception is, surprisingly enough because he usually bores me, Peter Stomare ('Fargo') who finally plays something other than his usual crazy kraut roles (see '8MM', 'Bruiser' et al). Well he's still crazy but this time round at least he's engaging and funny as a guy deluded into thinking he's the real talent behind The Beatles. Apart from Stomare's scenes this is unexceptional stuff. There are much worse movies out there, but that really isn't the point - there are much BETTER ones. Including some by Wim Wenders. Too bad. "},{"Title":"drab pseudo-art","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There's a line of dialogue delivered about halfway through this film that offers a strange sort of commentary on the work as a whole  `The line between art and garbage can sometimes be very thin.'  Well, this film may not be quite garbage, but it sure the hell ain't art either!.In fact, `The Million Dollar Hotel' is an `art film' in the worst sense of the term &#150; rambling, self-indulgent and too impressed with its own cleverness to be truly effective.  One gets the impression, while watching this movie, that director Wim Wenders gathered a bunch of his acting pals together and let them loose in front of the rolling cameras to carry on in the most amateurishly self-indulgent manner imaginable.  Since every single last one of the characters in the film is mentally disturbed in some way, the actors are afforded more than ample opportunity to strut their thespian talents, indulging in all the assorted tics and twitches that have helped to win many a fine performer an award come Oscar night.`The Million Dollar Hotel' perpetuates the time-honored tradition in the arts that mentally ill people somehow have far greater insight into the realities of the world than those who are not.  When this theme is placed within the context of a comedy as it is here, the results are invariably cutesy and condescending.   The setting is a downtown LA hotel inhabited almost exclusively by quixotic misfits, recent turnouts from local mental health institutions.  When one of the residents, a modern artist, falls to his death, the man's wealthy father calls in an investigator played by Mel Gibson to prove that the cause of death was not suicide but murder.  Of course, in the biggest cliché of all, Gibson's detective turns out to be just as mentally unhinged as the people he is there to investigate.  Based on a story idea by Bono (of U2 fame) and Nicholas Klein, the film was actually written only by Klein, although Bono does provide some haunting music as backdrop for the action.  Unfortunately, Klein is unable to really bring the characters and story elements together in a way that would make them compelling and he is further hampered by the desultory style of the director.  Wenders has always brought a dreamlike quality to his films, but he has never really been able to draw the audience very deeply into his worlds.  `The Million Dollar Hotel' is indeed no exception.In addition to Gibson (whom one must assume waived his going `million dollar/per movie role' rate in order to work with a director he obviously admires), the impressive cast includes Jimmy Smits, Milla Jovovich, Amanda Plummer, Gloria Stuart, Julian Sands and Tim Roth all doing their best given the material they have to work with.One always appreciates an attempt by any filmmaker to break free of the restrictions of homogenized commercial filmmaking, but one also has to be willing to state when such an attempt is a misfire in its own right.  `The Million Dollar Hotel' never even gets to the ignition stage.  "},{"Title":"Wenders' ineffective incursion into comedy and parody","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Far from being a luxury hotel, the `Million Dollar' shelters a collection of insane people who would prefer to be in a mental facility (`three nice meals a day, people in white clothes caring for you', says Dixie). One of them falls from the building and dies. It happens to be Izzy (Tim Roth), the unconventional son of a media magnate, and to discover who murdered him comes FBI agent Skinner (Mel Gibson). Based on this whodunit plot, director Wim Wenders weaves a net of references and ironies some caricatures (the truculent cop, the manipulative media baron, the crazy hippie, the unscrupulous art-dealer) as well as parodies of other movies (the thriller genre, Robocop/Terminator, and even Wenders' `Wings of Desire'). The result is unbalanced though there are some good moments (the conspiratorial meetings among the insane and the unorthodox romance between two of them - Tom Tom and Eloise), the story seems loose, some characters are unconvincing, like Skinner, and the underlying messages (like `TV fakes reality') are far from original. As in other Wenders' movies there are some intriguing images and excellent music, but &#145;The Million Dollar Hotel' lacks what is so impressive in his works either a kind of philosophical nature and meaning (`State of Things', `Lisbon Story', `End of Violence') or a strong humanistic appeal (`Paris Texas', `Wings of Desire', `Alice in the Cities'). A minor Wenders (6/10). "}{"Title":" (4) A fool and his money ...","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The acting was animated, talented, and aggressive but forced and incompletely motivated. We watch a collection of actors acting and Mel Gibson just wandering around lost in his palest most insipid screen appearance I can recall. He is far too strong a presence for the role of someone only marginally relevant to the plot. His character could have been eliminated from the film altogether by adjusting the screen play without affecting the story one way or t'other. In fact I would humbly suggest that the character should have been excluded altogether. I say character not Mel Gibson. Do you remember the first Lethal Weapon film? - Conspiracy Theory? Mel Gibson can do humane crazy with the best of them. The character of the police detective could have been left off screen as the point was the detective's affect on the hotel resident's and could have been better expressed indirectly in the responses of the residents of the hotel to an investigation, especially in light of the fact that they are all delusional to begin with. Instead, we are made to endure a confusing interplay of characters and poorly rendered threads of plot that give us no climax no tension and no reason to really care about what happens to them. It's the same affect you get when a great big delicious yawn begins to form inside you, and then just dies halfway through uncompleted.  "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" this is a great movie If you want to have 4 or 5 beers with your friends and then sit around trying to figure out where the heck you have seen so and so before in some movie or T.V. show. spoiler - yeah, that one guy was in the big lebowski, oh yeah, that other guy is the idiot from that show grounded for life. Oh man, thats the guy from Boxing Helena. this endeavor will most certainly be the only entertaining thing to do while watching this utter piece of crap. I like odd movies. I love strange and unique movies. I love all sorts of good film. The reason that I do not like this film has nothing to do with whether or not I 'got it'. It is just a utterly awful movie. Thanks Bono thanks for your awesome album you put out a few years ago thanks for that sweet IPod commercial thanks for making cool those sweet shades, philanthropy, and egotism and most of all thanks for this great friggin movie "},{"Title":"hard to tell whether or not it has Wim Wenders written all over it","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Maybe I've been too cruel to Wim Wenders ever since I saw Until the End of the World (which is a movie that I wholeheartedly recommend); ever since that movie, I expect top-notch work from him. Which isn't to say that The Million Dollar Hotel is a bad movie. The lack of health insurance is certainly an important topic to look at. It's just that the movie's a little too far out to follow clearly. Whodunits always seem to be an inconsistent genre, and this one comes across as more confusing than anything. Maybe Wim Wenders and Mel Gibson just aren't the right people to work together.Anyway, it's worth seeing, but don't make it your first choice. Also starring Jeremy Davies, Milla Jovovich, Jimmy Smits, Peter Stormare, Bud Cort, Amanda Plummer, Gloria Stuart, Donal Logue and Harris Yulin. "},{"Title":"too weird","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A nearly crippled FBI agent, played by none other than Mel Gibson, arrives at a flop house for uninsured alcoholics, drug users and the mentally challenged to investigate the murder (or was it suicide) of a rich man's son. He meets, among others, an Indian named Geronimo, a man who claims to have been an uncredited member of The Beatles, an alcoholic whose toupee is on askew, a strange young woman and the even stranger young man who loves her. This film has some great things in it but overall, was too long, slow and bizarre for my taste.  Part of the problem for me was that some of the dialogue was totally unintelligible.  There were some good acting,  lines, situations and moments but ultimately it was too left of strange for me - kind of like a Twin Peaks episode that veered off the charts. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hideous","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It is sssso painstaking to even bother commenting on this film, however i have somehow managed to droop over my keyboard and comment on this stomach churning sad excuse for a film. Within the first half hour of this hideous film i realised that i was one of the chosen ones? Fate had cruelly made me witness the worst film of all time! This movie warrants no more comment from me and from this day forward i vow never to watch a movie with mel gibson, how desperate was he to take such a drop dead role?absolutly gut wrenching!!!-10/10  "},{"Title":"Confusion is not art","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I know a lot of people will see this movie, see the excellent acting in it, and call it a good movie. They are wrong. While the entire cast does themselves proud, this movie is still a creeping, too long boring crap ride of stink. Remember what Mosquito Coast taught us, a confusing movie does not mean art. "},{"Title":"Couldn't get my eyes open to see this movie","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is tripe at the most. I rented at Lackluster to see Mel Gibson in the Title Role.. but to the middle i dozed off twice this is what to get when you see actors trying to be mental patients. Recommend One flew over the Cuckoos nest than this piece of garbage.  "},{"Title":"A big disappointment A waste of time and money","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this flick without knowing anything about it, except that Mel Gibson was in it.  He's the man so it had to be good.  Not!  It was boring and dumb.  I was so disappointed that Mel was in such a film.  I ask myself, why would he do such a bad picture?  Did he owe someone a favor or what? "},{"Title":"This movie is bad","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie seemed to be one of those instances where the producer calls a star - Mel Gibson in this case - and says What are you doing this weekend? Want to make a movie? Mel gets some bucks and doesn't break a sweat. The characters are stereotyped and the plot is murky at best.The only saving grace for this movie is the photography. It's impressive. "},{"Title":"very bad movie","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that I must have fallen asleep because I did not understand a thing about what is this movie about. But I realised it was only running for ten minutes. Mel Gibson came in. He walked and talked as if he entered twin peaks. The only thing that missed was the nice music of angel badalamenti. Someone spoke. But I could not catch up. This movie is your worst nightmare. Don't go to Blockbuster to rent it. Let it rest in the stores.  "}{"Title":"utter tripe and should be lobbed bin-wards...","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Hmmm, something about this film didn't really click with me. Maybe I couldn't relate to any of the characters, but that wouldn't be too much of a surprise since they are all self-confessed noodle-heads. There are a few chuckles, but the idea of sitting through two hours of watching a bunch of retarded numbskulls playing out the solving of a murder mystery in agonising slowness was not a good one. These characters take about 15 minutes to act out a two-line scene just because of all their mannerisms and spasticisms or whatever the technical term is. There is a romantic subplot which is mildly interesting, but in all honesty I can't see why anyone would give a hoot about who actually committed the murder. We don't even get to know anything about the victim - fatal error. Oh and Mel Gibson's character was shrouded in mystery, all well and good, but if you don't unshroud him you just leave pure frustration for the audience. Apart from a couple of laughs and a spattering of nice shots or cinematic moments, this film is utter tripe and should be lobbed bin-wards with all haste. 4/10, see, I'm generous. "},{"Title":"Finally","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Another side of Mel done well and a re-education on what can happen when art happens. Amidst all of the sensationalism and entertainment that we must expect in order for us to feel whole and complete is the illusion that these things are for real for everybody for all time. What a sham. What a scam. What a miserable web we cling to. I appreciate the other side of life that is appended to the status quo Blaissez-faire virtual reality middle-America wanna-be rich mentality that is portrayed in everything else we see and breathe. The Hotel goes deeper and darker into the psyche of normalcy with a deftness and aptitude unclaimed by lesser individuals. Thanks for the Real Show. "},{"Title":"Terrible Piece of Crap","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of those movies that in the video store looks quite good, Mel Gibson is in it, I like his films generally, then when I got it home I knew five minutes into it it would be terrible.  Please don't rent this, it is a terrible movie and a waste of money.  It is slow and hard to follow, there is no real story.  It jumps all over the place and gets very annoying.  I don't know what Mel was thinking when he took this script.  Mel's done a few bad ones lately, I remember Payback was very dissapointing. "},{"Title":"EST MODUS IN REBUS...","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There is a latin locution that applies oneself to this film est modus in rebus (it's necessary moderation in all the things). Indeed, Win Wenders didn't know how to restrain the perpetrated excesses by the cast in the composition of their characteres rather than expressing their inner soul conflicts, bestowed them a coarse and medieval pantomime. Mel Gibson seems to be profoundly bores and struggles as not to say Hey! I have directed movies before and that's certainly not the way a crew should represent!... His inalterable face expression, just like a wax museum mask leads us to deduce that... Regretfully in all aspects such a director who had offered us wine (excellent, by the way) Paris, Texas, now offers us water (brackish)... Most certainly one of the worst movies of 2000. "},{"Title":"Not bad, terrible.","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  S l o w,  l o n g,  d u l l. . .Oh my god, dull. Characters so annoying - you'll cringe every time you see Jimy Smits, or the guy that played tomtom from now on. They must have never rehearsed or reviewed the film in progress. Mel Gibson was absolutely wooden.This may not be the worst movie ever made, but that it went almost straight to video says it is darn close. "},{"Title":"Knock knock Mr. Gibson, you there?","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Why did Mel Gibson do this movie?  I would have said before this movie that I'd like anything he did.  I now take that back.  This movie sucked real wind all the way through the 30 minutes we watched it.  Then I turned on Flipper does Miami on the Animal Planet and saw something with a real plot.  Sad, sad sad. "},{"Title":"Totally unwatchable, unless you like the worst of the worst.","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Let me add my voice to the many who were disappointed. This has to be one of the worst movies ever! It wasn't the story, which reminded me of King of Hearts and Kurasawa's The Lower Depths, telling the story of the outcasts and rejects of society. It was the awful pretentious acting - basic acting class! I cannot believe that a good director and good actors managed to turn out this disaster. Tim Roth, Mel Gibson, Jimmy Smits, Milla! The Tom Tom character was just excruciating, as was the John Lennon wannabe with the phony Liverpool accent which just made me shudder. Mel Gibson walked through the film like a storefront mannequin. He didn't seem to be in the same movie.To make things worse, I bought the DVD in the belief, from the summary on the cover, that this was going to be an exciting detective story. Was I ever conned! Incidentally, when I tried to access the special features I got a message saying bad disk. Rip-off City. Yesterday I watched the wonderful To end all wars then today, being stuck at home during a hurricane I tried to watch this travesty. I was actually relieved when the power went off and I did not have to endure another minute.The best thing that can be said about it was that the sets were good in a Blade Runner style and the cinematography was good. "},{"Title":"The worse movie I ever saw...","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie just kept getting worse... The only reason I watched the whole thing was that I was fooled by the cast. How could a great actor such as Mel Gibson want to have his name associated with such a terribly boring film.Don't waste two hours of your life on this one.  "},{"Title":"This is absolutely the worst movie I have ever seen!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I rented this movie on 20 June 2001, and watched it for about 45 minutes. I concluded that watching a blank screen would be delightful by comparison. There was not a single person in the cast for whom I would have shed a tear if hell itself had opened up and swallowed the whole bunch of them.So, I e-mailed all of my friends and relatives warning them, and I am taking the time to urge everyone who may see this note to avoid this movie like the plague!  I have seen some really bad movies in my time, but NEVER one as bad as this.  "},{"Title":"......new favorite movie......","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" this movie has everything i could ever ask for. tragedy comedy it's dark gives a beautiful example of contemporary romeo & juliet style love mel Gibson gets railed with a bat. haha has not-so-average characters with depth keeps you guessing....to some degree and milla jovovich, my all time favorite actress, in it with an amazing performance and looking as gorgeous as ever.i am a total cult film maniac. my favs include... fight club donnie darko memento the machinist rules of attraction etc etc............and this one has been rocketed to the top of the list. BRAVO!!!9 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Very bad, very not interesting, very poor movie","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I am very sorry for the people who liked this movie, but I found it awful.You might consider seeing this movie because Mell Gibson is in there, but really...it's not worth the time and effort. Gibson put on an all-time low acting performance, which is consistent with the rest of the movie. The story-line is annoying, the dialogues are incomprehensible and not for one moment you get the feeling that the movie is going somewhere.I got a few words for people that want to watch this don't see it, you will be happier "},{"Title":"WORST MOVIE I'VE EVER SEEN","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw Being John Malkovich I thougt it was the worst movie in the history of cinema, but this one is undoubtely the WORST OF ALL.It's basically a movie about nuts.Don't waste your time or money seeing this piece of garbage. You'll thank me for the advice. "}]