[{"Title":"Just Like the Comic - For the Right and Wrong Reasons.","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"46 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" This film is just like the comic that inspired it Great visuals (I still really like McFarlane's superhero art style), but much like the majority of Spawn stories, it really doesn't go anywhere. The set looks good, the characters look good, the cape looks REALLY good, but the story? Other than telling the origin and the standard must stop the bad guy motive, it doesn't do as much as it should. And yes, I know it's a Hell-based movie, but the metal soundtrack just got distracting and annoying, instead of enhancing the story like it should have. John Williams or Danny Elfman it wasn't.Need to see the film? It's a great visual ride. Just don't expect much more than that. It did make for some cool toys, though. "},{"Title":"Terrible Film, From a Comic That Is Perhaps Unadaptable","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"32 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I'm not sure if the Spawn comics really can be adapted to a film medium. To sum it up you have a murdered CIA hit-man who makes a deal with a devil, comes back as deformed creature with strange powers, and has to deal with a psychotic demon in clown form. Umm, yeah. Maybe Sam Raimi or Guillermo Del Toro could'be made such a film, but alas, they didn't, and the result is an inept production.I'll start with the good points; John Leguizamo is perfect as the Clown; both over the top and malevolent. And a few of the visual effects are impressive. And there were a few nods to the comics (Sam and Twitch making a cameo at the end). But that's about it. Here's every other problem 1. Michael Jai White just sucks as the lead. He's terrible. His interpretation of Spawn is not particularly heroic, or anti-heroic, or likable, or has any character moments, but is just an angry guy yelling I'mma gonna kill Wynn! Arrgg!! These powers rock! Gone are any of the philosophical underpinnings of the character.2. Hell and the devil Malebolia - laughable, laughable. They could've at least animated the devil's mouth to move in sync with his voice. If this is hell, I just laugh at it. And for those who say Hey, it was 1997; those were the visual effects of the time, I say look at Independence Day, Space Jam, and Titanic, all films made around the same time with superior effects.3. Martin Sheen, whom we all know is a good actor, adds little to the Wynn character. He concocts an idiotic plot about inserting a bomb in his heart, so that no one will dare kill him. This plot line isn't in the comics, but even if it was it would still've been idiotic. Doctors are really going to insert a bomb in someone's heart and not think Gee, this guy's gonna die someday, so there's no question this bomb will go off and kill people someday? 4. Child actor Miko Hughes shows up in a subplot, and has to look for Spawn's dog. WTF? It's like the producers realized We should make this more family friendly by giving Spawn a kid sidekick, but then realized there really wasn't anything he could do, so they had him go look for a dog instead.5. And after all this, we have a mess of a climax. Spawn fights off the Clown in Hell by transporting through the fireplace! And then we get the big cliché about ending with a shot of Spawn looking out on the city he will now protect. Please. An unsatisfying ending, due to zero character development or reason to care about any of the saving that Spawn did throughout the movie.But there is some good in the world after all, I walked out of this knowing that if any demonic Clown comes after me, I sure can count on Spawn to decapitate him for me. And if my dog ever runs away, I can count on Miko Hughes to find him for me. And if I ever get confused during a movie, I can count on Nicol Williamson's tacked-on voice-over to provide exposition.And finally, if I ever go to hell, I know I can look forward to a place filled with cartoon characters. YEE HEE! "},{"Title":"A flawed but enjoyable absurdist horror-comic book film","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"50 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Al Simmons (Michael Jai White) is one of the top operatives for Jason Wynn (Martin Sheen), who is the head of an organization called A6. When Simmons becomes aware that A6 might be a little shady, he learns the hard way that he isn't allowed to quit A6. This leads to his transformation into Spawn, a superhero with a background and motivations that are just as morally ambiguous as A6. The film largely concerns Spawn discovering and exploring his new identity, while working to uncover a nefarious plot and attain revenge.If you read my reviews frequently enough over time, you'll notice that my ratings often change on repeated viewings. My rating for Spawn has definitely gone down since my last viewing, but currently, I'm giving it a generous 8 out of 10. There are a lot of things that are brilliant about the film, at least for viewers with particular, odd tastes similar to mine, but there are also too many unfortunate missteps to allow for a higher score.Let's look at the missteps first. The main problem with the film is that screenwriter Alan McElroy and writer/director Mark A.Z. Dippe tried to squeeze far too much plot and too many characters into a 90-minute film. In retrospect, it would have been better to make one film covering everything up to Spawn's transformation (or the beginning of the transformation), and then save the other material (which comprises the bulk of the story here) for later films. Maybe Todd McFarlane, who created the comic books upon which this film was based, was worried that he wouldn't receive funding for sequels, so a multi-film plan wasn't attractive. As it is, there have been no live action sequels to date (there have been animated versions of Spawn), but I think there may have been if the first film would have been handled differently.As the film stands, too much time has to be spent explaining the plot. The A6 plot is complicated enough, but there is a very high-concept idea behind the creation of Spawn that also has to be explained, too. Also, a lot of characters, most critically Cogliostro (Nicol Williamson--one of my favorite character actors), are basically wasted. There just isn't time to get into them.A further problem is that both Sheen and White use odd affectations in their speech. I suppose it's supposed to be over-the-top in a comic book way, but on this last viewing, at least, it was more distracting to me. Also, a lot of the cgi-heavy effects already look very dated, and there's a weird cheesiness to most of the scenes in Hell. On the other hand, I personally like that kind of weird cheesiness, so I didn't subtract any points for that.And speaking of weird cheesiness, I'm sure a lot of people hate John Leguizamo's character in the film (Clown/Violator), but I love it. It's exactly the kind of surreal campiness--part horror, part humor--that I cherish. As Mike Mayo has said, he's like (an evil) Krusty the Klown on acid. That works well for me, but if you're not the kind of person who loves films like Killer Klowns from Outer Space (1988), you probably won't like this Killer Klown either.There is also a great campy quality to the material overall, including some of the dialogue (a scene where a father yells at a son in Rat City for spitting out a meal they retrieved from the garbage because it's wasting good food is a treasure). Spawn, the comic, is really a bizarre amalgamation of a number of different influences, from horror to twisted fairy tales, and the film is not afraid to indulge in that.The best part of the film, though, aside from Leguizamo's character, is Spawn as superhero. The costume and devices of the costume are fantastic, the cgi for the costume is excellent (I especially loved the cape), and White (as well as the stunt person(s)) does a great job physically. All of the action sequences involving Spawn were incredible. I wanted to see a lot more of that kind of material. In fact, the visual style of the film overall is admirably creative, all the way down to the opening and ending credits.In the end, the film teeters between being something that's so bad, it's good and being just a good film with some unfortunate flaws, but in either case, it's still very enjoyable to watch. You just need to approach it not expecting a realist dramatic masterpiece, but rather with a love for the absurd. "},{"Title":"The muppet show gone wrong","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"30 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Everyone seems to agree that the original Spawn comic is excellent material for a pointless, violent, stupid and thoroughly amusing movie. This movie, however....It isn't all that violent (if you compare it to the comic book), but it is stupid and utterly pointless. Amusing? It could have been if they had inserted a prolonged torture scene of John Leguizamos Clown character one of the most un-funny, irritating and tacky comic relief characters ever to have (dis)graced the screen. Move over Chris Tucker and Pauly Shore - we have a new candidate for overrated quasi-comedian of the decade. The special effects were kind of confusing - half of them were excellent and half of them looked like beautified Sesame Street animations (the demon thing of hell, for example, which had me crying with laughter). Let's hope for the next Spawn movie they take a few chances and make a grittier downbeat tale with more in common with the original comic and not like the muppet show from hell. "},{"Title":"I tried to like it, I really did...","Date":"30 April 2010","Score":"23 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" The first time I saw this...well, I wanted to like it. I had rented it probably as soon as it came out on VHS. I hadn't read a Spawn comic but knew one thing, he was a badass and a lot of people liked the comics. I had high hopes. Boy, was I disappointed. Now as the time has passed and I've gotten older, I've tried to like it for different reasons. For the campy aspect of it, for Leguizamo's part, for anything...I still don't.The effects are what they are, and you can't do much with a budget too low for your aspirations when it comes to a work like this. As it is, the suit and cape look pretty good, but it seems like those are the only things that any money were spent on. However, that is the least of my concerns for Spawn.The acting is...in a word...atrocious. No one other than Leguizamo has any fun in this thing. He's like the guy at a crappy party that says, Hey, screw it. I'm gonna have a good time whether the rest of you guys are or not! Did I like his performance? Not really, but you have to give him credit for trying. That's more than I can say for the rest of the cast, crew, pretty much anyone else associated with this. Jai White is awful. The script doesn't help him at all but he was just the wrong choice. That said, there probably weren't too many African-Americans at the time that folks thought could pull it off, so he was chosen. Wrong choice, but I guess you do what you have to. Sheen was so bad I had to watch Apocalypse Now again just to get the vision of Spawn out of my head. Sweeney and Randle....who? They were in this thing? See what I mean? The movie should NOT have been PG-13 either. We know well enough these days that even when a movie is put out in a director's cut on DVD with an R rating that it doesn't help much. Spawn should have been a hard R all the way from the get-go. It also could have helped itself being a bit longer, say 2 hrs total. But maybe it's the best thing that Spawn only tortured us for 90 mins. Any more of Spawn the way it is and you wind up thinking too much about Death's sweet release.Like I said, I really wanted to like it. I watch it when it comes on FX or whatever other TV channel just to see if I can find a reason to like it, so maybe I won't feel the disappointment I felt the first time. It never works...and it never will. "},{"Title":"Sacrilege","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie after I had seen the animated mini-series, and let me say I am sorry to have seen it all. I never really followed the comics, but after witnessing the genius of the animated version, I could never have imagined that it was possible to ruin such a good character and story so thoroughly and completely. It is flashy, campy, and ridiculous. The acting is terrible, and the effects are just terrible. The movie manages to create a completely inappropriate atmosphere and does nothing to reveal the depth and darkness of the title character. Dump this in the garbage and watch the mini-series.  "},{"Title":"A few good scenes don't save this wreck of a story.","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" There are moments in Spawn that stand out with exceptional creativity, but what truly stands out about the movie is just how much of a mess it is. The screenplay is a wreck, the acting is stiff and unconvincing, and the whole thing seems to fly by so fast, that we don't get a chance to experience much other than a look at some nifty visuals. In fairness, I suppose it is easy enough to argue that Spawn delivers its share of action sequences for a ninety minute movie, but perhaps it needs to back down a bit. It needs more story. In the end, Spawn feels like nothing more or less than an exercise in CGI and make-up effects.It is pretty difficult to get involved with the story, in part because it makes no sense, but mostly because we simply do not care. The character of Al Simmons is about as cheap and plastic as the armour he suits up in during the second half of the feature. Quite frankly I don't find him all that likable. He is cold and nasty, even as a superhero. I really hate it when the good guys talk like the bad guys; when they cackle or make snarly remarks, like Dr. Westlake in the Darkman series. Some of the special effects work, some don't. Our hero has a blood red cape which can expand to the size of Texas (don't ask me how). I liked that effect. The thing sort of has a computer generated life of its own, and its elegance clashes with the plastic of Spawn's armour. the primary villain is a clown from hell, who can turn into a ten foot armour plated beast which looks a bit like a cousin of the Queen from Aliens. That is another good effect. The climax takes us deep into the fiery pit of hell, which unfortunately does NOT so convincing. My screen saver is a more intimidating computer generated image. I was reminded a bit of the Brinstar level from Super Smash Brothers. Like so many films do, Spawn ends on a note that just cries out for a sequel. Needless to say, there isn't one and there never will be. Spawn is entertaining in parts, but definitely not as a whole. In more competent hands, this could have worked....but it doesn't "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, Flawed, Fun= ???","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I remember seeing this film as a kid, and i remember it being pretty bad-ass. Joining IMDb, and seeing it at a 4.9, I was astonished. But having been over twelve years, I decided to go out and buy the Director's cut. Just to be blunt, it's nowhere near worthy of the rating it's at. But, there is quite a bit of wasted potentiality. I'll start off with the good, which really there is a lot of if you think about it. First off, if you're really into action, look no further because this film sports a nice amount of it. And the basic premise is pretty interesting, but even the director's cut clocks in at under an hour and forty minutes , so it fails to dive any deeper than it certainly could've. The cinematography is by Guillermo Navarro, who many of you probably know from his work with director Guillermo del Toro ( Blade 2, the Hellboy series, Pan's Labyrinth, etc.), and he does a bang up job. With the right direction this could have been a masterpiece by all means. Mark A.Z. Dippé knew and carried out the bare minimum of film making, and if you look into it is busy now-a-days with animated Garfield productions. What a down grade, huh? About 90% of the visuals are pretty damn good actually, and the acting as it is is all right. For these things alone, I enjoyed this movie, where as I despised X-Men Origins Wolverine for its predictable generic storyline and overly done flashy effects. Michael Jai White was far from terrible and John Leguizamo was pretty terrific if not a bit cartoony at times.The bad points really hit this film hard. The pacing, attuned to its short run time, zooms by way too quickly with annoying video game like transitions and a score that didn't fit the film too well. Every time I was expecting more to be developed, I was let down. Oh, this is a cool plot line-wait, what, we're moving on already? oh..okay... And lastly, amongst 90% of the great CGI and make-up, the battle in hell is painstakingly terrible. They should've gone with an elaborate set and CGI here and there, but it becomes hopeless so you have to sit threw what you would call a lackluster climax.But for what it is, I highly recommended this movie for its dark humor and awesome action. "},{"Title":"Spawn-lite","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Spawn is a special effects spectacle unlike anything before it. It has some dazzling CGI effects to complement its dark tone and breathe life into the Gothic fantasy, and wondrous cinematography to carry it out. Unfortunately, that's all it has to offer, which is a real shame, because this had the potential to be one hell (pun intended) of a movie.As a reader of Spawn comics and collector of Spawn merchandise (and affiliated McFarlane Toys products), I saw at an early age how Spawn revolutionized the comics industry with its mystical premise, graphic visuals, Heaven vs. Hell battle theme and gratuitous sex and violence, and while such gusto has been embraced by fans, this 1997 film adaptation of Todd McFarlane's popular underground comic, directed by Mark A.Z. Dippe', is rated PG-13 (subsequent home video versions were of the R-rated director's cut, which contained additional footage), the watered-down violence more cartoonish than graphic. In short, in the comic book world, Spawn is not like anything else out there.The story is that the demon Malebolgia needs fresh souls for his ever-growing army of undead soldiers to lead an eventual conquest of Earth, and then, Heaven, in what will eventually bring about Armageddon. All Malebolgia needs is a general for his army, and, Holy Lazarus, recently deceased CIA operative Al Simmons (newcomer Michael Jai White) has just the extra-crispy corpse for the job.See, Simmons was set up by his insane former employer Jason Wynn (Martin Sheen) after making a bargain with Malebolgia's go-to guy and Earthbound lieutenant, the pudgy, disgusting Clown (John Leguizamo, completely unrecognizable in his get-up), to kill Simmons so that he would be sent to Hell. While in Hell (which looks like a CGI version of a Marilyn Manson concert on steroids), Simmons makes a deal with Malebolgia to lead his army, in exchange for one last chance to see his wife Wanda Blake (Theresa Randle), who is now married to his best friend Terry Fitzgerald (D.B. Sweeney) and together the two now have a young daughter named Cyan (Sydni Beaudoin).Back on Earth and unaware that five years have passed, Simmons has a burnt-to-a-crisp visage that doesn't sit well with people not accustomed to undead soldiers from Hell. He establishes sympathetic links with the homeless denizens of alley Rat City, chiefly young Zack (Miko Hughes), and is watched over by the Godsend Cogliostro (Nicol Williamson). When Simmons's body comes out of its larval stage and transforms him into a Hellspawn, a being with an endoplasmic and invincible suit of armor, he sees his chance to use these new powers to exact vengeance on Wynn, his lethal vixen Jessica Priest (Melinda Clarke), reunite with Wanda, and seek a way to break out of his agreement with Hell.As stated earlier, Spawn is one hell of a special effects spectacle, and it looks great, but a lot goes wrong in too many places. I was dazzled to see one of my favorite superheroes on the screen nearly 10 years ago as an impressionable pre-teen. Now at 21, I am sorely disappointed by what I see today. Spawn still could have been good, even without with the full-on graphic content and Heaven & Hell mysticism of the source material. While a largely accurate reflection of the comics, it still gives more credence to my assertion that this is Spawn-lite. Presumably, studio bosses weren't keen on marketing a Hellbound superhero to the masses, so measures were probably taken to make the vehicle more accessible. (Take my advice and stick to the animated HBO miniseries.)On the plus side, Michael Jai White makes an efficient hero and this remains the actor's most well-known part. We do feel his pain (even if it seems forced at times), his quips, and overall faithful portrayal of the character. Sheen makes for a coolly sadistic madman but it's Leguizamo who steals the show. His gross-out-humor, maggot-munching portrayal of the Clown is just what takes this movie out of the dregs and into full-blown camp territory. Lastly, the soundtrack, a mix of heavy metal and techno, does have some pretty wicked sounds.It's easy to see that only core fans will want to stick with this picture. It had such a great chance to be something unlike anything else out there. With the comic book craze still in full swing in Hollywood, Spawn seems forgotten, or at the very least, sitting on the sidelines. But Spawn, to me, seems to be an example of mis-marketing, a brilliant idea gone haywire. Maybe it should have stayed in Hell, where it belongs.5/10 "},{"Title":"Huge disappointment","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"35 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Take a great story about someone being damned for his sins and brought back as a demon. Then take out all the spooky dark stuff and add a bunch of sweetness-and-light tenderness that adds absolutely nothing to the story. Tone down the comic-book atmosphere to a more believable level, something around the level of the town of Mayberry. What you're left with is a watered-down, listless waste of time that's guaranteed not to offend anyone, and has all the entertainment value of a cup of oatmeal. I can almost see a bunch of guys sitting around a table, discussing a live action version of Spawn, and then someone says But let's make it a lot more like 'Lassie Come Home' so people can take their kids to see it. Stick with the animated version, don't waste your time and money on this saccharine yawn-fest. "}{"Title":"I hope McFarlane made out like a bandit on this. It would explain a lot.","Date":"14 March 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Given the subject matter of the original comic, a PG-13 Spawn is already a lame horse right out of the gate. And that's before you get to the awful acting, inept script and really, really bad '90s CGI (although to its credit, it does seem to wear that as a badge of honor). Everyone in the cast seems put out to be here, but give John Leguizamo a hand for going all-out with Clown/Violator/whatever the hell his name is. It's hard to watch this as a comic book movie when the period offered much better choices (The Crow, Blade). This effort is beyond silly, a relic that shouldn't be unearthed.4/10 "},{"Title":"300th IMDb review--Spawn sucks","Date":"11 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Spawn sucks, did you see my summary? It's like right above this part. Spawn sucks, here's why- The comic book isn't that great, then they made a movie based off that comic book; if a movie is the gutless version of a lame-ass comic book you know there is a bag of dicks about to be sucked by you, the viewer. Spawn sucks, here's why- John Leguziamo. His portrayal of the Clown/ the Violator is so profoundly sh*t, just big piles of sh*t, it physically causes pain to watch him as the Clown. Why did the director encourage this performance? Was no one able to stop Mr. Leguziamo like once he got started? The cascade effect? Also, did you read the IMDb summary of the movie, a page back? That plot sounds so stupid, is that what happens in the movie? Full disclosure I've never been able to watch more than an hour of this awful movie so I don't know how it ends, but I can live with that, easily. "},{"Title":"too campy to be dark","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Al Simmons (Michael Jai White) is an agent of a covert government agency headed by Jason Wynn (Martin Sheen). He is angered by the civilian casualties of the latest hit. Wynn sends him on the next mission to attack a North Korean biochemical plant. Wynn double-crosses him with assassin Jessica Priest (Melinda Clarke). He is sent down to Hell where demon king Malebolgia offers him a deal. It's 5 years late. Al returns to earth to see his love Wanda Blake (Theresa Randle) who is now married to his best friend Terry Fitzgerald (D.B. Sweeney) and raising his daughter Cyan. Evil minion Clown/The Violator (John Leguizamo) reminds him of the deal to kill Wynn and lead the demon army upon Armageddon in exchange for Wanda. Cogliostro was also an assassin from Hell but he saved his soul and battle for Heaven.It tries to be a darker and uglier type of comic book movie but it ends up more or less campy. I can't really take John Leguizamo seriously. Danny DeVito would have been much better. Everybody is trying too hard to be a cartoon character. Martin Sheen doesn't have to act evil. He would be so much more effect if he acts Presidential. The visual style looks cheap although Spawn himself looks good. The makeup looks pretty good and the CGI is incorporated as well as can be expected. I guess most of the effort was concentrated on the look of Spawn and everything else took a backseat. "},{"Title":"Badly aged action movie of an okay comics character","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" If you read comics in the 1990's a good change is that you were introduced to Spawn, a series that tried to be more darker end edgy than what DC and Marvel comics were offering at the time by having the villains and heroes that came from heaven and hell, being angels and demons. It was a comic, that for a while, made me stop reading DC and Marvel altogether.Of course this new found glory of a different kind of heroes and villains was adopted on screen as well, thus an utterly mediocre and very, very poorly aged schlock of a movie called Spawn, where everyone grunts and growls their lines and evil people are more evil than Dr. Evil from Austin Powers.The best things about Spawn is the suit of Spawn, which is pretty source accurate and John Leguizamo as vile, disgusting and nasty demon clown clown. I'd love to add Martin Sheen as a good thing, but alas his character is so clichéd in all the evilness, that you can't look at him without laughing.The plot of Spawn is pretty simple. Al Simmons (Michael Jai White) is an A6 agent, who takes care of bad people by killing them. He's double crossed and he goes to hell, in where he does a deal with a devil and gets back on Earth as Spawn. A revenge ensues, and perhaps even some forced character growth and annoying kids as side characters. Que end fight and half veiled promises/threats of sequels.The movie itself isn't rocket science, but action movies really don't need to. What jumps out though is the very poorly aged CGI effects all around. I recall the movie looking less than stellar the year it came out, but today it looks like someone forgot to press a render button before some of the effects were cut in the movie. Also most of the action is pretty poorly shot and the end result is just not that entertaining.As such Spawn could have been made to a good movie, but in the end this just wasn't it. "},{"Title":"Spawn","Date":"23 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Ah Spawn, we all know and love this McFarlane creation don't we. The ex-assassin back from the dead as a demonic hellspawn (from hell) armed to the teeth with weapons and with a living suit that is able to metamorphosis into virtually anything that is required at any given moment...handy. His world is dangerous, dark, grimy, violent, savage, chaotic, vicious and bloodthirsty. He has battled thugs, drug dealers, pedophiles, murderers, the KKK and various creatures from the bowels of hell.If there is any comicbook character that is definitely not for young kids then this is it. Could this comicbook character be anymore badass? the material screams out for a solid ultra violent adult movie adaptation. How could anyone even consider the notion of making a PG-13 out of this graphic splatter fest! ahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha!..bahaha!..haha...hehe...ahem...oh.I quite liked this despite many problems with the movie. Unfortunately this characters outing has aged badly showing some horrendous early CGI effects which will shock you. The visuals are generally decent at times, like the comic its very dark, Gothic and grim, but its also very obviously filmed on sets and looks a bit fake. Sure the cold night rain comes down in sheets whilst the mist swirls as Spawn leaps around in his fantastic looking living suit...but you need more than that. The other fantasy based creatures are also well created, Clown especially...very dark, humorous and quite chilling. Leguizamo played him brilliantly swinging from reasonably placid too nasty, vicious and perverted in the bat of an eyelid. Best thing about the film easily, kudos.The Violator is also pretty cool looking in a life size model form yet like a lot of the film the CGI version is pretty lame and ruins it. CGI is a problem with this film as its drenched in it, almost everything is CGI and frankly not much is any good. Jesus Christ even the opening credits are rendered in hokey-ass looking CGI! you can tell back in 97 CGI was the new toy.On the whole the CGI ranges from excellent on Spawns cape, to poor video game type visuals on most other things. Hell being the worst with a terrible looking Malebolgia and very plain unexciting looking backdrops, it looks like a student created it at home. The whole thing is very amateurish looking these days it really is, heck even back in the day it didn't come across that well. What's laughable if you look closely is all the legions of Hellspawns are clearly on some kind of animated loop as they all do the same action in the background! Its so obviously the same actor replicated a gazillion times, seriously poor.The best CGI is probably the work done on Spawn's mask, apart from his cape that is. The small sequences where we see his living suit/mask slide and form over his burnt face is still pretty slick even to this day. Sure his eyes look a bit too big and green but on the whole his mask does look the business. The fact its wet really gives it a living vibe, as though its pulsating, its one of things that does work in this movie.The acting is hammy with a slight serious edge, but in general its very cheesy. Sheen chews up the scenery and seems to enjoy himself whilst Jai White seems to be going for broke possibly after more comicbook roles. Clearly not expecting much here but this is suppose to be a dark violent franchise, lets try and be somewhat realistic and less camp huh. This film yearns to be harder and more violent (like the comic, what a waste), it is dark brooding and Crow-like for sure but its so watered down its quite painful.Despite that there is this uneasy feeling throughout where you're not too sure which way the film wants to go. Is it really for a wider audience? is it maybe more for adults? certain scenes seem quite risky and close to the bone but then at the same time its all so docile with no real visible violence or blood, realistic or otherwise. It gives the film an unbalanced feel because its lost somewhere in the middle which will leave both sides of the equation not enjoying the film. Like other similar comicbook franchises they must decide which way they wanna take it, its gotta be for kids or not, simple as that.Despite that it does have a certain charm which appeals to me, its dark Batman-esque world with hellish creatures and brooding anti heroes still manages to be enjoyable. Spawn being a very likable character, Wynn is also suitably creepy and Bishop is changed to a female for some reason but pretty hot with some nice gun/blade action. Add some relatively decent action sequences which are kinda fun in a tame kinda way and you can almost get some enjoyment outta this. At least there's a solid thumping soundtrack to be had.I still wonder what could of been, what it could of achieved had it been made for adults as it should of been. Visually its pleasing if you like this kind of thing (in general), there is just enough comicbook sleaze here to get your teeth into and it still beats 'Ghost Rider' any day of the week.5/10 "},{"Title":"Truly Disappointing","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I was a fan of the comics when I was younger and they were so well done. One thing that is done in the Spawn film is it's just like the comic books in some sequences...almost too much - The characters do not interact quite they're supposed to, and the dialogue and action that make sense in a comic book do not work in a movie, if done in the way of this film (watch a clip or two, you will see what I mean).I know Violator is supposed to be crude and funny, but he is hard to put up with throughout the film. He makes The Joker look like a serious character, and his jokes are not funny. There were many opportunities throughout the film where they had the opportunity to present his dark side, and it was only done effectively for a few seconds, and then it becomes over the top.The animation in this film is very cheesy and needs work. I understand the year that this film was made, however, I would have gone with some live action in the areas where there is animation - it is just foolish and over the top. It was embarrassing to watch the demons in it move around so pix-elated and without the proper mouth movements.Unfortunately, I would not recommend this film to even the most die-hard of fans to the comic. The acting was decent but the way everything played out was overall very poor. The action isn't worth seeing even though it is a bad film (I thought myself it would be worth it for the action-it wasn't). "},{"Title":"Not Bad Comic Book Adaptation!","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Michael Jai White, John Leguizamo, Theresa Randle, D.B. Sweeney, Nicol Williamson, Melinda Clarke and Martin Sheen star in this 1997 action film based on Todd McFarlane's comic book. This focuses on government mercenary/assassin, Al Simmons (White) who wants to spend the rest of his life with fiancée, Wanda (Randle). After a mission goes unexpectedly, Al tells his corrupt boss, Jason Wynn (Sheen) he wants out, but Wynn asks him to do one last mission in North Korea. Wynn sets him up and has him killed by his right-hand assassin, Priest (Clarke). Al discovers he's been chosen to be hell's ultimate weapon and guided by a demonic clown (Leguizamo). After 5 years, Al returns home badly burned, learning that Wanda is married to his best friend, Terry (Sweeney) and have a daughter. Williamson (Return to Oz) plays Cogliostro, a mysterious old man who tries to help Al do good and overcome his hatred and revenge. This isn't bad, the cast is good and I like how some of the characters are named after McFarlane's real-life friends. I recommend this, especially for comic book fans. "},{"Title":"AN INCREDIBLY AWESOME AND VERY ENTERTAINING MOVIE WITH THE VERY BEST SPECIAL EFFECTS AROUND!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Deserves much better credit and maybe even an Academy Award for special effects! Hell, this deserves to be in the TOP 250! (OK, Maybe but just maybe I went a bit overboard there) but anyway the action sequences are great, the fantasy is fantastic and I just love it! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Hellish indeed.","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  The nadir of comic/movie adaptations has finally been reached. I thought 'Batman and Robin' was bad. 'Daredevil' bored me. But this vile waste of the world's precious resources makes those two look like the pinnacle of Hollywood film-making. Some people might be tempted to stick this dross into the 'so bad, it's good' category but that would do so many terrible films an injustice. Martin Sheen disgraces himself in a part that requires no acting skills whatsoever. Hell, it appears, is presided over by badly rendered, jerky mutant rat creature that booms commands in a hilarious growl. Back on Earth, various cardboard cutouts grimace there way through ludicrous plot situations, menaced by  film history's worst villain-a demonically unfunny clown played by John Leguizamo. Todd McFarlane must have despaired when he saw the finished product. Get behind me, Satan!  "},{"Title":"Did you ever want to see a movie really bad, then were really dissapointed by it?","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  That's how I felt about Spawn. I had heard about this movie for a long time, it looked really good, and I just didn't like it that much. Let's start with the good things about the film. The special effects and CGI images were very cool. John Leguizamo (who played The Clown) was funny; in fact he was the best part of the film. And the entire look of the film I liked, it reminded me of The Crow, which is one of my favorite movies. Now the bad things about Spawn. First the plot didn't make any sense to me. Spawn is a man named Al Simmons who, when alive, killed people for the U.S. government. One day he decides he wants to quit, his boss (Martin Sheen) say ok, but then doubles crosses him and kills him. Five years later Simmons comes back to life. This is where it gets a little strange. Did he come back to life? Is he dead but back on Earth for revenge? Where exactly is he? It seems like he's right around the corner from where he used to live, but it never gets explained. And as good as the CGI was, some of it was too fast and unclear. The big fight scene in Hell just flew by, and it was very hard to see what was going on and who was fighting who. I remember sitting on my couch squinting, just trying to see what was happening. Even the opening credit sequence gave me a headache. These days studios are making films that look good, are filled with special effects, but have little or no story, and that's just not good enough anymore. Spawn had the ability to be a great movie. It was a hot character, the look of the movie was great, and the idea behind the character works, but the story has got to be stronger. When the best lines in the film are, Damn and Hell yeah, there's a problem. And what was up with the guy in the hat? I know what he was there for, to tell the story and to help Spawn realize bad from good, but he wasn't in most of the film, and when it came to crunch time, he failed. I'm a little tired of movies that look good but have no story. At least make the main characters people I can care about. I really didn't care if Spawn lived or died hell most of the time I wished he would join the dark side just to make the movie a little more adventurous. I have never read the comics, or seen the television show, but I hope they have a plot. If they make a sequel, I hope the first thing they do is write a good story.  "}{"Title":"Super sweet movie!!","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  This movie was really awesome... big fans of spawn comics might be a bit disappointed but otherwise this movie was all around awesome.  The only improvement I hope they make is to make the second movie a little more darker.  Plus this movie has my favorite interpretation of hell. "},{"Title":"Fantastic (Large Screen) Visual Effects!","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Especially the scene where Clown John Leguizamo loses his head and gradually disintegrates in bright green segments of ooze.  The creators didn't hold anything back in the way the visual scenes impacted each bit of action.  However, I'm really surprised at all the 1 votes this movie got.  I mean, c'mon folks, it's based on a 'comic book'!  Were these people looking for a plot that would make Alfred Hitchcock proud?  Then why would they turn to (and obviously watch the WHOLE thing) a movie with the name of Spawn. "},{"Title":"excellent!!","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I must say I was skeptic to the idea of making a movie outta my favorite comic, but I were most surprised to find out that it ain't impossible to make a good movie based on a comic. In my opinion Spawn is the best movie ever made that's based on a comic. I've seen this movie 4 times and counting!!! I gave it a 10 because it is truly worth it.p.s. (it's the first time I've ever given a 10 for a movie). "},{"Title":"Absolutely awful.","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" When I saw Spawn for the first time, I was prepared for a bad film. But this was far beyond my expectations. The film fails at every single level. Lousy acting-performances, the script looks like it's been written by a seven year-old, the visual effects makes the film look like a Hallmark-flick, and the story is just so very, very lame. Nothing is right with this film, and after watching it, I was annoyed for wasting 2 hours of my life watching this junk. Of course, John Leguizamo is a good actor. But I can't figure out what he's doing in this film. By participating in this film, he's totally wasting his talent. Why did they hire him anyway? I don't see the point in making Leguizamo play a blue dwarf. I'm sure Leguizamo is glad he is unrecognizable in the film. Did I say the visual effects are bad? They are. But way, way worse. The scene in hell looks like a scene from Tekken 2, and Satan actually looks a bit like the owl in the Zelda Nintendo 64 game. It's just embarrassing to look at, honestly. But by all mean..go watch. "},{"Title":"Wearying","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Spawn is one of the truly terrible movies of the last 50 years. It was supposed to emerge as the crowning achievement in Todd Macfarlane's little guy doing a better job than the corporations life story. I haven't seen such an incoherent snooze like this since johnny mnemonic, also made (with much publicity) by outsiders.In all major ways this is a disaster; structurally, writing, pacing, acting, emotional arc... you name a quality you like in one of your favorite movies, and spawn sits there as a demonstration of that failure also. Protag is killed and arrives in some sort of parallel (or the same) universe where he meets a clown (called imaginatively... clown) whom emits a froth of antagonism that is tiresome within a minute or two. the world they occupy is tiresome, the narrator who explains the plot (rather than have the plot legibly occur) is tiresome.It's 4-way relationship between superhero/buddy/henchmen/villain could have been interesting if they cared to make the relationships intelligible. the quadumverate of spawn, clown, narrator, and devil thing is indecipherable, and never even hints at being worth your interest.The quad spend the movie in holding patterns. - Spawn is forever being introduced to pain, or being drawn into snares. - Clown is forever being grating - Narrator is forever babbling about plotpoints so incompetently depicted that he has to tell you where the high points are. - Wifey and princess are forever in dangerEach new line (I imagine in Macfarlanes mind) is supposed to further complicate or embroider the situation but as far as I could discern the plot stands perfectly still for an hour or more. The narrative thrust is lost, lost, lost. Once you see Leguizamo in this, you are instantly uninterested in ever watching him again.If this is some testament what an independent operator is capable of, we'd all sign up for years of crappy corporate films. "},{"Title":"Spawn is a bad movie?","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Those immortal words were uttered by the gentleman sitting behind me in this non-stop crapfest. Yes, I saw this in the theaters. One of the many mistakes I have made in my life. (the most recent... screaming out I'm not a drug dealer! on the phone at work.) But seriously, Spawn IS a black man and haven't they, as a people, suffered enough? Long cramped boat rides, slavery for 200 years and now a terrible Super Hero movie! Thank god for Blade (The first one that is, 2 and 3 sucked) OK.... I like comics. I like movies based on comics even when they are not entirely true to the story (organic web shooters anyone?) BUT this movie is not even worth pooping on. It is beyond that. If you want some GOOD Spawn action, find the animated series HBO put out! Or read a comic! Help Todd buy another Mark McGuire useless baseball. Whatever you do, do not watch this movie. For any reason. Not on a bet, not for entertainment. NO REASON! OK? We straight? Good. "},{"Title":"OH MY LORD...............","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  This has got to be the worst comic adaptation I've ever seen!! It's worse than the Punisher!(and that movie sucked)The special effects look cheesy.  Michael Jai isn't anywhere evil enough.  And what was John Leguizamo doing in this pathetic film!This is just ANOTHER example of a movie being made without thought, without heart, and most of all without a decent budget!!!If I could give this movie a minus rating I would! But I guess 0/10 will have to do!runaway......runaway.....save yourself.......... "},{"Title":"Utter Crap","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  now don't get me wrong...ah, who am i kidding? i'm a big comic book fan, but this has to be one of the worst movies ever made. Simply stated DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE!!!! You will regret having wasted your money. and if you see it for free, it is 2 hours of your life that are irrevocably gone. please, spare yourself! "},{"Title":"A personal favorite.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I remember first seeing this on TBS as a special WORLD BROADCAST PREMIERE. I loved it but, but the thing with the Superstation is it takes out all the good parts. So, I rented it at the local video store (which in this case was Blockbuster Video). I was AMAZED at the movie. I later declared myself a dedicated Spawn fan. When I first was rating this movie, I felt like giving it a 10. But then I remembered it's special effects. So I narrowed it down to a nine. Over all, Spawn is one of my favorite movies, topped only by The Matrix and The Mummy. Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Truly, truly despicable","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Spawn.What else can we say about this crime of cinema?But, Viscerally awful...Jaw-breakingly atrocious...Mind-numbingly despicable...Brutally loathsome...Crap.In watching Spawn, one starts to think that the obliteration of cinema is near. The entirety of this thing is offal of the worst form.The acting, the direction, the script (if that is what you can call it) is terrible beyond reckoning and even the special effects are appallingly trashy (the devil is a very unrealistic giant orange poodle with extendable jaws).Never, Ever degrade yourself low enough to see such inanely abominable balderdash .  "}{"Title":"Diabolical","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  AWFUL! This film tries to create hell. It certainly does that.No person deserves to sit through this. Why are we wasting time and energy sending criminals to prisons?! Just threaten potential law-breakers with watching this film and crime will be as extinct as this film!To celebrate my birthday I decided to go to see a movie. This film helped make it the worst birthday of my life! "},{"Title":"One of the Worst films I've ever seen","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I hated this movie!  I have seen many, many, movies but this is one of the worst.  The characters did not connect to me in any way, they were in no way likeable to me.  I started to wish I had never even sat down to watch this trash.  I'm sorry to say that, but it was so dark, and ugly, throughout the whole movie, and I just could not sit through it.  Even the special effects weren't enough to make me want to see it again.  I didn't turn it off, because I kept hoping for something better, but it was a huge waste of time. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movie ever","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Personal Note I don't know how many time I have watched this movie and each time i see it i love it more and more.The movie might be old but it's still really well made I think it's even better then some of the recent movies that came out.Spawn is my favorite super hero of all time full action packed plus it has a love touch in it well the movie is basically based on a romance.A man, Practically selling is soul to the devil Malbolgia. Michael Jai White Does a good performance in this.Well down to business greatA killer named Al Simmons  Michael Jai WhiteWant's to retire is job but is boss Jason winMartin Sheensend's him one last job as a set up and kill's him by burning him in a facility.He goes to hell and The devil Malbolgia tell's if he lead's his army of hell spawn's he'll let him see His wife Wanda Theresa Randle and the story goes on. "},{"Title":"The Master of Hell in the Movie of Horror...","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Spawn has become one of my favorite superheros of all-time. There's no words for this film. IT'S SUPERB!!! The fx are amazingly done and McFarlane should be proud of this film. Spawn is a new hero to our world, his appearances are only about 10 years old. But that doesn't matter. I believe that this movie demonstrates what Hell can really be like. Spawn is a super original hero that only a person like McFarlane create. If there are any remakes or sequels, this one will remain the best!! I'm disappointed with the rating though. Spawn has also made a great appearance in Soul Calibur 2. This movie has a great cast and the costumes are magnificent. Lequizamo is strangely humorous in this film and insane. The Violator was also superb. Bring on part 2! McFarlane has proved himself powerful by creating Spawn. I truly recommend it. Spawn is one of our top heroes of all time.  "},{"Title":"Cult favorite, but shamefully wrong adaptation","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  * (1 out of 5)   SpawnDirected by  Mark A.Z. Dippé, 1997Cult comic book comes to the screen looking like a bad computer game. Lacklustre story, illogically put together, some really awful editing and dialogue and finally the Tron-looking computer generated special effects (as in Tron from 1982, yes). Joe Leguizamo is wickedly funny as spooky Stephen Kingish clown and the only highlight.  "},{"Title":"Spawn the movie is a jumbled mess","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" As a fan of the Spawn comic book, I was eager to see this film when it was first released. I entered the theater with high hopes but left with total disdain. I could not even enjoy the comic book anymore after having watched this mess of a movie.This film's plot, story line, script and choppy/sloppy editing creates a visual, incoherent mess for the viewer. The pacing is inconsistent and random, moving at break neck speed one moment, causing the viewer confusion and risk of seizure, then grinds to a stand still for what seems like an eternity while the plot neither advances nor informs it's audience.Characters seemingly appear from out of nowhere, without explanation or reason for their role in the film. I kept waiting for a flashback or back story, but it never came. The special effects are dismal at best. The studio went completely overboard with their use of CG and it's obvious that they had hoped to sell the film on the back the FX. But the CG effects do nothing except help contribute to the confusion and randomness of the film as a whole. The chemistry between the actors is also non-existent and bland.I rated this film a 1 because every aspect of it was horrible. "},{"Title":"just good, it could have been better.","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  The problem again here with this movie, that had an excellent story, is the usage that the director gave to it. This director could not handle the story and delivered just a plain and simple story, that is kind of boring. Mark Dippe, learn from directors as Norrington (Blade), and from Guillermo del Toro (Mimic). What a shame. "},{"Title":"Another case of awesome trailer that promised so much, yet the movie failed to deliver.","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I hadn't heard much about Spawn previously until the movie was released in 1997. The trailer promised a lot of awesome action and it looked as if a new superhero would gain another following on cinema. Unfortunately (or just as well) I missed out on watching it at the cinema but once it was released on home video I grabbed it with both hands. I felt cheated that Spawn was a bad experience from start to finish. It was a visual effects mess that hurt my eyes and the story was not interesting.Black Ops soldier and assassin Al Simmons (Michael Jai White, Exit Wounds) is double-crossed while on a mission and murdered by his evil boss Jason Wynn (Martin Sheen, The Departed) and another fellow assassin Jessica Priest (Melinda Clarke, The O.C.). While in hell Al makes a deal with the devil and returns to earth as Spawn to see his wife Wanda (Theresa Randle, Bad Boys) who moved on after his death. Spawn is ordered by the devil's minion, The Clown (John Leguizamo, Executive Decision), to kill Wynn. Wynn is also secretly conspiring with The Clown to unleash a deadly virus onto the world and wipe out all of mankind.I have nothing against Michael Jai White as Al Simmons/Spawn who I felt did his best. He could have been another actor that earned himself a spot right up there with spectacular martial artists such as Jean Claude Van Damme, Steven Seagal, and Dolph Lundgren. Instead, Michael Jai White finds himself as an actor with a cult following with middling direct to DVD movies.Martin Sheen made a decent villain but this is one movie I certainly won't remember him for.John Leguizamo as The Clown was one of the worst characters I have had the misfortune to endure. He was extremely irritating and his appearance got on my nerves.Spawn was a waste of time and a forgettable experience. It's a total shame that the trailer promised so much yet the movie failed to deliver. What a pity.2/10. "},{"Title":"From Hell and Back!","Date":"10 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Made in 1997 from the comic book series created by Todd McFarlane, Spawn is an unforgettable hell of a cool comic book flick! The artwork and the visuals of Spawn are spectacular! Spawn himself is an awesome action hero and the movie paints Spawn as a very absorptive lead character in the dark and gruesome Spawn world. Michael Jai White is great as Spawn. All of the Spawn universe characters shown are capturing. John Leguizamo as the Clown/the Violator - wow, well done, Nicol Williamson as the Redeemer - fantastic, Martin Sheen - classic, and Theresa Randle - special. The cast is good. Spawn has great character costumes, fantastic set designs, great sound and some of the very best visual effects you can see in a movie. While it widely misses the mark on being a great adaptation of the Spawn comics, it does get the general gist of things across. I'm a fan of Spawn and this movie is well worth watching even though the story line falls short of being overly immersive. "},{"Title":"Hahahahahaha, absolutely devastated by this movie.","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I can't actually come to terms with what I've just watched. This is easily one of the worst films I have ever seen in my entire life. And I love Spawn, I love the character, the animated series blew me away and I've seen it multiple times. This film completely misses the point about Spawn. It wasn't gritty and dark like the original series or the comic books. The Spawn character was absolutely dreadful and portrayed completely wrong, the part where he burst through the roof and started shooting everyone is just appalling, especially that soon after being turned into Spawn, that just didn't happen. The film seems to want to portray him as more of a bad-ass gun-wielding hero which isn't what the original Spawn stories were about. They were about him trying to come to terms with his emotions and his new life, living in the allies, trying to figure out what happened. This was an abomination, the acting terrible, the story terrible, special effects? Ha, absolutely laughable. The scene when they were in hell, towards the end, is just the worst thing I have ever seen in any movie. So bad. Very very disappointed with this and I absolutely love Spawn. "}{"Title":"Not entirely without merit","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" A coherent story didn't make it onto the list of priorities for 'Spawn', and despite a few weird images the visual effects that make up the bulk of the movie are kind of crappy as well, which doesn't leave very much. It's a visually noisy movie that manages to be busy and boring at the same time.On the acting front, there are two methods here take the money and put in as little effort as possible, which is the way Nicol Williamson and D.B.Sweeney go, and ham it up like there's no tomorrow, which Martin Sheen and John Leguizamo do. An unrecognisable Leguizamo seems to be having a ball as a hellish clown who gets all the best lines ('I say destroy the cosmos first, ask questions later!' 'This is where old people go after Florida!') and while his energy isn't enough to make up for all the ideas the movie fails to develop, or the editing by lawnmower, he is at least a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Spawn Is Spawn!","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" In Spawn, a pedestrian fantasy thriller, Todd McFarlane's ghoulish menagerie of apocalyptic characters wage the perennial battle of good versus evil. Michael Jai White stars as the hero in the latest entry in this African-American, super-hero as-a-zombie movie-genre. Sadly, the filmmakers fail to deliver on the promise of those dazzling movie studio previews hyping Spawn as the next generation super-hero beyond Batman & Robin. Watching a rather predictable, synthetic, juvenile potboiler such as Spawn is akin to playing Trivial Pursuit. Director Mark A.Z. Dippe and co-scenarist Alan McElroy use the usual themes of murder, betrayal, revenge, world conquest, and self-sacrifice to embellish their heavily derivative, melodramatic script. Power hungry Jason Wynn (Martin Sheen) commands a top secret U.S. Government agency known only as A-6. Wynn dispatches the best assassin in the business, Al Simmons (Michael Jai White) to Hong Kong to liquidate some foreign politicians. Although Simmons completes his mission, he learn later that 26 civilians died in the explosion. Complaining about the senseless slaughter, Simmons demands reassignment. Before Wynn obliges him, he requires Simmons to help with the demolition of a North Korean factory producing bio-chemical weapons. Wynn double-crosses Simmons in North Korea, and Jessica Priest (Melinda Clarke) guns Simmons down. They abandon Simmons to barbecue in an inferno of spectacular explosions.Simmons recovers to find himself in Hell. After agreeing with Satan to lead Hell's armies when they assail the gates of Heaven, Simmons, who converts to Spawn, returns to Earth to see his fiancée Wanda Blake (Theresa Russell of Beverly Hills Cop 3). Meanwhile, a despicable character named Clown (John Leguizamo of The Pest) forges an alliance with Wynn. The Clown and Wynn plot world domination using a lethal super virus to wipe out populations. Secretly, Clown represents Satan, and they want to obliterate the planet. Clown convinces Wynn to implant a device near his heart that will prevent the release of the virus. The only way to trigger the epidemic is to kill Wynn. Clown stages Wanda's murder at the hands of Wynn and tries to provoke Spawn to kill Wynn and precipitate Armageddon.Once the world has been destroyed, Spawn can then spearhead an attack on Heaven. At the same time, Cogliostro, a grubby-looking knight from another era (legendary English actor Nicol Williamson of Excalibur) competes with Clown to get Spawn and use his powers for the benefit of good. Not only do the special digital effects smother the weak storyline, but these first-rate graphics also fail to carry the movie. The Dantesque version of Hell as island floating on a sea of fireballs is a stupendous as Spawn's morphing body armor and his cape. The travels down cosmic light tunnels are impressive, too. Nevertheless, the special effects endow the film with a video game look that often distracts from the narrative.Furthermore, the lack of suspense in the story cannot be overlooked. You know who is going to triumph in Spawn long before this science fiction saga ends, and the hero's strategy takes a backseat to the effects. In addition, poor character development hampers the dramatic elements. Dippe and McElroy devote little time to the subtle moral ambiguities that complicate Spawn's character. Spawn responds more out of a sense of revenge than any fight for the right. Worse, just about everything in Spawn has been tried out in other movies. Spawn's entrance through a skylight at a reception is straight out of Tim Burton's Batman. Spawn's suit resembles Spiderman's outfit, and Spawn's flying chains resemble Spiderman's web strands. Spawn's death and revival imitate those of Darkman and The Crow. Despite his meaningful dialogue delivery, White brings little vivacity to his role. His leaden personality and the latex outfits deprive him of any sympathy. White fails to radiate charisma, and the only reason that audiences want to support Spawn is that innocent children and small dogs trust him.If anybody qualifies as an unscrupulous villain, Sheen as Jason Wynn does. Sheen sports the black chin whiskers of a vaudeville villain and chews the scenery in a hammy, heavy-handed performance. He torches Simmons by contemptuously flipping a smoldering cigar into the flammable pool of green goo that engulfs our hero. John Leguizamo steals the shows as the grotesquely flatulent bad guy Clown. If Dippe and McElroy had portrayed all the Spawn characters as memorably as Clown, then movie would have fared better. Leguizamo resembles a maniacal cross between Humpy Dumpty and the Three Stooges rolled into one.The supporting cast gets little chance to distinguish their roles are so sketchy. Nico Williamson is wasted. As Cogliostro, Williamson mostly stands around and looks creepy under his broad-brimmed hat. Theresa Randle has the thankless role of the wife who does her share of screaming. Sexy Melinda Clarke as the evil priest manages to generate some character wattage as Wynn's sadomasochistic homicidal sidekick. She resembles Michelle Pfeiffer's Catwoman in the way her tighter-than-skin-tight black latex costume clings to her shapely physique. Aside from the positive role model potential that this movie may offer to young African-Americans, Spawn amounts to nothing special, just another tedious but high-tech fodder about a bittersweet champion in a cynical world. Only die-hard comic book adherents of Spawn may salvage something from this half-baked cinematic experience. "},{"Title":"Back to Hell for thee - 47%","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" While CG has had an immeasurable effect on movies, it is some debate whether it has been for good or for ill. Without it, Peter Jackson simply wouldn't have attempted The Lord Of The Rings trilogy or Robert Rodriguez would have been unable to shoot Sin City in the same way. On the other hand, I think we would have coped OK if Star Wars Episode 2 - Attack Of The Clones had never appeared in cinemas! I feel that some studios and producers look at what they can do in CG and then start planning a movie and this feels like one of those films. The other problem with CG is that it can date very quickly and I can think of few films that utilise so much CG so badly.Michael Jai White plays Black Ops bad-ass Al Simmons who works for shady Government boss Jason Wynn (Martin Sheen). When Wynn betrays Simmons on a mission to destroy a biological weapons facility in North Korea, Simmons is offered to chance by the devil to return to Earth as the leader of Hell's army and avenge his murder. But as Spawn, Simmons finds that things have changed. His widow Wanda (Theresa Randle) has moved on and now married Al's former colleague Terry (D.B. Sweeney) while Wynn has his hands on a biological weapon of his own and plans to use it. But can Spawn trust the devil's right-hand man Clown (John Leguizamo) or does he put his faith in the mysterious old man Cogliostro (Nicol Williamson) that seems to follow him about as well?Spawn is undoubtedly a triumph of effects, at least at the time. Spawn himself, with his vast billowing red cloak and glowing green eyes, looks pretty cool while Leguizamo is completely unrecognisable under a tonne of make-up and prosthetics. But its vision of Hell felt not just predictable but also very poor as the countless number of souls ready to wage war on Heaven look little better than computer sprites. And while the film-makers were focusing on flooding the screen with fancy visuals, they forgot to make the film interesting. Leguizamo goes from being creepy to annoying fairly quickly while Sheen plays the baddie as though he's only read the first page of Playing Villains For Dummies handbook. White, meanwhile, never convinces as the man who regrets dealing with the devil (he obviously never read Faust) while the character itself feels flawed - why did his gunshot wounds heal but not his burnt skin, for example? I'm sure the answers lie somewhere in its comic-book origins but in the film, everything seemed to lead to more questions and more special effects.I actually wanted to like Spawn but alas, it has let me down. I simply didn't care about the characters or the story because I couldn't identify with any of it. It's like a music video - full of cool moments and glorious visual prowess but lacking any substance whatsoever. With a more experienced director at the helm than Mark A.Z. Dippé (who's more of a visual effects supervisor anyway), Spawn might have been more than the fire-and-brimstone effects exercise that it actually is. As such, this is yet another wasted opportunity that reminded me of the live-action Guyver Dark Hero movie in that all you're watching is an actor in a silly suit beating up bad guys, probably in ill-lit and rainy back alleys. If you're looking for sub-standard effects propping up a simple action movie then Spawn might do the trick but genuine action fans should look elsewhere. Just because this is different to most other efforts shouldn't be the sole recommendation for a picture and remember, this was released just two years before the ground-breaking effects-based The Matrix. Ponder that as you wonder why Spawn doesn't use his apparently-limitless powers and relies on a couple of machine-guns instead... "},{"Title":"Not perfect but an entertaining and solid comic book film!","Date":"8 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Spawn is an odd film indeed. Taken from a lesser known comic book character this film seemed to come out of nowhere in the late 90's and for all it's worth it does exactly what it say on the tin.Comic book films weren't as widespread as they are now. With the obvious Superman/Batman franchises there wan't much going around that was true comic book material.It's certainly not a great film. The acting s pretty below par (but never truly terrible). Martin Sheen seems to ham it up as the main villain and John Leguizamo bungles his way through the film as the Clown in a mixture of Danny Devito's Penguin and Tim Curry's Pennywise all injected with some quite cringy comic relief style humour. This is a shame because at times Leguizamo's clown is quite intimidating but the farcical nature and voice detracts from the dark atmosphere.The film has a strange look to it. Bit's of Batman, bit's of the Crow and bit's of a few other things. Ultimately it works and the dark atmosphere is pulled off quite nicely and has a quasi-Gothic feel to it but you're never quite sure exactly where you are.The worst part of the film has to be the CGI though. Spawns cape looks fake, it looks really fake although it does move well and the scenes in hell with Malebolgia are truly terrible, looking like they have been taken from a PC game that was released a few years earlier. This becomes all the more baffling when Violator finally appears from Clown and he looks great! The textures are bang on and he moves fine so I'm unsure as to why the difference in CGI quality is so vast between certain scenes?As a whole this film works. It's a comic book film and it does just that. It has plenty of action and Spawn is a really cool character with some deep issues. It maybe could have done more and been a bit more gritty/violent but as a film of this type its' a good bit of solid entertainment and is worthy of being in anyone's collection! "},{"Title":"Possibly one of the worst comic book films ever","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" What's wrong with this clunker?The acting is terrible. Michael Jai White is too over the top and the voice he put on for Spawn puts Christian Bale to shame. Martin Sheen doesn't even try. He knew this film, while not a flop, it just wouldn't 100% work. The CGI is terrible. This film came out the same year as The Fifth Element, Men In Black and Titanic and they couldn't do any better? The Hell scenes are a joke. They look like they belong in a PlayStation game. Also, Spawn's cape is just terrible.At times, you feel like you're watching a cheap Canadian TV movie made for the Sci-fi channel. Also, the climax of the film takes place in........ a sitting room. A sitting room? Really? Imagine if the climax of Lord of the Rings took place in a sitting room. Or Star Wars or The Avengers.So is there anything good AT ALL? Well John is fun to watch as Clown. He was the only person who needed to overact, not everyone else. The Soundtrack is also cool.If want to see a good comic book adaptation, then rent a Marvel film out. As long as it is not Spider-man 3, Hulk or Elektra. "},{"Title":"So much wasted potential...","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" If you've seen the animated series or you've read the comics you know what I mean. Where to start... First of all the cheesiness is just too much to bare and Michael Jai White is awful as spawn and Martin sheen is really bad too,Hell looks awful and the plot is rushed, not very well thought out and not explained very well leaving the viewer confused especially if they haven't read the comics or watched the animated seriesSo why did I gave it 5*? Well I think 3 things saved this from garbage.1. Clown is awesome in this movie whenever I see this character I forget how bad the film is.2. The special effects in some off these scenes are really awesome such as when spawn comes crashing through the roof, spawns chains and spawns spikes however the effects of malebolgia and hell are really bad3. The action scenes are really enjoyable and fun to watch.I really feel if they made a much more serious, longer and better thought out film this movie could have been incredible and I think if this film gets a reboot with the right team it could be a 9 or 10* movie. I highly recommend watching the animated serious over this. "},{"Title":"Spawn Review","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I remember back in the late 90s, Spawn was one of those films that just looked really cool, in the same vein as Blade or The Matrix (or maybe it's because they all had similar-looking DVD releases). Films like these capitalized greatly on then-impressive special effects, slick cinematic style, frequent action, a dark and Gothic subject matter, and really awesome soundtracks. As cool as Spawn seems, however, it's nowhere near as cool as these other films.The coolness of Spawn is that it has a lot of action. It doesn't really drag all that much. It has a cool concept behind its antihero character and the overall story; one that offers potential for some epic special effects and some interesting plot twists. And, it has one of the coolest soundtracks on the market.The lameness of Spawn is that the dialogue is often very corny, the villains are standard megalomaniacs, the special effects are horrid (even by 1997 standards), a few parts are way too cartoony for its own good (especially regarding the clown character), the style of editing can be pretty erratic and weird, and the film overall is watered down for a PG-13 rating (even the R-rated cut doesn't really push the boundaries much).The thing I find most disconcerting is the execution of the story. The original story for Spawn is a pretty dark and compelling drama, on a level similar to The Crow. It was handled with just the perfect level of respect and quality with the HBO animation. This film takes the material, keeps the core story, but skims over a huge amount of the plot in a short runtime. As such, parts of it are rushed and choppy.Regardless, it does handle a few aspects appropriately. It is inherently compelling to watch the main character suffering betrayal and loss, before being forced to choose between vengeance and morality. It is a story with promise; it's just told in a goofy way.For what it's worth, the photography is not bad. The film is edited with some really weird and fancy editing effects, which can be erratic at times and stylish in others. With the iffy special effects, the film sometimes comes off as appearing rather gaudy. Still, the actors do their best Michael Jai White brings the Spawn character to life with just the right amount of emotional punch and machismo, while Martin Sheen, John Leguizamo, and Nicol Williamson all put on very hammy performances (for better or for worse). Despite the gaudy CGI, this production has fine and dandy sets, props, and costumes. Music is really awesome.I personally recommend the HBO cartoon version of Spawn first and foremost, for it is an excellent and earnest attempt at adapting the original comic. This film may have seemed right at its time, but after all this time it's apparent that it's mostly wrong. It does entertain, but interested parties would do better to rent it first and make up their own minds.3/5 (Entertainment Good | Story Average | Film Marginal) "},{"Title":"Spawn is a fun (but deeply flawed) little comic book film from yester-year...  Doesn't hold a candle to the comic or cartoon...","Date":"14 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" (Note This review applies to both the PG-13 theatrical cut and the extended, R-rated Director's Cut, as they are virtually the same film. The only addition in the Director's Cut is about 90 seconds of additional on-screen violence.)1997's New Line Cinema release Spawn is based loosely on Todd MacFarlane's groundbreaking, violent comic book of the same name. Following a hero who died and was returned to Earth following a deal with a devil-like being, the film is a fundamental mess with enough style, creativity and cool visuals to make it worth watching once for fans of action and of fantasy.Michael Jai White plays Al Simmons, a military commando and assassin working for Jason Wynn (Martin Sheen), his commander who betrays him on his final mission. Wynn and his associate Jessica (Melinda Clarke) shoot Simmons, crippling him, and set him ablaze, leaving him to perish in a chemical-weapons factory in North Korea. Simmons is sent to hell for his violent past where he meets Malebolgia, the sort-of devil-like figure that rules hell. Simmons will be returned to Earth so he can see his finance Wanda once again (played by Theresa Randle) in exchange for training to lead Malebolgia's growing army of damned souls in a war against the light.Back on Earth, Simmons is discovered and trained by the evil beast Clown (John Leguizamo), an agent of Hell. Simmons' body grows an organic Necro-flesh body of armor and Simmons becomes a Hellspawn, plotting to use his newfound powers to seek revenge on Wynn. However after some dramatic events, Simmons/Spawn eventually realizes the error of his ways, and decides to use his organic armor and newfound hell-powers to fight evil and try to stop Malebolgia's plans.The acting is halfway decent. White plays Simmons well, although the character is never given much development. He's perpetually angry and in a state of mental imbalance, so he's just sort of in revenge-mode the whole film, speaking low and menacingly. Still, White does a great job. Sheen is actually a lot of fun as the villainous Wynn. Leguizamo is the standout performance here, though. He makes Clown hilarious and threatening, especially once we realize just how powerful he is (with an ability to transform into a monster seemingly inspired by HR Giger called The Violator). Other roles played by actors like Theresa Randale and DB Sweeney are well-played but fleshed out even less than our lead character.The production is a bit lacking, however. Director Mark AZ Dippe never quite is able to find the right balance for the story, with scenes alternatingly too juvenile and humorous before suddenly becoming dark and oppressive. His camera-work and shot compositions are also often compelling, but it feels like he shot the movie on caffeine as they're often very quick and lack deliberation. Combined with some over- editing, the film is a bit wonky. Production design is actually quite cool, especially the alleyways where Simmons calls home, which are Gothic and reminded me of Burton's original Batman. The costume and creature designs, however, are top notch. Spawn's bio-armor is glorious and very cool, and creatures like the Violator are eerie and terrifying. The special effects are a mixed-bag for the 90's. Most of the effects involving Spawn and his armor are fantastic, and Violator is brilliantly realized, but other effects (including sequences in hell) look too much like 90's video games, with block-y creatures and some poor uses of pixel-y, 2D sprites for characters in the background.My major problems with this film fall into several big points.First and foremost, the film is just too quick. At barely more than 95 minutes, there isn't any time to get yourself involved with the story, especially with the break-neck pace. The inconsistent tone and some truly juvenile, unfunny humor also break the pacing a lot. A lot of pointless scenes feel thrown in (like Spawn encountering Satan- worshipping teens at a graveyard) and pointless. And at times, the film does feel a bit too much like a movie. It feels too manufactured and movie-like during key scenes, which was in part due to an inexperienced director and because of limitations of the time.Still, this isn't a terrible movie despite huge flaws. It's merely an OK movie. I give Spawn an average 5 out of 10. It's imaginative and has a lot of cool ideas and visuals, but it never feels complete or fully developed. Give it a rent. "},{"Title":"2nd worst comic book adaptation","Date":"12 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" The only reason I'm not giving this waste of celluloid a single point is because it is not the worst comic book adaptation. I think that goes got Captain America. Not Joe Johnston's, but Albert Pyun's in 1990.Anyway, this crap is what happens when you get someone like Dippe who came in off Jurassic Park and T2... For CGI. Needless to say, Sheen was seemingly hired to have an A-list name attached. Jai White is at his worst with his best Shatner impersonation, he comes off as surprised he even got the role and it appears that he was picked because he wasn't asking much for a salary. Actually, with his portrayal, he should have done a respectable thing and returned some of it.The movie depends too heavily on the outdated CGI and the production design than the actors and story. Then there's Leguizamo who seems so insecure that Dippe told him he was doing good. Keep that momentum. I see Oscars! And Leguizamo seems so gullible to believe he was actually stealing the show. There isn't really a show to steal. McFarlane should've exercised his clout to veto some of the director's choices like Jai White, single takes, and dependence on CGI which has not stood the test of time. I'm willing to bet, Dippe did a lot of the CGI himself to save money and that's why it looks so crappy. "},{"Title":"Expected more and got less","Date":"15 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Through comic book history, there has been a group of anti-heroes that belong to hell. My favorite was Ghost Rider, but after watching Spawn, I couldn't decide over who was better overall. Spawn is an anti-hero comic book character created from the mind of Todd McFarlane. As for the movie, I was hoping for it to be a little more than just satisfactory. And the only thing I can really say that doesn't negatively criticize it, are its visuals.Spawn is the story of an ex-assassin, Al Simmons, who was left for dead after his evil boss, Jason Wynn, burned him in an explosion. Its not until he is brought to hell and made a deal with Malebolgia to become the leader of Hell's army. Simmons is portrayed by Michael Jai White, and Wynn by Martin Sheen. White was a good choice for Spawn but there were some times where he sounded like he was growling more than talking and it just became tiresome after a while. Sheen was an interesting choice as the villain because of his acting style. Sheen is very smooth and it never seems like he's out of step with his character.One character that is less tolerable than the others, is The Violator, played by John Leguizamo. It's understandable that Leguizamo was only acting out the personality of The Violator, but it felt like every time he was on screen, it was just another drawback. Almost like Leguizamo's character was supposed to be stealing the spotlight. Not to mention that The Violator wasn't even that funny to begin with; just a nuisance. The action was good in this film. Of course, that's when Spawn was busy trying to get vengeance, which wasn't all too often. Half the time, Simmons was trying to get in touch with his past, which wasn't ever successful. The other issue was that Spawn didn't learn know how to really control his powers until the very end of the film. And as all origin comic book adaptations go, the superhero figures out how to control their superpowers quickly, but for Spawn, it takes an awful long time. But despite all these flaws, the visuals and special effects are the greatest things about this movie. The costume of Spawn is spectacular. Bright lime green colored eyes, a black suite of armor and a cloak that can be used as camouflage or to enhance anything he wields makes Spawn an awesome superhero. Another plus is how Spawn can form metal objects from his body. Even his costume has a mind of its own! It's a neat trick. The sounds are cool listening to as well. Hearing how Spawn morphs his skin can get the skin crawling. Also the Violator in his true form was cool to see in the real world as well. What I couldn't understand was the transition between the real world and hell. Whenever the screen is focused on hell, I felt like a video game simulation and not a movie. Another thing I would've like to see was Spawn being a rated R film; PG-13 just didn't seem like the right tone for this kind of story. The musical score was produced by Graeme Revell and sadly I didn't feel much from it either. There was music but no emotional connection. Todd McFarlane's comic book adaptation has ensnaring visuals and some decent action sequences but is weighed down by an unsupported soundtrack and a slow moving script. Viewers may also be turned off by Leguizamo's obnoxious character role. "}{"Title":"Not the best adaptation but worth watching","Date":"2 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" What can I say about Spawn. A good cast, nice special effects, great make-up and costume, but the story was lacking. Its hard to turn a popular comic book franchise into a movie. I mean there's a lot to cover and how to incorporate that into a screenplay. The great thing that made this movie worth watching was the fact that they made Spawn look exactly from what he was in the comics. The make-up department deserves a thumbs up for this cinematic achievement. However, the story could have been better. The back-story of the character could have been expanded a little. Plus, the main plot could have been something else beside a deadly virus. The Clown villain was pretty demented but funny. His dialogue was a little cliché but worth being a good villain. Overall, despite the downsides, this movie is worth watching. The cast is great Michael Jai White is fantastic, Nicol Williamson (RIP) was pretty good and John Leguizamo was just having fun with the clown character. My final vote is 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"still unforgettable visual effect !!!!","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" this movie was on big screen few years ago (1997)...but i can say,.the visual effect is decent for 90' era,..actually i just found my old spawn movies,and i watch it again at may home..and still love it the story of this movies is not too good,..but at least,.adapted enough from the comics...the actor was good,..and suited with this role....the costume was awesome,.and crazy detailed..the action was cool,..but not coolest..this movie is still watchable i think,..not too bad,.but could be better really wanna see another spawn movies with modern technologies.. "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"24 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" If it had Will Smith or Christian Bale at the protagonist role and some top rated people on directorship, it would have earned above 7 rating on IMDb.It's an irony but true, most people do not appreciate the story line, neither the acting. We only worship the actors and the level of publicity before the release.A military assassin called Al Simmons was betrayed by the head of a covert government agency. The head of the govt assigned Simmons a mission to take out a Bio-Chem plant in North Korea while ordering his top assassin, Jessica Priest to assassinate Simmons. Very cruel political picture. After Simmons dies from a gas fire, he arrives in the Hell where The Devil offers him a Faustian deal. If Simmons becomes his eternal servant and leader of his army in Armageddon, he will be able to return to Earth to see his beloved people. Simmons accepted the offer.That's the beginning of the story. Rest of the plot is very perfectly made that can hold your attention for the whole time. I liked this film. "},{"Title":"Leguizamo's","Date":"20 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" This adaptation of a comic book hero is a confusion of noise and plot that, while not making an awful lot of sense, still manages to be reasonably diverting thanks chiefly to two things the production design which provides consistently engaging visuals, and the performance of John Leguizamo, unrecognisable as a malevolent demon in the guise of a kiddies clown. In fact, Leguizamo is so unrecognisable that I spent a good twenty minutes or so waiting for him to make an appearance before I realised who he was playing. What a character this clown is short and fat, breaking green wind, eating maggot-topped pizza slices, and delivering a relentless barrage of mostly unfunny wisecracks with malicious glee, he dominates every scene he's in, and the film would be a lot poorer without him. Jai White makes a fairly bland hero by comparison, even though his make-up is impressive. It's a shame they couldn't manage to build an equally impressive story around Leguizamo's character; if they had they'd have created something really worth watching. "},{"Title":"The Character Clown Ruined The Movie","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" An assassin named Al Simmons is double-crossed and murdered by his evil boss Jason Wynn. Al makes a deal with the devil and returns to earth as Spawn to see his wife. He is ordered by the devil's minion, The Clown, to kill Wynn. Wynn has made a deal with the clown too and is suppose to destroy the world with a deadly virus that will help start Armageddon and allow Hell to attack Heaven. Spawn must choose between Good & Evil.I Find It Amazing That Usually When I See A Comic Adaptation That I Have Never Read The Comic For It Turns Out Good And When I Have Read A Comic Before A Movie It Turns Out To Be A Rating Less Than 8/10. Spawn Is A Character That Usually Most Modern Comic Book Fans Love. I Took A Look At The Movie And To Be Honest This Movie Could've Been GREAT But The Character Clown Ruined This. He Acted As A Comedy Relief Villain. This May Work In A Howard The Duck Or Deadpool Adaptation But I Really Can't See It In Spawn.I Also Find It Bad That Most People Rip This Film To Shreds When Its Not That Bad A Movie. At Least This Had A Plot And Coheirent Storyline, It Can Be Argued As To Whether Its A Thin Story But This Had A Beginning, Middle And End. If You Want To See A Movie That DOESN'T Have These Basic Items Then Try The Golden Compass Or Dracula's Curse For People Who Like Obscurity References.As I Said The Character Clown Is My Biggest Problem. Remove Him And Put A Better Villain In Then This Movie Could've Been A 9/10 But They Left Him In So 7 Is Enough. If You Want Me To Compliment The Film Then I Find That The Character Development Was Well Done And As Far As A Way To Spend 2 Hours I Can Think Of Worse Ways To Do It Like I Could've Been Watching Immortally Yours Or Charlies Angels 2. People In General Hate This But My Personal Opinion Is They're Allowed To Hate It Just Like I'm Allowed To Like It. "},{"Title":"I laugh in this film's general direction","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Seriously, how can you take a fantastic story idea and the interesting artwork of Todd McFarlane and turn it into another debacle akin to Masters of the Universe? Michael Jae White may be a fantastic martial artist, but he is a horrible actor (with the lone exception of Black Dynamite), made very evident in this film. Although John Leguizomo's make up and portrayal of the central clown villain is decent enough, it is surrounded with an absolute mess of a film. They try to compact a very detailed story into an hour and a half and it shows how unable the creators were to the task. A cap was firmly put on this film with Martin Sheen donning a dyed goatee and an evil unbelievable sneer. This movie tried and failed to capitalize on the extremely popular comic book character and instead, like so many before it and after it, used the source material as an afterthought. "},{"Title":"A disappointing film, with a few redeeming qualities.","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Spawn, is a film based on the critically acclaimed comic books by Todd McFarlane. Because of the success of the comics and the toys, a film was inevitable. While this film isn't very good, (some overly cheesy performances and horrid pacing are the reasons) Spawn still manages to be mildly entertaining. The special effects are impressive, with the hero's entrance and the battles in Hell being the main highlights. John Leguizamo is also impressive as Clown, being virtually unrecognizable and being given the best lines. Had the film been less campy and more serious, it would probably be a better movie. However, the viewer is left with nothing more than a few glimpses of eye candy and nothing more. "},{"Title":"You have been violated, Ladies and Gentlemen.","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Comic Book writer and Artist Todd McFarlane is good at what he does. Creating Dark worlds, with great characters and stories, he has brought people one of the darkest characters in fiction...Spawn. I haven't read too many of the Spawn comics, but they really are works of art. I was only a kid when the movie adaptation came out, and I didn't know who or what the Character was (I wasn't even supposed to since Spawn is clearly aimed and intended for Adults only). Apparently this film was quite hyped, mainly because of the way the visions of Hell were represented here, and because McFarlane was a big name in the Comic book industry back then. As a kid, I liked this movie. As an adult, I think its absolute crap. Why? You take the original concept of Spawn and reduce the great writing that the comic books gave you, to a watered down script serving the purpose of cashing in on the Armageddon theory? This film seemed to be one of many films that came out towards the late 90s, which dealt with the idea that earth was doomed in the year 2000, through more than one theory. This one deals with Satan, who gives Al Simmons (A government assassin who was killed by his own employer, after discovering a genocidal plot) the chance to go back to earth with new Hell-like powers, if he would join Hell's army. Communicating via The Violator, a wisecracking flatulent Clown who has the ability to shape-shift into a large monster from Hell, the Devil examines spawn and sees how Worthy Spawn is as a soldier. On the side, Simmons's employer has been able to get his hands on a virus that could destroy most of Earth's population were it to detonate. This allows the devil more of an opportunity to take control of earth.The comic books and the HBO TV Series (Which is an excellent, intelligent, well written television series, which surpasses this film in every single way) combined the film noir, horror and drama elements with a story that dealt with biblical, devilish and supernatural themes. Better written stories existed there, and something like that should have been used for the film rather than the studio approved script for the film.I will give the movie some credit, Michael Jai White did a good job of playing Al Simmons/Spawn, and you really could see a lot of emotion brought to the role.At the same time, John Leguizamo stole the show with his portrayal as the fat Clown, really bringing some life to the character. Some of the action scenes in the film was well directed but others just seemed to careless. The movie definitely has the Gothic feel and tone that the animated series offers but it hampers down as the more action oriented plot comes into play. Also, the movie certainly is good looking, with some great visuals (Especially the way Hell is portrayed, and the way the Violator looks), great art and set decorations; The story is the main issue with this film. It was sloppily written, destroying the potentially mind-blowing concept that the film starts out with, and ends up being a standard B-movie to cash in on a popular character of a popular medium. This certainly is one of the worst comic book films of all time. Avoid this film if you can, and instead give the comic books and the HBO animated series a chance (even if you are not a fan of comic books and animation) because those will not disappoint you. "},{"Title":"Uneven effects is never a good thing.","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Especially if it's in a comic book movie. Spawn is not an exception to this rule. It has really uneven effects in the film. The cast is alright, and the plot is close to the comic. But there's a problem. The Effects are inconstant and uneven. In the movie, Hell is portrayed as a place where cartoonish demons live. Seriously, the company hired to make the sequences (A rather unknown company known as Santa Barbosa Studios) was given no budget to do them and it show big time. They made semi-detailed models with no money and while the animation is crap, I feel pity for SBS. I feel as if they should have gotten money for their part of the film. With the money, they would have animated the Hellspawns individually and made Malbogia's mouth move. But sadly, that wasn't the case. Now it seems that ILM got the money they needed. Because the money shots of Spawn and Violator's Transformations are excellent and Violater as a whole, while in some spots lacking, is still pretty damn good.So yeah, I liked the acting and plot, but the effects were totally uneven and the Hell sequences needed funding to do better then a PS1 game similar to the cut scenes to FF VII, only more detailed. "},{"Title":"Could have been better, but still acceptable","Date":"19 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I didn't read the comics, but I played the video games when I was a kid. I only saw some parts of the movie before, but today I watched it. I have to say that I'm surprised that the movie is not what I expected. I thought Spawn was more violent and more awesome than what I saw in the movie. The armor of Spawn in the movie is very well done and the specials effects are great for the time, except for the sequences in hell... It could have been better.The movies fails on one crucial thing as an action movie fan I am. Spawn needs more action and a better plot. The actors are acceptable but they are not the best. The music is also nice at times. One of my favorite sequence of the movie is when Spawn enters the ceremony! My final verdict is a 6/10. I would recommend this only if you are curious but not if you are an action movie fan. "}{"Title":"Great Comic to Generic Action Flick","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" What was originally a dark comic filled with inner turmoil and personal conflict has been turned into generic action flick number 5 with generic evil villain number 1 and 2. As a moderate fan of the series I was severely disappointed with the direction the movie took, it felt like a bad script and a bad director.As a movie by itself it would be an OK action flick, but with my hopes of troubled pasts combined with shadowy movements and immense moral conflicts I was disappointed, everything feels rushed, which makes sense considering they tried to stuff an entire series worth of content into 2 hours. "},{"Title":"For the most part,a pretty horrible movie.","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" A assassin is double crossed and murdered.In Hell,he makes a deal with the Devil,and returns to earth as a Spawn.For the most part,an incredibly slow movie,where I was cheeking the time quite a lot.There are some decent action scenes,but nothing to save the long drags in between.The CGI is completely overused and looks ridiculous.There are a few cool tunes,provided by Marilyn Manson and Orbital,but music alone cant save a film.The characters where rather poorEspecially the........Clown,who was a horrible villain,with some pretty terrible dialog. The acting is also quite poor,with Michael Jai White giving a bad performance as out hero and John Leguizamo,while giving it all he got,comes off terrible as the Clown.The direction by Mark A.Z. Dippé certainly isn't to notable,I was surprised at how staright forward the film was shot,they never even tried to win us over with glitzy eye candy,I guess the thought the script was good.The script?Horrible.Bad dialog and and to many sub plots,I couldn't really get the main plot of the film.Definitely not recommended,not even as a'So bad its good' film.2/10 "},{"Title":"A funny yet vulgar action extravaganza","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" The protagonist of the film is Al Simmons (played by Michael Jai White), covert operative of A-6, American super-secret service in charge of the dirtiest of all dirty work. Simmons has recently experienced some moral qualms about his line of work, but that doesn't prevent his boss Jason Wynn (played by Martin Sheen) from sending Simmons to North Korea where he should destroy biological weapons plant. The explosion is excellent opportunity for getting rid of Simmons who ends up in Hell. Years later Simmons reappears on the streets as Spawn - superhero equipped with morphing cape and claws. An interesting character named Cogliostro (played by Nicol Williamson) informs Spawn that he had struck deal with Devil - he could rejoin his family if he leads forces of Hell in upcoming Armageddon. Cogliostro wants Spawn to join forces of Good, but evil Clown (played by John Leguizamo) is always there to remind Spawn of his obligations.The Clown is portrayed as more of a comedian, than a villain which isn't necessarily a bad thing since he ends up even more likable than Spawn. Even though the movie follows battle between heaven and hell there are thankfully no real religious overtones here. It's just wild characters, lots of fights, and passable effects (Which were top of the line when the movie came out). "},{"Title":"Comic Book Flare","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  This ain't no Oscar winner by any means but for shear guilty pleasure this movie puts on a show. John Leguizamo is fantastic as the Clown-Demon and keeps the movie light throughout. Pure fantasy and enjoyable at the comic book level. "},{"Title":"A furious mess of special f/x and gothic imagery","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Darkness has established itself as a mainstay of the comic book film genre. It works, in many cases, to great effect. Take, for example, 1994's The Crow. The entire film is enshrouded in darkness for its entire length, but possessed the material, the supplemental elements, not to mention the natural screen presence of its martyred star, Brandon Lee. It was dark, ugly, and beautiful all at the same time. Spawn is a film created with similar imagery - a honorable intention - but the attempts to duplicate the melancholic sentimentality of The Crow and the furious mix of slam-bang editing and relentless special effects creates more of a mess than it does a comprehensible, involving comic book fantasy. Michael Jai White, John Leguizamo, Nicol Williamson and Theresa Randle star the film adaptation of Todd McFarlane's cult comic, Spawn.Al Simmons (White) is a trained assassin sent on a mission by the government to a chemical weapons plant in North Korea. He soon finds that he is double-crossed by his own boss, Jason Wynn (Martin Sheen) and sent on a suicide operation to silence his knowledge of his boss' plans. He is blown up along with the weapons plant, and dies immediately. As soon as he is killed, he is sent to Hell, and is forced to make a pact with Malebolgia - Satan - to lead His army against the forces of Heaven and in return, he will be allowed to see his wife, Wanda (Randle) and his daughter again. Unfortunately, he is sent back to Earth in his exact form, scarred face, mutating body armor and all.His guide up on Earth comes in the guise of the scariest clown (Leguizamo) this side of Ronald McDonald. Clown continuously convinces Simmons, now known as Spawn (that should have gone without saying), that he will be able to see his wife again once he leads Hell's army against Heaven (this seems pretty useless... Spawn sees his wife several times throughout the film without having to lead a single charge against Heaven... he didn't really think his charred face would be in any way attractive to his wife did he?) Spawn is doomed to roaming the alleyways of New York City, living in a broken-down hostel plotting bloody revenge against Wynn, all the while trying to elude the wisecracking Clown. Spawn finds a reasonable conscience in Cogliostro (Williamson), who tries to convince him that Satan is only trying to manipulate him to lead the army of Hell. Still, however, the prospect of gaining revenge on Jason Wynn is too tempting for Spawn, so he goes ahead with his plans to find him. However, his conscience progressively grows on him, and realizing that he may never be able to be with his wife again (oh, ya think?), Spawn seeks out a new purpose on Earth, to turn his attention to serving Good over Evil.It would be unfair to call Spawn's plot weak, for there are several angles to it that, in another film, might provide for a riveting and involving story. Unfortunately, this film is directed by former ILM employee Mark A.Z. Dippe, who resorts to a relentless bombardment of violence and (eventually) unnecessary special effects that rob the film of its comprehensibility and make it tiresome. The film starts off brilliantly, with a spectacular and stylish title sequence backed by the Filter remix of Crystal Method's Trip Like I Do that could rival the likes of Se7en. From there, the film never improves, suffering from a weak script, scene-burglary by John Leguizamo (who, luckily, is given a number of witty lines here and there) and an overabundance of reality-defying effects. The whole film is loaded with them, from Spawn's cape to the least convincing vision of Hell since Deconstructing Harry; as if there weren't enough already, Dippe includes fire-wipes to move his film between scenes, perhaps a muse on the Batman TV series, but coming off as super-saturated in a film dogged already by fiery effects.The film is not a complete failure; there are hints at effective work in certain places. Some of the production design functions appropriately, especially the rooftop of a Gothic cathedral upon which Spawn makes his home once he is sent back to Earth. The colors of Spawn's cape and the millions of other colorful characters function well in contrast with the dark backdrop of a New York City evening... unfortunately, they are not consistent, and are barely noticeable in an attempt at a passionately dark film which eventually degenerates into a hyperkinetic mess of fire, violence and bombastic vocal delivery. This is the sort of film that one examines with a sensitive eye, hoping that the directors, writers, and the rest of the crew look at and improve upon. Indeed, there is hope in Dippe's work, and will undoubtedly make a captivating film with the benefits of edgier, more experienced screenwriters, technological advances in digital effects, and slowing down the action to create a consistent pace... keep that soundtrack though, the score and the accompanying soundtrack are just fine. 2 stars on a five star scale. "},{"Title":"Spawn delivers, but not to who it should","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Spawn is the live action make on the classic comic book and even better HBO cartoon series.Spawn is about a man's descent to hell and his resurrection as a General in Hell's army.  The only problem is, he still has a consense.  This movie wasn't as good as I think we were all hoping.  While the cartoon and comic were very violent and sexual, this was commercialized for kids who shouldn't even be old enough to buy the comic book or stay up til 1200 to watch the cartoon.  My question is why didn't they reshoot the action sequences for both PG-13 and R rated audiences.  They released it as a director's cut on DVD, which I feel wasn't even worthy of being rated R to begin with.  They should have had the violence more intense and bloodier for the Director's Cut.  The only saving grace to this movie is one man, John Leguizamo.  He was excellent as the Clown.Rated PG-13  thematic elements involving the demonic underworld, violence, intense fantasy action and crude humorby R rating standards, this is my take on rating the Director's CutRated R  mild violence, and mild crude humor. (In essence, the one R rated movie 7 year olds can watch with no problems at all.) "},{"Title":"A Half Hearted Attempt Ends in Big Screen Vomit","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  From the get-go, this was a study in bad.  Bad acting, bad directing, bad pacing, bad special effects...  Even Martin Sheen looked terrible in this tepid, spat-up loser of a movie.  The CGI graphics and special effects look as if they were concieved by some fifth-rate graphic designer who was just fresh from failing out of the Delaware College of Design, and the poor handling of the (read all) action scenes in this one made me bite my nails - not out of edginess, but more out of a desire not to tear the tape out of the VCR and stomp it underfoot.  Avoid this one if at all possible. "},{"Title":"Gripping!","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  In a word Awesome.Spawn has long since been one of my favorite comic books and this film combines all of it's best features. The special effects alone make this worth a peek for anyone interested in film making but there is a good story behind all of it as well. Clown's crude humor can make you laugh, and some of the more infernal scenes can make you jump but really this is a plain and simple action film, which pulls no punches and make no appologies. The Spawn effects are absolutely stunning and the atmosphere is a gripping sort of Techno-Decadence.If I have one complaint about Spawn, it is that despite all of the mournful wailing about Wanda and the prevalent romantic sub plot, you never really sympathize with any of the characters. The premise of the film is such that you really wish that all this plot-matter would be dropped, and you could have more action. Believe me, I am always the first one to complain about a film exchanging story for fighting but in Spawn it really doesnt work.Rating a straightforward A for the awesome special effects and great action. "},{"Title":"A Comic Effort","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  SPAWN is the big screen adaptation of the Todd MacFarlane comic book which also was an animated mini-series for HBO. After seeing the movie, I could see why it was disappointing. The story and character of Spawn is very intriguing. He is not just another caped,quasi-iconoclastic superhero that graduates from comic book page to silver screen. He was a government-hired killer whose contract had been terminated. Recruited by the legions of Hell to lead them in a showdown of good vs evil, he hopes to see the girlfriend he left behind. But he is bested more by revenge and bitterness than by sense of duty, and therefore he is still prone to psychological and spiritual torment. This portrayal seems to be the difference between the movie and the comic book. And for the movie, this personal baggage is more a departure point in favor of action scenes. This is why SPAWN doesn't work. Of course action scenes have to be the center piece of a comic book movie,but they don't have to be slave to it. Wouldn't it be just as well,if not better, if the exciting battles could be incidental to the hero's plight rather than just obligatory? Not surprisingly, this movie is more content with just showcasing special effects. Fine, most audiences are satisfied with that anyways. The problem is,the special effects in SPAWN are a huge letdown, confined mostly to the ubiquitous CGI used to show the flights,fights and infernal backdrops. The cast is equally as predictable. Spawn is played by kickboxer Michael Jai White whose physique and stature would be logical, but whose performance is as good as can be expected. Martin Sheen as the mortal villain, just plays a hammier version of the same type of character he did in FIRESTARTER. And Nicol Williamson follows suit from his Merlin in EXCALIBUR. The movie's main villain however is the Clown/Violator(John Leguizamo). Though flamboyant, attempts at comic relief are confused. His many appearances in the forlorn but stagebound settings make SPAWN more reminiscent of the NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET movies rather what was intended from the comic book. Maybe Todd Macfarlane should literally go back to the drawing board on this one.  "},{"Title":"Great visuals shame about the story.","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  The film was at times visually stunning mostly in relation to Spawns metamorphoses but the plot left me cold.  After a good introduction the middle lapsed and the finale was shockingly anti-climatic.  I also felt that more could have been made of Spawns mysterious companion. "}{"Title":"A lot of devilish gun fighting going on here","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Nor really a movie I recommend for television. All the more interesting scenes need a far bigger screen than the one at home ... The clown is quite nice if you like a lot of fartjokes which he produces as a green gas probably to make the jokes visually appealing. "},{"Title":"Nice graphics-bad story","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Just got done watching this movie and I wouldn't see it again.The only reason I watched it was because Mindy Clarke was in it. It was a classic comicbook movie.It has nice graphics but no real story.It was a hilarious to watch in some places because the movie just kept getting worse and worse! So here it isNice graphics.Bad story.Rather funny.Mindy Clarke rules!!  "},{"Title":"Some high points, but still dull","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Spawn had some great special effects, and some decent action sequences, but the story itself is pretty dull.  The premise is very good, and the story behind Spawn's origin would make a good 'morality tale' if expanded.  But instead we get some mindless violence.  Sorry, it's been done before, and done better.  5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"not good, not horrible","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  If you like fantasy action movies, then spawn is not the worst movie you could see, but it could have been so much more.The visual effects are ok, but sometimes incredibly annoying. I remember seeing the making of spawn a couple of times on the tv, and the movie makers were very proud of the graphix work on the boss down under. Actually, I thought he is the lamest thing in the movie. What is so good about him? He is totally static, and doesnt even move his lips when he talks! Not good at all. The other most annoying thing in the movie is the clown. Totally dull and annoying. But the musical score is great! How it is adapted into the movie is nothing special, but as a soundtrack cd it is great. Of course the graphix on spawn himself is superb. Its action and a lot of graphix not Bridges of Madison county, so take it for what it is.   4/10  "},{"Title":"SPAWN IS SPECTACULAR!","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Spawn is spectacular because of the captivating story it tells and the special effects that were added to give this movie real life!Todd McFarlane who is the creator of spawn which I have to tip my hat to made the comic book dark and mysterious so it is only fair that the director make the movie dark and mysterious. Not very often do you get a director who is true to the fans by making the movie how it is supposed to be (take a look at the last Batman movie, it is a circus) but this director did.The movie in my opinion is excellent and I would have to say it is one of my all time favourites! "},{"Title":"for what it's worth","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I just watched this movie for the 4th time last night and _really_ enjoyed it.  For what it's worth, it can be entertaining.  It is very stylized and comic book-like (more so that the actual comic book!).  I thought the effects on earth were credible and at some points exceptional (his suit and of course, that cape).  The netherworld effects may have left a little to be desired, but I don't think that they could have pulled off the scope they were looking for without a George Lucas budget.The story was also too rushed for Spawn fans, but again, I don't think you can expect them to be able to develop the great serial story line and characters of the comic (and HBO animation) with the resources that they had.The high points (IMHO) John Leguizamo as the clown, the earth-bound SFX, and the over-all style.  Certainly not the best that Spawn fans should expect, but there are things that make it worth a watch. "},{"Title":"WHY? WHY?","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Do you ever just want to turn off a movie? Then watch Spawn. This was one of those movies that shows all the good parts in the previews. The cast was horrible, and the script was even worse. I dont read comics, so maybe this is a good movie for all the comic readers, but otherwise, steer clear.In conclusion, THIS MOVIE SUCKED!!! "},{"Title":"Good Action, Good Visuals, I liked it!","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Despite what the critics say and these negative comments show, there is something to see in Spawn. It is a visual film; Yeah, it's corny, and not dark enough for true Spawn fans, but it is fun and some of the effects are great (although it looks like they ran out of time and got some kid with a Vic-20 to program that last hell scene). Overall, it was enjoyable, mindless action. "},{"Title":"A slight disappointment","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  First off, let me say that this movie was a slight disappointment, as I am a HUGE fan of the comic book.First off, Todd McFarlane should have gotten someone better to direct the movie. This A.Z. Dippé didn't capture the feel of the original comic. The comic wasn't as dark as the movie... it was darker.Second off, John Leguizamo as the Clown? My Mom would've been a better person for the Clown! The Clown wasn't supposed to be as stupid as he was portrayed. He is a human disguise of a demon from hell... Leguizamo played him so much as a funny man that you forgot that he was a demon at all! And he could've scratched some of the jokes... they were (for the most part) sick and disgusting. I think a better candidate would be Warwick Davis, who has experience playing short bad guys.Now on the flip side, Michael Jai White was a relief in the role of Al Simmons. He pulled off the angry assassin very well. Even in the death scene (which should've been different) he pulled off a good performance.Martin Sheen was a good candidate for Wynn. He did a good job at being a supreme jerk and I commend him on that. He should've died, though.All in all, I was slightly disappointed in the film as a whole. However, I hope Todd reads this and remembers it while doing Spawn 2. "},{"Title":"Great effects, no story...","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Well, this movie filled my mind with dazzling images but in the end it left me TOTALLY empty. A few minutes after the movie ended, I tried to replay the movie in my mind. I couldn't I had totally forgotten it!!! If you are a Spawn comic fan, you will feel right at home. If not, who knows, you may actually find enjoyment in these 93 minutes...  "}{"Title":"Ambitious, but crude.","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Spawn possesses maybe one of the best and most fascinating concepts of our time the eternal struggle between Good and Evil, Heaven and Hell. Then it should have potential to become a milepole in moviemaking, but ends up a bit standard. Probably because of its limited funds and small-scale production process. The way I see it, two angles could have been used successfully; The all-out milliondollar kombo action flick or a more mystique, noir horrorfilm. The finished product has a foot on each side, which wasn`t a good solution. It was entertaining though, but the end was too far-fetched. Also I didn`t like the big dragon that was supposed to be the Devil, and I think both Al Simmons/Spawn and The Clown were mis-cast in Michael Jai White and John Leguizamo. Spawn was not scary enough, and that clown was just idiotic. However, I liked it, and I look forward to the upcoming sequel. "},{"Title":"This is oh so disappointing","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I am a big fan of the Spawn comic book series, and I also loved the HBO animated series. And I have quite high expectations for the movie. But after I watched the movie, I am oh so disappointed. This movie, however, is a serious failure. The whole story from the comic book would take at least 6 hours, and why does they make it PG Rated? The storyline is the childish version of the comic, which doesn't suit it well. And the performances, well it's um... bad! Michael Jai White is not so depressing enough for his role. He's okay, but as Al Simmons he should be very depressed for his situation, and he didn't deliver the depressed character kind of thing. Martin Sheen is very wooden as Jason Wynn, I thought he is a good actor but why does he give a bad performance in this movie? A credit goes to John Leguizamo as the Clown/Violator. Although he was cheesy and kinda annoying but he is the best out of the bunch. The special FX were good though. There are some FX that I've never seen before but it makes the movie like a showcase for computer graphics stuff. Overall, this is a bad movie. Especially for Spawn fans. It goes like an extended gothic music video. I'd give 8 stars for Special FX, 2 Stars for everything else! Disappointing.... "},{"Title":"better luck next time Todd","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I'm probably the only person here that was inspired by the potential I saw in the Spawn movie character to start reading the comic.  The biggest problem with the whole idea is that the characters of Spawn can only be adequately addressed under an R-rated 6 hour movie.  No-one wants to sit there for that long (especially kids- the main audience) so they make a 90 flick chock full of action and computer graphics.  I have to say that the characters in this movie far out top any comic/film attempt as of yet. Superman=spandex  Batman=plastic body armour.  Hopefully the sequel will be better instead of getting worse like the batman films...  Batman and Robin?? what was with that??  Someone was clueless and it wasn't Silverstone. "},{"Title":"Blechh!!!","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  What a waste of time and money.  This is the single most horrible movie I have ever had the misfortune of seeing!  Yuck. Almost all movies I hate have at least one thing that I like about them.  This one doesn't have a single thing that I like about it.  It's just bad.  I watched it twice, just to check and see if I missed something I might have enjoyed.  I didn't miss a thing.  It was a horribly painful movie to watch.  The special FX are all computer animated, so of course it looks completely fake.  The acting is some of the worst that I have ever seen in my life, on-screen and off.  And the ending is so stupid, despite that it is the signal that the movie is finished.I await a movie that will defeat 'Spawn' in the category THE WORST MOVIE EVER. "},{"Title":"Some great SFX but the rest...!!!","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Following the tradition of the Punisher, the Crow, Darkman...Spawn is another movie about a man, being killed by gangsters or crime-lords, who comes back for revenge after being saved in this case by Malebolgia, Lord of Hell. The same old recycled story. So why would you spend your hard earned dollars to see this movie? Well, this movie has some highlights. First there is the great pre-credits opening. That segment is very original and could have been an opening for a James Bond movie. They have of course more money to develop this opening but the Spawn opening could have been a good rough cut. Another great scene is the transformation of the Clown into the Violator. The whole Violator segment has quite a horrific tension. The transformation of Spawn during the whole course of the movie is very convincing, you could believe that he has been build by necroplasm. Melinda Clark is not only very beautiful but terrific over the top as the assassin Jessica Priest. I do not understand why they killed her in the first half of the movie. The tension between her and Spawn could have pulled this movie to another level rather than sticking with Martin Sheen as the dull unconvincing crime-lord. His acting is as stiff as the make-up on his face. On the other hand this movie has some serious failures. There is absolutely no development of caracter. They are as flat as a piece of paper. Their dialogue comes directly from the comic-book. The acting is as wooden as my front door. The SFX of  Hell, Malebolgia and the final confrontation scene is the worst I have ever seen. Totally unconvincing, even childish. The story has no tension or build up at all. In fact you are watching a feature music-video without any music. Last but not least the character of the Clown is so annoying that you have to have a real good stomach to swallow his crap. Knowing Todd McFarlaine from his comic book back ground, I can not understand that he, as producer, agreed to go ahead with this movie. He, who is always proud to master and control all levels of product development that leaves his production firm, you only have to look at his great toy-line, should have known better. He should have raised more money to develop this movie and deliver a better product. Hopefully the sequel will be better. Hopefully! "},{"Title":"Very boring.  All style and no substance.","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  This movie was all special effects with no plot.  As much as people complain about the various Batman movies, *any* of those has far more plot than this movie has.  This movie was all special effects.  While they were cool special effects, they wear thin after a while.  There should have been far more of an actual story and less ooh gee, his cape is now doing something else cool. There were a couple of cool pop culture references, but not enough to make the movie good overall.  "},{"Title":"See it for the special effects","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Being a fan of Spawn, and loving the series on HBO, I was anticipating the live action film.  Of course, I was disappointed; films made from books or comics often don't live up to the source material.  The redeeming feature, tho, and the reason I purchased the video, is the special effects.The question I have is, Where can I get a cape like that?  "},{"Title":"Another one of those movies based on a book/comic","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Like most films based on external material (ie book), if you've read the source material you really shouldn't see the movie. You'll just end up annoyed and disappointed due to the differences between the source material and the movie.One thing that is interesting about Spawn is that the creator of the comic refused to give up creative control for the movie. As a result the movie had far less money than it otherwise would have, so many of the important details are in a sorry state (writing, plot development). The writing is particularly childish.What's good? Well, it's a story of good versus evil, the hitch is that good starts out evil and - much too slowly - over the course of the movie changes to somewhat-good (well, better than the evil in the movie). The special effects are okay, though we could have done without the army-of-dead characters (just keep your eye on them, everyone everywhere is based on a set stamp and are simply looping at different intervals).Overall Spawn isn't a HORRIBLE movie, but I wish I hadn't spent money at the theatres to see it. It's a good rental if your brain's been jelled by a week at work and nothing that you REALLY want to see is available. (what a great recommendation! ;) "},{"Title":"Just missed what they were looking for.","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I watched Spawn one night late on video and I thought about how much better it could have been. The story is typical comic book stuff and there is not a lot of room for character development. John Leguizamo was great as Clown, but his humor was very childish and I felt like it was dumbing me down. Michael Jai White was very stiff and terrible as Al Simmons. The story may have not been very good but the special effects earn praises and were very well executed. The most terrible thing for me was watching Martin Sheen play a bad guy so badly. It's the worst acting I believe I have ever seen from him and it ruined the whole picture for me. I hope they get it right the next time. "},{"Title":"Great special effects make it worth seeing","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I didn't have great expectations about Spawn before I saw this movie. I thought it was going to be like one of those ninja turtle movies or something. However, I was immediately drawn into the story and the special effects which dominate this movie. The story has kind of a surreal man vs. hell feeling to it, which was pretty well done, although probably not a movie mom would enjoy to much. "}{"Title":"Non-Stop Action Fantasy","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I thought the movie started out well and contained lots of action. It never let you get bored. I had a little bit of a problem with the Extremely crude humor but enjoyed the film on the whole. The ending left me with a feeling that the story was stopping in the middle....It was a definite anti-climax, but after seeing that Spawn II is in the works for the year 2000, I can see why they left the ending so open. "},{"Title":"Spawn vs Clown/The Violator","Date":"5 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" This is a fascinating universe , hell , evil beings , resentful heroes , beautiful women , handled murderers , the threat of the end of the world , funny villains ; the battle between good and evil is centuries old , the mighty men take control of weapons of mass destruction , and a covenant of vengeance of hell is what we displayed this entertaining film.The Demon Clown is a fun character , its mission is to serve the supreme evil, this villain lies and cheats to cause a genocide; This villain is a fan of the death and destruction, Jason Wynn is a corrupt military ambition makes a deal with the clown ; Jason puts a trap soldier Al Simmons, this soldier is focused on revenge and try to recover some humanity , just a legendary warrior named Cogliostro can guide Simmons.sexy Jessica is the only ally of Jason , All the villains are concentrated in the destruction of the innocent , sold his soul to the devil, Simmons is a new kind of hero, dragged from hell, not only to fight against evil but also for his soul.Memorable performances from the entire cast , great aesthetics, excellent makeup effects, effective special effects, good cinematography , Mark AZ Dippé managed to hold an extraordinary fantasy action film , all I saw it I liked. "},{"Title":"Just watched again.. gets worse every time","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Just got in from a long day of work and settled in to watch TV. I saw Spawn was on again on Encore and thought it might be better uncut than it has been the dozens of times I caught it on TBS. Nope. It is worse.The FX looks horrible on a larger screen and the story looks more and more aged as time goes on. The old dude who is guiding Spawn is the same joker who played Merlin in Excalibur. He plays the exact same character in this. haha I love, love, love the comics covering the Spawn universe. You would think his creator (who had a big hand in this production) would disown this abortion of a film. But he seems to be proud of it. Which begs the question- This is the same dude who created Spawn? The HBO series was excellent and I can honestly say, that it seems we have be much better story tellers on television than these talentless jerks making movies. "},{"Title":"Spawn of a horrible movie","Date":"28 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I loved the comic when it came out. Spawn had a great story, great characters, great foundation and the art work was pure art. Even today, the first 12 Spawn comics are nothing less than classic works of art. When I found out that Spawn was going to be a movie I was thrilled. The previews were great and this looked like it was going to set the standard for comic book movies. What a let-down. This movie has only two redeeming qualities. The soundtrack and John Leguizamo's performance. Everything else in this movie was a complete letdown. My roommate and I went to this movie with total anticipation. His standards for movies was lower than mine and he's a graphic designer. We both walked out of that movie and wanted our money back it was so bad. I have heard people say that it was good for it's time as far as make-up and special effects, no way. Titanic came out this same year. Different movie, budgets, etc, however look at the standard of movies that year and even before this. Add to this the fact that people like Tim Burton, Richard Harris, Ed Norton, Wesley Snipes were supposed to work on this movie, the end result looks like a half-ass effort that they had to produce. This movie could have been good if the people who made it had the guts to make it as extreme as the comic.At least the cartoon that came out later had more redeeming qualities. In the end, I would only recommend watching this so you can appreciate other movies that came from comic books. "},{"Title":"Action, adventure, and special effects... All of it shite.","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I couldn't believe what I was seeing when I watched this. It's quite strange how they could make the film so bad, especially when you consider the fact that it was potentially good.There was a range of characters whom I had no recollection of. Most of them came out of nowhere, with no explanation, character development, or identity. The only name i knew was Spawn and there were only a handful of characters who's purpose was made clear.The evil clown is possibly the worst character I have ever seen. I hated every moment he was on screen. Spawn, in his full outfit, looks quite cool, however, for the majority of the film, he is shown with no mask, just a burnt face resembling dry spaghetti bolognese.Nothing actually happened in this film. The whole thing was just Spawn figuring out who he wanted to kill. Which he could have done at any point. Maybe they should have put a little message at the beginning of the film saying Read the comics first and you might have some idea of what's going on.The film work is visually dull and boring, and most of the technical aspects seemed to rely on special effects. A lot of the stunts, make up effects, and props were replaced by CGI. Even Spawn's mask, was superimposed at some points. I'm not usually one to base a film on the quality of the effects, but if you're going to use CGI in almost every minute of every scene, then it needs to be better than playstation one. Plausibly the effects could have been taken from the Spawn game.For a film, this was the least cinematic looking thing you could view. It's safe to say, I missed this when it was shown in cinemas. I can't imagine how little of an experience that would have been. The opening credits felt like I was watching a video on youtube.I actually wanted the film to end so badly. I didn't even care about what happened. If the DVD had blown up I wouldn't have been at all bothered about missing the ending. I watched this, not because I thought it would be brilliant, but because I liked the look of the concept of Spawn, and I like horror and comic book styles, leading me into thinking Spawn would be fairly enjoyable. If you feel the same way, I recommend not watching it. You will be incredibly disappointed, and maybe a bit depressed.(I only gave this 2/10 because i have seen Psycho From Texas.)I hate it. "},{"Title":"Great movie then, still great now.","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" This was an awesome movie when it first came out. The special effects were great for it's time. I just recently re-watched and thought it was still awesome. I love the story and characters. However, I'm used to the special effects we have now so the ones in the movie were kind disappointing. Besides that this movie rocks. It has everything and characterizes the Spawn character perfectly, gets his dark and revengeful side and his loving and compassionate side. If you'e going to watch this movie now, keep in mind that this was released a while ago back in 1997 so the effects are out of date but its great besides that. I'd recommend this movie to anyone! "},{"Title":"Better than most superhero movies.","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" MICHAEL JAI WHITE is AL SIMMONS an assassin for a secret U.S. government program whom wants out of the business, however his boss played by MARTIN SHEEN double crosses him & after lighting him on fire & killing him in an explosion at a plant in North Korea, Simmons is sent to hell, but makes a deal with the devil to lead his dark army on earth in exchange for being sent back to see his true love once again & get revenge against his boss, aided by the sadistic evil CLOWN, Al is transformed into a hell spawn with many snazzy powers, but finds out that he's been double crossed by the devil who was really in cahoots with his boss to begin with & thanks to loading an deadly virus into his body, Spawn can no longer kill his boss in revenge without spreading the virus to innocent people world wide, he also discovers that he's been dead for five years & his true love has married another man & to make matters worse, Al is badly burned (disfigured) Spawn then turns his back on the devil & his minions & leads a fight against him & his dark army, aided by one faithful pal (also a Spawn) they attempt to stop the forces of evil. SPAWN is a film that is both great & not so great. What's great about the film is how it's characters are well developed, as is it's story, the action is pretty good in it & there is a decent amount of suspense & good direction, that aside however the film overall fails to match the dark tone of the comics & has far to many snazzy CGI effects in it to the point where it becomes quiet annoying at times, there's also not a lot of time spent with Simmons ex-girlfriend & the love story that was presented here was to weak to make us really care that much, the climax is also pretty weak with the final battle placed inside a CGI hell with a laughably fake looking CGI Satan & legions of CGI hell spawn. ALAN McELROY is a talented writer, but overall was the wrong pick as the writer of this fable as he seems to have trouble matching the action & dark tones of the comics. A cut above most superhero movies & is overall a pretty good movie, but certainly not what it could have been. Suprsingly in the age of superhero movies & their sequels, Spawn is yet to come back for another round with the forces of darkness, let's hope there is a sequel, because Spawn is a great character & there's enough here to warrant a good sequel. Worth a look. Followed by an animated series.*** stars "},{"Title":"EXTREMELY underrated!","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" In Spawn you have decent cast of Micheal Jai White, Martin Sheen, Theresa Randle, Mindy Clark, DB Sweeney and John Leguizomo(sorry for the misspelling. I really dug the shootout sequences and the action scenes with Spawn using his powers. He had some tight looking guns! You don't see much of Micheal Jai Whites martial arts skills but this is Spawn afterall. The only thing I didn't like was the love story stuff between Al and Wanda but thats just me. I'm not into that corny stuff. The special effects especially with Spawns cape are the best I've seen since Terminator 2. The story comes together but is all over the place. The Clown has Al Simmons setup and killed by his boss to be turned into Spawn. Spawn makes a deal with the devil(literally) to avenge his death.You should defiently check out John Leguizomo as the clown. He's barely recognizable and so funny as a evil perverted clown. This is far from one of the best comic films but overall its got a little bit of everything action, drama and comedy. "},{"Title":"Not hardly like the comic","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" You know, I think this movie really got the producers and directors of comic book movies to move their butts in two ways 1) Comics are an awesome media to explore as movies. 2) Make the movies right.This movie to me was based on the character, rather than following him. Sure they got the origins right, but they changed a lot of things. One they got rid of one of the best villains in the series, Jess Chapel and replaced him with a female named Jessica Priest.Also they really didn't get Cogliostro right, and spent way too much time on the special effects which I must admit aren't really that good. I will say John Leguizamo played the part of Clown extremely well as did Martin Sheen as Jason Wynn, though he overacted in some parts. But the few good things don't overpower the many bad ones. Instead they focused not on the real first days of Al Simmons (White) being Spawn, instead they jump from it to some stupid and lame story which had nothing to do with him as a character at all. Not even the showdown between Violator, Cogliostro and Spawn at the end did this movie any justice. I give it a 5 out of 10, simply for the fact I like the character of Spawn to some degree. "},{"Title":"Spawn, in my opinion","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" The movie is great to watch, the special effects are overdone and unrealistic but cool nevertheless. I really enjoyed seeing this one. And although the acting was poorly in some parts, the special effects..well..I can make those on my own PC. But it doesn't matter! The concept, story and atmosphere throughout the movie make you wanna keep watching it. And so what if the acting wasn't that great, the characters definitely were. Absolutely one of the greater B-movies ever made. I have to admit I've never read the comic, so I don't know whether or not the movie does it credit. But if the comic is only half as good as the movie I'll be sure to read it. 9 out of 10 points. "}{"Title":"You Say Tomato, I Say Tomoto","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Spawn is a film that had a HUGE potential to be a good movie, yet, to many it really wasn't that great. I can see why too; the not so great acting, the short length of the film, the-not-true-translation of the comic book. Yet, this movie TOTALLY has AWESOME special effects, and that deserves credit. Me, I LOVE this movie, because, to me, its always fun to watch, and because its HILARIOUS. Like I said, its not a true translation to the comic and its got its let downs, but if you just ignore all that, its really not bad. I think this movie could have been better to fans and others if it was longer, had a greater story, and stayed true to the characters and comic. "},{"Title":"Meh...","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Was it entirely worthless? No. It had some cool visual effects, but it's nothing, at all, compared to the HBO special cartoon, which again was absolutely nothing compared to the Comics.The Violator, even in the cartoon, is one of the most evil characters ever, in this movie he tosses out a bunch of fart jokes and idiocy. Seeing him reduced to a sideshow was really irking. The foam/rubber/whatever demon incarnation of him was so cheap it was laughable. These are not the makings of a True denizen of hell, something no Spawn will ever be.All in all, it was mostly a graphics sideshow, and a way to introduce kids ( for some twisted reason, because *nothing* else about Spawn is at all geared toward anyone under the age of 18, except maybe a couple of crappy games ) to Spawn. "},{"Title":"Better upon multiple viewings","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  The first couple of times I saw this, I thought it was an awesome special effects vehicle, but horrible on plot.  In fact, downright silly, and the over-the-top performance by Martin Sheen didn't help.Then upon reflecting on it, I realized something; this movie is filmed exactly how a comic book would be written; the rather silly soliloquies are just what would appear in the thought boxes.  The plot is something that would make up a six-issue series, or something along those lines.In that context, as a moving, live-action comic book, it is very enjoyable.  And I still think John Leguizamo delivers one of the funniest performances I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Please no ReSpawns","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Maybe it's just that I'm not really a comic book fan, maybe it's because my knowledge of Spawn comes strictly from a few game reviews and a two-minute explanation from comic book nut, but I didn't find Spawn all that interesting.  As much as I disliked the Clown character, it wasn't Leguizamo's doing.  I felt he portrayed Clown/violator with the right combination of flair, intensity, and cheesiness.  And I could buy into the Spawn character, even his mentor-what's-his-name.  No one else in the film gave me a performance I could buy.  Sheen and Clarke pushed the film too far into cheesy comic-book camp territory.  That and the Priest character's wardrobe . . . what the hell was she supposed to be?  An obsessive killer who likes funky futuristic armor?  She seemed way out of place beside the Wynn character . . . maybe if she was more with Clown than with Wynn, but I wouldn't know because I don't read the comics and that detail is never really explained in the film.  Despite implications otherwise, I'll give her the benefit of the doubt. Spawn never seemed to get comfortable because of these character, choice wardrobe and setting.  It never wants to be camp and it never wants to be entirely serious, but it can't find the exact blend of the two so it bounces back and forth hoping it'll get lucky eventually.I smell a film that desperately needed the Danny Elfman touch.  I honestly don't remember a thing of Revel's Spawn score . . . which is a rarity for me.  Good points - it is a nice break to have good and bad guys who are ugly to look at.  Yes, both Clowny and Spawny.  Given, I prefer seeing Famke Jensen in her Jean Grey X-men outfit, but hey, realistically would superheroes be modelled after beautiful people or hand chosen by a casting director for film asthetic  value?  I like McFarlane's darker vision and darker chapters every now and again for variety's sake.Spawn's armor rocks . . . and especially his cape.  The effects are pretty interesting even for a film that's six years old now.  Not top of the line visuals anymore, but fun and wicked to watch.  It has personality and flair. "},{"Title":"How to destroy a perfect story for a movie in 10 easy steps...","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  First I must say I'm a big Spawn (the comic) fan. So that's why I rated it 5 out of 10. That's 20 points for using the name, 20 for making it and minus 35 for how they did it.The story itself good (or at least the comic is). Spawn is a very dark and sinister comic about a man who has lost his identity and fights for what he thinks is right (don't confuse this with good/evil in a heaven/hell kind of way). We're only at the beginning of the whole saga where Al Simmons is making his deal with the devil (or is he?) and finding out about his new powers. One thing that still bothers me (after reading the last fifty or so comics) is that I can't figure out why Spawn must lead the devils army into Armageddon. Why must one man trigger the disaster? Why not just barge in on the army of heaven and destroy earth in the process? Because of rules? Are there any during wartime? It's not explained in the movie and you just have to take it for granted that he's needed.Spawn is a character full of non-human powers which he uses occasionally, so room enough for some stunning effects...But everybody is having a field day on the bad effects. And everybody should. I can live with the effects on earth. They're not good, but not very disturbing, but the animations of hell... Malebolgia is pure animation, and it shows. Not even the effort was taken to synchronise the lips of this devil. And then the fight between Spawn, the Violator and Cog. How ugly can you make it? Was is shot in 1997? Are you sure? It was released in 1997 but it looks like to shot in 1897. I'm surprised they didn't use stop-animation.Further more I think Michael Jai White is playing his role far too much like your ordinary super hero. Spawn isn't a 'good' man. He's for gods sake a soldier of the hell. And besides that, he's in real pain, burned skin, an alien suit is taking over his body. This man is seriously suffering. But by the looks of him, he thinks he's Superman and holier than the pope himself.I'd say, shoot the movie again. Take your time, at least 2,5 hours. Make it a real horror movie. Step away from the rest of the super heroes, like the comic does. Don't expect easy watching, but do it good, so that people at least can say I don't like the genre, but this movie is good. and not I'm a big fan but sadly it failed at every point. like I do now.  "},{"Title":"In a word Disappointing.","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Spawn is one of those movies that you hope and pray that it'll turn out good. Everything is there to make one fine movie, interesting characters, a good story, the thing is already basically storyboarded in the comics. But, then the movie comes out and it doesn't utilize any part of it. The only think that could be considered good is the casting. John Leguizamo made the movie almost bearable, and you know your movie has problems when John Leguizamo is the highlight. The CG effects were poorly executed, Hell looked like something out of a cheaply made 100% CG cartoon. Satan was about as intimidating as a puppy, and the fight scene in Hell looked like it was made by a couple kids duking it out with their action figures. If I were a film critic, I would give this movie two thumbs way down. If the sequel gets made, maybe they'll do it right this time. But, I won't get my hopes up. Fool me once, shame on me. Fool me twice, shame on you. "},{"Title":"Never read the comics, but this movie sucked!","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  One word could described this film crap.This is one of the worst comic book adaptions I've ever seen.  Okay, I never read the comics so maybe the film sucked more because I did not read them. But as a movie, this was not a good one.First off, this had some of the worst CG I've ever seen.  It sucked!  A second grader who just started using computers could create better graphics. The Devil, whatever his name is, is the most poorly animated crap I've ever seen.  He is so fake looking, and to make matters worse, he looks stupid to begin with!  He looks like Bubba Gump from Forrest Gump, an aligator, and a mutated smurf all put together.  Also the movie uses a lot of fire effects that are poorly done.  The movie is flooding with cheap crappy computer animation.  No wonder it only cost $40 million with all that CG.The acting is terrible too.  When Al (before he becomes Spawn) dies, he yells out his fiance's name in a corny, cheap, and overacting voice.  It is just too unberrible to watch.  There is a little girl that just sits there looking all calm and stares at the walls the whole movie.  It looks like she is looking at cue cards the whole time.  She has no emmotion what-so-ever.Thare are some good things in the movie, Spawn looks cool and John Leguazamo was funny.  That's it.This is one of the worst pieces of trash ever put on film.  The action scenes weren't even good.  And for the Director's Cut, I didn't see the PG-13 version but I can tell you, the Director's Cut is not an R-rated movie.  It has nothing bad in it.  The MPAA probably just wanted more people to stray away from it if it was R.  Thomas Edison must be rolling in his grave.  My rating 1/10   "},{"Title":"Don't even think about it..","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I won't pull my punches this was utter crap. Even Martin Sheen couldn't save it.A woefully corny mishmash of Darkman and The Crow. I wasted an hour and a half of my life on this, just because I was curious to see the unrecognisable John Leguizamo's performance. He pulled out all the stops and got the best lines, but, with this script, that's not saying much (Beware, the Apocalypse Now references come thick and fast). The rest of the script is terribly corny, and the acting is worse. The Devil, or whoever he is, Malzethingamebob I think his name is, looks ridiculously non-scary , can't even lip synch his lines, and seems to have pubic hair growing on top of his head. The special effects range from being too cartoony to too fake. The hero (Jai- White) and heroine (Randle) are terribly wooden, and the latter's screen daughter is probably the most placid, calmest five year old I have ever seen- if I was in some of the situations she faces, personally I'd be sh**ing myself. She seems to constantly have the air of, to quote Tyler Durden, a Hindu cow.I must admit, I have never opened the comic, but after some of the worst big screen comic book adaptations I have ever seen (The Mask, Captain America (1990), The Flash- or was that just a pilot episode?), this sits at the top of the pile. Maybe, just maybe, if you liked no-brainers like Mortal Kombat and Street Fighter, you might like this, but if you didn't..don't say I didn't warn you. "},{"Title":"Good comic adaption","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Tood McFarlane wanted to make bigger his best hero character, SPAWN, a movie was the best way. All under control but the screenwriter failed. Good adaption but a rarely good film. Color, photography, music, especial efects are great, character Spawn is correct, The Clow character is great. Only for comic lovers "},{"Title":"movie fan and comic lover","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I don't know what all these reviews are all about, but spawn is not nearly as bad as these people say. Sure it's not really as deep as it makes itself seem, but for a comic translation to a movie, it's not that bad, considering how many comics have been made into horrible pieces of unwatchable crap. This ones actually better than x-men. Overall, good movie, although for comic fans, not movie fans. "}{"Title":"Not very bad, but not very good","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  This is a tough movie to vote. I personally liked it more than not, but only because I have always been fascinated with comic book super heroes, but that's it, Other than that, and some occasionally very well done special effects, this movie pretty much sucked. The parts where Hell or whatever that ridiculous place is supposed to be are done so poorly I won't even bother loosing words about it. The acting isn't as bad as some claim (well, what exactly can you expect from Martin Sheen anyway)and Theresa Randle is gorgeous as ever. The atmosphere of the movie is very, very dark and morbid, so I would recommend this movie to comic-hero fans ONLY! "},{"Title":"Truly Awful - See the HBO Animated Series","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I really thought this was an amazingly bad film.  The story line was so disjoint that it was next to impossible to follow.  The scenes shot in Hell distracted from the film.  Hell is better left to the imagination.  I never connected with main character or could feel his torment.  The characters were as one dimensionable as it is possible to make them.  Do I need to go on?I got hooked on Spawn watching the HBO Animated series.  Watch them first if you are interested in Spawn.  The marterial is handled much more in depth and you really can be sympathetic to the tortured soul that Spawn is. "},{"Title":"Watch the animation instead","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  This flick is OK, but the animated version is much better. The animated characters are more believable than the action show, Martin Sheen's character is lame and soft in the action show but this character is very evil in the animation.  "},{"Title":"Great movie, especially if you have attention deficiate disorder","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I scanned the other user comments here before writing this one, and I can't believe how hated this movie is among the general population of the IMDB.  Some of these people dub it as being the worst movie ever.  Apparently, either these people haven't seen too many movies, or they limit themselves to watching the typical Hollywood films that force fixed emotions onto the casual viewer.SPAWN isn't that bad of a movie.  As a matter of fact, it is actually pretty good.  Sure, the plot is uneven, and sure it isn't as dark as the comic book, but the movie couldn't get away with a PG-13 rating and wouldn't have appealed to as many people if they had made it as grim and sadistic as the original creation.The special effects are downright excellent; some of the best I've seen in years, but some of them are tackily overdone and simply too cartoonish.The acting is pretty good, and I don't care what anybody says, I think Martin Sheen did a fine job as Spawn's arch-nemesis.My only big complaint is the evil clown from hell.  He seemed kind of out-of-place, and painfully unfunny.  If he wouldn't have made so many lame toilet jokes, and spouted some eviller one-liners, he would've had potential.All in all, a decent film. "},{"Title":"Whatever happened to the Martin Sheen of yesteryear. This is pants.","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Poor Martin Sheen, he's reduced to films like this. Let's hope that the future comic book adaptations prove better than this.The effects aren't that blistering, some scenes you can see the duplication of characters and movements to create crowds, it's glaringly obvious, and the use of models in a couple of scenes lets the side down.The editing is disjointed and the story doesn't seem to flow (bit like my reviews), this might explain the need for the special edition release. The whole story seems rushed along to get to a point where they can have a big special effects finale for the introduction of Spawn II.Where's the characterisation? Special effects, and low grade ones at that, do not make a film, neither does a fat, annoying clown. I'm sorry, but if you're the messenger of the Devil you're not going to be a fat, useless, face painted idiot spouting pathetic one liners. Ooops, did I go too far?I can say one good thing about it, the soundtrack (both music and effects) was superb. "},{"Title":"Adaptation can be a terrifying thing... Bit-of-a-spoiler Warning","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Okay, the comic book had started great. Really had, although I dropped it after a few years. So I though the movie could be good. Alas, once more I had forgotten a rule of American cinema. When you adapt something, change it radically. So, the mystery disappears (Spawn is not supposed to remember anything right away, but I guess you have to make a short movie), the hatred he feels at first for all things is taken away (I din't think the writers wanted any trouble being accused of nihilists), he just becomes another undead vigilante with a debt to collect. Jeez! So, action is expected, but poor and unimaginative. The effects are crude, and look more like they were made for a video game rather than a movie. All in all, it is a disappointing movie, especially given the expectations that could come with it... Really too bad... "},{"Title":"A must for anyone who reads the Spawn comics!","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  A lot of people don't like Spawn. Why? They probably have never read the comic-books. The film has the same atmosphere the comic  book has. In the comic Spawn is constantly confused about almost every aspect of his return to Earth. Heaven and Hell turn out to be more then most people on Earth think; not everything is black and white.Todd McFarlane created this atmosphere in his comics.... and in this film. Spawn is one of the best comic-books released on film, and any McFarlane fan NEEDS to see it.If you don't even know who McFarlane is.... don't watch this film and go rent a nice romantic movie, this movie is not for people who can't enjoy a little 'black humor'. "},{"Title":"Teenagers paradise","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  If you are not a teenage boy, I doubt you will find Spawn to your liking. However, saying that, I must also inform you that John Leguizamo gives a wickedly funny performance as the Clown from Hell. Problem is you have to sit through all the parts in between waiting for his cleverly written lines. He puts alot into the role and reportedly even really ate what he appears to!  "},{"Title":"So-So - Not Sure It Could Have Been Better","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  As someone who didn't read the Spawn comic books, I went into the movie fairly open-minded.  Generally, I enjoyed it.  There's a lot of overacting from Sheen and Leguizamo, who seem to know their slumming and having a great deal of fun.  On the other hand, Williamson and Sweeney are dreadfully underused.  The F/X are incredible (except for the final Hell scene, where they're so blatant as to make the action unviewable).  The movie suffers mostly from the 90 minutes running time - a lot of the more interesting stuff is compressed and/or seems to have been dropped in the editing room. Generally, a slightly above-average superhero movie.  "},{"Title":"Skid Marks","Date":"5 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Assassin Al Simmons (Michael Jai White) is double-crossed by his boss Jason Wynn (Martin Sheen) and killed. Al makes a deal with the devil and comes back to life with super powers. He also has a fat demonic clown (John Leguizamo) following him around. Oh and his beautiful wife is now married to D.B. Sweeney. The horror.Michael Jai White is an actor with a strong physical presence. Unfortunately, he can't act to save his life. To compensate for this, the filmmakers cast the deplorable John Leguizamo opposite White. Presumably Leguizamo's campy, obnoxious comic relief is supposed to balance out White's blandness. The worst part of the movie is Leguizamo. His character, Clown, is unendingly irritating and repulsive. In one scene, Clown craps himself and pulls out his stained underwear to show that he left skid marks. I will forever loathe John Leguizamo for this alone. The rest of his crappy career is just more fuel to the fire.Martin Sheen also hams it up but he was always overrated. Nicol Williamson plays the clichéd wise man character who guides Spawn. He gets to narrate the movie and is insufferably pompous. Not all of the cast is bad, though. Theresa Randle and D.B. Sweeney do the best they can with the material given. Melinda Clarke is the highlight of the film as bad girl Jessica Priest. Though highlight might be too strong a word. She's the least awful, let's say.The CGI effects are cheap and embarrassing for a theatrically-released movie. For a movie based on a comic with flashy art (the writing was always weak), you would think this would at least LOOK good. But no, it looks tacky and very '90s in the worst way. This is really garbage, folks. Just avoid it unless you are into self-abuse. "}{"Title":"Man gets betrayed sent to hell wants to take revenge on who killed him.","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" The animated series and comic books are much much better than this live action junk. The acting is terrible and the action is stupid. The only thing that this movie really has going for it is its really good soundtrack and mediocre special effects. If you really want to watch this movie don't cause it stupid. The animated series from HBO is a lot better and get the soundtrack to if you like tech no/heavy metal music. Another reason I really disliked this film was because it wasn't very true to the comic books and original story. But whatever that guys name is that played the clown did a pretty good job. Another thing why was Martin Sheen cast in this movie anyways he sucks at acting in the movie. Also there is no reason why that this movie was even given a pg-13 rating because it has no really bad vulgarity or violence in it at all. Even the directors cut on DVD has an R rating why? Just overall avoid this movie and get the animated series and soundtrack for the whole spawn experience. "},{"Title":"Simply..More than silly!","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" The movie has no little piece of good acting,also the directing of the movie gives you the feeling that there is nothing to be said in the movie,it's just a silly and boring idea..by the way, the book is totally different.Maybe the music is not very bad,but it can make up for the rest of film elements.As for the actors,Martin Sheen definitely lost when he acted in such a movie, this not Martin Sheen who played great roles in Badlandes or Taxi or later West Wing.Melinda Clarke was just a nice body,she didn't act! same as Theresa Randle, no actor in the movie can get you to the point that you start reacting with the character he's playing, the worst thing in any character being played in any movie is that it can't get any emotional feedback from the audience,if a character can't get the audience hate or like it,then there is a problem either with the actor or the director or the way the character is written, i tend to believe that if you put them in order then the first responsibility lies on the director,then the writer then the actor In this movie.. they are all to blame..!! "},{"Title":"Fails at what could have been a great comic book!","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I remember reading Roger Eberts review when the film first came out back in 1997. Spawn is unforgettable, he wrote, and at the time, 15 year old me, tended to agree. Being somewhat of a comic book sci fi fan, i of course had herd of spawn, but never read the comics. So i went out and picked up a few back issues, and thought that the story was instering, and dark,something different. Unfortuntley, the film does not hold up at all to the comics, in my view and is dashed with some really bad special effects and pacing.First thing thats noticeable, is the lizard skin al simmons has for flesh. Now, I'm no doctor, nor a big horror fan, but i don't think rotten decomposing burnt flesh should look like a rubber mask. To me, it should look like torn scorched flesh with ragged chunks of skin and torn ends all over the place, barly able to hold onto the skull. unfortuntley in the film, it just looks like a rubber mask and it just sucks, because it could have been gross but cool at the same time.Another thing is the films special effects. Granted, it was made back in 97, when CGI was still in the new, but i mean, common, I've seen better effects in old playstation 1 games and cheepley made fan films. I guess the effects budget was slim, but honestly, I've seen better pre production animatics and these things are finished shots? Wow, talk about bad.Also, i had problems with the pacing and acting. Spawn just came off as a pissed off black guy with a bunch of one liners, and clown was way over the top and just dumb and annoying. Granted thats how John lequozomo (sp?) does his humor, but, this was just annoying. Hell, at least jar jar binks looked somewhat realistic, clown just looks bad. Also, the film never let us soak in the plot points of the story, it was just constantly jumping around from one action scene to the next, and just throwing in plot points simply to set up the next action shot. Its just a shame because there was a good story there, but, the direction and editing just tossed it to the side line. Granted its a comic book film, but it just felt to rushed even for that type of film.Overall, spawn was a good concept that went bad. Its not as bad as battlefield earth or gigli, not in the least, but, with the idea and some time and real effort, it could have been great. Maby if they went back and re did all the special effects and completely re cut the film, then,it could salvage it, but thats very unlikely "},{"Title":"Different and twisted. Yet lacking.","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  When Spawn was first released, I was in awe. I watched the film twice in the same day, I thought it was so good. I remember thinking Spawn was the coolest superhero ever and I still do. But with the release of Blade, X-Men and Spiderman, Spawn is no longer the best superhero movie. But it's very different and entertaining.Al Simmons (Michael Jai White) is a highly skilled assassin/covert-op for A-6. An organization run by the insane Jason Wynn (Martin Sheen). Simmons is sent out to assassinate various political figures for reasons which are pretty much clouded to him. Well, Wynn keeps them clouded and Simmons misinformed, so that he'll think that he's one of the good guys, when he is in fact not. But Simmons is beginning to catch on and wants out. Wynn, however, manages to convince Simmons to take one last mission.During this mission however, Wynn betrays Simmons and kill him. Up to this point, the story has sounded quite normal right? It could be a sequel to Sniper or something. But here is where the twist begins. When Simmons is killed, he is sent to hell. And there he promises the devil, Malbolgia, to do his dirty work on earth and many other things. The plot is complicated to explain, but not to comprehend. While watching the movie, you understand it without problems.There are quite a few characters in this film that occur throughout the movie. Almost all of them are underdeveloped, but we still get to like some of them. The most memorable one being The Clown, played by John Leguizamo. The Clown appears once Al Simmons/Spawn is sent back to Earth and explains this and that to Spawn about what has happened to him and what is to come. Throughout the film he manipulates Spawn to do things Hells way, even if that's not quite what Spawn wants too since he is a good guy at heart.The Clown cracks some hilarious lines throughout the film. I kept bursting into laughed almost once every scene in which the Clown occurred. Leguizamo plays him splendidly and turns him into one of the funniest characters ever. Other characters are not so likable or enjoying tho. Most of the acting is actually downright bad. Martin Sheen, even though he is a seasoned vetera, does not really give a very good performance, but it holds up in a superhero film. Michael Jai White is not Oscar material either, but I have trouble imagining anyone else in the role of Spawn. He does his job well, even if it's not great. Most other actors in the film, except for perhaps Nicol Williamson, deliver plain or just flat out bad performances however.The CGI, which this film relies heavily upon, is splendid sometimes and bad some other times. In the Earth scenes, where most of the CGI is used to display Spawn's armor, the CGI is great. Most of it even holds up to this day. But in the Hell scenes, it's quite ridiculous, however. The CGI is really had here. A child could tell you that. But the Hell scenes are few and far apart and they get the story along. So at least they are entertaining.The action scenes are quite different, really. Sometimes they rely on Gun action as Al Simmons/Spawn boost various kinds of machine guns to clear out rooms or such. Come to think of it, those scenes do make me think of Punisher, however they are not nearly as bad. The best action scenes are by far when Spawn uses his armor to fight his foes, I can tell you that.So, the bottom line is This film is very entertaining, but lacks in some fields. If you want a deep intellectual movie, look somewhere else. If you want a good action flick, take a peek here. And if you want a very different and twisted superhero flick then you definitely must see this one.7/10  "},{"Title":"Its a good movie for the comic book genre","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  This is not a great movie and is certainly not for young kids, but it is a good movie if you like the source of it and other movies based on super hero comics. I certainly liked it a lot better then the last three Batman movies, but not as much as I loved Blade.  "},{"Title":"(Shakes head)","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theater. Later, I saw it on video then on tv, each time watching it to see if I had been too harsh on it the time before.I hadn't. I want to start htis on a good note though, the visuals on spawn himself were fantastic. That was it. The rules of this message board forbid me from expressing properly just how awful I thought this movie was. It had as much body and plot as a wet paper towel. The acting was awful (Martin Sheen is a great actor and he sucked) The only person that did a good job in acting was John Leguizamo, but he was so disgusting he was hard to watch.One good thing about this movie is it gives you a good idea of what Hell is like. Not the movie's depiction of hell, but the movie it's self.Keep in mind, however, that I loved Virtuosity, which only some people have ever seen, and most of them think it's a whopping piece of crap.To each his (or her) own. "},{"Title":"It was a sad day for movie goers when they bought this ticket.","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  It could of been a great movie with a strong story line, truly a good idea for a superhero flick, but pathetically just a movie flopped like a fish dying on the lake's bank.  Poor acting / directing... The creators of this movie need to realize that it takes more than special effects to make a movie.   "},{"Title":"SPAWN The director's cut","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I recommend this film, I have the Special Edition it's wicked..! Loads of action, SFX's, & full of crude & hilarious puns.If you like your films to be fast, furious, & evil, then this is the movie for you.P.S. John Leguizamo is great as clowny. "},{"Title":"WATCH IT JUST FOR THE CLOWN!!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Watch this even if it's just to see John Leguizamo as Clown. Clown is the best character un the film, cracking jokes, cracking farts, it is hilarious. The movie is action packed and you will not get bored. Ending was open for sequel and it is on the way in 2000. I like Spawn because he is an action hero who uses guns unlike say Superman who has super human strength and uses his fists. A decent movie, give it a go even if it is just for the Clown. "},{"Title":"APPALLING BATMAN-WANABEE GARBAGE","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Spawn is such a piece of trash. It tries to be dark, cool  and gothic in a Tim Burton Batman way, but it's just nasty and unpleasant, like something you'd find in a sewer. Even worse, the film is uncomprehensible. It doesn't flow properly. It's like the editor of the movie decided to put the scenes in random order - characters do things without any motivation or logic, and the action scenes are completely misplaced, i.e. whenever they run out of ideas.  Also, the disgusting characters mumble every line. Unless you sit infront of the TV and work everything out, you won't understand what is going on. And quite frankly, you won't want to. Spawn is a lame character anyway - visually, he's a just cross between Batman and Spider-Man, two characters who Todd MacFarlane worked on. Characteristically, he's just a nasty guy who murders bad guys without thinking.  He only appeals to 14-year old's who have never seen an eigties action movie and think the 'shoot all the bad guys' approach is  really original..Spawn is depressing, disjointed, disgusting garbage that you'll want to wash your hands after watching.  "}{"Title":"Spawn is a yawn","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I've been an avid reader of comics for twenty-five years now. I watch every comic-related movie and television show I can find.  I've never read McFarlane's very popular Spawn series, and now that I've seen the movie, I can save myself the trouble.  Put away that Snooze Ray!  Special effects-heavy, plot-light tale of a guy who makes a deal with the forces of darkness and then becomes a good guy (Wow! I've never heard of such a plot!).  I haven't seen a movie this dank since the Adventures of Ford Fairlane.  You know how the Batman movies created this dark, sinister atmosphere that was actually pretty cool in a macabre way?  This movie creates a dark, sinister atmosphere that makes you want to turn off the television and go outside for some fresh air.  I enjoyed Shaquelle O'Neal as Steel more than this.  Avoid, although you should watch it first if your children want to see it to decide if it's appropriate.  Ah, the things we do for our kids . . . .  "},{"Title":"I want those two hours back.","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  You might find this movie amusing and/or entertaining if the following criteria are met 1) You are mentally unstable and/or retarded 2) You think that Nintendo is the greatest company ever made 3) You regularly enjoy jokes from fat men in clown make-up about the cleanliness of their underwear, or 4) You are a thirteen year old boy with ADD.Categorically, hands-down, the WORST movie I have EVER seen.  "},{"Title":"I had never heard of Spawn until this came out","Date":"14 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I first learned of Spawn from a trailer that preceded another movie. I overheard a friend say that Spawn was the #1 selling comic character in America. This was a real surprise to me, as I had never heard of Spawn. So, eventually, I went to see the movie. Having recently seen the beyond-dreadful Batman and Robin, I figured that this one couldn't be any worse. Once the movie was over, I decided that it had been entertaining enough for the time being - mainly due to the maggots and the Apocalypse Now references - but didn't really amount to anything otherwise. Of course, I've never been into comic books, so maybe I'm not the right person to decide. I only recommend it if you want brief entertainment.Starring Michael Jai White, John Leguizamo and Martin Sheen. "},{"Title":"Poor first time outing... and the last! (Not Surprising)","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I am definitely not a pro at reviewing movies nor do I want to waste your valuable time reading some horrible dribble that I would have you believe to be from a true Movie Critic. I don't claim to be therefore I am not! What I will tell you is that I love movies and after reading the above (or below) review, it made me scratch my head...Seeing how any one with a memory can recall what Todd McFarlane did for comics with not only his excellent work done on Spiderman but also the inception of Image Comics, you'd think that this brilliant artist and story-writer would have stuck to what he knows best and adapt the anime version of his comic to fit the big screen. Granted, that probably wouldn't have brought in anymore capital but the movie wouldn't have fell upon blind eyes and would've been considered a pioneering move on his part. The live-action movie was absolutely ridiculous along with the teeny bopping Goth Soundtrack. Let alone the fact that the movie makes Spawn out to be some sort of Superhero, doesn't follow the comic in the least and couldn't possibly come to any sort of ending that is coherent.So, that's my review... Don't waste your time with this. Go out and purchase the HBO animated series because that was amazing and worth owning!! "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I have to say that this film was brilliant..it was a perfect starter for anyone who hasn't seen this film..or in that fact read the comics of spawn..i promise anyone who has seen this film has been dying for a second film to come out..Micheal jai white and john liguizimo played there characters brillaintly..this film shows that even in the most tortured soul,, evil can prevail only so much in a man..personally tho..having such a kick ass body suit..i could think of a few more fun things to do with all those powers..if you stick to the comics of spawn..you were dying to see much more from the first one..I'm preying that todd will a second one....and include all a lot of the characters from the comics "},{"Title":"I can't believe how such a load of crap has received such a high rating!","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" This movie just has to be one of the worst movies ever made! The actors are average at best, the CGI effects look like they come directly from some bad mid-90s computer game and the story is just as bad as it can get! 'Spawn' tries to be a comedy and an action movie, but it fails big time at being either. The plot is highly predictable and the 'jokes' are not even close to being funny in any kind of way, they are just gross (especially that 'Clown' character). I really have no idea why this movie isn't in the bottom 100 where it belongs! So please don't watch this piece of crap, you'll definitely regret it! "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever!","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" So,I visit my aunt in Calgary and I noticed they owned the movie Spawn.My cousin and both my uncles said it was a fantastic movie.So,we turn on the movie and once the corny voice(some guy pretending to talk in a deep voice to try to make it sound dramatic)started to talk about the war between Heaven and Hell I knew it was not going to be a good as it was said to be.The plot is dumb,the clown is unfunny and EXTREMELY annoying,the special effects are terrible,(there is some strange creature that looks like a cartoon!)and there are some things that just don't make sense.For example,when Spawn goes to Hell he can freely visit Earth whenever he feels like it!(So does the clown)If it was true that when someone goes to Hell they can visit Earth freely when ever they wish,than Hell wouldn't be much of a punishment would it?Also,when Spawn visits Earth he kills his dog so he could be with Spawn in Hell.What could a dog do wrong to go to Hell?(especially this dog who is very friendly)Spawn is without question the worst movie ever. If you have any questions or comments about my review of Spawn or any other movies e-mail me at willieblenderfruittree@yahoo.com "},{"Title":"Without ever having read the comic book, I know that this movie does it no justice.","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I know very little about the source of this dull, ugly film, but I know enough to understand that this adaptation did the comic origins no justice whatsoever. There story concerns some dude going to hell and being sent back to earth as a CGI superhero with a fat obnoxious clown as his sidewalk. I was never really sure if Spawn was supposed to be good or evil, and what exactly he was fighting for. If it sounds funny or cool, believe me- it's nothing but a mess. The effects are lousy, the story is incoherent, the action is dull, and the gags are incredibly unfunny. You'll end up wishing that Spawn had just stayed in hell. "},{"Title":"This movie could have done a lot better","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Spawn is a big dud. I don't read the comic but I know that it has to be better than this. The acting in this movie, even by Martin Sheen, is horrible. The effects are nothing you haven't seen before. The scenes showing the devil are so bad you wonder if some children were doing the effects. The only really good part of the movie is John Leguizamo. He is the only breath of fresh air in this film. Providing a few laughs and some much needed comic relief, he is the only good thing about this stinker. Bottom Line Pass on this piece of crap unless you love Spawn. Otherwise I wouldn't bother.  "},{"Title":"Your Worst Nightmare","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  This is perhaps the kind of film people imagine in their worst nightmares. A movie pumped so full of special effects (which in reality were impressive for all of five minutes - in 1997) that the plot and storyline and point of the whole film are totally lost.This really was just one big confused mess. It wasn't a film. No one at the showing I went to when it came out had any idea what was meant to be going on and people were talking and openly showing their frustration at the completely incoherent movie.This film is truly horrible. I realise it was science fiction and fantasy, but the characters were just completely odd and there was absolutely nothing between them - it felt like the cast and storylines of four or five films had got mixed up on the wrong sets.Even the worst films possess a premise or storyline or some sort of direction (however shallow or cliched). Spawn doesn't even have the decency to offer this.It's like one and a half hours of hallucinating. A jumbled string of totally disjointed and pointless scenes involving a myriad of completely ridiculous locations and characters.It starts well with an intriguing and stylish real-world opening, but the moment the fantasy aspect sets in it becomes a nightmare. This isn't a criticism of it being a fantasy movie, but just becauses you're suspending believe and conjuring up imaginative fiction, doesn't mean you can get away with having nothing that makes any sense or entertainment value.By the abrupt end - when the fantasy and so called special effects to all intents and purposes wind up in someone's living room like something out of a sitcom - you begin to wonder whether the writer or director were on something when producing this film.Even if you like science fiction and fantasy, this will leave you astounded. Astounded at how totally unwatchable the film was, and scratching your head wondering what just happened.A nightmare of a film. "}{"Title":"Less fun than a root canal","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  This has to be the worst movie I've ever seen. It gave me a new appreciation for fingernails on blackboards, babies crying and migraine headaches because this movie was worse than all the above combined.  The clown (vomitously portrayed by Leguizamo) has burned itself into my mind and will rank as the worst image of my entire life.Save yourself and don't see this movie. "},{"Title":"Worse than horrible; putrid; disgusting; vomitous...","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I was really disappointed to see that the rating system only went down to a one, because this movie deserves less than that. What were people thinking when they gave it anything over a 2? Dan Jones from Cleveland was completely correct when he said this movie was one of the worst he'd ever seen; this gets added to my list of movies that I'll never see again (including most of those that Dan named). The value of a video cassette drops 500% when this movie is taped onto it.Absolutely no plot, half-s***ty special effects, half-OK special effects, and completely half-a**ed effort. The acting could suck a golf ball through a garden hose (to quote a better movie), there was no continuity and the dialog was bested by Stallone in Rambo.Unfortunately, my friends dragged me into the theater (I will NEVER see a movie on their recommendation again). The only thing that made the movie bearable was my friend making fun of the movie much in the fashion of Mystery Science Theater loud enough for the whole theater to hear (e.g., when the clown appears on screen My, my, Joker, you've put on weight!). Everyone who hadn't walked out was laughing, either from my friend or the horridness of the movie.Take my advice the movie is not worth $5. It isn't worth someone paying you to see it. I would not see it again for any amount of money. Every copy of that movie should be tossed, reel and all, into a vat of concentrated nitric acid for about 3 weeks. In short, it is a waste of electricity to play the movie; it should be erased from existence. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I found watching a blank screen a much more rewarding experience than the half hour of this rubbish I forced myself to sit through.  Perhaps this movie made sense to people familiar with the Spawn comic book series - certainly neither the movie itself nor the rationale behind making it made any sense to me.  "},{"Title":"What were they thinking","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I was dragged to this movie by some friends,and by the end,we all agreed. Very few films have ever been made this horrible. At least I hoped maybe the special effects would be as good as everyone said. Nope,they were all computer generated,hideously fake looking garbage (watch out for the effects near the end ). I enjoyed Manos,The Hands Of Fate more than this,and that is sad. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I've watched this movie 6 times now...I think it's hilarious! It's cheesy, for sure, but John Leguizamo steals all the scenes and when he's not on screen Mindy Clarke, my favorite cute red-head is! "},{"Title":"This film is one of the worst movies ever","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Well, for some reason I saw this movie in the theater.  It is painfully bad in so many ways, first of all, the special effects, in a word, awful.  They are some of the most fake looking things ever in a film.  Completely done on computer which cannot replace a good model.  Secondly, action sequences are just plain stupid.  The acting and comedy, terrible and unfunny.  If you want a good comic book movie, rent Batman or Blade, and keep away from this one.   "},{"Title":"No story and a lot of special effects.","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Spawn is pretty much all special effects and very little story. This film is a pathetic version of a great comic. Comic book characters lately have translated well to the big screen. I believe it's because the directors are up-and-comers and they bring a lot of energy to their work. Mark Dippe has no talent whatsoever. Maybe he is a great special effects artist, but a director of good films he may never be. This is the worst comic book adaption yet. Yeah the special effects were good, but the film completely sucked.  "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  The worst movie I've seen this decade. I must have checked my watch 97 times when I saw this at the cinema. I just wanted to get out. Virtually no storyline, average acting and overall a very boring movie. I kept waiting for an exciting ending but it didn't happen. Don't bother. 1/10 "},{"Title":"atrocious","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" boy,what a letdown this movie was.compared to the animated series,this doesn't even rate.it's all of the place,in terms of tone and story.the acting is pretty bad from all concerned.i felt embarrassed for everybody involved.i found the story lacking in any real excitement.plus,for this character,there should have been a much more compelling characterization.i know it's an origin story,but i think they could have done a lot more with it.it doesn't make much sense,and i couldn't give a lick about any of the characters.the whole thing is really just nonsense.it's 94 minutes i'll never get back.for me,Spawn is a a dismal 1/10 "},{"Title":"This movie had a lot of potential but did let itself down","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  After watching the cartoon version i thought that the film would be just as violent. Spawn is ment to be a real badass but in the film there was not enough violence in it. I think that it was toned down to suit a younger audience and this ruined the movie. The effects were a little OTT but they were well done. I have just bought the movie on DVD so i think that it is enjoyable, but i think that this could have been a real blockbuster, but it looks as though there will be no follow up which is ashame because we have gotten to know the characters and who spawn is and what he is about so this opens up a director to go all out for a spawn 2, if there was better direction and it was true to the comic and the cartoon then spawn 2 would be a smash for sure! "}{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  First off, let me sat that I am a huge fan of Spawn the animated series, and I urge you to watch it first and see how much better it is than this drivel. The major characters are present, but there is a lot more plot and story behind the animated series. I gave the movie a 4 because it didn't really follow what I saw in the series. I haven't read the comics, but I think the series is awesome compared to this movie. In the movie, Spawn got torched by Wynn himself in some lab. In the series he got a flamethrower blast from a characrer named Chapel while on a mission in Brazil. If you like the comics, go for the series rather than the movie. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen in the theater","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  When this movie came out, I was a big fan of the comic.  Therefore, I was looking forward to the movie.  After seeing the movie, I wasn't even a fan of the comic anymore.As soon as the movie started with its cheesy voice-over about the war between heaven and hell, I wanted to walk out of the theater.  I should have trusted my instincts.  Poor acting, a stupid story, and so-so effects were what I endured for the next ninety minutes.  In that time, I could have done something much more constructive, like staring at a blank wall.After seeing Highlander 2 in the theater, I never thought I could find a movie as pitiful.  Unfortunately, Spawn exceeds even that movie's stupidity to become the worst movie I have ever seen in a theater. "},{"Title":"Fantasy doesn't get any better.","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Story, script, direction and performances were perfect. EFx got us over and into the trip. When will the next movie be made? Watching n waiting... Few variations from the books but the movie did justice to Spawn and stands up alone well. I am quite surprised that John Leguzamo was not nominated for and academy award here. The Clown/Violator was over the top and Leguzamo's performance aside from stellar did give enough creep, vulgarity, humor and ever present sense of evil. One of the few DVDs I have bought, Spawn always entertains friends who haven't been Spawned before. We're all awaiting Spawn's return...hopefully darker and with added angst than before. "},{"Title":"What the hell? (no pun intended)","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I watched this film when it was released on VHS, I can't remember maybe '98 so i was 14. To be honest I was a bit of a dim viewer then and would like anything with big explosions, violence anything a teenage boy would like in a movie. But something didn't quite add up with me on this film.Then, years later, watching the film again I realised... this film sucks! Really blows.Now, I own a few Spawn related comics and this sweet natured PC version of the dark demonic anti-hero we know as Spawn makes for bad viewing, even if you've never read the comic book (like me then) it's a movie that leaves you wondering, what the hell did I just watch!? Cardboard characters, stupid story, mind numbingly bad script. And what is Nicol Williamson, such a celebrated actor, doing in it? Todd McFarlane, this film must be your own personal hell, that someone would do this to your baby is unthinkable! Really needs a reboot (hint, hint!) "},{"Title":"I think I blocked this movie after watching it","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie opening night back in 1997, now in 2008 I stumbled across it on the FX channel. I remember it being bad, but wow, I forgot just how bad it was. Now I was never a fan of the comic, yeah I picked up the first half a dozen issues because at the time McFarlane was the man as in the hottest artist in comics. Of course I later realized he was also the biggest ego in comics and it showed in his deals with comic companies. Over the course of a couple years his ego wrecked a lot of good comics and eventually he left to do action figures (very very high quality) but i digress. Spawn is basically the antihero taken as far it can go, the anti hero is a dead mercenary who no one liked and the devil gave incredible power too for reasons that make not a lot of sense and the hero refuses to be the bad guy... sorta. He's not likable, hes not a good guy, he's basically a massive jerk who's only redeeming factor is that if he had the motivation to be evil the world would suffer, but hes too much of a jerk even to be evil right. in the comic version Spawn's powers are classified as yes, like the old Superman comics, Spawn's powers are limited only to what the story needs. Can he fly? Umm sure, this issue he can. Can he be invulnerable, yeah this time, but not next time, why? Dunno, don't care, McFarlane draws, and the story is written around the art. The movie seems to work the same way, Give me cool special effects and we'll write a story around them seems like what the director said. Sheen is apparently paying off a gambling debt, Leguizamo was working for the paycheck and barely acts, heck most of the cast seem to give up halfway through and just decide to get to the end with as little effort as possible and deny knowledge of the project after that. The CGI is low end craptastic stuff (real cheap 90's Amiga work here). The ending is ho-hum and could have been better written by the average 8 year old after just showing him a couple of the comic covers. Are there worse comic book movies? Yes, but not many. If you are thinking of buying this movie, or even watching it, I suggest a bottle of your favorite 80+ proof beverage to dull the pain. If you manage to actually enjoy this film then I suggest a career in the S&M industry or that you see a good psychiatrist. The DVD needs a warning label May cause depression, brain damage, or internal bleeding and should not be viewed sober. The Surgeon General has issued a warning that this film can be hazardous to the viewer's health because its so bad it might give you cancer. "},{"Title":"Too much effects!","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  A great example of what happens when the producers get carried away with too much special effects!They could have done a better movie with better direction and less special effects.They should also have made it a tag more serious by toning down the clowning.They also took the dialogue of the comic books too literaly.Exagerrated dialogue  in comic books make up for lack of motion and is  not needed in movies.Basic stuff like these destroy most movies that could have been classics.The damage has made this movie a tag below average. "},{"Title":"Even the special FX were lacking","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I am and have always been a fan of the Spawn comic book series and the animated series. When I first heard they were making a movie of my favorite comic I was excited beyond belief. When it came out, though, I was extremely disappointed. The story was miles away from the plot line in the comic books. Instead of the total bad ass Chapel, they had Agent Priest. That was the biggest and dumbest change, I thought, out of about a million bad changes. I also thought they made the clown a little too much of a comic sideshow. In the comics and animated series he is disgusting and perverted with extremely disgusting humor. But did he do dumb little cheerleader dances and corney, tame, jokes like in the movie? No.Even the special FX dissapointed me. The only things that seemed really well done to me were The Violator and Spawn's cape. While hell was well designed I didn't think it was very well animated. I felt like they could have done a better job, although I'm sure they had a lot of budget restraints. "},{"Title":"Hell Has No Other","Date":"29 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" You can take this movie well, or badly. I see the argument either way. But it hits you, like a bullet to the head. No subtlety here. Massive BANG on a mid-level budget. I like it, no doubt, but I see why others don't.This is not a normal hero movie. Enemy and hero ideas collide, and it's not pleasant.Art house film? Certainly not. But general viewership? Not likely.If you've never read a comic book (what it was called in my day), you may hate this. But there is some seriously good stuff here for fans. If you don't know who John Leguizamo is, well, this is not your movie. He has limited range, but this film is right up his alley. I liked it, as my vote indicates. "},{"Title":"Spawn Another Superhero Film.","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Spawn (1997) Dir Mark A.Z. Dippe / Cast Michael Jai White, John Leguizamo, Martin Sheen, Theresa Randal, D.B. Sweeney Comic book action film about what will emerge from our lives and how it will influence or affect those around us. A cop is set up to be killed and he receives the option of returning for vengeance thus leading Satan's army, or death. Naturally he returns for vengeance but his real concern is his fiancé who has moved on and married his partner. Only his dog Spaz seems to recognize him for his body is burnt plus he has the ability to transform. Director Mark A.Z. Dippe is backed with creative visual imagery as well as a sympathetic performance by Michael Jai White as Spawn. He is full of pain and anger for justice but ultimately he makes several grand decisions that will strengthen him by film's end. John Leguizamo is outstanding as a demonic clown despite conventional placing. Martin Sheen is standard as a corrupt government official in what is really a big disappointment. Theresa Randal as Spawn's wife must bear her loss and move on, which thankfully drives the story further. The relationship between her and her deceased husband's partner is done with taste. D.B. Sweeney plays his best friend who evidently becomes the new romantic interest in his wife's life. Comic book fans will enjoy the overwhelming production that also spawns a theme of regret and reflection. Score 7 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"A decent effort","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Covert operative Al Simmons is killed in action, having been set up, and the next thing he knows is he is a kind of supernatural bum, living in an alley with hoboes having been kind of reincarnated as a super-powered burns victim with a groovy cloak, and a mission to protect his widow (who has moved on) and daughter, and combat a couple of nasty demon-y things, one of whom is a short fat foul-mouthed clown.Drawn from Todd McFarlane's comic, Spawn comes very early in the current cycle of super-hero movies, and is actually quite good considering how good they have become since. Makeup and CGI are good, the story - Spawn's origin story - is satisfactory, and the performances (with the exception of Michael Jai White who is a little lightweight) are solid.Could be better, judged by current standards, but not bad. "}{"Title":"Spawn","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Title Spawn Directed by Mark A.Z. DippéStoryline We then see a masked man kick in the door at an airbase and shoot up the people inside it before setting up a rocket launcher to assassinate his target. You see him wearing night-vision goggles that have unrealistic zoom, but also give him eyes similar to that of hellspawn, so it is foreshadowing in way. After 5 minutes or so of opening credits we get to see a news report covering the rocket attack, we're also introduced to a fat guy in the shadows who is talking with the head of some assassin service that is making a biological weapon. Al Simmons and his friend go to visit the head of the service to show his disdain at the fact of him having to kill civilians, he wants out and is sent on a final mission to take out a bio-weapons plant in North Korea. Simmons gets to the main part of the plant but finds out it was a trap and is betrayed by the people he works for and sent to hell. Simmons is then brought back from the dead but is still completely disfigured because of the burning and has to live among the homeless and the same guy from the beginning gives us exposition of what is happening and why Simmons was brought back. He then has to go through training or sorts with Clown/Violator a short fat demon who ironically hates clowns, this character is what I like to call painful comic relief. The Violator makes him go through flashbacks so we can find out what happened after he died, and it turns out he made a deal with the devil which had strings attached. He is then taken into another flashback of when he rises from the grave and scared a couple goths who were hanging around the graves. This is also the part where we get to see the actual Spawn suit as the memories came and eat away at Spawn. The bad guy and Spawn's old friend Terry have gone to a party full of world officials. This is when Spawn breaks in through the sky light, tries to kill Jason the big bad. Spawn gets to Wanda's house where there is a trap waiting for him, an interesting little twist is there as well, but after Spawn does the right thing, he then kills the clown after battling with him in hell and sends him back to hell. Acting Michael Jai White is a great choice for Spawn, he is able to present the sorrow and aggression that the character would be feeling. He wears the cloak of Spawn and owns it. It would be hard to top his performance, I also think than not even Snipes could have hit the nail on the head as White does. My feels about John Leguizamo as Violator have been mentioned earlier how I have nothing against the actor, it's just the fact I do not like the character, but regardless he comes across as vile, vulgar and vicious. Just how the character should be, so he is a good actor in this. Noticeable Camera work The voyeuristic shots from the birthday party scene are where we first start to see the decent use of camera angles, before this it is the standards of close ups, mid shots and wide shots. This is an interesting thing that the movie does, it has Spawns cloak cover the screen so it can be used as a transition, this is nicely done and is a piece of editing not camera work, but is still creative as all hell. The scene that takes place after the police scene is a great shot, it has Spawn standing on the edge of a church with his cloak blowing in the winds, it works well regardless of which dark caped crusader does it. Be it Spawn, Batman or (Insert other dark brooding caped hero here)Graphics The CGI hasn't dated too well on this movie, but the effects are very nice to look at but not all too realistic for the most part. The world leaders meeting scene has Spawn breaking in through a sky light and his cloak stopping the fall, his cloak does look blatantly CGI, but it looks majestic as all hell, so I don't really care that much. The CGI for the violator's transformation scene is well done similar to that of Spawns transformation and stands up to that of late 2000's CGI. There are also some popping eyeballs that look like they are from the mask. Costume We are first introduced to the suit in the grave scene and apart from the cheesy CGI green lightning the suit is BA to the extreme in the way it looks like suits that are made for today's movies. It looks similar to the venom symbiotic suit in Spiderman 3. It matches the comic suit perfectly as well. My only complaint would be that he spends most of the movie with his mask off and I have a feeling that White asked for this so he could have more screen time, similar to what Stallone wanted in the movie Judge Dredd. That or voices couldn't be heard that well from it. Overall Feel Just a couple interesting facts about Spawn, the first being this was the first superhero movie to feature an African American as the lead character, there is the movie 'Steel' which came out a fortnight after which also had an African American lead superhero. Wesley Snipes was considered for the part of Spawn, but that was handed over to Michael Jai White instead, Snipes would then go to play the BA vampire killer Blade the year after. Also I will warn you now, this movie has a number of god awful puns with some puns which are actually good. "},{"Title":"They could of done better","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I didn't get how this movie wasn't that good well i know why. It was the crappy affect of the monsters. When the clown changed i did not like it cgf. I also did not like the thing that told spawn to lead an army it looked more like a monster in sheep clothing than a big fire demon. Though there were some good parts like the part were spawn fought clown and fought the evil guy. Although the clown was really goofy for a villain the joker is way better than him he would when both killjoy and that clown in a clowning around battle. Killjoy has his own movie too it is not worth renting. I also liked the part were the clown farted and putted stains in his underwear. my brother doe's that it is strange. My rating overall is 6 out of 10 it is worth a c+ "},{"Title":"A decent comic-book film","Date":"1 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Spawn, is based on a comic-book series by the same name. When it was released, fans hated the film because it was tone down to a PG-13 Rating. But for me, it was a decent comic-book film.The thing's I liked about this film were the special effects. I thought they were good, the character, Spawn, was pretty cool, Michael Jai White does a nice job as the title character, and John Leguizamo does a funny, but annoying job as Clown, the action scene's were good, and I found the story pretty interesting An assassin get's double-crossed and killed. But he end's up being the Devil's soldier and get's brought back to life. But with his whole body burned.The thing's I didn't like was that the film had a big problem with character development. We only see Cogliostro in 3 to 6 scenes. Also, Zack wasn't in the film that much. Instead, he just help find Spawn's dog. Also, the film didn't have that many action scene's. There was only 3 or 4 action scene's.But overall, if you're a fan of the comic-book series, then this movie is not for you. But if you're looking for a movie to watch over the weekend, then this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"Considering the release date and tech advances since..","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I liked this movie. This was my first intro to Michael Jai White. I was very happy with what he brought to his role. Martin Sheen was better in this movie than in Apocalypse Now (and there is an AN reference in the movie)! And.. John Leguizamo is priceless! I liked him better here than as Sid's voice in Ice Age. Don't know how he did what he did in this.. must be a sweat-resistant gymnast! That said, this Todd McFarlane spawn is very 80's superhero schtick.. I mean, Batman, Superman, probably Judge Dred, -style over-the-top silliness with references to Star-Wars thrown in. Given what came before it, it is hard to be too critical. On the other hand, you can't compare it to The Crow, which had less special effects but a more serious perspective.No, the movie doesn't break the 7-out-of-10 barrier. It's right in there with the majority. "},{"Title":"Disappointing, but with some redeeming qualities thank goodness","Date":"20 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" After watching Spawn, I felt disappointed. Maybe my expectations were too high, as the comic is not easy to adapt at all, but this film could have been so much better than it was. But to no avail, there are actually some redeeming qualities, which I'd better start with before explaining what I found wrong with Spawn.First of all, an unrecognisable John Leguizamo is absolutely brilliant as the Clown, while over the top, it was almost very sinister and sadistic, somewhat reminiscent of Pennywise and the Joker. The extremely graphic and violent images, helped by clever zooms and decent special effects were also very well done. I also liked the cameo from Sam and Twitch at the end, which will be likely to please fans of the comic.However, there are a lot of things that didn't work. I for one found the soundtrack intrusive and generic, and while the visuals were great the direction for me was not, it needed a little more subtlety. While Leguizamo's clown has some delicious lines that is delivered with relish, the rest of the script is very weak. Also while I had no problem whatsoever with Leguizamo, I cannot say the same for the remainder of the cast. Martin Sheen is given very little to do as Wynn, while all Michael Jai White manages to do is act brooding, instead he forgets to act. Plus Nicol Williamson's voice over did nothing for me, it felt somewhat tacked on. Then we have a story that is too rushed with some unintentionally laughable parts like the Devil and the disastrous lip synching and the climax to put it bluntly is a bit of a mess, then again I wasn't expecting a perfect climax considering how little character development there was.Overall, has redeeming qualities, but a big disappointment overall. 4/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Spawn - Probably deserves an IMDb bottom 100 spot","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" This movie is truly diabolical. Really really horrible. I went in expecting a poor movie based on the reviews I had read, but I expected nothing like this. I mean, the plot was so much full of holes as things happened that frequently made no sense whatsoever.The story revolves around Spawn being killed and being convinced to lead Satan's army, as payment for him being given the ability to avenge his own death on Martin Sheen. He wakes up 5 years later (none of this is really explained why) on a roof top with Satan's right hand man, 'Clown' who is a mixture of bad puns and fart jokes. Martin Sheen is then found to be plotting to take over the world with a bioweapon.John Leguizamo's performance as Clown, although very poorly written for him, was well acted which may be the only thing that keeps this movie out of the bottom 100 on IMDb. That and the fact the makeup was good.Other than that, You go through what seems like an eternity of Spawn coming to grips with the fact he is dead and his wife has remarried, some weak attempts at revenge and overall, you really want to stop watching the movie.Most of the minor characters in the movie seemed pointless and added little if anything to the story that couldn't have been written out by 2 or 3 lines of dialogue from other characters.Then the climax is predictably Spawn killing Clown and cue the credits. Yawn. "},{"Title":"Not bad sci-fi movie","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I watched this movie on the recommendation of a friend, he loves it but unfortunately i don't share his enthusiasm for it. Im taking into consideration its 10 years old but independence day is a year older and a much better movie in cgi standards and giving this movie promised excellent cgi it lied, there good but not as good as i expected.The story is fairly straightforward to follow, Al/Spawn is murdered then created as Spawn after agreeing to lead the devils on an attack on the gates of heaven,Wynn is the idiot being played by the clown/violator but without whom we wouldn't have spawn as it is he who brutally murders him and sends him to hell in the first place.The acting is the level you will expect from a nineties comic book movie, no disrespect to the actors/actresses i think the fault lies with the script and rating the movie received, a movie involving a brutal murder, hell, the devil and the bloodshed levels expected( though i don't recall seeing any blood) really needed an 18 rating.All in all it is worth watching to introduce yourself to the character spawn but a remake with a bigger budget, longer running time and 18 rating would probably now be a much more successful movie given how popular comic book movies are and that spiderman although great is mostly for kids, and batman begins hits teens/adults this has he potential to be a great adult comic book movie, if the Hollywood bigwigs do make it it can only be better. "},{"Title":"Weighed Down","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" In one of the worst casting choices, Martin Sheen's character and his performance literally destroys this movie. His forced heavy role just isn't convincing. John Leguizamo's role as the clown/violator is just a sad parody of the much better Batman's Penguin character. Finally, Nicol Williamson's Cogliostro character is a pale imitation of his excellent, enlightened role in Excaliber (1981). Adapting this superhero to the large screen was basically inadequate, though the premise was promising - the conflict between sacrificial love/evil and loss/goodness. While edited decently, consistent acting, adequate action, the special effects were just not compelling. Five out of Ten Stars. "},{"Title":"I absolutely loved this movie!","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I liked this movie from the first frame! The special effects -especially Spawn's cape- are marvelously done! And the armor, of course, which has a lot of cool gadgets! The only character I don't like is Malebolgia. They could've worked more on him! The idea is nice, but the mimics needed to be paid more attention to.A funny guy who I liked second after Spawn is Clown. Nice lines, my kind of humor...could I ask for more?In the end,I would recommend this movie to every action/horror movie fan because it ROCKS! "},{"Title":"The Pros and Cons of Spawn","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Note that I don't believe there's anything here apart from the obvious, but I tend to go off and spoil by mistake, so you might want to watch out.Spawn had many pros and cons. Here are the many pros I would recommend this movie to any bad-guy lover, because the biggest bad guy is the guy downstairs. NOTE Malebolgia is Satan, Todd McFarlane said so in a documentary. It has a very dark and ominous plot to it, and some pretty dramatic scenes involving Spawn's 40-foot cape. Overall, it is an action movie, good for Goths, Satanists and bad-guy lovers.Cons The acting wasn't very good and the special effects weren't up to par (except for on Violator and Malebolgia). Also, Spawn never uses the axe, Agony. Also, the effects Malebolgia were good, but he doesn't look at all like he did in the comic.What I think of Spawn is it's a really good movie for people who care nothing for special effects. "}{"Title":"Good Action Flick","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Let me start off by saying I have never read any of the 'Spawn' comics and know little or nothing about the story of Spawn. As a big fan of comics to screen films I felt I had to see this after seeing the trailer. As I do not have any knowledge on the comic worth comparing with this feature, I am judging it as a stand alone film.The film is about Al Simmons an assassin working for a government agency in America. He wants to leave the business so he can stay close to his wife and bring up their child but of course things don't work out. He's killed by his boss and is sent to hell for his crimes against humanity. In hell he makes a deal with the devil to be able to see his wife again, Wanda. On one condition that he'll lead the devil's army to the gates of heaven.Al is sent back to earth as hells spawn (demon soldier). Here he must decide either to choose the path of good or evil.There is no back story for any of the characters but that isn't necessary as the story emphasises on the present day actions. You know enough for the story to move along. The acting is fine and does not need to be analysed too much as this is an action film with plenty of dazzling special effects to deter your attention. The special effects are above par and don't seem too dated even by today's standard. Even for an action film it still does have a really strong theme (heaven & hell) good vs. evil. It doesn't explore it too much but it is the main story for this film, could have been done better though.I would recommend this film to anyone who found 'Van Helsing' entertaining. If there are any of you out there? It won't live up to everyone's expectations.6* out of 10 "},{"Title":"SPAWN (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Funny that I never have read any comic in my life but I have seen most of the filmadaptions which is regarding the success of X-Men or The Hulk the new golden egg in today's cinema. Some suck, some are brilliant but some you don't understand.... Spawn is such one. This movie is really made with the cheapest special effects I have seen since...well...since The Forbidden Planet. Not familiar with the real comiccharacter, I just can tell you that spawn is a black guy who's been murdered by his evil boss (a very bad acting for Martin Sheen) and is sent to hell. There he makes a pact with the boss there, Mr Devil. He can go back to earth seeing his beloved Wanda (Theresa Randle) if only he killed his ex-boss Sheen. The real reason why Spawn has to do this is because Sheen has implanted a chip into his body that evokes a virus that will be the end of the world if he dies...let's hope no sick b**tard has such an idea in the future! On his backtrip to Mother Earth is guided by a clown (John Leguizamo) and it's that creature that is the sole reason why you should watch this movie as it's one of the baddest and most evil creatures I have ever seen (perfect for parents with kids who never want to visit a circus again!). This film deserves a 5, the film itself is a big zero but the performance from Leguizamo is outstanding, it makes you forget you are watching one of the crappiest movies ever... "},{"Title":"The Ending Ruins the Movie!","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Spawn could have been a good movie. The direction was fairly decent and so was the plot. Visually the movie was pretty good and John Lequizamo as the Clown was awesome. However, the corny ending with the horrible special effects ruined the movie. 2 1/2(**1/2)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"Good Premise, Good Cinematography, Bad Film...","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"   Perhaps it was the main character's bad acting skill. Perhaps it was the ridiculous script. I'm not sure. All I know is that Spawn had a good premise and a great atmosphere for its story. I like when comics are made into film respectively. I don't read comics, and never really did as a kid, but I must say I've seen the front cover of Spawn on a magazine rack once. By the way it is drawn, it seems very dark, moody, and satirical. I guess that's a lot to tell from the front cover of something, but it just seems that way. Anyway, the film really captured that essence. Only it failed at two key ingredients a script, and leading actor.Martin Sheen struggles to make an impression, but is left out of the viewer's mind after seeing the lead actor (I can barely recall his name) and the miserable performance he gives. And the dialogue and plot is awful...Spawn is definitely one to see just because of its brilliant atmospheric touch, but don't expect too much in the way of witty dialogue or acting.2.5/5 stars --John Ulmer  "},{"Title":"You should well find this movie boring.","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  When I rented this movie I hadn't really checked out any of its comments, for I enjoyed the comic Spawn so much, with all the amazing characters and lines, I really thought it would work out fine, but no, it sucked.The plot is horrible. The movie spends way too much time explaining the relationship between one another and has totally forgotten to let the character Spawn, or any other character, to grow. In fact, I found Spawn pretty dead. There's just no glamour in Spawn. (or actually, all of the characters)And the lines! Gosh, they are so dumb. Lines in the comic are compelling and powerful, yet there is none in the movie! They are so dumb that you think you are watching some stupid animation for pre-teens (deleting all the swear words).The movie too doesn't have a pace. The action sequences are slow, and not even artistic in the own Spawn way.It's just, if you like the comic, you are not going to like the movie. Even if you are looking for an action movie or just any movie with a comic source, I suggest you to check back the Batman series. So don't expect anything, except the cloak. That is the one thing that I like about the movie. And nothing else. "},{"Title":"Short of helluva time (sorry for the pun)","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I had actually looked forward to seeing this movie when I saw clips of it at a comic book convention (where I had the pleasure of meeting Michael Jai White) but this film was something of a disappointment.  I don't know, this movie just didn't strike me as all that interesting, a fact which is a damn shame knowing that not only the concept of the Spawn character WAS interesting, but that the film had a capable cast, including the aforementioned Michael Jai White as the title character, John Leguizamo as the delightfully over-the-top villain, and Martin Sheen as the secondary and appropriately comic book-cheese villain.  This movie was an okay way to waste some time but not anything special. "},{"Title":"Definitely not what I expected","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I'm going to keep it shortThe Hell sequences SUCKED.The final battle was in the wrong place. It should have been in an alley or in a dark out of the way place, not in a house.Clown was played perfectly by John Leguizamo.Charlie sheen should have been more of an indirect threat in the plot. Jason Wynn is more of a villanous leader who give out the orders, not a man of action.I hope that Todd McFarlane sees where he went wrong in this movie and makes an action movie like Blade or he turns it into a scary drama like he's promising. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably, disgracefully, embarassingly bad","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Listen up. This is why Spawn is a lame film. Not that it was made by bad filmakers, but because it wasn't made by filmakers at all. It was made by people who had no idea how movies work. The director is a special effects man, not a director. So ignore any reviews by teenagers, who the film is blatantly targeted at, and see past the weak and embarassing attempts to appear 'cool' and 'badass'. Spawn is just as bad as Batman & Robin.  "},{"Title":"Just another revenge flick with some nifty effects","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  In the end analysis, this is merely yet another revenge film with some flashy effects.  The special effects themselves are fairly uniformly well done, with the exception of Satan who is without a doubt the worst effect of the film.There were several elements that I personally found very distracting and annoying that made me suspect that _Spawn_ was made with a very unsophisticated and even cinema-illiterate audience in mind.  The snippets of expository narration and, more importantly, constant use of flashbacks to underscore important plot points became irritating fairly early in the piece.  More generally, the movie had an MTV feel, as though it was one long rock video, complete with flashing (and illegible) credits._Spawn_ is worth seeing for the effects, but not much else. "},{"Title":"A movie full of ACTION.","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I've been playing with Spawn toys and comic books. So, I like this movie whether it's bad or not.After I've seen this movie, I like it. It's dark and full of action scenes. The scene I like best is that Spawn crash into a party with Jason Wynn in it.The best thing in this movie is Spawn and The Clown is really like in the comic book, like the director took him out of the comic and put him in the movie.If you like explosions, action, chasing scene, you should see this movie. Oh, for Spawn fans, you must see this. "}{"Title":"cool movie","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  this is a cool movie. I never got bored watching it. It had nonstop action. If you like a good fantasy movie this is the movie for you. The only thing I didn't like the crude humor, but thats the only thing I didn't like. It had some cool music. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good action/ fantasy movie. "},{"Title":"Inconsistent and messy adaptation.","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  	Adaptations from comic book to the big screen have always had an unsettled history, 'Spawn' being a classic example, with creator Todd McFarlane describing himself as 'the only guy dumb enough or brave enough' to pitch his vision of Hell to Hollywood and all in the limited confines of a PG-13 feature.	Ambitious or not, Spawn's translation is an inconsistent yet eclectic mix of action, espionage, black humour, and supernatural legend immersed in a heavy environment of digital and make-up effects, punchily edited with an MTV soundtrack, but even with an R rating Spawn's story begins to convulse and collapse under it's own zest to cram just about everything in but the Devil's kitchen sink. Unfortunately it's all stuff we've seen before; a broken hero seeking revenge, the family he's lost, the cold business like villain and even the mandatory street kid sidekick. So by the time Spawn's origin is established and the bullets and chains start to fly, interest begins to wane. Admittedly hi-octane, larger than life action fans may find something of interest here as Spawn doesn't stay still for long, with action scenes sharing the same absurd energy that many Manga titles depend on.	It is difficult to work out where Spawn fails most, as the film has both weaknesses and strengths in the same areas. While the cast has some respectable names their delivery is often marred by tacky dialogue, with Michael Jai White handed undoubtedly the worst. Martin Sheen sails through without too much effort despite using an awfully cliched tough guy voice that seems just a little over done even here. The almost unrecognizable John Leguizamo playing the spitting clown, adds some humour with some catchy but yet again over used one-liners. Nic  Williamson is a talented actor and wise choice of narrator but doesn't seem to fit comfortably within the scenes, his character is far too reminiscent of an Obi-Wan Kenobi figure.	Industrial Light and Magic's effects are also of hugely varifying quality, Spawn's transforming costume a high point, but too many low points are evident to mention, except for the truly appalling main demon. One can only guess the stretched budget was a key factor in this. Low budget aside, Spawn's script and ultimate direction seems to be it's biggest stumbling block, there are some bare bones of excitement contained but it's handled messily as the effects, sharing a similar fate as so many other comic book adaptations before, simply unable to convey itself effectively on camera to a wider audience. "},{"Title":"Mac Farlane, you disappointed me","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  It was a Friday, and I was very happy, because I was going to watch a movie starring my favorite super hero Spawn! Spawn!!! I loved the comics, so I was sure I was going to love it!I went into the cinema, bought some popcorn and coke, sat in the first row and waited. I was very anxious I had waited for four months for that moment. So the movie began. Al Simmons! Hey, fellows, that's Spawn, but he's not dead yet! I told my pals.But after 30 minutes... Damn! I was horrified... because it looked like if the actors, Mac Farlane and the director weren't taking the story seriously. It had nothing to do with the comics', and it was terribly different... and terribly told. The actors... all of them were terrible (they told me John Leguizamo was funny. Well... I didn't smile at him).The only good things in this movie are the special effects (more exactly, Spawn's cape) and that scene where Spawn chases the Clown. But that's all. It's not worth the ticket price.My rating 4. 2 because of the cape and the chase scene. 1 because Spawn's powers are cool and 1... because at least they tried. "},{"Title":"Graphics!!!!!!","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"        In Spawn the movie their are alot of creative graphic scenes. Spawn is the main character which he inrolls to play as  the good guy and bad. Spawn has many talents which have to do with his body figure. He can shoot out special weapons as he thinks it through his head.        Spawn is a reluctant character he is supposed to be a very fargile person but he can never die.This story is about all and nothing but revenge. He is brought out as a simple house men which his life ends by being killed in a fight. His soul is brought by a clown is very pathetic to me its nothing unusual it would of been a better movie if it had a better plot. Mostly Graphics are prodiced in this movie which give aot of more spunk to the plot         In my conclusion to this movie is that the only good thing that i was interested in was the totally tight graphics. This was the main thing that was interesting to me. For the outcome of this movie i give a rating of 5.5 out of 10 to spawn.    Peace,            Shin           "},{"Title":"It doesn´t even deserves for someone to waste time writing about it.","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  But i guess i can´t help it.This was one of the worst movies i ever saw in my life ! Even worse than ID4, GODZILLA, STARGATE or RAMBO !I can´t even believe this movie was released ! The original comics are very good indeed, and they were a breath of fresh air when they first appeared. Why did his creators let something like this happen ?!!Was the money that good ? First the story in this movie, is absolute cliché hollywood garbage and it could have been writen for any super hero. Second that clown character is simpy unberable, even worse than Jar Jar Binks from Star Wars if that´s possible. Come on people this was suposed to be a Demon, not an idiot ! Third, what is Martin Sheen doing here ?! He´s too good for this #@£§?. Well at least he seemed to be having fun. Fourth how come those special effects from the cape look so amazing, but those hell scenes are so devoid of imagination, and are incredibly badly done ?!!!! Fifth, where´s the atmosphere from the books ? Sixth, how come this is so politicaly correct, regarding to violence ? Spawn is a violent hero, but this movie feels like a Disney movie.Seventh, why am i losing my time writing this review ?A terrible movie. STAY AWAY ! It´s that BAD ! EVEN WORSE ! "},{"Title":"Blade is better","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  This film is just CGI special effects, thats it!   The film doesn't make no sense. The plot is a complete mess! The acting was okay, It should have been better. The R-Rating Director's cut version didn't help this movie a wlone lot either. John Leguizamo is pretty funny as the clown from hell, but that doesn't save this movie from being a bad film. There is nothing here, I didn't find a bit entertaining. I did liked it the first viewing. But the second viewing. This movie gets so boring after the first showing of this film. I recommended you to rent the movie, Blade which is much better. Watch this movie, if you catch this on television. Its not worth the money to rent or buy.I hope that the sequel will be much better than this.** "},{"Title":"hard to sit through","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Would you believe that my sister was given 'Spawn - The Director's Cut' as a birthday present by one of her friends? Maybe it was a joke?What is Spawn? Spawn is the type of film that is made on the cheap. Attempts at bringing comics to life on the big-screen usually always fail, but none stoop the depths of nonsense Spawn aspires to. I forced myself to sit through the whole thing, which is a feat in itself. Avoid spawn like the plague - you have been warned. There are no redeeming factors. And if you want to keep a friend, don't give them Spawn as a birthday gift!1/10. "},{"Title":"This movie is terrible!!!!!","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  This is now part of the list of the worst movies of all time according to me Event Horizon, Godzilla, Can't Hardly Wait..., Speed 2, and Jurassic Park 2 The Lost World. Why is it so bad?  Gee, where can I start?  First, this movie leaves you with a bad feeling.  You're not happy, you're not bad, you just feel ashamed for having seen it.  It's too dark, too gloomy, and not interesting at all. Besides that, the acting is subpar and the script is stupid.John Leguizamo is very annoying and every minute he's on the screen I wanted to run out of the theater.  Micheal Jai White is decent, just decent.All in all, this movie is a bad experience.  I don't know why it was made and I don't really care. "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Spawn was a cool movie.  The special effects were awesome and the action scenes were good.  This was the best movie version of a comic book in a long time, way better than The Crow or Virus.    "},{"Title":"Awful with no redeeming features","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" What are actors with the ability and pedigree of Martin Sheen and Nicol Williamson doing appearing in this awful film? The story line is plodding, the special effects old hat and the whole thing derivative. Take a bit of batman, a bit of hellboy, a bit of Blade Runner etc etc.I rented it through iTunes and wasted £2.49!It is one of the worst comic book adaptations I have ever seen. There is no pace to the film and the its message and morality are confusing. To the English ear, calling a dog Spaz is revolting and that didn't help.Hollywood can do so much better and I am just glad I never paid to see this at the cinema. It just tries to reinforce that tired American view that force is everything. "}{"Title":"Certainly not a waste of time watching.","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" As you might have read in the other comments (long ones) the FX goes from very good (for a movie from '97) to very poor. Let me put it down simple - FX is excellent, if you skip the hell parts.For me it has been an enjoyable 90 mins of watching a film that should have lasted 2 hours @ least.Pro's - Simple story, not 2 fuzzy - Nice FX if you skip the hell parts - Lots of action! - Acting is above averageCon's - 2 Short, it's a lot of comics to put in 90 mins. - The games nowadays have better demonic FX.I have enjoyed myself a lot, finally some action again! "},{"Title":"for the love of Spawn","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Very disappointing movie.i think spawn is the most charismatic comic character ever, and this character deserves a better movie.Special effects are perfect but the script is very boring.Dialogues are very simple and the acting is bad.Martin Sheen is the most popular star in the cast.Also u can watch Melinda Clarke (the hottest woman in the O.C)I think Michael Jai White is a very bad choice for Spawn character.For the role of Clown John Leguizamo shows a good performance.I watched this movie because i am a real fan of Spawn.If you're a fan like me watch it otherwise go and watch Tim Burton's Batman or Sam Raimi's Spider Man.10/3 "},{"Title":"let down by a conventional setup","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" White is a skilled undercover assassin who always gets the job done. He's fed up with it, but is persuaded by his boss to take one last assignment. It in fact does end up being his last when he's double-crossed, murdered, then sent to Hell. Once there he makes a deal with The Devil that grants him phenomenal fighting abilities, an opportunity to return to Earth to see his grieving girlfriend, and claim vengeance against his sinister boss. However, with the guidance of a veteran warrior, he learns how to harness his powers and decides to use them for good. The film goes a long way on its impressive and elaborate special effects, plus good doses of comedy courtesy of Leguizamo, but the story is familiar and unfolds in predictable fashion. **½ "},{"Title":"ALMOST as good as LORD of the RINGS!!","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  This was a decent movie.  I bought the DVD.  What I really liked was simply the fantasy aspect of this movie.  Sure, it's all very unrealistic.  But heck, if you just let your imagination go, it's fun.  There were a few items in this movie that I did not understand.  One of those things is the fact that Spawn never seemed to be hungry.  Everybody is this movie was eating but no, not Spawn, he was immune to the growling stomache.  The Satanic Clown was fun.  Good lines were said and the CG was interesting.  Part of the movie was lame in the effects dept though, specifically the SATAN character.  Lord of the Rings fans should like this flick. "},{"Title":"Cool macabre designs, awesome story...","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Five or so years ago, I saw this movie. Now, this last weekend, I watched it for the second time. Altogether, it is awesome!Todd McFarlane is quite likely the coolest comics designer ever to live. His intense, macabre depictions of superheroes and antiheroes is almost gothic and Tim Burtonesque in style, making Spawn way more cooler in design than Spider-Man or Batman. The Exoskin is amazing, and how many people wouldn't want to have something like that for themselves, without having to make the whole deal with the devil?Martin Sheen makes a decent, but stereotypical villain in the style of a James Bond's Blofeld, the classic 'take over the world' ploy just a bit too stale. Otherwise, he's decent, and to be perfectly honest, that is EXACTLY what Charlie Sheen is going to look like in twenty years or so.Leguizamo is nifty as the grotesque clown, and perhaps the best demonic monster as the Violator. Seriously, If you love movies based on comics, you have to have seen this. If not, rent it now. Die hard fans of comics and McFarlane in general will find this movie a kickass story. I Put it in my own Top Ten Comic Adaptations.  "},{"Title":"Disapointing, forshame Mr. McFarlen","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I am a huge fan of Spawn.  I think he's the most interesting superhero. Batman is cool because he's vulnerable and has gadgets.  Superman is cool because he's like a Swiss Army knife of super powers.  But both of them lack that human quality, which Spawn has.  Spawn has the potential to be 5 times more powerful than Superman.  But he is too stubborn to develop his power. He has emotional issues, after all, if you lost everything and everyone you cared about after retunring from hell and being apointed general of the army of hell, you would be in need of a therapist too.  He has a past that hounts him.  And, he isn't sweet.  He does have a heart, but he doesn't want to go around saving people like Superman.  I'm not a comic person, but I do have several of the fist Spawn comics.  I really loved the HBO television show. It was pretty gruesome, but it was interesting in a cool way.  I consider Spawn to be a superhero for adults.  I guess it's pointless to say that I had high hopes for the movie.Well, the movie sucks.  Oh man, I nearly cried.  This is Spawn?  NO! IT'S NOT!  Well, it sort of is, but it's been dumbed down for the PG-13 rating and made all Hollywoody.  The only part of it that is any good is the AWESOME special effects.  These have to be the coolest specail effects I have ever seen.  In some movies, that would be enough to be entertaining. But the movie is just so stupid and un-fun that I stopped caring how good it looked.Adults won't like this movie.  It's stupid and immature. Aw.Kids will love this; it's&#133; stupid and immature!  Yea!Teens&#133; won't care.Fans of Spawn will puke on the sidewalk.Todd McFarlen, if you're reading this, YOU OWE US ONE!!! If you make a sequel, which you should do, then don't do it like this.  Make it rated R and please, please, DON'T SCREW IT UP AGAIN!3/10  "},{"Title":"Slightly Above-Average Comic Crossover","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Spawn is another comic-to-film crossover in the spirit of Tim Burton's Batman where the hero is driven mostly to become a hero to revenge the death of a loved one.  There is also another storyline about Armageddon, but both stories are very thinly scripted.Usually, a weak script would make any film an unintelligeble mess, but somehow Spawn gets away with it thanks to a sympathetic hero and John Leguizamo, unrecognizable but perfectly cast as a devilish Clown with more teeth than Jaws.  Really, it's Leguizamo's one-liners and funny dialogues with Spawn that makes the whole movie fun to watch, along with that wonderful cape.Don't watch Spawn and expect a film as grandiose as Batman or well-written as X-Men or as star-studded as the ill-fated Batman and Robin. There's a few good action scenes, some great visuals, and some fun dialogue here, but nothing else much - it all adds up to a somewhat satisfying, mindless flick.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Action movie with superb effects","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I do enjoy movie with effects which can match the actual settings. Just like movie which taken from comic book, it should do exactly like the comic book.The CG is excellent. One of the best i have ever seen. It is even better some fantasy movie make in 2000. "},{"Title":"Somewhat underrated adaptation of Todd McFarlane's Comic Book film.","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Gouverment/Assassin Al Simmons (Michael Jai White) is been double cross by his sleazy boss (Martin Sheen) and then murdered. But Al returns to earth, six years after his death. Al is been re-born in the form of Spawn, a hell-born creature with supernatural powers. He made a deal with the devil to avenge his death and to lead Hell's army to destroy Heaven. But he has a change of heart, when his death was a conspiracy. Since it was planned by the evil Clown/Violator (John Leguizamo). His previous boss on earth is planning to unleashed a virus upon the world. Now it is up to Spawn to make things right.Directed by Mark A. Z. Dippé (Frankenfish) made an visually, interesting take on the over-exposed superhero premise by putting a fresh unique spin. Which is based on a comic book created by Todd McFarlane (Which he appears in a cameo). Impressive visual style is certainly a major asset and Leguizamo's comic performance as Clown/Violator steals the show. Visual Effects are from George Lucas' Industrial, Light & Magic are terrific. Certainly style over substance wins this film over. But Spawn suffers the same faith like Tim Burton's Batman. Which the Joker was much more interesting character than Batman. This one has the same problem as well. This wasn't a big success in theaters, which the sequel was cancel. Even the short-lived animated TV series from HBO has things unfinished as well. But overall it's flaws, it is well made and also make White a creditable hero. Nicol Williamson is in fine support as Spawn's mentor. Screenplay by Alan B. McElroy (Halloween 4The Return of Michael Myers, Rapid Fire, Wrong Turn). From a story by McElroy and Dippé. Excellent soundtrack as well. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Spawn or...yawn?","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  I'm a comic book fan and generally try to watch any comic book adaptation to film. Spawn is one of my favorite comic book characters and a movie about him sounded exciting. Unfortunately, this film is a classic case of great source material, bad execution. The film suffers from a very bad script (idiotic at some points), bad acting and some lousy CGI effects (not all CGI effects in the film are bad, just the parts in Hell). On the plus side the atmosphere of the film is quite good and Spawn's armor is rather good (best part of the film is when Spawn fights using his armor).What bugs me the most about this movie is that it could have been so much better. Spawn is a great character, a badass anti-hero with some really cool powers (which come from his armor) but in the film he comes out as a weak and not very intelligent man, easily manipulated and led on by almost everyone he meets. I guess the fact that there is no sequel says a lot. Recommended for comic book fans. I give it 5 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Spawned by Greatness!","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Movies like SPAWN don't really have much plot, but here is what there is to SPAWN's plot. Assassin Al Simmons Michael Jai White  is killed and makes a deal with the devil. Al can see his wife, Wanda Theresa Randle if he leads the devil's army. Desperate to see Wanda, he agrees to the devil's deal. There's the plot. The plot is not why you should see SPAWN. You should see it for it's spectacular special effects and the performances of Michael Jai White and Martin Sheen as Jason Wynn. If you like Superhero fantasy movies, SPAWN is for you!!  "},{"Title":"A long, hard road out of hell","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Immensly entertaining action and drama mixed with some great visual darkness make this a must see for comic book fans or fans of the TV show Spawn.  I liked it, but not as much as the TV show.  Mainly because the performances weren't that good (Mainly by John Leguizamo as Clown).  They were good in relevance to the show, but they lacked something the show had- Greatness.  Fun and enthralling, but don't expect a great comic book turned into a movie here.  A "},{"Title":"Spawn is a great film! One of the best!","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Spawn is an awesome film that has a great cast including Michael Jai White, John Leguizamo, Martin Sheen, Theresa Randle, Nicol Williamson, D.B. Sweeney, Melinda Clarke, Miko Hughes, Sydni Beaudoin, Michael Papajohn, Frank Welker, and Todd McFarlane! The acting by all of these actors is very good. White is excellent in this film. He perfect for this role! Leguizamo was great and hilarious! Sheen performed good and is a great villain. Nicol Williamson has a great performance here! I love his voice! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising. The movie is filmed very good and special effects are outstanding. The music is great by Graeme Revell. Great directing by Mark A.Z. Dippé! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This is a very good and thrilling film. If you like Michael Jai White, John Leguizamo, Martin Sheen, Theresa Randle, Nicol Williamson, D.B. Sweeney, the rest of the cast in the film, Action, Thrillers, Horror, Fantasy, Comic, and interesting epic films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today! "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"24 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" It's a far better comic adaptation than anything Marvel or DC ever brought out.MCfarlane's noir comic, which I read from day one, is masterfully stuffed into an hour and a half. The FX were OK but a remake in this century could only make this movie more awesome. If any comic series deserved a sequel,it would be Spawn. Too much was left untold (Thank God you can still reset My favorite character is definitely the clown AKA Violator. He is so evil it's both funny and grotesque way was better than the joker ever was (OK maybe except the latest batman)Michael White was an excellent choice for Al Simmons and he is more importantly one of the few actors that actually has both the physique and the athleticism to play a hero.As a fan of action comics and especially of Spawn the comic and the TV-series i recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Good dark story with potential - spoilt by bad acting and poor effects","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  When Government assassin Simmons is left for dead by his treacherous boss Wynn his soul is carried to Hell where he strikes a deal with the devil whereby he will be able to see his beloved Wanda again in exchange for leading the devil's army of souls against heaven.  When Simmons (now Spawn) arrives back on Earth he finds himself with a new suit of armour attached to his own nervous system and two guides competing for his loyalty - clown and Cogliostro.  Wynn has developed a biological weapon and the Clown is setting him up to use it, however Spawn realises the enormity of what he is involved in and begins to use his powers to defend the earth.This is a comic book adaptation that didn't make it quite as big as some others have.  The story is good for comic standards and is quite dark in tone.  It is a little confused at times and it's not totally clear what's going on at times in terms of Spawn's loyalty and it's not totally clear why the clown is setting up Spawn to kill Wynn rather than just doing it himself?  However it's good to see a comic adoption that maintains a comic's dark tone (Batman & Robin anyone?).  Unfortunately the special effects are not up to the job of meeting the comic's vision - the scenes in hell are a joke and some of Spawn's cape effects are ropey - some of the effects are good (such as the Clown's transformation) but most are poor.The performances are pretty poor as well.  White is good when doing tough guy stuff and talking in a deep voice, but he cannot deal with Spawn - potentially a complex character instead he just does a lot of shouting and kicking.  Sheen doesn't manage to bring any quality to the film - he too just does a cartoon super-villain.  Theresa Randle doesn't have much to do as Wanda but boy does she look good doing it!  She is a good actress who has had better roles than this but she is good-looking in everything she does!  The prize for the worst actor goes to an uncontested Leguizamo - his clown is the worst thing about this film and his messing around distracts from the film where I suspect it was meant to be comic relief.  I was really tempted to push fast forward every time he came onscreen (but that was most of the film).Overall a dark story is given a potentially good plot but weighed down by bad acting and poor special effects. "},{"Title":"Great Comedy with Devils","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" This film gave me a great big surprise and the story had me on the edge of my seat not knowing in what direction it was going to take me, in other words, Heaven or Hell. Michael Jai White,(Al Simmons/Spawn) played the role as a good guy with a nice family and a cute little dog. Al worked for Martin Sheen,(Jason Wynn) and did not like the way Jason made his living or the tasks that he was assigned. Al wanted out of this operation and was asked if he would do one last assignment. This assignment was to lead the Devil's soldiers on earth which Al was tricked into and deceived by John Luguyano,(Clown/Violator) who was full of jokes and in many ways stole the entire picture from even the Devil himself. Great entertainment and outstanding acting by all the actors. Enjoy "},{"Title":"not a chick flick, not a date flick, not a kid flick","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" OK, I watched this tonight with an open mind, although I was told I probably would not like it. RIGHT. It's definitely not a date flick, not a chick flick, and too much horror/cruelty/scenes of Hellfire for a small child. First off- - the Clown. When I saw him, I thought, OK, this will be like Stephen King. Wrong. Stephen King sets out to scare you, not gross you out. This Clown was like the neighborhood pervert, spewing grossness in nearly every scene. At first I was curious about him, then every time he showed up in a scene I began to cringe. This character ruined the movie for me. The scenes of horror- well, they creeped me out. The one shining point was Martin Sheen. His role was top notch and polished. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" I was thinking that this movie had a fair plot but the special effects were really good for its time. Done by ILM if I'm not wrong. The weapons coming out from his armor or body were super cool, especially his chains and his ability to morph.The only special effect that didn't come through as realistic was the part where Spawn's cloak was flowing around the actors when he jumped down through the skylight and landed in the ballroom. Other than that, this was a great movie (despite the weak plot) with special efforts. It'd be great if someone could do a sequel with today's CGI. "},{"Title":"They should have just made this a bloody R movie.","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":"  Instead they tried to make it a PG-13 movie, and toned down the whole thing.  In the end, I found it was a pretty good movie, but not nearly as good as it could have been.  Martin Sheen should not have been in this one, and I think he was horribly miscast.  The special effects were good in some scenes and over the top in others...the finale in Hell is a bit much and it is almost painful to watch, as there is just too much cgi.  This is the story of a mercenary who is killed and comes back as an agent for Hell.  This clown guides him, but the clown in the animated series was creepy while this one is to comedy oriented.  All in all it has some good action here and there and some good scenes it just needed to be made into a more adult oriented movie like Blade. "},{"Title":"Leguizimo Fun To Watch; Otherwise Just Loud Satanic Noise","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"12 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror","Review":" Boy, here's another movie that Satan himself put have produced through the dupes you made it. Early we hear a TV newscast, .....and the (Christian) Coalition attempting to bomb the Mid-east peace talks.... I know the Left hates anything Christian but this is goes even past the normal cheap shots filmmakers insert into many movies, especially when they deal with theology. You can count on everything but the real thing. The fact that Marilyn Manson is on the soundtrack should give you another clue where this is coming from, propaganda-wise.The fun part of the film was watching John Leguizimo playing a totally fat, gross person. He had some very clever and hilarious lines but stepped over the boundary of crudeness, too. He has to be one of the wildest characters ever put on screen.Overall, too much noise, out-of-control scenes and characters and too much of a Satanic feel to it to watch again. "}]