[{"Title":"Good Little Movie","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"100 out of 119 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ah, 1998&#133; Bill Clinton was still in the White House, the Gulf War had no sequel, gas was under $2.00 a gallon, and a kinda-known actress was in her pre-J. Lo/Jenny from the Block/Bennifer/media whore phase.Back when she used to have a little (now she has a lot), Jennifer Lopez was actually enjoyable in Steven Soderbergh's 'Out of Sight.' I saw this in the theater when it came out and remember thinking it was one of the better films I'd seen that year. I watched it again last night on DVD, and I have to say that it still holds up. Clooney is finally given a worthy vehicle, and he and Lopez have actual, undeniable chemistry on the screen. The supporting players (especially the incomparable Don Cheadle) are perfectly cast. Soderbergh effortlessly knocks this one out of the park.One critic gave the film two and a half out of four stars and claimed 'Out of Sight' was in need of a 'shot of adrenaline,' but I have no idea where he's coming from. When you think of all the bad movies that are released in any given year, you'd think you'd appreciate something like this. "},{"Title":"Yes, that's right...this movie is Out of Sight.","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"74 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" When released in 1998, Out of Sight was Steven Soderburgh's most mainstream film to date, after he burst onto the indie scene a decade earlier with Sex, Lies, and Videotape. Based upon the novel by Elmore Leonard (Get Shorty, Jackie Brown), the movie tells the tale of odd couple Jack Foley (George Clooney), a career criminal, and federal marshall Karen Sisco (Jennifer Lopez). After a unique first encounter, their paths continue intersecting, with various degrees of intent, to comprise the bulk of the story.Similar to the Soderburgh-helmed Ocean's Eleven, Out of Sight blends the standard apples and oranges of genres into a delicious smoothie. This is a drama, minus the driving intensity, light-hearted enough to pass as a comedy. It's a comedy, but not of the HAHA sort. The humor lies in things like Clooney's glances, JLo's relationship dilemmas, the paradox of Ving Rhames' self-righteous thief, and the sheer absurdity of Don Cheadle's gangsta. It's also a romance and a cop-and-robber story, but neither love nor crime is the whole point. All of these pieces unite to form a fantastic puzzle of a picture.The tasty complexity is further deepened by the non-linear storytelling technique. Flashing backward here and there throughout the film is a good choice because the viewer can only fully understand the previous events with the 20/20 vision of hindsight. Plus it eliminates what could have been a painful first half hour of exposition, instead spreading the backstory through the rest of the film.The stylistic singular color palettes for different locations that Soderburgh later used magnificently in Traffic are present here as well. From bright sun-drenched Florida to the ice cold blues of Detroit, this technique serves as virtual atmosphere, allowing one to determine the geography even without the convenience of titles. In a non-linear film like this, that ease in recognizing time and place facilitates comprehension of what is happening when. Unique among Soderburgh's work (to my recollection) is the film's use of occasional freeze frames. Stopping the picture for just a second or two, Soderburgh gently identifies poignant moments, obvious or not, allowing an extra moment to deservedly linger on them.With the high technical accomplishments, the acting almost doesn't matter, but the slightly understated method works wonders. Clooney is his usual suave self, complete with snappy dialogue and a cornucopia of confidence. In a role that Enough can only dream about, JLo almost looks like a real actress (joke). She is absent her too-common ditziness and easily holds her own, despite being a tad too glamorous. Rhames, Cheadle, and Albert Brooks are their usual solid selves, playing parts both similar and drastically different from their wheelhouses. Everyone seems to have perspective in their parts, not utilizing excessive gravity or levity, but rather hitting the appropriate notes as they inhabit their roles to perfection. Ultimately you believe all of these actors in their parts, even if JLo's skirts are entirely too short for a federal agent.Like Ocean's Eleven, Out of Sight is a very good film, merging quality in all aspects of film-making into a fully enjoyable two hour experience. The main themes of crime and love are basic, so the movie doesn't soar to remarkable heights. But if you're looking for a brilliantly made film that you might have missed on its theatrical run, espy Out of Sight and settle in for a quirkily involving night. If you saw it a few years back, check it out again to see Soderburgh's foundation for his own excellence.Bottom Line A wholly absorbing movie that serves as a film-making clinic of brilliance. 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"The Pulp Fiction of 1998","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"79 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wild and chaotic action/drama/comedy that was basically ignored by everyone in 1998, but was definitely one of the top ten films of the year.  Bank robber George Clooney escapes prison one day and is tracked by a female federal marshal (Jennifer Lopez, in a very hot performance).  There is definitely a chemistry between Clooney and Lopez that will lead to fireworks on more than one occasion.  Clooney has teamed up with some crazed criminals for a jewel heist, but Lopez continues to track him relentlessly.  Out of Sight is so full of, well, everything.  It is packed with action, romance, drama, and some very black comedy.  Clooney and Lopez do the best work of their careers.  The supporting cast is super as well.  Don Cheadle, Ving Rhames, Michael Keaton, Dennis Farina, and Albert Brooks all shine with the inventive screenplay and the top-notch direction.  4.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Cool and Passionate","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"51 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Out of Sight' is one of those rare films that can boast of having class in every department.  The direction, script, cinematography, design and costumes disply such an acute and almost natural flair for bringing Elmore Leonard to the screen that it should be made illegal to film any of his novels without these people. But the acting is in a world of its own.  Farina, Keaton, Rhames, Cheadle and Zahn all bring depth, comedy and intelligence to their roles. All are eclipsed however by the irresistable pairing of Jennifer Lopez and George Clooney. Clooney has finally managed to act without peering beneath his eyebrows and the effect is electric.  This is the part he was born to play.  His charisma is tangiable, but there is also a sense of fatalism whihc makes his character all the more compelling. Lopez, after her screaming shit-fits in the woeful 'Anaconda' proves that sexuality must also equal intelligence.  Her Cisco is a mouth-watering mix of sass, beauty and cut-throat determination.  It is one of those moments when you can actually see a star being born on screen.  Put Clooney and Lopez together, and you have the type of chemistry with which executives have wet dreams over  "},{"Title":"See? J.Lo CAN act!","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chemistry so hot that they ignite the screen. Too bad it didn't ignite the Box Office, but Out Of Sight is one movie both George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez can feel damn proud of. Maybe it's the fact that George's criminal character is *actually* funny and multi-dimensional. Maybe it's the fact that the storyline actually has a story to it - and an interesting one at that. Hell - maybe it's just that J.Lo walks around in skimpy outfits - curves flaunted - and likes to kick butt. After much consideration, I must concur it's equal parts to all 3.Strong performances by Clooney (Jack) and Lopez (Karen), as well as George's Ocean's 11 co-star Don Cheadle. Witty script and likeable characters with a satisfying and plot-twisting ending. What more can you want? Did I hear you say Jennifer Lopez naked? Yeah well, you won't get that here... but it's good all the same! "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the 90's","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"36 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great film. The characters seemed believable. The dialog well written, sharp, but not overly polished, no character has a monologue. How often in the 90's do we see a thriller, or crime mystery, or a buddy film, all components the film plays with, and would consider a discussion about the script? Leonard has a way with the practical aspects of crime, the fist fight and shoot outs are awkward, characters miss their mark more often than not, they run out of gas. How often in an action film does the hero miss a shot? I'm sick to death of wildly unbelievable stories, huge explosions and car chases. The photography is very well done and the soundtrack is fantastic. Of particular note is the editing, of which the film received an oscar nomination. One of the best love scenes in a contemporary film. What you hope you get with an adult crime movie, sleek, smart and sexy. "},{"Title":"The Resurrection and Gradual Appreciation of a Classic Film","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Steven Soderbergh knows his way around the bizarre, nearly impossible story lines and can translate them to film as few others can. OUT OF SIGHT is a little masterpiece of film-making despite the fact that when it initially screened in 1998 it seemed to slip by theatergoers' attention. Based on the inimitable Elmore Leonard novel the story begs indulgence in credible situations but shines in quality of script and characterization and an atmospheric cinematic capturing of a dark, film noir comedy drama that grabs you by the head and holds you glued to the screen for the duration.The story is rather simple on the surface - a jailed bank robber escapes with the help of his buddy and plans a major hit only to encounter a federal agent in pursuit of the two who becomes the love interest portion of this strangely convoluted tail. Subplots and sidebars are sprinkled throughout Soderbergh's telling of Leonard's story, serving to keep our minds alert and mesmerized by the plot development.The cast is absolutely first rate with George Clooney, Jennifer Lopez and Ving Rhames especially pungent in roles that seem written for them. The strong supporting cast includes such fine actors as Steve Zahn, Catherine Keener, Don Cheadle, Luis Guzman , Isaiah Washington, Dennis Farina, and Albert Brooks. And for those who enjoy powerful sexual chemistry Clooney and Lopez offer some of their finest collaborative acting. This is a fine movie and one that doubtless in time will be considered and under appreciated Film Classic. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"24 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight was one of the best movies of 1998, and yet it was ignored by moviegoers. I am amazed that most of George Clooney's movies fail, with the exception of Batman and Robin all of his films have been good. This film has good performances from a talented cast and great direction from an original story by Elmore Leonard. Highly reccomended. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I, too, had a little trouble buying that such an intense relationship was born from such a minor conversation between them in the trunk.  However, when I was able to get past that inconsistency in the plot, I found a great movie.  Clooney and Lopez have great chemistry and show that they are both actors worthy of recognition.  I loved the editing--the choppy cuts and the freezing of certain scenes.  And I have never seen a better seduction scene in my life.  The supporting cast was great too, especially the incomparably zany Steve Zahn.  And once I got past the improbability of the relationship being so intense that she would risk her career for it, I thought that the way that she did risk her career was just great.  I laughed out loud at the scene when he waves to her from the elevator.  That is just a wonderful illustration that not everything is clear-cut or easy to do.  Clooney was phenomenal, so cool...and just resigned to his life.  I loved it.By the way, seeing this movie after Jennifer Lopez has launched her career in pop music simply infuriated me that Hollywood has all but lost a true talent to the world of bubblegum pop.   "},{"Title":"Easily the best Elmore Leonard adaptation & a GREAT film","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Expect good things in the future from everyone involved with this film, because they all come off nicely. Scott Frank gets Elmore Leonard just right, and Steven Soderburgh makes all the right decisions, pulling George Clooney's best performance out of him. Clooney has great chemistry with Jennifer Lopez, who is sly and tough as always. Their characters' conversation in a Detroit hotel bar is the sexiest scene I've ever seen. Albert Brooks and Don Cheadle are perfect, and Steve Zahn steals yet ANOTHER movie. The DVD is nice, if only for one deleted scene (right before the bathtub scene) that is hilarious, yet still never would've worked had they kept it in the film. SEE this film - and see how long the characters stay with you.  "}{"Title":"Opposites Attract","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Out Of Sight is a crime thriller which neatly combines action, comedy and romance with dialogue which is sharp, scintillating and witty and characters who are fascinating to watch. The humour is extremely enjoyable, the action is full of surprises and the characters, with their various flaws and weaknesses provide the movie with its strongest element.Jack Foley (George Clooney) is a bank robber extraordinaire who's spent too much of his life in prison. His modus operandi involves the use of charm and intelligence rather than guns and masks but when his getaway car fails to start after his latest robbery, he soon finds himself incarcerated in a Florida prison.He joins some other inmates in a jail break but is suddenly confronted by Federal Marshall Karen Sisco (Jennifer Lopez) who threatens to shoot him if he continues. Fortunately, Jack's friend Buddy Bragg (Ving Rhames) had also been waiting for him outside the prison and quickly bundles Karen and Jack into the trunk of his car before driving off at great speed. Surprisingly, during their time together in this exceedingly confined space, the couple develop a certain rapport and it's quickly evident that there's a strong attraction between them.During his time in prison, one of Jack's fellow inmates was Richard Ripley (Albert Brooks), an ex-Wall Street man who'd been convicted for being involved in insider trading. He'd openly told others in the prison about the $5 million worth of uncut diamonds that were hidden in his mansion in Detroit, so after the jail break, some of the escapees make their way to Detroit with the intention of robbing Ripley's house.Jack, having reached a point in his career where he felt that he could never face another spell in jail, decides to take part in the robbery as it could provide him with one last big pay day before he retires from his life of crime. Karen, however, is determined to stay on his trail and their confrontation at the Ripley mansion turns out to be both tense and unpredictable.Jack and Karen are both repeat offenders. He's had a long career of robbing banks and spending time in prison and Karen has consistently been attracted to the guys who she should be bringing to justice. They're both intelligent but also have lapses where their normally good judgement fails them. Getting involved with each other is dangerous for Jack and unprofessional for Karen. Jack also aims to profit from one last job although, by his own admission, he's never known of any criminal who's successfully achieved such a thing.Clooney and Lopez are both very good individually and sensational together as they so powerfully convey the intensity of their mutual attraction. The supporting cast are also top class. Ving Rhames is superb as Jack's good friend whose weakness is his regular need to confess his wrongdoings to his sister. Don Cheadle is faultless as a vicious ex-boxer and ruthless murderer and Steve Zahn is funny and convincing as a slurring stoner who's not very bright and also totally unreliable.Out Of Sight is a witty and offbeat film and the style of Steven Soderbergh's direction reflects this perfectly. The story about two opposites who attract each other is presented with great originality and the finished product is so engaging and enjoyable that it becomes one of those movies for which repeat viewings become irresistible. "},{"Title":"Steven and Elmore get blindsided.","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How did they get sucked into this vortex of swirling crapola? I couldn't even drag a friend to see this with me in the theater, my library of Elmore Leonard books and admiration for Steven Soderberg unimpressive to them. How did they know what I couldn't even imagine?When Cloony and the cow were in bed and she said I just want to see how this turns out., I stood up and said aloud to the theater, I DONT! and walked out.Now THAT'S good drama. "},{"Title":"Could this movie be worst?","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the worst movies of all times. The acting was horrific, the dialogue was appalling and the characters stereotypical and boring. Jennifer Lopez is one of the worst actresses I have seen in my whole entire life and she should stick to dancing since its the only thing she's good at.Anyone who honestly believes that this is a great movie needs their head examined. This is just another example of Hollywood taking a great idea for a story and turning it into boring, worthless drivel that people are *supposed* to like just because it has Jennifer Lopez in it.If you had a choice out of watching this movie and flushing your five dollars down the toilet, in my advice flush the money. At least then, you wouldn't have wasted two hours of your life which you could have spent doing something constructive or interesting. "},{"Title":"Lame","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let me start off by saying this movie is nothing more than a vehicle for JLo and Clooney.  It is not worth watching if you have a brain.  I don't know what some people see in this movie to call it underrated but I would say it is quite overrated.  JLo looks good and is completely unbelievable as a prison official.  The escape scene is clumsy and ludicrous.  The romance is forced and the story goes nowhere.  I expected so much more but got nothing but a movie that lacked credibility, charm, suspense, intrigue, and humor. Everyone tries to act so tough and it just gets old after several scenes.  "},{"Title":"Boring, poorly acted","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie should remain OUT OF SIGHT. The plot had no originality and the relationship between Clooney and Lopez was a joke. Anybody who draws comparisons with this lousy film and the great movies Jackie Brown and Get Shorty needs to get a clue.  "},{"Title":"Action Drama that should be kept well out of sight of serious film lovers.","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Disappointing formula drama.  Expected more...got much much less. "},{"Title":"Worst Clooney movie ever.","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This must be the worst Clooney movie ever made.  The Plot is very implausible, acting is bad and the script is even worse.  What a waste of time !  What makes me wonder though how can this movie get average of 7 stars out of 10 ?   It's not even worth 3 stars in my book.  Don't bother renting.... Shak. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of Character Development","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so unique, and so utterly amazing in its ability to present us time after time with real, believable characters.  And there are lots here, and even though they may appear for about 5 minutes (e.g. Michael Keaton, Albert Brooks, etc.), somehow we get to learn a little bit about them, to catch a small glimpse of their life.  Even the three ad guys at the bar seemed like the type you'd meet up with in real life.  If their parts were totally irrelevant to the movie, somehow they just fit anyway.How do the filmmakers achieve this effect, and how do they do it so seamlessly?  I thought the technique was by not presenting the characters to through their great accomplishments, but by their natural human faults.  I know it is wrong to love someone for their errors, we should rather love them for their virtues, etc, etc.  But I feel there is an aspect of imperfection in an individual's failures that is a major quality of what makes us human.Jack Foley (George Clooney) is a graying bank robber who, despite a sense of good nature and intelligence, does unplanned, and unarmed, bank heists and consequently spends most of his time in prison, no doubt scheming up new plans to get out.  Foley doesn't seem like the typical criminal who'd blame his anti-social habits on a bad childhood; rather, he carries a cocky, comical air of someone who does it for the heck of it, or maybe, to quote Foley, he's just not a nine-to-five kind of guy.  Karen Sisco (Jennifer Lopez) is Foley's feminine equivalent, who ignores her conscience and carries her cat and mouse games to the fullest extent, jeopardizing her career.  Sisco is very firm and bubbling with self-esteem, yet she's dating an married FBI agent who carries an arrogant, macho look on his face.Of course, I could go on forever, from Buddy's (Ving Rhames) certainly dull-witted habit of calling his sister to confess of jobs, especially one confession that got him and Foley busted, to White Boy Bob, who you'd write off as a basic bad guy character, until he does that thing to himself near the end of the movie.Now, there are many who will fault the movie for lagging, having too much dialogue, etc.  But I felt that if the movie was slowed down in any way, it was because the filmmakers took the guts to devote a little bit to create and flourish each character.  And that is why I love this film so much; this was made for an intelligent audience, for an audience that wants a little more out of dialogue, wants to get aroused without explicit sexuality on-screen (styles director Soderbergh is known for), and enjoy a good crime movie without the repetitive, drawn out gun battles.Soderbergh wanted to go mainstream with this movie, but you can only see him going deeper and deeper into film avant-garde.  Just hope those corrupt Hollywood producers, after seeing the lagging (there's that word again) box office receipts, don't get to him.10 of 10. "},{"Title":"Super cool and yet scorching hot","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sexy, stylish, funny, intelligent, tightly written, entertaining, great acting, brilliant directing.  When else would you want from a movie.  George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez are so hot together.  They make a sex-less conversation in the trunk of a car seem like on of the steamiest scenes ever filmed.  GREAT FLICK!  **** (of 4) "},{"Title":"The sexiest film in a long time","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  No one should disagree with me when I say that the sexual tension between Jennifer Lopez and George Clooney was the best on-screen in a long time. What I love about Soderbergh is his ability to create really sexy scenes without showing anything.  As for Mr. Clooney, everyone should lay off of him because he has proven that he is a great actor.  The whole entire cast is perfect and I would love to sit with this amazing director and find out how he does it.  It is one of the few films I can watch again and again, and I think you should all do the same... "}{"Title":"An Awful, Awful Display","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can you say about a film like this? I know exactly what you can say. There are two lead roles with very famous and apparently good looking people playing these parts, but they are not actors. They were awful.People do not seem to understand how bad this movie was because they could not stop staring at these mega stars. Lopez and Clooney may be cool in real life, but in this movie they were laughable. Please get real and recognize this movie for the trash it is. "},{"Title":"A star is born in Classy action flick","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" As well as being a classy movie with great duologue, wonderful chemistry between its two leads and a great plot, Out Of Sight was also a significant touchstone in 90s and 00s film as it was the movie where both George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez came of age. Up until this film both had shown promise, Lopez with her turn in the biopic Selena and Clooney in his roles on ER and in From Dusk Til Dawn. But neither had really established themselves as either quality big screen actors or as stars.One magical scene in the trunk of Lopez's car changed all of that. As soon as that scene was over you knew both were going places and by the end of the film we were looking at two of the biggest stars in Hollywood. For both actors, this was the role they were born to play. Clooney as a cool, charming, fatalistic crook Jack Foley and Lopez as sassy, sexy, tough and yet vulnerable FBI agent Karen Cisco.Adapted from an Elmore Leonard novel, the film is essentially about an FBI agent attempting to track down a master thief that she is infatuated, possibly even in love, with after being locked in the boot of her car with him during his escape. It's a premise brimming with possibilities, and in this case is executed perfectly, in no small way thanks to superb direction from Steven Soderbergh and an excellent cast.Lopez and Clooney's career- defining turns are joined by great supporting performances from Dennis Farina, Steve Zahn, Albert Brooks, Don Cheadle, Ving Rhames and Luis Guzman, with cameos from Michael Keaton and a big name African American star (who I won't name here) at the film's end to up the enjoyment still further.Out Of Sight was a great film when it came out in the late 90s, and is still just as entertaining today. Well made, well acted, timeless, sexy and classy. A great piece of Hollywood film making and one of the best films of the 90s. "},{"Title":"When Soderbergh arrived","Date":"4 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jack Foley(Clooney, with his charm turned up high throughout, you don't want him to go back to jail) has been robbing banks about as far back as he remembers, so when he abducts federal marshal Karen Sisco(like The Cisco Kid, only spelled different; Lopez plays the role well, some distance and authority, yet without being completely detached; I am not usually impressed with her performance, this is a welcome exception) and they have to be in the trunk of a car until his friend, Buddy(Rhames, very kind-hearted, underneath a small-time crook surface), gets them far enough from the prison he just broke out of, the romantic attraction wasn't entirely expected by either of them, and yet however they might want to, they can't deny that it was there. Soon after, she's trying to apprehend him, and he's working on a heist. And a thought lingers... what if they had met under different circumstances? I have not read the novel, nor any other by the author, only seen adaptations of his works. This is a quirky, light take on the crime genre, with many funny moments(if it is at times trying too hard), with a script, dialog and character introductions that are clever and sharp. It's a highly sexy film, always very naturally, as smooth as the 70's feel(aided greatly by the foot-tapping soundtrack). The acting is all spot-on, with both main cast and supporting players doing fantastic. Cheadle, Farina, Brooks... even Zahn, if he gets on your nerves at times. There are flashbacks to help set things up, establish relationships and the like. The 112 minute length sans credits(118 with) flows by nice and well, and though it could have been shorter, I didn't really want to do without any of what's in there. There is a little sensuality, strong language and mild to moderate violence(it tends to be sudden, quick and unpleasant, only one bit of it is graphic). The Collector's Edition DVD comes with an interesting, informational and amusing commentary track by the director and the writer, the 24 minute documentary Inside Out of Sight(which I will review on its own page here on the site), 21 and a half minutes of deleted scenes that are worth watching a theatrical trailer and music highlights. I recommend this to fans of this type of movie. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Oozes sexual chemistry","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like this film a lot - I thought its dialogue was pretty smart and the story a nifty spin on bank heists.  What stood out for me though was the chemistry between Clooney and Lopez (the latter the sexiest role I have ever witnessed) - it made me adjust my polarneck on more than one occasion!  Also the soundtrack is excellent (David Holmes and a couple of Isley Brothers tracks) "},{"Title":"Truly one of the best films of its genre. Awesome!","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  No one has captured the brilliance of author Elmore Leonard onscreen as Steven Soderbergh did with Out of Sight. Soderbergh and screenwriter Scott Frank understand Leonard's dark-comedic tone perfectly and use it to concoct a film that is in turn hilarious, thrilling and romantic--and not at all sappy-romantic, but cool-sexy-hot romantic.The cast is phenomenal. Soderbergh elicits the first truly great performance out of Clooney, an underrated actor, and Jennifer Lopez really never has been better. The supporting cast really shines, with Ving Rhames, Catherine Keener, Don Cheadle, Albert Brooks (who is nearly unrecognisable for most of the film) and Luis Guzman all doing stellar work.Overall, a great comedic action-drama for adults. Tops in this genre. If possible, get it on DVD, where it looks fabulous.   "},{"Title":"Fantastic Cast and a Memorable Movie","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I have seen in years.  Whenever I see it listed as a box-office failure, I feel disbelief.  How could such a wonderful movie do so badly?  Jennifer Lopez, George Clooney, Ving Rhames, Catherine Keener and everyone else are perfectly cast and perform admirably. After reading the book, I can still not imagine anyone but George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez in the lead roles.  Unlike Clooney's latest effort, this movie earns a 10 in my book for having everything a movie should offer-an interesting story, great dialogue, great acting, and a great ending.  If you haven't seen this movie, rent it now. "},{"Title":"A dazzling and daring crime picture.","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There have been a slew of Elmore Leonard adaptations, ranging from good (52 Pick-Up) to bad (Stick) to great (Jackie Brown). This one might be the best yet, utilizing structure in a way that goes far beyond mere gimmickry and bringing together a colorful cast of characters that plays beautifully off of one another. Steven Soderbergh uses all kinds of directorial tricks to create a style that is at once a throwback to the gritty crime dramas of the 70s and a new style all of its own. The acting is first-rate. George Clooney perfectly nails a role that seems tailor-made for him. Jennifer Lopez is wonderful as the federal marshall who is pursuing and falling in love with him at the same time. Ving Rhames ably plays Clooney's best friend, always confessing his crimes to his sister before he even commits them. Best of all might be Don Cheadle and Steve Zahn, as a couple of completely different lowlife criminals. Both actors steal every scene they're in. This is a remarkably assured and entertaining crime film that needs to be seen. "},{"Title":"Sublime","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This entire film gelled together in a manner few modern films can achieve these days. The performances were marvellous, the editing in a class of its own, the plot was solid and everything about the film was great. As a member of the crime-gangster sub-genre I found the film had a wonderfully human centre to it that Tarantino couldn't ever touch.Although it may not be to everyone's taste, I found the film amazing to watch (Every shot is artfully composed in a very European arthouse style), superb to listen to (David Holmes always has been a favourite musician of mine, and this film gave him a long-awaited chance to set his music to pictures), and generally brilliant. In 20 years time this film will be re-released and everyone will realise just how great it is. "},{"Title":"Hashed plot, redundant characters","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight been there, done that.  Little action until the end, yes, Jennifer Lopez is hot, but come on, super stars don't -always- make for good movies. "},{"Title":"A waste of money","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  At the moment rated for 7.9 ??? , oh my god!!! Did the whole film crew vote???? The story is so simple, the acting sucks, images are lousy. George what the hell were you doing? A total waste of money, a rip off. "}{"Title":"Give J.LO The Money & she will Do A C Grade Film ?","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" this film is garbage & overrated .what is the plot i tell you a robber & a cheater guy(clooney) fells in love with a federal agent(J.LO).wow the whole film passed & then the go into the house where some diamonds are hidden i expected action but no clooney & Jennifer Lopez wasted my time & money.this is ridiculous & where was the sex scenes i might just have love these two banging each other.now Jennifer Lopez is a singer she should stick to music.shes a nice actor but will even do a c grade film like this for money.clooney sucks at acting.my rating for this trash is 1/10 if you like to watch out of sight 1998 better watch it out of everyones sight because its extremely boring. "},{"Title":"Confusing and Artsy","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  George Clooney plays a smug, smooth-talking (now THAT'S a stretch!) bank robber turned convict.  Jennifer Lopez plays a luscious strong-willed daddy's girl federal marshall.  Was I expecting HAMLET here?  No, what I was expecting was a sensuous, electric, pulsating movie.  Well, I didn't get it. I felt there was little chemistry between the two stars, and that is killer in this kind of movie.  The most laughable scenes have Clooney standing up to genuinely dangerous looking black and white cons (isn't Clooney afraid he is going to break a nail?)  This movie could have been a hoot if it didn't contain Elmore Leonard usual mean spiritedness.  The best performances come from the peripheral players, Ving Rhames (like THAT is a surprise!), Don Cheedle, Catherine Keener, Dennis Farina, Nancy Allen (looking surprisingly fetching) and, especially Albert Brooks.  Michael Keaton is also a hoot in an unbilled cameo as Lopez's thick, adulterous boyfriend; however THAT relationship undermines the credibility of Lopez's character. The movie is confusing.  It starts with a botched bank robbery, which ends with Clooney incarcerated in the Glades Prison in Florida.  Clooney escapes, with the help of Rhames, but Lopez just so happens to be on the scene.  Lopez apprehends Clooney but is overpowered by Rhames coming up behind her (like Lopez wouldn't have been sweeping the area with that shotgun, duh?) Lopez and Clooney wind up locked in a trunk together, and they talk, as Clooney gets familiar with her thigh (like real romantic, guys.) Rhames and Clooney talk about a botched robbery (not the same robbery as the beginning, mind you), then are left behind by Lopez as she talks another thick partner into running off with the getaway car.  We then see Clooney and Rhames arriving at the hideout. Clooney soaks in a hot tub, as Lopez sneaks up, stands over Clooney with her gun drawn.  She then bends down, and Clooney kisses her, essentially pulling her into the tub.  Suddenly Lopez wakes up in the hospital. What the hell is going on? Ah, dream sequence, duh... The film flashes back and forth in time with very little sense of transition (thankfully there are no more dream sequences).  The director gives us quite a few flashes of razzle-dazzle photography and editing, none of which really adds to the excitement. I found myself squirming before this was over.      If you liked GET SHORTY, you'll probably like OUT OF SIGHT. Include me out of any more Elmore Leonard. "},{"Title":"That Don't Impress Me Much","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being a fan of Clooney and Lopez I was very disappointed in this movie.  The 2 of them played their parts great but I just don't think they were meant to work together.  I think it would have been better to see Clooney work with Pfeiffer for this movie rather than Lopez.  They just didn't seem to click together, but that's just my opinion. "},{"Title":"Movie needs to go out of sight for good","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" George Clooney doesn't mean the movie will be good as I have just found out and it certainly didn't help to have J-Lo in it. I guess some producers feel that if they put enough known faces in a movie then it will do well... WRONG!! I admit I didn't finish watching the movie, it was just that bad in my opinion. It seemed to be going relatively well until the prison break scene and the relationship between agent and con that developed from the prison break. Jack Foley (George Clooney), for all of his smarts was just too silly to believe. He wants to woo a federal agent while he is a fugitive. He is so tough that he can make enemies in prison though he has no one to watch his back? It was just too ridiculous of a plot to continue watching. "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a disappointing lame grab bag of stereotypes coupled. The talent-challenged Ms. Lopez was unintentionally amusing as a cop horny for the villain, and it was an insult to viewers' intelligence to always have clooney's character, a bank robber, always coming out smelling like a rose. Did you notice we never actually see him do anything mean? come on.Lame! "},{"Title":"Perfect little Low key crime flick","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Steven Soderbergh's Out Of Sight is an excellent low key crime caper, and my personal favourite adaptation of an Elmore Leonard Book. It has that easy, laconic, dialogue heavy yet not too dense way about it that just makes for easy watching. George Clooney, all effortless cool and swagger, plays Jack, an ex con who crosses paths with Federal Marshall Karen Sisco, a no nonsense girl who gradually finds herself attracted to Jack. Lopez is underrated as an actress and I get excited every time she has the chance to give a good genre turn (The Cell, U Turn). Their chemistry on screen is electric, especially in one sequence where they are locked in a car trunk, casually discussing movies as they each begin to become more comfortable in each other's presence. Leonard, also penning the books which would go on to become Jackie Brown, Get Shorty and FX's Justified, works with a naturalistic, free flowing form when creating his characters, and it's wonderful to see unfold on screen. Dennis Farina is sympathetic as Lopez's father, Michael Keaton shows up as another Marshall, and their is solid work from Steve Zahn, Don Cheadle, Albert Brooks, and a surprise cameo right in the end. In the world of romantic, easy going crime capers, this one stands out as memorable, bittersweet, and above all, fun. "},{"Title":"George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez are really birlliant here","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Very interesting action film about a bank robber Foley (George Clooney) and policewoman Karen (Jennifer Lopez). Both are charismatic and play their roles really good. This film has interesting plot, nice characters, romantic love story and sexy moments. One of the most interesting moment here is when Karen and Foley are in the luggage rack and talk to each other, their dialogue is something to enjoy! They talk about Bonnie and Clyde another classic film from the sixties so from that moment its definitely they have sympathy for each other. The ending is also quite unexpectable when Foley returns to prison but Karen wants to deliver him there. It's not a masterpiece, but still a good film to enjoy! "},{"Title":"Another in a long line of terrific adaptations; star power, all the way.","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Out of Sight hinges on the chemistry between its stars; a chance meeting between an escaped con (George Clooney) and a US Marshal (Jennifer Lopez) and the burning question of how things would've been under different circumstances. And in that department this does not disappointment (by any stretch of the imagination). Lopez and Clooney were two people born to play these roles, and their scenes together crackle with sexual energy. And it's not just the leads; the whole movie is well-cast. Albert Brooks plays against type as a weaselly Wall Street crook, Cheadle as the underhanded ex-con with delusions of being a major criminal enterpriser (and a hateful little prick), Steve Zahn as the small-time pothead, and Ving Rhames as George Clooney's sensible half. They're all terrific. Hell, even with two smaller roles, Dennis Farina and Michael Keaton steal their respective scenes. In his screenplay, Scott Frank ably brings these characters from page to screen, shifting the narrative and bringing Leonard's distinct tone and style to the proceedings. And Soderbergh injects the film with slow-burn energy and atmosphere, between the sunsoaked Miami palette to the falling snow in Detroit. But it's Jennifer Lopez who walks away with this movie, proving (in '98) she's ready for the big time. She's Karen Sisco personified, the tough- as-nails Leonardian badass lawwoman. For my money, it's her best performance.This is a seriously cool, sexy caper flick. And as an Elmore Leonard adaptation, it ranks with the best of them. Great movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"fun film","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Steven Soderbergh's first foray into the big budgets was Out of Sight, a 1998 film starring George Clooney, Jennifer Lopez, Albert Brooks, Don Cheadle, and Ving Rhames.Clooney plays a Jack Foley, a career bank robber. In the first scene, we see the amazing way he robs a bank. He informs the teller that the man talking to the bank manager is his partner who will shoot the bank manager if she doesn't cooperate. She cooperates. He then says he's leaving and if she sounds the alarm, the bank manager gets it. On his way out, he stops and says something to the man talking to the bank manager, and leaves. Of course he doesn't know who the man is.This time, however, Jack can't start his car and make his getaway, so instead he gets a ride to prison. Two years later, he breaks out of prison and is accosted by a beautiful Federal agent, Karen Sisco (Lopez) who is at the prison to follow up on a case, has seen the men escape, and informs on them. Jack emerges last, wearing a guard's uniform and informs prison officials that the tunnel is clear. Another escapee (Ving Rhames) grabs Karen from behind, and both she and Jack are soon in the trunk of the car. The two talk, Sisco remaining cool, and Jack remaining flippant.The film plays with time, so we go back and forth to Jack's time in prison and to the present, which involves the robbery of a Bernie Madoff type (Albert Brooks) who, while in prison, told one of the inmates that he has uncut diamonds hidden in his home. In the present, Karen keeps showing up. She and Jack are obviously attracted to one another, but one's a bank robber and prison escapee...and one's a fed.Really excellent film with lots of situational humor and excellent characterizations, particularly from Don Cheadle, for whom Jack has been a nemesis both in prison and out. Albert Brooks and his toupees are hilarious.I'm always amused that George Clooney is compared to Cary Grant. Here, he looks so much like Tyrone Power that it's scary. (Clooney told Power's daughter that he modeled his career after her father.) As Jack Foley, Clooney is ridiculously handsome, flippant, relaxed, sexy, and charming. It's one of his better performances. He tends to be very serious in many of his films; this one shows his lighter side.Jennifer Lopez is good as Karen, a real knockout. Someone commented that she's too glamorous. No doubt, but the script called for a sexy woman. She fits the bill.The script by Scott Frank based on an Elmore Leonard novel, is excellent, and you'll be highly entertained by the quirky characters and situations. "},{"Title":"The Best Film of Soderbergh's Career","Date":"1 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Watching this film again in 2012, I realise this is Soderbergh's best film. There is so much that is done perfectly, from the screenplay to the editing. Any filmmaker can take chances, but to have the intelligence to determine what works and what doesn't is a more difficult thing to pull off. In this case a risk was taken to have a long scene near the beginning of the film take place with the two lead actors laying inside a truck. It turns out the scene didn't work.. at first. But the filmmakers went back, reshot and recut the scene, and the right choices were made and created the right mood and chemistry. This film was early in the careers of Clooney and Lopez (and Soderbergh), and there is an undeniable sizzle in the way the actors are dressed and photographed. Don Cheadle is also a standout, creating a menacing screen presence as a fast-talking and reckless hood. This film also propelled Steve Zahn's career, playing a gullible stoner whose life gets more frustrating scene after scene. Albert Brooks shows a sinister side in a small role as a rich businessman, which he reprises to a degree in 2011's Drive. Based on a novel, there is a series of set pieces, featuring unique outcomes that resemble Pulp Fiction, which no doubt had a heavy influence as it did other films during this era. There is a hit 70's soundtrack, Ving Rhames, with editing back and forth within the story. Again, these could come off as just gimmicks, but in this case it creates a more entertaining approach, primarily to add background to a character on the spot, instead of presenting the character earlier in the movie in a traditional linear way.The story has a good deal of Pulp Fiction elements, where not-too-small hoods try to commit a crime, in this case stealing a pile of diamonds hidden in a house. The film opens with a scene that actually takes place halfway through the story. Soderbergh had developed a reputation of working with A list actors intelligently, and here, he sculpts dialogue and storytelling by selective details and editing, creating character depth and growth in smart ways. He allows the actors to improvise when the spontaneity can create a spark of realism and unpredictability. This is why the approach to the love affair between Clooney, a bank robber, and Lopez, an FBI agent, works. They deal with the in-congruency of the relationship with abrupt mood changes and indecision. The same goes for the build-up to the big heist at the end. It is hard to tell who will prevail, who will die. A less smarter script might have put the female FBI agent in danger where our lovable bank robber comes to her rescue. Instead, the gender twist on the FBI agent is only briefly addressed in a more subtle way.There are many memorable lines, and some are due to the well seasoned script, that layers nuance on the characters. Rhames plays a bank robber with a soft side, and tells Clooney he needs to talk problems out by calling his sister. This makes a climactic moment between the characters at the end of the film more meaningful when Clooney tells Rhames You'll be talking to your sister for a month. All supporting characters have weight in this film, even though it ultimately is a romantic comedy. But it is the layers in storytelling that make this film many things at once; a thriller, a character study, and an art piece. "}{"Title":"Rough Ice.","Date":"24 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The first time I tried to watch this, a few years ago, I got through the opening. A couple of hoods (including Clooney) break out of a Florida pen and grab a U. S. Marshall (Lopez) unawares in the parking lot. Two of the inmates leap into the car and drive off while Clooney is squeezed into the trunk with Lopez. The cheeky Clooney rather enjoys the enforced contact, while the equally cheeky Lopez as the innocent victim seems a little put out. Clooney spends the time telling her about his career as a harmless thief. There is some dialog that comes perilously close to cute. After a few minutes of this, a title tells us FLASHBACK TWO YEARS EARLIER.That's as far as I got. I figured, Another comic romance involving a chase between the lady cop and the roguish hoodlum. There would be an argosy of wisecracks. There would be intermittent meetings during which they would fall in love. In the end, in all seriousness, she would talk him out of his last dangerous heist, help him capture the venomous villains who were forcing him to use his expertise in their behalf, and he would get a pardon from the governor, the Medal of Freedom, and unlimited access to JLo's cantilevered boom. There would be a sunset. A sailboat. A throbbing kiss. A final harmless one liner. Or Clooney may have been an undercover FBI agent all along.But I was wrong about the film in almost all regards. The structure was a bit complicated, true, and I was lost once or twice because JLo does, in fact, pursue Clooney and his two pals across the continent for a couple of years. But the general template was clear enough, and pretty close to what I'd expected. There is no sunset at the end but at least the warm promise of an ending that will bring Clooney and Lopez back into each others' arms.The photography (Davis) and art direction (Messina) are superb. The motel corridors in Miami are a dull flamingo pink. The snow across which an escaping dummy runs in a Detroit night scintillate under the street lamps, like a picture post card. It's really well designed and well shot.It's not a masterpiece. The baddest of the bad guys is Don Cheadle. His villainy is convincing, although his character is nothing but pure e-vil. He squishes live goldfish into pulp. Quite a few familiar faces pop up for a few lines -- Michael Keaton (my supporting player in the artistic gem, The Squeeze), Dennis Farina, Albert Brooks in a thoroughly dramatic role, Louis Guzman, Nancy Allen, and Samuel L. Jackson.Of the two leads, Lopez handles her part well enough. She has a peculiar beauty -- hefty and with strong bone structure but very feminine. I like Clooney. His performances usually (not always) have an off-hand quality about them, as if he really were throwing away his lines. I suppose he's handsome too but I'll give him a pass on that and not hate him for it. He's rather like an urbane Burt Reynolds.If you're not in an especially demanding humor, you might want to catch this. It's slight but enjoyable. It has action, suspense, romance, and some surprising smiles. "},{"Title":"First of five","Date":"11 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" After winning la Palme d'or at Cannes Festival for Sex, lies and videotape, Soderbergh crossed a period without any success, despite making very good movies (Kafka, King of the hill). In 1998, with the help of a formidable cast, he finally made a great movie, even not successful enough considering its quality. More interesting is the fact that it was the first of five great movies in a little more than three years, ending with Ocean's eleven in 2001. In this film are playing a lot a very good actors. There are a lot of great lines in it, especially between George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez. Her performance in this is certainly one of Lopez best in her movie career. A lost of actors are playing characters they will do again in former films, but never better Ving Rhames, Dennis Farina, Steve Zahn and Luiz Guzman for example. And the way we are going back and forth in the story, mixing periods and events, is very well done and value added. Clooney got here one of his best part, and doing great with it. "},{"Title":"Very good picture - thanks to directory of 'magician' Sodenbergh","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The best role of Clooney and Lopez - Steven Soderbergh is acknowledged, that he great lead/direct actors (after all in his movies were promoted stars like James Spader and Andie McDowell); another example is - the best in her career - role of Julia Roberts (which is pretty average actress) in also very good movie Erin Brockovich. The movie has also good dialogs, but the script is full of big holes, which are patched by the director in a various ways; stop-motion, voice from off and permeating of frame, which builds very romantic or/and sexy climate of the scene. We have in this movie the most sexy scene ever made - it is in the trunk of the car; U have 2 see it 2 believe it ;-P He is one of the coolest movies I have ever seen ;-) "},{"Title":"Probably the best forgotten movie...","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not too many people would rank this movie very high, but I definetly think it deserves the 9 stars that I gave it.  George Clooney is fast becoming one of the best actors around, and I know watching Ms. Jennifer Lopez might be hard, it's well worth it. Although the whole movie is great, I actually think that the best part was the last 3 minutes.****WARNING SPOILER AHEAD****They better make a sequel, because when it ended with George Clooney talking with non other than the bad ass himself Samuel L. Jackson, WOW!  What a combination! "},{"Title":"A witty, complex thriller","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently bought Out of Sight and I thought that it was a good movie that could have been made much better. What proceeds is a movie that fails to sparkle. The acting and directing is superb, the chemistry between the leads Clooney and Lopez is electric and Ving Rhames puts in the usual brilliant performance. But the scene stealer had to be Steve Zahn in the comedic role of Glen 'Studs' Michaels.The movie moves at a snail's pace but when the action comes it is worth waiting for. It would have been a much better movie if Lopez had just been kidnapped and taken for a ride by Clooney and Rhames chased by the police. This doesn't really happen and what follows is a decent enough movie with far too much time spent on characters that could have been described in half the time. The action is good but it couldn't be called an action thriller.7 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies in 1998","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you loved get shorty and jackie brown you're in for a treat. this is a delightful combination of the both. The chemistry between george clooney and jennifer lopez is so rarely seen explosive, and the love scene between them is one of the most romantic moments i have ever seen on screen. wonderful movie. highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"A flawed mix of hard-boiled action, romance and comedy","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After From Dusk Till Dawn, Clooney plays again a part in a movie that blends hard-boiled action, romance and comedy. The mix does not work. (1) Are we really supposed to take the love interest between Lopez and not-so-bad guy Clooney seriously? (2) Clooney is too charming a person to be a credible anti-hero in the srie-noire tradition? (3) The srie-noire pretence is undermined by a number of comic scenes. "},{"Title":"Vastly over-rated","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I heard a lot of good things about this movie and rented it the other night. What confuses me the most about this film is how people say that it has great plot/direction/acting etc - er, are we watching the same movie here. 'Oh but you have to be intelligent to get it' - Buddy, I'm a 1st class honours graduate and I understood the plot perfectly. The problem was that the film was all style over substance, with the director/writer thinking they were making a smart movie, but ultimately by the time anything really happens the movie credits are about to roll.Hugely disappointing. 4/10. "},{"Title":"Clever script & Jennifer Lopez make this a winner","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How or why do people fall in love with prison inmates? Out of Sight gives us a bit of insight about this and many other things about crime and criminals.Out of Sight's plot feels very fresh. The film does not fit any typical category. From prison escape to road picture to planning the big heist, Out of Sight won't fit into the usual grove. In the end this is all background for the George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez characters who are intertwined as enemies and eventually as lovers.I agree with many of the comments about this film. The supporting cast is excellent. Each quirky character is a gem. Clooney was not great but was still alright. What surprised me was how good Jennifer Lopez was. Few actresses make you believe that they are physically tough enough to take a man down. With Lopez you not only feel she is as hard as nails but at the same time is vulnerable and very sexy.Out of Sight is about danger and is not filled with explosions or blood and guts. If this is ok and you would like to see interesting characters in the criminal world, I recommend this film.  "},{"Title":"This movie is like jazz music","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  and like jazz music, you can't explain its charm.This is one of my favorites of '98.  Steven Soderbergh has, once again, failed to disappoint me.  He reignited interest in independent films with Sex, Lies and Videotape in 1989, and made one of the best films of the decade with King of the Hill.  Now comes his take on the neo-noir genre, and he gives us a real treat.Oh, I almost forgot.  Jennifer Lopez, what a dish... "}{"Title":"The best movie since Pulp Fiction?","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would like to know why this movie didn't receive so-called critical acclaim while in theatres.  This brilliantly written movie had a clever twisting plot, outstanding cast & cameos, a modest amount of well-placed violence, and hilarious scenes which will have anyone laughing out loud.While some might say that this movie was nothing but another attempt by a writer/director to imitate Q. Tarantino, I say Get over it!.  This was based upon on equally terrific book by Elmore Leonard and has sufficient distinctiveness to warrant being judged on its own merits, not only as being Quentin-esque.  "},{"Title":"Don't miss this one","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is by far one of the best movies of the year. It's not one of those extremely memorable ones, but nevertheless still very enjoyable. It's been a very long time since I've seen a movie with well developed characters and witty dialogue. I usually hate on-screen romances because they are usually just so badly done these days, but this movie serves as an exception. The romance doesn't dominate the other elements, and George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez really do have fantastic chemistry and genuine emotions conveyed throughout; and of course, Lopez is just unbelievably good to look at for 2 hours. It was such a pleasant surprise to see Michael Keaton and Samuel L Jackson in there for a couple of cameos. This movie isn't perfect, but it really provides a great movie experience. "},{"Title":"A fitfully amusing trifle","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Steven Soderbergh's vastly overrated adaptation of Elmore Leonard's crime  novel is fun going for the first 45 minutes or so.  After that, you begin  to realize that this exercise in style is going nowhere fast.  The last 30  minutes or so are atrocious--and a clear indication that Soderbergh had  only a passing interest in the material at best.  As the bullets fly and  the bodies pile up, it becomes all too obvious that neither Soderbergh nor  we in the audience really give a damn about these characters.  They are  merely fodder for the latest Pulp Fiction wannabe and for a once  promising director who is now desperately trying to prove to Hollywood how  hip he is.  "},{"Title":"Funny,clever and entertaining with fine performances","Date":"3 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Probably any one of a dozen hacks could have made a good film from Elmore Leonard's Out of sight which is a typical cinematic story from this accomplished novelist whom I had the privilege of meeting many years ago in the Murder One Bookshop in London.He was a soft - spoken,courteous man who clearly didn't invent characters who were thinly - disguised versions of himself or wish - fulfilment fantasies. Fortunately for lovers of clever(but not clever - clever)and entertaining caper films the job was given to Mr Soderbergh a clever(but not clever - clever)director who made it into that very rare bird a comedy thriller that does exactly what it says on the tin. Its success is due in no small part to the casting of Mr Clooney and Miss Lopez(before she became Jennifer Lopez the commodity). Both have charm to spare as the Marshall and the bank robber whose lives become dangerously intertwined after a serendipitous encounter during a jailbreak. Mr Soderbergh plays enticingly with the timeline of the narrative to produce some satisfying Ahaa! moments just when you might be wondering how it's got to where it's got to - if you see what I mean. Out of sight deserves to be up there with the best of 1990's crime films,there are many that are better - known and nowhere near as good. "},{"Title":"One of the best Crime Comedies","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen this movie a bunch if times, used to have it on VCR tape years ago. Happen to be watching it on broadcast TV as I type this little note. If You have never seen this flick, that the time to invest in watching it. Fantastic story, acting and directing.The Story is original, it's a crime/comedy/suspense/romance all rolled into one nice package. The acting and plot are all worked out very well. I've seen this movie better that 20 times and still enjoy watching it every now and then. If you haven't seen this movie before, take a couple of hours to watch it because you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Above Average Crime Thriller","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This Steven Soderbergh directed, George Clooney, Jennifer Lopez acted crime thriller is a cut above average by avoiding the over the top crime spree and keeping the movie relatively simple and straight forward. This is both a comedy, a drama, and a crime thriller with not that much action. The action is more or less reduced to brief, more realistic sequences that don't last too long. The music score, especially with the romantic scenes is sweepingly captivating, the cynical repartee a gem, one-liners, zingers that keep the movie entertaining while also fusing into this movie a more heavy element of criminal toughness. The editing is abit confusing with the back and forth flashbacks and timeline too disjointed. Overall, this is an entertaining, intelligent movie. Eight out of Ten Stars. "},{"Title":"Underrated New Classic!","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Vastly underrated film! Clooney's best big screen work next to Intolerable Cruelty. The man simply oozes charm and cool in this movie. Anybody who has seen this film will understand how see sets the stage as one of the world's reigning sex symbols. This film was also Jennifer Lopez's best screen performance far and away. She exudes an aura of both sexiness and vulnerability, not to mention believability, that her typically sub-par acting is lacking. Their chemistry completely shines in this movie. A gorgeous film to look at, a great soundtrack, superb dialog and stellar performances from an all-star cast of actors. This is a high quality action film, and should be on everybody's must watch (at least) yearly list to see how a good movie can be made! "},{"Title":"Didn't get the joke","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, I guess I was in a bad mood when I saw this (on video, which didn't help either). I was totally underwhelmed by the famous Clooney charm, didn't buy the romance, nor the plot! Was I the only person to find the love in the trunk ludicrous? And how many FBI agents make a habit of going out with bank robbers? I've always been happy to buy this sort of romance in the past, going way back to Klute (thrilling) through Raising Arizona (hilarious). I guess the problem was I didn't realise it was meant to be funny, so just didn't get the joke interspersed amongst all the violence and flashbacks. OK, I admit Steve Zahn was comic, and Ving Rhames put in a solid performance but for me, it was neither thrilling nor hilarious. "},{"Title":"Gee whiz, this movie exudes STYLE... it's so STYLISH... (Did I mention it had a lot of STYLE?)","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Geez, here we go again... another director tries so hard to be another Tarantino that he neglects to put anything worth watching into his movie - and everyone buys into it anyway. Most of the posts in here go on and on about how this movie oozes style... exudes sexuality. These are common excuses for films like this, films with murky plots, bad characters, and all the meaning and substance of a cheese sandwich, and which try to cover it all up by pouring on the style.If you want to be entertained, watch something else. If you're worried about appearing hip to all your friends who liked it, then watch Out of Sight and, whether or not you liked it (or even understood it), go blather on to them about how stylish the movie is. You may feel better about yourself, but you'll still have wasted two hours of your life. "},{"Title":"FANTASTIC !","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"       This film stands alone with 52Pick Up as the best Elmore Leonard adaptations.  Clooney and Lopez are paired and emit more sexual energy than any two actors I've seen onscreen in years.  The pacing of this picture is offbeat and keeps the viewer constantly interested.  The Nudity free sex scene is one of the best ever filmed.  Fantastic editing.  Soderbergh hit a grand slam with Sex, Lies and Videotape (one of the greatest American films of the late 20th Century, in my opinion).  OUT OF SIGHT delivers. "}{"Title":"You know I'm not lying...","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Thinking about the summer films of 1998, the public are amazed with films like Godzilla, Armageddon, Deep Impact, anything that has had over 80 Million spent on it and sends ya to sleep due to lack of originality. However, class-in-a-glass directing like Out Of Sight gets overlooked by all but the movie-buff whose job it is to test the water. Here is a prime example of a movie that cannot be taken at face-value. The acting is superb. Clooney is, in my opinion, the best American actor around today. His on-screen presence and charisma lifts this film to heights which it wouldn't reach without him. The trunk scene with Jennifer Lopez, an obvious example of what you can accept from Clooney that wouldn't be as easy to accept from any other actor. Steven Soderbergh did a great job, leaving this film as easily the best film of 1998, and nominated for how many Oscars? Academy, give your head a shake! "},{"Title":"This movie bleeds brilliance","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I decided to watch this movie because I had seen 'Jackie Brown' and loved it, I heard this movie was also based on an Elmore Leonard book, so I read the book, then watched the movie, here are my findingsI loved every scene, every moment, every frame, how they never really have 'relations' to the jewel heist. In a way this movie showed all our secret hopes, like you want someone you know you can't have so you dream of them.I wanted to kill George Clooney after 'Batman & Robin', but I must say, after this, he's topped my 'cool actors list'.See this movie, right now, go, go, go.  "},{"Title":"Out of Wack Sounds More Like It!!!","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A poorly written film, yet it's winning awards left and right. It astounds me! How did this film win the Writers Guild Awards? Apparently, there was a shortage in good taste this year, because this is not only poorly written, but everyone involved with it looks bored. Soderbergh annoys with his freeze shots when we come to the conclusion of a scene. Boy, does it annoy! Was it programmed to do that? If so, it worked wonders. Personally, I would have given the award to the Rugrats movie before this waste.   "},{"Title":"A poorly acted, contrived movie.","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  No-one ever accused George Clooney of being able to act, but Jennifer Lopez's performance is uncharacteristically insipid. The plot is contrived, and the movie is neither funny nor romantic. "},{"Title":"Deserves the renewed attention","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now that it's on video and has been getting so much critical attention, I hope people give this movie a second chance.  To be honest, I'm surprised it didn't do well in theaters.  Until SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE, there wasn't a sexier or more entertaining romantic movie around.  There ought to be a law in Hollywood that from now on, only Scott Frank should adapt Elmore Leonard novels.  He and director Steven Soderbergh(perhaps the most underrated director around) understand that an Elmore Leonard novel isn't just one thing; it's crime drama, romantic comedy, even an action movie in there.The cast is really good too.  I like George Clooney, even in films that people dismissed like ONE FINE DAY and THE PEACEMAKER(okay, BATMAN AND ROBIN sucked, but that wasn't just his fault), and he was great here, showing both his charm and the danger behind that charm.  By contrast, I've never been a fan of Jennifer Lopez, but she surprised me here, especially with the chemistry she and Clooney had.  The supporting cast was great too, especially Steve Zahn as the somewhat dimwitted crook Glenn. "},{"Title":"Amusingly original!","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a great movie! I rented it based totally on the fact that critics everywhere were raving about it, and now I see why. Out of Sight is quite possibly one of the most original movies I have ever seen; it stops itself from becoming mainstream with a predictable plot and goes in the total opposite direction! The characters were very witty and very cool. George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez ignited the screen as Jack Foley and Karen Sisco; they meshed together greatly, producing an amazing film. George Clooney remains one of the better actors in Hollywood (so all of you guys out there who are, for some unknown reason, bashing him - get a clue), and Ving Rhames and Don Cheadles turn in great supporting performances. Bravo Elmore Leonard! ~ Greg Iceman Anderson ~  "},{"Title":"Slight Caper","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In this comedy crime caper, escaped prisoners plan robbery while federal agents are in pursuit. The plot is rather flimsy and the script is disjointed and uninvolving, relying on characters to sustain interest. The large cast of familiar faces is quite good but the actors are not given interesting things to do and say. Clooney and Lopez make an attractive couple and generate romantic sparks. Soderbergh tries to infuse the proceedings with a visual flair but his overactive camera is more annoying than innovative. Given the cast and the track record of previous films based on Leonard's novels and stories, this is a disappointment. "},{"Title":"I fail to see what all the fuss is about...","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm quite fascinated by Steven Soderbergh's career ups and downs. Interesting thrillers like 'Underneath' and 'The Limey' are all but ignored, but this piece of fluff is a major hit? Go figure. George Clooney has charm and charisma, but I think he and the first class supporting cast (Rhames, Cheadle, Zahn, Brooks, Farina, Keener et al) are let down by a mundane script. Clooney and Jennifer Lopez's characters to me displayed zero chemistry, which made the plot twists difficult to swallow, and overall I really didn't care what happened to Clooney and Rhames and their robbery plans. This has got to be one of the emptiest, most overrated modern classics in a long time. I really can't see what's supposed to be so good about this one. About the only thing I like about it is David Holmes' soundtrack. Cool music, dull movie. "},{"Title":"Really boring movie","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When everybody is excited about a movie and I'm not I'm beginning to think there's something wrong. But this movie is plain boring. Yes, pretty people on a big screen, but no story, no humour, no nothing. I give it 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A superior Elmore Leonard adaptation and critical favorite.","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lucky for us there are no ordinary circumstances in this smart, tasty adaptation of the Elmore Leonard novel and it gets quirkier, funnier and sexier as it goes. A bank robber (George Clooney) escapes from prison and falls in love with a female federal marshal (Jennifer Lopez) on the way out.Out Of Sight is a good-looking film with a sparkling script; Clooney has never enjoyed the degree of on-screen sizzle and chemistry with another lead actress as he does here with Lopez. It's a gorgeous film, with wry throwaway humour, and a genuinely intricate thriller plot. Entertainment Weekly voted it as the sexiest film ever on their 50 Sexiest Movies Ever poll and ranked it #9 on their Top 25 Modern Romances list. "}{"Title":"Out Of Mind","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the tradition of Get Shorty, Pulp Fiction and Jackie Brown, Out Of Sight revels in loser crims, wry dialogue and flashbacks. Out Of Sight hasn't the gleefully exuberant, oops, bloodshed of Pulp Fiction or Get Shorty (not much of it anyway), or the stunning languidity of Jackie Brown but even without marked pizzazz, Out Of Sight excels. In Out Of Sight Jack Foley (George Clooney) gets busted doing a stupid bank hold up (even though he's done a couple of hundred of them), escapes from prison but then gets mixed up with U.S. Marshal Karen Sisco (Jennifer Lopez). Foley is chasing some uncut diamonds he's heard about in prison from another crim called Ripley (Albert Brooks), but so are a bunch of other crooks. Elmore Leonard's books (other adaptations have been Get Shorty, Jackie Brown and now Out Of Sight) are full of men who are both losers and who also live on the thin side of the law. But Leonard colours these characters affectionately. Their mishaps and schemes tend to be both awful and funny. The women on the other hand tend to come out on top; they're smarter and more sensible. Out Of Sight is trashy in the nicest way. Out Of Sight of sight largely revolves around the relationship between the crook and the Marshal, between George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez.  George Clooney holds his place in Out Of Sight of sight pretty well but Jennifer Lopez again shines. Money Train, Anaconda, Blood And Wine, U Turn and now Out Of Sight have established the New York born actress as one of  the best on the big screen these days. She adds wit and strength to a part which could have easily been flat, and didn't have to emphasise either her Latino heritage or her curvy body to do it. She makes Out Of Sight  work. And then, somehow, these crooks and their crazy schemes make sense, even if running upstairs carrying  a loaded gun doesn't.  "},{"Title":"Clooney is oozing his deadly charm in this average criminal drama","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" George Clooney's protagonist Jack Foley, is a handsome and extremely charming guy, an incurable romantic, not an advocate of violence and has the proclivity for being a modern-day knight errant, so maybe, bank-robbing is not such a fancy profession for him, but actually, he does it pretty well. In the opening scenes, it is all easy-breezy for him to talk through a young female bank clerk to give him the cash, only his exit plan hits a snag.During his prison-break, Jack and his loyal partner Buddy (Rhames) hold hostage Karen Sisco (Lopez), a U.S. Marshal, a burgeoning romance has been kindled between Jack and Karen, when they squeeze together inside the trunk of the vehicle on the exit route, the closeness of a confined space really works as a hotbed for sexual attraction, and they are talking about movies about Faye Dunaway and Robert Redford along the way.Karen manages to escape later, but becomes involuntarily preoccupied with him, she follows all the leads to track him down, and finally in Detroit, their simmering affections evolve into one night of passion, but Jack's real intention is to steal some uncut diamonds from a Wall Street millionaire, Richard Ripley (Brooks), a fellow prisoner whom Jack and Buddy have met three years ago. In order to furthermore strengthen that Jack is the bad guy we are rooting for, Maurice Miller (Cheadle) is introduced, a ruthless murderer, who is also eyeing for the diamonds, with his two underlings, a cretin White Boy Bob (Loneker) and a former boxer Kenneth (Washington). The climax is a home invasion with a taut suspense and a pretty up-tp-scratch happy ending.OUT OF SIGHT is Sundance wunderkind Soderbergh's seventh feature film and his first dalliance with mainstream production (for Universal), it becomes a critical success with 2 Oscar-nominations (for editing and screenplay), the editing job of Anne V. Coates is essential to integrate the intentionally disarranged story lines to a hipster fashion which perks up the golden-hearted criminal clich; Scott Frank's adapted screenplay puts much weight on the comedic fodder out of the dangerous work from its source novel; also ornamented by a posh soundtrack and frisky cameos from Michael Keaton - who reincarnate as Ray Nicolette from Tarantino's JACKIE BROWN 1997, another Elmore Leonard's adaptation - and Samuel L. Jackson, as the kindred spirit inmate of Jack in the code. In retrospect, it has become a breakthrough for Clooney, who radiates both civilised sophistication and childlike nonchalance, a symbol of Clooney's own raw sex appeal in its peak, and incredibly heats up the screen with Jennifer Lopez, whose often problematic acting aptitude magically works this time. Don Cheadle gives a committed impression in the villain default, and it is always nice to see Catherine Keener and Viola Davis on the screen, but personally I find Steve Zahn's outstanding portrayal of Glenn Michaels, Jack and Buddy's cowardly partner-in-crime, stands out eventually, it is a sidekick who doesn't usually deserve our compassion or even attention, but Zahn supplies him with rather empathetic efforts to cement his feelings fumbling frustration, palpable fear and an expedient sense of desperation. "},{"Title":"A Nice Crime Romance. Could Use Less Romance","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A career bank robber (George Clooney) breaks out of jail and shares a moment of mutual attraction with a US Marshall (Jenny From the Block) he has kidnapped.First of all, this is an incredible ensemble cast. Michael Keaton, Ving Rhames, Steve Zahn, Dennis Farina. For a film that has grown increasingly obscure and forgotten, it has a fair amount of bigger names that people may want to see. Why did it become obscure? Was it as part of the anti-Lopez backlash? Who knows? Now, for me, I could have used more of Clooney as the suave bank robber who does not need a gun and less of the romantic angle between him and Lopez. Why complicate a good heist / crime story with phoney Hollywood emotions? "},{"Title":"It's Hard to Evaluate Cool","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Out of Sight stars a hard-working bank criminal named Jack Foley (George Clooney) and an temptingly sexy US Marshal Karen Sisco (Jennifer Lopez) are placed in the back of a car truck after Foley makes his escape from a Florida prison. Once his escape the thought has gone as planned, Foley is hunted down by Sisco, while his accomplices which includes his trustworthy assistant Buddy (Ving Rhames) and his not so reliable ally Glenn (Steve Zahn) work their ways to one of the more wealthier suburbs located in nearby Detroit. There they join forces with a suspicious business dealer named Ripley (Albert Brooks) who once sent them to jail on account of uncut diamonds found in his home. A dangerous assassin named Maurice Miller (Don Cheadle) has plans to invade Ripley's mansion accompanied his posse which includes Kenny (Isiah Washington) an White Boy Bob(Keith Loneker). While this is happening, Foley and Sisco get comfortable with each other in a Detroit hotel room where their romance is put to the test concludes in showdown as Foley enters Ripley's estate which contribute to the fun that they were having together. The question is are they in love or is Sisco pursuing to have him arrested? The first thing that caught my eye when watching Out of Sight was that it was very cool. But cool can be very hard to evaluate. I've been around movies for over 20 years and there have been equally proportioned good cool and bad ones as well. In many way, Steven Soderburgh has captured the coolness of this film as a reminiscing of the old 1960's espionage heist film that had run rampant in that time period. The cat games seem to make it very obvious. For a film to succeed in being cool, you need to convey manipulative tactics to your audience to make them think that this movie truly defines cool so that they can demand for more. By the time this movie makes it to Detroit is when the cool factor really starts to kick in and that was when I was really starting to like this film.In this movie we can all appreciate the cool things about it, but the more specific definition of the cool factor of this movie is the sexiness it brought to the screen that both genders can truly pander about. I think we all now by now that J-Lo is not that great of an actress. At best she can come across as an average performer (it may not help that her career choices in films have not always been to kind to her). But in Out of Sight I'll let the blind squirrel find his nut. In other words, she actually was pretty good here. That's mainly because Mr. Soderburgh knew that at best Miss Lopez can excel if she doesn't do very much on screen. In reality, it's the camera-work that's the real star here and it gives J-Lo the chance to reveal her sumptuous physique without really do much of anything else.On the contrary, George Clooney is a very capable and more competent performer than J-Lo and his camera-work excels better because he can still convey sex appeal to the female audience while at the same time he could back it up with versatile acting. And instead he can takes more charge to the camera than J-Lo and never lets it usurp him. So his combination of suave and talent embodies the dynamics of Clooney's repertoire.Now in most films cool and suave would surely not churn out a film that is real. But much to my surprise, Out of Sight actually has a believable story nailed into the suave and sex appeal behind and is never upstaged by it. There are some implausible scenarios that are a bit far-fetched like the climactic heist near the end of the film. But the characters succeed in keeping it real and the situations they face give us that impression as the film progresses. There is great chemistry between J-Lo and Clooney and we feel for them all the way through the film even though they're from the opposing sides of the law (opposites attract). The other supporting cast were also convincing including Ving Rhames as Clooney's trusted accomplice, Steve Zahn as the screw-up assistant and Albert Brooks as the rich nerdy guy. Behind this heist film, we have lots to believe.The camera-work was really put together quite elegantly where the rural and the urban settings really cooperate quite nicely. I thought it was quite believable that Miami looks very vibrant and colorful and while the mean streets of Detroit has the darkness dominating the streets with the exception of the odd bluish tint. And for that the cool factor comes into play with the impression that Mr. Soderbergh chose style over substance in this movie. There are a lot of crime-dramas out there that either choose, style, substance or plausibility. But in Out of Sight, we see all three come together and to me it really makes my days all the more better. "},{"Title":"One Of Clooney's Best","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can see why Out of Sight is one of George Clooney's favourite films on his resume. Even though it didn't do very well box-office wise, it is a really good film with a great screenplay. Based on the novel of the same name by Elmore Leonard and excellently directed by Steven Soderbergh it's a joy.Plot In A Paragraph An escaped convict (George Clooney) takes a female US Marshall (Jennifer Lopez) hostage whilst making a get away. They share an instant mutual attraction and it's not long before their paths cross again.Clooney and Lopez make a very sexy couple and the famous trunk scene is superb. I can't praise the cast enough of this movie enough here. George Clooney is at his charismatic best. Ving Rhames is solid support while Jennifer Lopez who I'm not really a fan of looks gorgeous and does a good job acting wise. Dennis Farina pops up as her Dad, and is as reliable as he always is. Michael Keaton reprises his role from Jackie Brown and seems to be having a lot of fun doing do so. Steve Zahn does his usual Steve Zahn routine, but here it works. Don Cheadle is also very good. This is the first collaboration between Soderbergh and star George Clooney, and give how well they worked together it's no surprise they re teamed several more times. "},{"Title":"Leonard and Soderbergh are a great team. Some of their finest work on screen.","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not usually a Soderbergh fan. I usually find him half-baked and half-interested in what he's doing. But Out Of Sight is his most pristine and complete picture. That doesn't necessarily equate to a winner, but with Elmore Leonard's source material, it's thoroughly entertaining and slick. From Get Shorty and Justified, his style has such an endearingly casual way to approach a colourful network of energetic and morally grey characters that it's just a joy to watch even in sinister moments. Their presence may be fleeting, but they add to the personality. Working off the back of George Clooney's charm here helps, firmly establishing his typecast role for a while of handsome crook. He does it well is why. But he has a hell of a cast behind him full of familiar faces. However, beyond the intricate plotting and witty dialogue, what makes Out Of Sight special is the thoughtful editing. Usually when a film designs its structure over cutting back and forth without justification it can be jarring, but here it adds so much texture to the film, especially in a memorable intimate scene between Clooney and J-Lo. Leonard's words is what makes the film delicious subversive and engaging, but it's Soderbergh's tight touch that does it justice. Definitely worthy of its cult status over the years and most likely his finest work. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A bank robber and a romance story...","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Out of Sight is a movie that combines very well comedy with crime and a bit of romance. The plot is that a bank robber breaks out of jail and meet a US Marshall who starts a race to catch him before he makes his next robbery.I liked this movie because of the plot and the nice direction of Steven Soderbergh who made a really good job on it. I also liked the interpretations of George Clooney who played as Jack Foley and Ving Rhames who played as Buddy Bragg and he reminded me another interpretation of him in Mission Impossible II. Although I believe that the interpretation of Jennifer Lopez who played as Karen Sisco was not her best.Lastly I have to say that Out of Sight is a worth seeing movie and I strongly recommend it. "},{"Title":"An intelligent story about an intelligent crim","Date":"18 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was told that this was a really good movie, but after seeing a number of superb movies in the cinema recently, and more on video, I began to not expect too much from it. I did not get that much from the movie, but it was reasonably good considering some of the movies that I could have hired (though Object of My Affection is an overnight and I really don't want to pay $3 for it when it is supposed to be an inferior copy of Chasing Amy).Out of Sight is about a superb bankrobber named Jack Foley. He is a very intelligent robber as he gets the money without having to use violence. Instead he bluffs making his victim believe that there are armed men nearby even though there are not. The robbery that we see is evidence of that, and we later discover that he robs this bank without any planning whatsoever. The problem is that his car won't start and he gets caught - but that is only a minor inconvenience to Jack Foley as he manages to escape using a failed escape attempt as a cover. Unfortunately, he is confronted by a federal marshal, Karen Sisco, whom he kidnaps and escapes with.This is where the major plot turns up. Jack falls in love with Karen and vice versa. Both know that this is a difficult relationship, one being a federal marshal and the other being an escaped criminal. In fact this is aiding and abetting a known felon - but nobody other than Jack and his confidant and Karen's father know of this relationship.This movie is about relationships - that which exists between Karen and Jack - and the struggle that they face to come to terms with it. I guess it is an old story two lovers who cannot love because of who they are. This dates back to Romeo and Juliet. Even though it is old, it is an intelligent plot as there is no clear cut solution. Karen knows her job, but she also knows her feelings for Jack. The bedroom scene is one that adds to the character of Karen as she begins to doubt Jack's sincerity, believing he is only doing it for a dare, but he is not. We know Jack and we know that this is not a simple one night stand for him.Jack is really a noble character. He is a bank robber, but he does not use violence, and in fact he has never fired a gun. He is also a very intelligent and observant character. When he sees the accountant in gaol who has a lot of money sequestered away, he protects him believing that he will benefit afterwards. He doesn't ask for money, but rather relies on his generosity - which turns out to be non-existent when he throws a security uniform at Jack and tells him to work his way up from the bottom.I guess, when I think about it, this is a very good movie as it develops the characters and gives them life. I like intelligent and honourable criminals, namely because I have never met one - I guess it is one of those fictions that don't really exist. The characters have their strengths and flaws and each of them is developed independently. The movie focuses on Jack and Karen, but the others, including Snoop (who is a bad guy in the movie) and Jack's confidant are also well rounded characters. What is interesting is the sister of Jack's confidant. She is a born-again Christian and Jack's Confidant tells her everything. She does turn him in, if the crime has not yet been committed, but he seems to owe her something. "},{"Title":"Classy, sly and seductive film although it mostly focuses in on the heist","Date":"8 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is actually a well written and directed film that blends sly and seductive romance with a bit of heist to it. And the slight noir style of vibe and dialogue actually adds to this film. While also bringing back that old school classic vibe to it as well. The romance part is with two very unlikely people. It's between Jack Foley(George Clooney) who is a bank robber that gets what he wants by asking the right way. In another words he is a smooth talker that also has wits and is extremely prideful. But for some reason he is a guy that is still likable and I couldn't help but want him to succeed even if he is a selfish character. Maybe it's because of his easy going attitude and the fact that he has a code and also has class. The female lead is played by Jennifer Lopez and she plays a Karen Sisco who is a Federal Marshal. I will just say she is just right for this role since both the characters chemistry really does stand out. The romance part is a bit short between the two characters but when the chemistry between them picks up, it's sizzling. And how they first bond with each other by making movie references was just plain cool and interesting. Plus this was when George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez was close to their prime. The conversations between the different characters drives this movie. The romance kicks off a bit too quickly but the film explains...Sorta. But than again that actually kinda applies to real life. This film is directed by Steven Soderbergh and he really knows how to put in some classy dialogues. The editing was also really well done, not going in a complete chronological order but it makes the experience and the scenarios more intriguing. This is a classy, sly and seductive romance movie although it mostly focuses in on the heist and is all blended in so well, it's most definitely worth checking out. Few of the deleted scenes were also good although I can understand why some of them were deleted.8/10 "},{"Title":"Cupid's arrow strikes an unlikely pair","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rather light-hearted romantic comedy that turns serious.A bank robber and an FBI agent fall for each other in a mutual but not fatal attraction. She has to do her duty and he has to pursue his profession, but for awhile they get together. Boy meets girl. Boy gets girl. Boy loses girl. Will boy get girl again? Don Cheadle turns our blood cold as a robber without bounds. Dennis Farina is Jennifer Lopez's father, and he is amused by her love interest. Just one of those things. George Clooney is the charming bank robber and Ving Rhames his Buddy (that's his name).A fun outing for the most part, except when Cheadle enters the scene. Then watch out. Recommended. Oh yes, Out of Sight is not a neo-noir, no matter how many lists it appears on and no matter that it may be from a noir novel or that it was by Elmore Leonard. The heart of this movie is romantic comedy in an unlikely combination and crime setting. For an example of real neo-noir, see The Hot Spot with Don Johnson and Virginia Madsen. "}{"Title":"The movie that made George Clooney a movie star","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" George Clooney with his performance here made a statement that he can make and carry a good movie. Prior to this his movie career was him in the god awful Batman & Robin which basically killed that franchise for close to 10 years and crap like One Fine Day. He was already a TV star with ER but he hadn't fully established himself as a movie star yet. This movie lead to him later on getting roles like Three Kings and The Perfect Storm. The movie also had Steven Soderbergh as the director trying to make a movie that was able to have wide audience appeal. The movie has a fantastic cast with Clooney, Jennifer Lopez, Ving Rhames, Steve Zahn, Don Cheadle, Dennis Farina, Isaiah Washington and even Michael Keaton in a cameo as his character Ray Nicolette from Jackie Brown. "},{"Title":"coloured heist","Date":"20 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I came to this one shortly after i saw the American. There, Clooney impressed in the way he gave up on his regular character of the cool winking guy, whose actions on screen are all driven by a self sense of coolness and style. It's a fun game to play with him, although not transcendental. In this film, that sense of comedy and funny style will forever be summed up in the scene when the door of an elevator opens and Clooney sees Lopez sitting in a sofa in the lobby of the hotel where she was chasing him, and he becomes numb and simply raises his hand to say hello. That's the thing, that's how his character works.Soderbergh understood that feature of Clooney soon, and here we see him making a first draft to what would be the top of that coolness the ocean's franchise.Here we have a simpler project, a curious one where Soderbergh amuses himself and allows himself some freedom to be personal while creating a money raising project for his more personal projects. It's a normal heist movie, where the enjoyment lies in the complexity of the scheme, how it is planned, and how it unfolds, and all the twists and unpredictabilities within. This is pretty competent in those respects, although you'll get no much out of it.But there is one sequence truly enjoyable in how it announces some interesting later experiences Soderbergh in his personal field. The sequence when Clooney meets Lopez in a hotel. She is being approached by some drooling business men, than Clooney makes his move, they talk, they go to the room, they sleep together. Check the cinematography of that sequence and how it fits uneasily with the rest of the film. That bit suits the work of an author. The urban landscape outside the window of the hotel bar, the colors in the room, the lighting of the faces, even the interest in the dialog. Probably the best bit of acting we got Jennifer Lopez doing ever. I'll keep that scene.My opinion 3/5, it won't harm you, but check the biggest fish Soderbergh has to offer you.http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Why the uncredited rank for Keaton and Jackson?","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a very good movie, if you read the book first. As any Elmore Leonard fan knows, the movies from his books are usually pretty bad. But with this cast, it was hard to mess it up.Out of Sight was a great book and the movie won't disappoint. But the book does go into greater detail, as any book does. It's much easier understanding the movie if you read the book first.Now my question;Why were Michael Keaton and Samuel L. Jackson listed as uncredited? They were both famous in '98 and were in the movie. Pretty weird.http//us.imdb.com/title/tt0120780/fullcredits#cast "},{"Title":"a fresh, subtle and heartwarming approach to cops 'n robbers and boy meets girl","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen this one I don't know how many times, but still I can't help but watch it when it's on. Almost everything about this movie is right and executed well. The pace of the movie allows for the actors to act and bring out their characters beyond plain good and bad guys. They have to, because good and bad can't be too far apart in this movie for the story to work. So they aren't and it does!In fact, almost every scene works, is genuine and original.Clooney and Lopez match and their chemistry is so real, you gladly suspend any disbelieve on how their relationship develops. Any other pair of great actors could easily have blown this. Lopez a great actress? Well in this movie, absolutely, she's up there with George.Finally, I really like the editing. It makes occasional use of mild effects and supports the story and some of the back stories without being overly present. Nice job. There's a crucial scene between Clooney and Lopez where the time-line of the dialogue and the action subtly drift apart and then come back together. "},{"Title":"Do you ever wear one that says 'undercover'?&#133;Out of Sight","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" If Out of Sight is any indication, I really need to watch more Steven Soderbergh films. This movie is great on many levels. I've seen and loved Traffic, The Limey is top-notch, and the Ocean's movies are enjoyable at times, however I never really jumped on the bandwagon. Maybe it was the boring, mediocre Erin Brochovich, or the fact that he left his indie roots to kick it with the big boys, I always pushed Soderbergh to the side, saying I'd get to him later. Well later has come. Out of Sight has pitch-perfect performances from every principal and supporting character on screen, the cross between drama, action, and comedy is flawless, and the style has just the right amount of flair.The film starts out by throwing us right into the middle of a heist. Through current happenings and scene specific flashbacks, we learn the back-stories of every character and learn to accept them for whom they are, while also allowing us to believe each one's evolution. George Clooney is great, as usual, playing himself&#151;a smooth talking, slick ladies man, who gets the girl and the spoils. While Clooney could be knocked for not having much range as an actor, he sticks to his strengths and most times succeeds. His turn as a CIA agent in this year's Syriana was well-deserving of the Oscar win, and hopefully he will get credit for the work he has put forth throughout his career; that being solid performances full of natural charisma. Ving Rhames shows us why he is one of the best character actors working today. One of those guys that you don't mind seeing in every film, he doesn't have much to do here, (a part reminiscent to the one he reprises in the Mission Impossible series), he plays it right and never misses a beat. Don Cheadle also shows us the skill that he has finally been recognized for of late. The guy is great as the hero/good guy, (Hotel Rwanda, Manic), and here equal to the task as the villain. Cheadle shows some real malice here&#151; sadistic malice. You never know what he will do next because you actually believe he is capable of anything.Another thing this movie does is remind me how actors like Jennifer Lopez and Steve Zahn can really show skill when they have the right part. Zahn's crazy, nave, vulnerability is exactly what is needed to play against serious sarcasm, like that thrown around by Clooney's character Foley. Zahn is seen too often in comedies where he falls flat and becomes redundant. He is the laugh man to any straight man, that is his strength and I wish we could see more of him in movies like this. As for Lopez, she really plays the role nicely. She exudes successful woman sexiness, quietly going through the movie, very low-key. This is before she became jack-of-all-trades, watering down her own image. As far as this film and Oliver Stone's U-Turn, she can pull off the gritty drama much better than the saccharine coated movies she churns out presently. Also, one cannot forget to speak of Albert Brook's chameleon-like performance. He is virtually unrecognizable until he speaks in the prison library. Expertly cast in the role, his serious tone lends itself well to the corporate criminal he plays, showing he means business while also letting some of his great comedic timing show through.Through it all there is a great heist story from accomplished author Elmore Leonard. Whether there are plot holes, I really don't remember. The brilliant performances draw you into their world completely and you go along for the ride without thinking twice. Soderbergh is an actor's director for sure. His use of large ensembles always shows off a comradery that is realistic; he allows his cast to have fun and it translates to the screen. He is an artist as well with these quasi-low budget cinematic stabs. Like The Limey, he films with some flair. The still-frame effect is used effectively as a dissolve between scenes. It gets a bit much at some parts where we are shown small hitches, but overall works well for the caper story narrative. When he cuts between Lopez and Clooney at the hotel bar and room, we are given an amazing visceral scene. This is the crowning achievement of the film. With the bar conversation voicing over the scene, we go back and forth between the sexual tension at the bar and the awkwardness of their almost school yard crush at bedside. It is a great sequence to be remembered for its delicate care.I hope to eventually see Soderbergh's recent film Bubble and its subsequent digital companions in the future. It will be interesting to see him direct amateurs and if his skills are as good as they seem when handling the egos of professionals. Sex, Lies, and Videotapes along with Schizopolis are entering the queue of movies to see, and hopefully his Ocean's 13, filming soon, won't ruin a good thing, especially since 12 came dangerously close to doing so already. "},{"Title":"Pretty good but mostly a romance film.","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie somewhat and it had good acting. George Clooney and several other bank robbers break out of prison and kidnap FBI agent Lopez who is assigned to catch them. She and Clooney soon fall in love, but the rest of the film doesnt make much sense. The last half of the film, Clooney and his gang of thugs (with no Lopez) are planning to break into a millionaire's mansion (who was one of their former cellmates) and steal his large collection of diamonds. The scene where they break into the house at the end is the only real scene of action in the whole film, so if you are renting this to watch an action movie, then you have the wrong rental. But this was an interesting movie that I cannot compare to any other film in recent memory. Feel free to email me with any questions or comments. "},{"Title":"What was all the fuss about? *Review contains spoilers*","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This move boasts excellent actors and some very entertaining characters - absolutely loved Glenn.  The character of Karen, however, leaves much to be desired.  I didn't take this movie too seriously but Karen struck me as the dumbest FBI agent that ever existed.  Watching the kidnapping scene was painful thanks to the sheer stupidity of it all.  Why was it so hard for Karen to shoot Jack when she was being taken hostage but not so much of a problem after she had already fallen for him?  Some scenes amused me and some even made me laugh.  Many scenes however, made me groan and roll my eyes. I give this movie a C+. "},{"Title":"Typically brilliant soderbegh movie","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie seems to be the one that, at the moment, best encapsulates the different sides of Soderberghs directorial personality.  It has top-quality performances by the entire cast, it is a heist movie, it is sexually leaden without being explicit, it is audience-friendly while still experimenting with form and structure.  It has humour, but is also serious.  It is superficially entertaining, but also has a lot of depth.  I've seen it several times, and I don't seem to tire of it.  Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie!  The story is compelling - two people from opposite sides of the law have an immediate attraction to each other, and despite the fact that they know their relationship is impossible, they both feel an irresistible need to see each other again.  Jennifer Lopez is cool, George Clooney is hot, and together they have great chemistry.  The other actors are also terrific.  Each one brings humor, eccentricity and a unique twist to the character.  The plot plays with the timeline, in the mode of Pulp Fiction, but in a way that adds to your understanding of the characters and the story line. "},{"Title":"Subtle romantic comedy","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everything in this movie is subtle - the romance, the comedy and the intelligence. The director has done an excellent job, and the screenplay is terrific. All the actors do a good job, especially Jennifer Lopez, George Clooney and Dennis Farina. I especially liked the scenes in the elevator, the hotel room and the bank robbery. Good movie, can't wait to see it again! "}{"Title":"Didn't I see this before?","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Best Clooney and Lopez are absolutely worth watching at the screen together; the first robbery was delicious to watch as well as the last sequences of the movie. NOTE It's very interesting to note that at the end, Samuel L. Jackson makes a cameo saying he escaped from Leavenworth, at the beginning of Deep Blue Sea, he says he escaped from Leavenworth, however both characters have no connection. The Worst despite the viewers temper, the movie can be really boring as well as inconsistent, but for those who like spy like movies and moves passed on prisons may enjoy it, I'll rather opt being neutral or subjective. Rating 5/10Meet Jack Foley, the most successful  bank robber around&#133; The night when he runs from jail, he steals something much more dangerous that money, &#133;.the heart of Karen Sisco a discerning woman, sexy, and unfortunately to Jack, a Federal Agent. However they're willing  to risk everything to learn if there's something more between them than law&#133;.Out Of Sight, presents George Clooney on the role of an intriguing  criminal man, law breaker and determined to make one last robbery and Jennifer Lopez that chooses all the right steps, and all the wrong men&#133;. Saying that facing this movie I was totally neutral, I confess that I have to weave some comments, that are specially technical, I really don't find Steven Soderbergh that great director that everyone makes of him, anyway this is the only film I saw directed by him, secondly my major complaint goes to the cinematography presenting more inconsistencies than a Suisse cheese there were moments where it provided us flawless captures when on the other hand it looked, in some scenes, imagery lower than an ordinary 1 a.m. movie.Entertaining on it's way &#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;..  "},{"Title":"Great Story and Chemistry","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight tells the story of the love between a bank robber (Jack, played by Clooney) and an FBI agent (Karen, played by Lopez).  Jack breaks out of prison thanks to a few buddies, but Karen happens to be in the prison parking lot during the attempt.  She tries to apprehend the escapees, but she ends up in her own trunk with Jack since they decide, at the last minute, to use her car as their ticket to freedom.  The sparks fly, and once they part ways,  the two try to figure out if a romance could actually be possible between them.  The chemistry between Karen and Jack was completely believable thanks to great acting by Lopez and Clooney.  Normally, George's acting doesn't impress me.  Even when he donned the Batman suit in Batman and Friends or whatever it was called, I still thought, 'Oh, there's Doug Ross (Clooney's ER character) as Batman'.  But, he was actually great in this role, looking very dapper, might I add, in a few scenes.  Lopez was equally successful in her role.  The supporting actors are top notch.  I watched this movie with my mom, and many parts had her laughing, so I think she enjoyed this movie too.  Director Steven Soderbergh has a unique vision.   This is the first film of his that I've seen, but this one makes me want to see more.  As an example, at the times when it seemed most appropriate, he froze the frame for a few fleeting moments so that you could savor the complexity of the moment.  That was very effective.  The story is also told in an original flashback manner, which makes for a fresh film experience.  Watch for the scene when Karen and Jack are talking in the coctail lounge and the snow is falling in the background.  Great filmmaking!   "},{"Title":"Too cool for school","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watching this movie, you have no choice but to kick back and just enjoy the show. The movie is so laid back and cool, even in the shootout sequences, that you feel like you've just gotten out of an Asian massage parlor after watching it. George Clooney proves that he is the only NBC TV actor (from the Must See TV Days) who can move to the big screen and become even better. The guy smacks of movie star. Jennifer Lopez is downright sizzling in this flick. She hasn't been in a movie since that has done her beauty justice. And the chemistry between her and Clooney almost melts away the celluloid. Dennis Farina is awesome as always, Ving Rhames proves he's an actor of all seasons, Don Cheadle puts just the right mixture of comedy and menace into his role, and Steve Zahn is highly overlooked as an actor. He was the best thing about That Thing You Do and almost steals the show here. Plus, putting in Micheal Keaton as the same character he played in Jackie Brown is a stroke of genius. And the pace that Steven Soderburgh keeps the film at is masterful. After all is said and done, he'll be looked at as one of the great filmmakers in history. If you haven't seen this movie yet, you are missing out on pure cinema gold. Go see it. "},{"Title":"An entertaining thriller","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was a fantastic thrill ride. it made you wonder what was going to happen next. Jennifer Lopez was beautiful, and George Clooney was hot. They obviously made the movie. Without them it wouldn't have been worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Cool, hip, and smooth","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"       I rented this when it originally came out back in 1998, I remembered I enjoyed it. But I didn't fully understand it. All of the time switching and things like that. But I did enjoy it. So last year I bought it.     Now that I'm older and just a tad more intellegant, I understand and truly do love the film. I think it is so cool and everyone involved with the project was top-notch. The scenes were handled with a lot of class and director Stephen Soderbergh (to later go on to Erin Brokovich, Traffic, fame)knew just how to handle the material.     You can't expect bad performances from this kind of cast. I'm not saying that all of the cast always turns in good performances in every film. But properly motivated then they can handle anything. George Clooney has really broken out of his ER stuture and become a movie star. Jennifer Lopez needs to do more films like this. Some of her latest offerings haven't been as good. The supporting cast is awesome. Ving Rhames is always reliable to turn in a great performances. He's gonna be huge someday. And Don Cheadle is a great actor who can act in just about any kind of film.      I read the book and the film is a good adaption. Certain things are changed around. Like the robbery that happens at the beginning of this film happens in the middle of the book. And I noticed that reading Elmore Leonard (anyone reading this who hasn't read an Elmore Leonard novel, I strongly suggest you go pick one up, they are all awesome) is kinda like reading Tarantino dialogue. It works best when there is an actor who can handle the rythems and the acting ability to seem like he thinks like that. Shakespeare has that too, now that I think about it.       All in all this is a good film with a great cast.  9/10 "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable.","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised when I finally rented this film and question why this film wasn't a bigger hit at the box office.  Great performances all around, especially Don Cheadle as the menacing Snoop Miller, and Steve Zahn as Glen Micheals as the stoner who's in way over his head.  Having Micheal Keaton as Ray Nicolette in this film was a nice touch as well.  Out of all the Elmore Leonard books I've read, I think this may be the best translation into film.  In fact, I feel this movie surpasses the novel.   "},{"Title":"Out of Sight is worth the time","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight is a very creative and entertaining movie.  It has great performances by Clooney and Lopez and the story is great.  It is fun movie to watch and worth the $3.00 it costs to rent.  If you haven't seen this movie, do.  I haven't meet a person who hates it.  It has great action, dialogue, and a nice cameo of Samuel L. Jackson at the end.  Soderbergh's best movie. "},{"Title":"Slick and well directed-but the acting sucks!","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some movies are cool and some just try to be cool-this one falls into the latter category.  I wouldn't say it's so awful-don't watch it- I'd just recommend that you wait until it appears on TV so you don't have to waste any money on it from the video shop. The acting of both Clooney and Lopez is so bad it's funny (unless you stop to think of the huge amount of money they got paid to do it). Much of the film's hype and selling points was the promise of sizzling chemistry between two of Hollywood's sexiest people-but it is so contrived that it just doesn't work. It's a shame because the plot's quite good and the directing is really good-but do yourself a favour and watch a good film instead.  "},{"Title":"real bad","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Do they really think you only need to put together a good-looking actor and a good-looking actress to make a movie? And that an unbelievable story (even by Hollywood standards), a super-pretentious connection between the two characters, and several unfunny jokes won't show up?Really, although a bit suspicious at the beginning (which usually leads to enjoy the movie, at least to some extent), I didn't think it would be this bad!  "},{"Title":"Terminally cool...","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Right behind Next Stop Wonderland, this film ranks as the second most under-rated film of the nineties. The cinematography is as lush as it gets; Miami has been captured perfectly. Sunny, schmaltzy, gaudy, and totally cool. The most surprising thing about this movie is how AMAZING Clooney and Lopez are together. While Clooney is often dismissed as the latest version of Bruce Willis, he proves his acting ability here beyond a doubt. Lopez is subtle and perfect.  The trunk scene is one of the hottest and under-stated scenes of its kind. Rent this flick and enjoy! "}{"Title":"Smart, slick, and very entertaining","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  `Out of Sight', a fairly faithful adaptation of an Elmore Leonard novel, is a clever, slick, sexy flick loaded with charm and wry humor.  Jack Foley (George Clooney) is a career bank robber who recently escaped from prison, Karen Sisco (Jennifer Lopez) is the Federal Marshall that Jack took hostage for a brief time in order to escape - and who's now trying to bring Jack back to jail.  Besides the obvious cat-and-mouse game of hunting down the illustrious Mr. Foley, there's a certain romantic connection going on between Jack and Karen that complicates things, as well as a plan to rob a Michael Milken-esque criminal of over one million dollars' worth of diamonds.The dialogue is vintage Elmore Leonard - lots of dry humor, lots of wisecracks, and perfect comic timing.  The chemistry between Clooney and Lopez is great; you actually find yourself caring a lot about what happens and will happen between the two.  The situation they're put in is slightly implausible (Federal Marshall falling in love with a career criminal . . . not exactly realistic); I don't know if the movie could've survived without the deft romantic tension between the two.  Also of note in the film is Don Cheadle as Maurice `Snoopy' Miller, the cold-blooded criminal who thinks he's a lot smarter than he really is.  `Snoopy' moves effortlessly between being laughably stupid and heartlessly cold-blooded, sometimes within the same scene.  His performance alone makes the movie worth watching.Soderbergh's direction is very good, if a little uneven - I think he was still finding his voice with this film and with `The Limey'.  A lot of the quick cuts between scenes are meant to be edgy, but wind up just being irritating.  Still, the story moves at a crisp pace, and some of the scenes (such as a meeting between Jack Foley and `Snoopy' Miller at a boxing gym) are brilliant.A highly entertaining film - I'm amazed this didn't do better at the box office when it was originally released.  Rent it already!!  A-  "},{"Title":"Sleek & Sophisticated","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Out of Sight' is one of the underestimated films of the late nineties. Soderberg's work here is equal to that of both 'Traffic' and 'Brockovich' and his unique story telling techniques sets him out above the rest. What is obvious in this film is his superb ability to tell a story through the film medium. Leaving the excellent acting aside, the films construction itself is one of high standard and class. Editing techniques courtesy of Soderberg veteran 'Coates A.C.E.' fit neatly with the score which in itself is rounded and sleek. The on screen chemistry between Clooney and Lopez has been noted well enough but it is the ability of the entire assemble that helps carry the film. The mix of thriller, romance and comedy works to Soderberg's advantage. Not only is this movie in-captivating but its dry black humour and cool, classy love scenes only add to highten the tension of the overall film. Credit should be given to Lopez for her sassy 'Sisco' and Clooney should not go with out notice for one of the best acting pieces of his post 'ER' career. Rhames pulls of the loyal, hard ass act with seeming ease and Cheadle only goes to improve on his past performances. The credit of this fantastic film must really go to Soderberg though because we see his style here which set the precedent for both 'Brockovich' and 'Traffic' as well as, to a certain extent the somewhat forgotten 'Limey' What is clear is that this is really the start of Soderberg's 'A-Lister' career and should be noted in history as the film that started it off. There is no doubt that he will go on to bigger works and we have certainly not seen the last of him. If the films that followed this are anything to go by then Hollywood directors everywhere should be aware. This film shows of the skills of a man who has the power to out shine Spielberg in the next century. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining thriller","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A charming bankrobber and a female police marshall fall in love with each other during the latters prison-break.A marvellous thriller disguised as a romantic comedy.Much in the same vein of the old Steve McQueen starrer The Thomas Crown Affair but not quite as good.Lot of good supporting players,and a wry humor makes this movie a stand-out.Surprisingly well acted by Clooney and Lopez.     Rating***1/2 out of***** "},{"Title":"My number 159 movie ( minor spoilers )","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, you have read correctly. This is my number 159 movie. It is quite original and the actors are good and sexy, too. Many people compared Out of Sight to Pulp Fiction. I think Out of Sight is way better, because Out of Sight is good and pUlp Fiction is bad. I have two favorite scenes  the first is, when George Clooney meets jennifer Lopez in the turnk of the car. And the second one is when Jennifer Lopez kisses George Clooney in the bathtub. All in all, I rated this movie 8/10. I recommend it to people who want to see a much better Pulp Fiction. CU "},{"Title":"Intoxicatingly sexy","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the sexiest movies made. The on-screen coupling of Clooney and Lopez produces a chemistry not often demonstrated by leading men and women. Soderbergh's working of the bar/bedroom scene is a welcome return to the sensual sex scene rather than the gun-ho lets all jump into bed scenes that are all too frequent in todays movies. For me this film represents one of Clooney and Lopez's finest performances (a performance surpassed by Clooney only recently in O'Brother..). A superb film, a firm favourite in my collection. "},{"Title":"a hit and miss affair","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is one of those movies where i half loved it and was half disappointed with it. first the positives - camerawork, soundtrack, editing, don cheadle (of course). negatives - lopez's character motivation and clooney thinking with the wrong head. i know reality is supposed to be put aside when it comes to these kinda movies, but would any serious criminal risk getting busted just to get in the sack with jennifer lopez??? its tempting i know, but clooney's character was from that point on a terminal dumbass - and what kind of us marshall would risk their job to get some long-dicking from a bank robber??? could you imagine sam gerard (the fugitive) doing this?? i didnt think so... albert brooks i thought put in the best performance, next to cheadle, also isaiah washington was fun to watch. i was pretty disappointed with the slow pacing of this, and im a huge soderburgh fan (even though erin brockovich was doggie poop)final verdict - 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Very Cool Film!","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is great. The directing is excellent and the sound track isn't too bad either. There are some very funny moments in the film and the acting is superb especially the two leads Clooney and Lopez. This is a film you can't miss out and DVD is great too. Just see it! 9/10  "},{"Title":"A Good Film.","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought Out Of Sight looked really awesome from the previews and I was pleased with what I saw. Jennifer Lopez is great as a sexy cop and George Clooney is excellent as a bank robber.Jack Foley (Clooney) is a smart and witty bank robber who has just escaped from jail ..... again. Now he has a sexy cop on his hands (played excellently by Lopez) and woops - they have fallen in love! Will she turn him in or will they get married and go to an exotic island? Who knows - you'll just have to see it.Out Of Sight is a cool movie that I recommend to viewers.My rating  8 and a half/10  "},{"Title":"Pure pleasure - it's all in the details!","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight is one of those films that goes down as easily as a Czech beer on a hot day.  In fact, it is so assured, so easy to watch that it is easy to forget how meticulously it is constructed and how every detail is spot-on.  The cinematography is cool, detached and luxurious.  The script is subtle in its twists, and negotiates some tricky flashbacks without losing the narrative flow.  There's a excellent score, laid back but funky.  Finally, of course, there are the performances.  Clooney and Lopez have both been in some terrible films, but here both generate a remarkable chemistry, despite only having a few scenes together.  Lopez, indeed, is a revelation - intelligence, smouldering sensuality, and an effortless charm entirely in keeping with the film's aesthetic.  Of course, this effect will be ruined the next time I see one of her tacky music videos on MTV.  However, it is a mark of the film's quality that smaller roles are no less accomplished - note the estimable Catherine Keener, who only has two scenes to make an impact, but adds a deliciously quirky presence.  Also, Steve Zahn, as the pothead loser, is funny throughout - note how his look is based on Dennis Hopper in Easy Rider.  As I say, the details are everything. "},{"Title":"I don't get what the big deal is...","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I heard a lot of good things about this film, so I started to read the book, and it didn't keep me interested.  I saw the film the other night, and I fail to see what all the hoopla was about.  Acting was good, direction was adequate, I even liked the editing and the jumping around chronologically, but something else was missing.  Similar to other Elmore Leonard adaptations like Jackie Brown and Get Shorty, there are villians with hearts of gold and others who are just plain evil.  Somewhat entertaining, but not something I would recommend others to go out of their way to see.  "}{"Title":"Wow, that's good writing!","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It wasn't until the scene in the car trunk that I realized just how different this movie is. A bank robber breaks out of prison, abducts a female US Marshal, and...chats with her about Faye Dunaway movies before releasing her unharmed!? Later, after she tracks him to Detroit, they have a few drinks, sharing some of the best dialogue in years, then...!? When he said, Why would you think that?  Why would you think I would think that? I heard myself saying out loud, Wow, that's good writing. After this and Three Kings, I want to see anything that George Clooney does from now on.  He's proven himself, as far as I'm concerned, one of the best actors working today, and he's finally getting scripts worthy of him. Jennifer Lopez and the rest of the cast were uniformally excellent.  (And it was nice to see Nancy Allen again, even if for a few moments.  Where's she been?)  All the characters were well-written and well-played. This is one of the few cases where the screenplay was better than the already-good book. Crime movies, full of shooting and other violence, cruelty and profanity, are so commonplace that I've become jaded and almost desensitized to them. But occasionally, something like this comes along that concentrates on character instead of plot, and makes up for all the heartless, mindless, garbage they keep endlessly remaking and recycling. That this gem of a film died at the box office the same summer that the stupid, inept, intelligence-insulting Armageddon became the biggest hit of the year says more about the quality of moviegoers than of movies. If you haven't seen Out of Sight, and you don't mind profanity and violence (when they're used well and in context), then see this film immediately. And the ending still has me laughing. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 1998 that went unnoticed","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An underrated piece of cinema that boasts the talents of all it's stars from what should've been the star making performances of George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez as well as the award bound performances of it's brilliant supporting cast of the likes of Ving Rhames, Don Cheadle, Steve Zahn, Dennis Farina, and Albert Brooks. This is one of the best films ever adapted from one of Elmore Leonard's books. An aging bank robber who's a pro at the job has just broken out of jail to pull off one last score with an old friend. Of course, fate interwines when he ends up taking an attractive US Marshall hostage for the night. They end up falling in love in this stylish cat and mouse game. Steven Soderbergh uses his visuals to the best with this film. "},{"Title":"Makes the grade, but not as good as its rep","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I enjoyed this movie, and certainly wouldn't discourage anyone from seeing it, I feel it's been somewhat overpraised. I mean, come on, it's just a modest little caper movie for crying out loud, let's not get carried away. The main problem I had with it was the central relationship between Clooney and Lopez; I don't know, I just didn't buy it, they didn't convince me that they were so all-consumingly attracted to each other that they would jeopardize themselves the way they did. I think the initial conversation they had in the car would have needed to be A LOT better for me to go along with it all (although I couldn't say exactly how).Of course, since I didn't buy the central relationship, the fact that I still liked the film is a testament to how well everything else in the movie works. The cast is uniformly great - from Ving Rhames as Clooney's guilt-plagued assistant to Steve Zahn's memorable stoner of a crook. The look of the film is superb, and the chopped up editing works exceptionally well. Of course, it's easy to get the sense, while watching, that a great deal of craft and style has been expended to cover up what is essentially a mediocre story. So be it. It still works, if just barely, and is good for an evening of light entertainment. But as far as Elmore Leonard movies go, it doesn't hold a candle to Get Shorty. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight is an entertaining movie about crime and guilty pleasures and shows how movies have changed in the 90s. After watching it the first time I saw hints of Tarantinoesque in it and I almost thought that it was one of his movies but QT's proven he can't blend Leonard's style with his (look at Jackie Brown). To say that Soderbergh is trying to be the next Tarantino is like saying Tarantino was trying to be the next Jean-Luc Godard. What it comes down to is nothing's original in cinema anymore, someones done what you're doing a long time ago. Tarantino himself doesn't like it how so many young directors are being typecasted as Tarantino wannabes in an interview he did. "},{"Title":"It is Out of Sight!","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this movie's trailer, I really wanted to see it! I didn't get to in theaters. I really dig movies like this. Elmore Leonard movies. Well anyways, I rented it. I LOVED it. I really really liked it. I thought it was great. This movie was a little boring at a time or two, but I didn't find the whole film boring. I liked Jennifer Lopez and Ving Rhames. George Clooney wasn't bad either. I recommend it. For whoever like Get Shorty, or Jackie Brown. "},{"Title":"What a pleasant surprise...","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie thinking it would be a good test for my new DVD system, full of action and flash. It was, and a good story to boot. Nice cinematography, characters are built up very well, story has plenty of interesting twists, action is over-the-top but pretty believable. Clooney and Lopez do a good job of playing the parts beautiful people, action heros, martyrs, etc.A good night's viewing. "},{"Title":"Great chemistry","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I had no desire to see this film when it was in the theater, my roommate convinced me to rent it recently and I was really blown away. It takes a very simple formula -- con is attracted to woman cop (& vice versa) -- and makes a great film.The dialog was top notch, the characters (both lead and supporting) were engrossing, and the chemistry between Clooney and Lopez was some of the best I've ever seen.I wholeheartedly recommend this film 9/10 -- one point lost for this annoying freeze-frame tic that the director had -- rent it and you'll see what I mean. "},{"Title":"really a good piece of work...","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  out of sight is definitely the best elmore leonard's movie, far above get shorty, wich was a really good movie, but directed by an average film maker, barry sonenfeld. on the contrary steven sodebergh is trying to break the rules of film vocabulary, his smart use of flash forward and multi angles is really impressive... i like his style and steven is definitely an artist, a guy who tries to make a different cinema.the actors are really good, especially ving rhames, but clooney is better than in ER and tryes to play differently... he needs to improve but his charm and his presence are really impressive... as a conclusion, out of sight is a must see that deserves a 9 over 10... by the way the music is really cool )) "},{"Title":"One truley great crime drama","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight is one remarkable film. The acting script and direction are truley on top of their form in this fun and enjoyable movie about a bank robber who falls for a police woman. Clooney and Lopez are on on the mark with their unique style and the sparks fly when the two get together. The story is incredible, on of Elmore Leonard's finest works. It only makes you wonder what it would have been like if Quentin Tarentino got ahold of this one instead of Jackie Brown, though Brown isn't a bad film as some perceave. all of Leonard's works have worked out in film, with the exception of the horrible Get Shorty, which could have done without Travolta. All in all, this is one of the best films that have come out in the over saturated big budget action era that is the 80's and 90's. A sure pleaser to anyone who likes a truley remarkable film. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Superb entertainment and on-screen chemistry","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight deserved a bit more recognition than it did when it was released in the late summer of 1998.  Director Steven Soderbergh captures a playful, comedic, and slick atmosphere in this terrific film. The leads, George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez, are charismatic, sexy, and both are at the tops of their games.  Neither have ever performed better than this.The supporting cast is uniformly magnificent, including the always-great Ving Rhames and the always-interesting Steve Zahn. Also there is Don Cheadle whose performance is confident, cool, and unpredictable.  Albert Brooks also lends a hand as a wimp and a target in a barely-recognizable supporting turn.  And one last surprise guest ends the movie on the highest of high notes. Also, did I mention Michael Keaton pops up to reprise his Jackie Brown role here? (both films were based on Elmore Leonard novels)  Enough good actors for you??  I thought so. This film works  everything just gels and the viewer is entertained supremely.  Additional viewings are quite enjoyable as well.  I recommend this movie overwhelmingly and hope it finds its fans on video.Grade  **** (out of four)  "}{"Title":"Cool little movie","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is like a great plate of beans and rice-not too complicated, nothing new, but very satisfying when you do it right. OUS is an extremely rare combination of good crime caper stuff mixed with a really compelling romantic story. Usually in action or crime movies the romance seems out of place and tacked on but it actually is the heart of this movie, the engine that makes it go and makes you want to watch more. Jennifer Lopez is HOT-She is cute as hell and made the best of her great role. Clooney is worthy to be called the new Cary Grant, with his effortless charm, charisma, and confidence-he's fun to watch and you want to be just half as smooth as some of his characters. The rest of the cast was good as well, especially Don Cheadle and Dennis Farina and the spaced out guy with the sunglasses. Watch it and you'll definitely like it- what more could you ask for? "},{"Title":"Elmore Leonard Movie","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Another Elmore Leonard book/movie proves once again if you start with quality you end up with quality.  Every character in the movie is believable and their motivations are real.  As an added benefit the Elmore Leonard name I believe attracts high quality actors to do the work, this is demonstrated by the cameos that people do in his work.  A high quality film with an interesting directors style that gives you a look at a pivotal point several times from different views and times. "},{"Title":"Great characters","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My Age 13Jack Foley, a bank robber played by George Clooney, escapes from prison using another criminal's escape tunnel.  Waiting for him outside is Federal Marshal Karen Sisco, played by Jennifer Lopez, who finds herself locked in the trunk of her own car with the criminal.  While Buddy, played by Ving Rhames, drives the car away, Jack and Karen chat and get to know each other. They become attracted to each other.  Jack and Buddy are planning one last heist, to steal $5 million worth of uncut diamonds.  Karen is assigned to bringing them in, but starts to have second thoughts about it.Good acting by the main actors who have great characters to play, which people can expect from any movie adapted from an Elmore Leanord novel. Good interesting plot, nice music and style, but the film's only major downfall is that it is occasionally boring.  A good ending and overall a good movie, Out of Sight is worth seeing.  Also includes cameo performances by Samuel L. Jackson and Michael Keaton.Australian Classification M 15+ Medium Level Coarse Language, Medium Level ViolenceRating 73 out of 100  "},{"Title":"Exudes style","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This has to be my favorite Elmore Leonard adaptation. It stays true to the characters and actually improves the plot. The acting and characters are wonderfully subtle and the dialogue is top notch. The film simply exudes style. While the plot leaves something to be desired(I know she should report to a superior)the movie is about the characters and their relationships. The plot only acts as a catalyst. Many people I've talked to complain that it was too slow and boring. This is only so if you don't pay attention. The dialogue crackles and every actor pulls his weight(the supporting cast is brilliant) but only if you pay attention to them. I think that too many people expect pulp fiction and discover that it's a subtle drama that involves criminals not a crime movie that's dramatic. I love this film and I hope that anyone who hasn't seen it does, and soon. "},{"Title":"Amusing, but a rental","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An amusing movie, but occasionally falls in pace. The romantic  energy never quite seems to make it seem convincing. Come on?! You're in the smelly trunk with an escaped convict, and even if he is George Clooney, you fall in love with him?But the ending, by not being typical hollywood, was definitely a little bit of a surprise. Great to watch at home on a rainy  friday night with some friends and lots of pop "},{"Title":"the most sexy couple in movie history!","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not really a fan of romance movies or chick flicks but I've been completely seduced by this movie. The couple Clooney/Lopez on screen is definitely extraordinary and make us realize that Lopez is great (as a girl and as an actress) and that Clooney is really a good actor (out of E.R). The director Steven Soderbergh (sex, lies and video) did a great job after a few uninteresting movies. You can't resist the colorful and sexy atmosphere in this movie and you'll be surprised and happy to find Keaton(Ray nicolet seen in Jacky Brown)in a small role. For my part, this movie could follow Jacky Brown but Out of sight is more entertaining than Tarantino's movie. "},{"Title":"Out of Sight is right!!","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the best films of 98.  I was there the first weekend were you?Jennifer Lopez gave the best female performance last year.  Tough and vunerable.  Professional and passionate.  George Clooney created a great chemistry with her.  Could that barroom bedroom scene have been hotter?The rest of the cast was also perfect.  Rhames, Cheadle, Zahn and Keener.  Could one ask for more?Yes it was like a great beach read more style than substance but why nitpick something like this?  "},{"Title":"You Can Hear the Sizzle","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You know, this is really a terrific little flick. I was really surprised by how much I liked it, because I was expecting to be indifferent at best. There are, naturally, tons of people here who want to put it down for various reasons. Sure, the plot was a little funky. Guess what? It's supposed to be that way. This is noir, not a documentary. Jennifer Lopez is beautiful, let there be no doubt, but I just never saw the appeal of George Clooney. Other women would just be swooning over him, and I'd be like whatever. Then I saw this movie, and suddenly. . .I got it. There are a couple of scenes in this tinderbox that threaten to send the damn *video* up in flames. The atmosphere is that combustible. Now THAT'S chemistry! I certainly haven't been converted into a Clooney-worshiper, but I must give credit where credit is due for this one. It wasn't the absolute best of '98, but it's up there, and if you're looking for an overlooked little gem of a movie, here's a candidate.   "},{"Title":"Good on second viewing","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most of the positive reviews were from those who read the book or saw the movie twice. I didn't get it the first time and enjoyed on second viewing. Ultimately, this does not make a good movie because a good movie should entertain with one viewing. The first viewing has one trying to follow the plot and this keeps one from missing the cleverness that was put into the script. "},{"Title":"some like the pulp-fiction, some like anything else!","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen the soderbergh's two films before. but this film is not like anything before. a little funny texture,  "}{"Title":"Fun - Entertaining","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unpredictable thriller that changed the way I look at George Clooney ( always thought he was a real shmucko ).  The story was written well, directed well, and acted well.  Id recomend this movie to anyone who is into these types of films  "},{"Title":"ABSOLUTELY OVERRATED!","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After hearing how brilliant this film was, i finally ran out and rented it to find out what I was missing.  I found myself waiting impatiently for its seething brilliance to seep out...didn't happen.  Jennifer Lopez is beautiful, I'm not disputing that but perhaps she should stick to Loreal commercials.  It seems she's the same character in every film she plays (with the exception of Selena, in which she delivered a worthy performance). I could say the same for George Clooney but what really annoyed me was the slow pace in which this film moved...best screenplay?  You gotta be kidding me!  How a film like Todd Solondz' Happiness can slip by the Academy's eyes and a film like this can be nominated for an Oscar just proves how political the Academy Awards are.  On a scale of 1 to 10, i'll be generous and give it a 6 and a half. "},{"Title":"Overrated!","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nominated for best screenplay?  I beg to differ.  The dialogue in this movie was so weak, I almost turned it off in the middle.  I suppose that I wanted to see what was going to happen at the end, but even that turned out to be stupid.There were no real characters in this film.  Everyone simply fit their stereotype and moved accordingly.  Foley had never met Sisko before, and now he wants to bring her along on the prison break?  Get real.  I can't believe that this many people thought this movie was good or clever.  The two main characters were obviously NOT in love, and didn't have any reason to be. There was no chemistry.  Perhaps because they're both attractive, we are to assume that they can't help but love each other, but I didn't see that. If she is a law enforcer, it would take a hell of a lot longer to fall for a criminal - even if she has a penchant for picking the wrong man.  I just think that the writers/directors/producers underestimated our intelligence as viewers on this one.  It's probably better than Godzilla, but nowhere near as good as Jackie Brown, and not even in the same league as Pulp Fiction or Dog Day Afternoon... "},{"Title":"A fast paced, well edited, near flawless adaptation...","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OUT OF SIGHT is amazing.  It is one of the few films that I have seen which is almost completely truthful to its novel predecessor.  I saw the movie, read the book because I was so in awe of the artistic quality, and have decided on one thing.  The ending in the book is a much better one than that in the movie.This aside, the ending in the movie works perfectly, nothing is ruined by a more dramatic showdown, climax, etc.Clooney himself is on fire.  I loved his performance, especially the scene where he tells a duo of fellow prisoners threatening another prisoner in a behind-bars libraryHey!  The sign QUIET PLEASE says 'Shut the **** up unless you can't read and don't belong here.'  Classic  Leonard, even though it was not included in the book.  Who really cares if a line like that from a guy like Clooney in reality would get George's pretty face smashed in? It's the classic movie bad guy who's slicker and tougher than he looks line that is just so cool to watch.  It continues on the tradition of Chili Palmer in GET SHORTY, especially when John Travolta says ever-so-coolly to a mean looking Delroy Lindo Look at me.  I'm the guy who's telling you how it's gonna be. "},{"Title":"Outstanding!!!","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight is without question one of the best movies of 1998.  Adapted from Elmore Leonard's novel of the same name, Out of Sight tells the love story of a bank robber and FBI agent who should in all practicality hate each other but instead find themselves uncontrollably drawn to one another. A flawless story line with interesting characters, Out of Sight is one for your home video collection.  If you liked Out of Sight give Things to Do in Denver When You're Dead a try. "},{"Title":"very nice","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A smoothly directed, humid story.  When I watched it, I didn't realize what it was that was tugging on my emotions.  Then I figured out what it was. Soderbergh's thickly layered and moody directing really poured out of the screen in Out of Sight; if you've never seen Sex, Lies, & Videotape then you'll have no idea what I'm rambling about.  Excellent 2 hours and 3 minutes of my life.  My rating  9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"GREAT! It's a shame it was overlooked by the public","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out Of Sight was one of the top 5 movies of the year! Too bad the public ignored it in favor of summer non-thinkers (i.e. Armageddon).Steven Soderberg's direction is superb.  I really liked the freeze frames and the way he interlocked conversations and the glistening snow falling outside the window at the bar.  Clooney and Lopez had great chemistry. Cheadle, Rhames, Zahn and Brooks also give good performances.I laughed my head off when the big guy stumbled and blew his brains out.Too bad this funny, great acted/directed/scripted film was overlooked by the public and the Academy it was one of the best of 1998. "},{"Title":"Charming crime drama - one of 98's most underrated.","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What's not to like about this film? As with past Elmore Leonard adaptations (not incl. Touch), this one delivers the goods. George Clooney was suave, bold, and convincing (and, as a plus, he got rid of that damn spasmodic head-bob thing). Jennifer Lopez....well, who wouldn't mind tusslin' with her? ; Both of them had great chemistry, esp. in the trunk scene (which, pound for pound, had more tension than the sketch scene in Titanic). The supporting players equally hold their own in particular, Ving Rhames as a man full of guilt, Don Cheadle as a mad dog enforcer, and Steve Zahn as a perpetually stoned car thief. Probably the most under-appreciated aspect of the film is the score, by David Holmes. This Belfast DJ has a reputation for his funk-influenced electronic music, and here those influences make for an inspired score that would make Isaac Hayes proud. This is one of the best of '98; let's hope it captures that much-deserved Screenplay Oscar.  "},{"Title":"Another amazing Leonard Film.  True to the finish","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just finished watching this excellent, and star-studded adaption to the Elmore Leonard novel and I was overly impressed.  Out of all of Elmore's novels turned films I believe that Out of Sight stays true to its nature and story best.  My two most favorite aspects of the movie was the freeze framing editing that took place every now and then - it gave us a chance to look and it and think 'hey that was important' the other aspect, which I've always enjoyed, is it's non-linear notion.  There was no A to B in this film; it jumps around without telling you, but soon enough you get used to it and start to enjoy it.  I found the movie extremely enjoyable, but I have heard from people that they think it dragged - I disagree; it's an excellent story that keeps the audience interested from Clooney's first on screen bank robbery to his meeting with none other than Sam Jackson himself - another interesting aspect was using Michael Keaton to play, a slightly different, Ray Nicholet once again.  I believe the Michael and Sam were not in the credits - oh well.  All in all it was an excellent movie and I urge anyone that enjoys a good story, particularily a good crime story to go and see this movie - Clooney is the coolest, calmest gangster in the world. "},{"Title":"Completely satisfying movie","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When this movie ends, you realize that somewhere along the line, you became engrossed it's solid storytelling.  No lame plot devices, no over-used characters, no corny hope-the-kids-say-em-tomorrow-at-school catch phrases. Just a cohesive collection of well-played characters in a well-sequenced, unpredictable story. "}{"Title":"one of my favorites of 98","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie was all about chemistry. There was such a chemistry between Clooney and Lopez that it reminded me of Gere and Roberts in Pretty Woman. The format of the movie was great and it definitely is a movie you must see twice. I loved it. "},{"Title":"So why is it getting so many awards?","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, the reason this surprisingly entertaining and well directed film is getting so many critics' awards is because it IS a surprise. I hate to tell you people out there, but most of these awards are extremely political in nature. For example  why did Jim Carrey receive the Golden Globe for best actor? Now anyone that saw The Truman Show knows that he improved a great deal, but also that he wasn't exceptional. Both Tom Hanks and Ian McKellen gave better performances, but both are already established. And now that Carrey has his award, the more important one (the Oscar) can go to Hanks or McKellen, and everyone will be happy. (Note that I am not mentioning Nick Nolte in Affliction because I have not seen it yet.) Now back to Out of Sight. The critics like to spread the wealth so to speak, and Hanks and Spielberg already have had their share. Most people believe that those two will get their share of Oscars again this year, and that Truman will get the screenplay award. So, how best to catch the public's attention? Raise a little known (and very well- done, original) film like Out of Sight above them for the time being. Often a nice surprise is better than an expected gift. And so everyone is talking about it, and the critics have won again. Never fear though, film lovers. In ten years people will still be talking about Saving Private Ryan, but Out of Sight will fade even over the next two. "},{"Title":"really, really good","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"   From the moment George Clooney throws his tie down in the opening credits, you know this is a movie with style. It's got a great cast (there are at least four Tarantino actors in there) which includes Don Cheadle, who after Boogie Nights became one of my favorite actors, and Jennifer Lopez, who may just be the greatest thing ever. Clooney has always been a little cocky for my taste, but one has to admit he's good. There's some great cinematography (the hotel lounge scene is fantastic), and the storytelling is right on. A great surprise.  "},{"Title":"Caveat emptor!","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After reading (and falling for) all the hype, I rushed out to my video store and plunked down nearly $30 for this lifeless, dud of a picture. What's the big deal? Clooney and Lopez are unsympathetic, and Ving Rhames is simply wasted on this movie. I looked desperately for something to like, and found no redeeming value for this movie. It's boring, it's dull, it's unfunny, it's a waste of time and good money. There is one good thing--I got my money back.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Elmore Leonard adaptation","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cinematic prognosticators who have been speculating as to the potential longevity of George Clooney's big screen career should certainly award him points for his role as Jack Foley in Out of Sight.  Despite his matinee idol looks, Clooney confidently and believably portrays the laid-back bank robber who has seen his share of hard time, but it is the actor's chemistry with co-star Jennifer Lopez, equally memorable as Federal Marshal Karen Sisco, that ignites the film.  Director Soderbergh, who proved with The Underneath that he might be at his best in crime films, deftly handles the action, and the uniformly terrific supporting performances by Ving Rhames, Albert Brooks, Don Cheadle, Dennis Farina, Steve Zahn, and others, further strengthen the picture.         "},{"Title":"Funny, engaging and sensual","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie expecting to enjoy it.  I had seen the previews and I like the stars.  I thought Get Shorty was well written, so I expected the same from Out of Sight.  Even with all that, I was still very pleasantly surprised.  This was a highly entertaining movie with great dialogue and engaging characters.  The chemistry between Lopez and Clooney was sizzling. The characters all held my interest and the plot moved along quite well.  I don't understand why so many people have such a dislike of George Clooney. He is a handsome and charismatic actor who has repeatedly given very good performances.  He held up very well against Jennifer Lopez and Ving Rhames, two very powerful actors.  He made a fine leading man in a wonderfully made movie.  "},{"Title":"A 90's film noir classic.","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To anyone who doesn't completely enjoy this film  What is wrong with you? It is without flaw.  A ten.  A movie lover must, MUST like this movie.  If you're not a George Clooney fan, don't let that keep you away.  If you hated Pulp Fiction, storm past the mental barricades to cinematic bliss.  OK, I'm a going a bit overboard, but I want people to see a movie they will really enjoy.  The interaction between Rhames and Dr. Ross is so natural, the snippets of prison-life so necessary, and every cameo and supporting role so right... This is a film that clicks on every level. This is so rare Casablanca, Tootsie, and Pulp Fiction are examples that come to mind. There are a shortage of perfect films in this world.  It would be a shame for you to miss this one. "},{"Title":"The Complaints About Clooney are Obviously Coming  From Guys","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film was not one of the best of all time, but it really stuck with me. Clooney and Lopez (very sensual individuals) have such great chemistry together - best I've seen between a couple in a long time.  Personally, I love looking at that man - especially when he smiles so I enjoyed the opportunity to indulge there. He has a class and style I've not seen to appreciate since Carey Grant.  Lopez in her live action Lara from Tomb Raider style really surprised me with how convincing she was. The characters were very rich and believable (loved Lopez' father).  Really liked everything about the film with the exception of the ending. "},{"Title":"What's the big deal?","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a perfectly fine, slightly twisted romantic comedy, but not so special that it should be picking up all these awards as Best Picture. Steven Soderbergh deserves more attention than he's gotten for his films since Sex, Lies and Videotape (even the mostly horrible Kafka had some interesting bits), but this really conventional film isn't it.  "},{"Title":"Nearly perfect entertainment","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Firstly, this is a very good film, with excellent performances from Lopez and the supporting cast.  I got a little bored with Clooney and his grin (this is especially funny in the 'sex scene') but he was still better than I expected.Secondly, I don't get the Tarantino comparisons..except for the references to his films...this is not a Tarantino copy...it's better than that, and incidentally Tarantino was not the first to do time-jumps!Thirdly, I'm surprised no-one has mentioned the soundtrack which is one of the best things about the film, maybe it's so good because it doesn't overwhelm the viewer, instead it compliments the action perfectly, a very cool combination of original soundtrack and classic songs.  Note the shift in the soundtrack from Miami to Detroit for instance.If Clooney had stopped grinning for a minute I would have given it 10...  "}{"Title":"Another stylish take on Elmore Leonard","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You can't watch a movie adapted from Elmore Leonard without falling in love with his characters.  The much-debated George Clooney is pretty much at home in this part; he says what he feels, a trademark of any Leonard character, and yet, he's caught by factors he can't control in a dangerous and morally questionable situation.  I've always liked his work (because I avoided those films he's despised for), and so if you can't see his face without cringing, I would think twice before renting it.  If you're willing to risk it, however, I think you'll be pleased.  Albert Brooks and Don Cheadle also turn in good performances, and you won't want to miss the closing scene, featuring a cameo by the most charismatic actor in Hollywood.  Trust me.  "},{"Title":"Great Script","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great script fulfilled into a movie. Though plot turnover goes about slowly which accounts for the lapse in the thrill the movie was meant to provide. The actors were ideal for their parts and did a great job of it.  "},{"Title":"George Clooney -- the best new heavy since Clint Eastwood !","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Another dynamic duo with potential for more films together beyond the one here at hand.   What a pleasant surprise too, to finally find someone with the talent and ''moxy'' to step up to the plate in complimentary fashion to Clint Eastwood.  On TV Clooney doesn't seem far from the ordinary, but has impressed in both films in which I've seen him.  Lpez isn't upstaged or intimidated either, and does her share to make this duo dynamic.  This film's got great awards potential too, and the nominations come out next month.  The story is uncanny, but holds you from start to finish.  VERY well done (rating = 4 stars of 5). "},{"Title":"Elmore Leonard story scores again...","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" OUT OF SIGHT is the latest Leonard crime story successfully adapted to the screen. Along with Jackie Brown and other predecessors, you can add this to an ever-growing list of stylized films of the crime genre that put a spin on narrative, as well as showing a freshly dark and humorous side. Almost all of the characters could be on both sides of the fence, and with OUT OF SIGHT, you're never entirely sure how the lead characters, bank robber Jack Foley (George Clooney) and FBI Marshall Karen SiSko (that's Sisco with 2 s's, Jack) played by the gorgeous and engaging Jennifer Lopez, will end up.Thankfully, the script does not take the usual Hollywood path of deciding against a character's realistic intentions. They do not exactly ride off into the sunset together. The film's ending is a clever way of balancing the action out, not to mention featuring a huge cameo by a rather famous star of these types of films (Look at the cast list and figure out who's missing). The love scene between Clooney and Lopez is absorbing and their chemistry is solid. This is definitely the glossiest of the Time-Twister Caper Films like Jackie Brown, Pulp Fiction, etc. "},{"Title":"Ug!","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow. What a stinker. Although the director tried hard to emulate the hip Pulp Fiction approach (scattered timelines, retro sets, neo-retro rock soundtrack), all was too transparent. The plot made no sense, (why kidnap a federal agent?) Clooney's acting was wooden at best, and the dialogue was banal. This might have made a TV movie but even that would be a stretch. "},{"Title":"A great story of a romance between a cop and the criminal she must catch","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great characters, a good story, and effective flashbacks make this movie very enjoyable and funny.  I think anyone would enjoy and it's one of my favorite movies of the year.  The showdown at the end is amusing and exciting.  "},{"Title":"Lopez & Clooney Light Up the Screen","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight is very much like a Tarantino movie, and even contains references to some Tarantino movies I have seen so far. Clooney and Lopez definitely have a strong chemistry that lights up the screen and gives the plot a very humane and romantic twist. I loved it. "},{"Title":"The best of the Elmore Leonard trilogy","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight is one fantastic movie.  Who knew George Clooney had it in him to make a good movie.  I now can respect his acting ability.  Jennifer Lopez is also terrific in her role (and looks magnificent).  The direction and pretzel-like time structure makes the film even better.  Much above Get Shorty and Jackie Brown.  Note also the reference of Michael Keaton's character in this film.  He plays the same role in Jackie Brown. "},{"Title":"Excellent Adaptation","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In Elmore Leonard's books, which I admire greatly, the good guys are always a little bit bad and the bad guys are a little bit good. Their reactions are unpredictable.  Out of Sight captures these Elmorian characters better than any previous attempt. The casting is flawless, the dialogue sharp, and its great to see an action film that respects the audience's intelligence.  Finally, having been born in Detroit, I appreciate a film set in Detroit that uses actual Detroit locations, unlike Gridlock'd. One of the top 10 films of 1998.  "},{"Title":"Out of sight? Not at all...","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think I was a little bit lucky to see the whole flick without the most crucial info I didn't know who the director was! Therefore, my own prejudices against action movies, especially ones starring George Clooney lingered on. But it seems, even Pulp Fiction was too pulp compared to this beautiful movie. With some Tarantinoesque touches, one can find all the essential factors for an action movie guns, blood, gangsters, love, money, sex, cops, prison, murder... but all so very humor enhanced or grotesque. George Clooney looks and acts good, as well as Jennifer Lopez. Michael Keaton is superb, even though he's only seen for a min. And when I got to see Steven Soderbergh cast as the director, I was not surprised. If you haven't seen it, just spare a few bucks to see what an un-american action-gangster movie could be like. "}{"Title":"Superb!","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Elmore Leonard has excelled with this screenplay- a low intensity plot that all comes together in the long run. Great acting by Clooney and Lopez! "},{"Title":"Starring Soderburg...","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As  a lover of the book, I took a deep breath before watching this film, but the trio of Soderburg, Clooney and Lopez pull it off. Soderburg seems to be the real star of this picture to me. What was also so great was that I really believed in their romance.  So often when a younger woman falls for an older guy it seems preposterous, (think How good can you get with the ancient Jack Nicholson in his truss) but we really understand Karen Siscos attraction to Jack Foley and it drives the movie. Go see and enjoy "},{"Title":"Once is gr8!! twice is ok. But I don't get...","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really like the movie. Great actors, great script and lots of laughs. Yeah ok, maybe I'd buy it when it's on offer. But I just don't get the zippo. Jack can do all sorts of fancy stuff with it and yet he doesn't smoke! Adele smokes but isn't that it? I'd like to know Why the zippo? Any comments? I rated it 9. "},{"Title":"Jennifer and George WOW","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight has got to be the best movie of the summer. George Clooney was spectacular! I love the steamy scences he did with Jennifer Lopez! They were excellent together. I am a fan of both actors. This was the best thing that could have ever happened! I am waitng for a sequel. "},{"Title":"Go see it!!!","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The humour of this film, and the Pulp-Fiction/Reservoir Dogs-esque flashbacks really did it for me. I was quite surprised at how good this film really was, but now I have seen it, I reckon that it is one of THE films of 1998. So there, take my word for it! "},{"Title":"*****  Excellent movie","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is George Clooney's best movie to date.  It had an exceptionally good script, excellent cast (loved the sparkle between Lopez & Clooney), moments of humour.  However, saying all this it was not a light movie.  The throw back moments are especially easy to understand and do not confuse the audience.  A must see movie, I think it will have large audience appeal and I for one will buy the video when released in the UK. "},{"Title":"An intelligent movie for the masses","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In comparison to previous Elmore Leonard adaptions, Out Of Sight achieves a fine balance between the humour of Get Shorty and the characterisation of Jackie Brown, and is the better film of the trio as a result.The chemistry between Jennifer Lopez and George Clooney needs to be believable to pull off their unlikely romance and they don't disappoint. They are aided by a uniformally excellent supporting cast, notably Dennis Farina, and the whole movie is handled with a surprisingly original and deft touch by Steven Soderbergh.In short great script, great characters, great acting, great direction. What more could you ask?  "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Leonard's books are always great fun to read and they make good films as well... with the exception of Get Shorty, anyway, which was terrible, as a movie.Sodebergh handles the time-jumps very well and originally, since Pulp Fiction was the first to do it.Clooney's getting better and better, and all the others do a great job...Don't miss this one... "},{"Title":"coolest film in 98","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Out of Sight' is cool, stylish and intelligent.It's been a long time since I watch a crime-themed movie like this.I always get annoyed when the protagonist does something ridiculous and he can get away with it, which happens a lot in this kind of film. This doesn't happen in this film. For example in the beginning of the film, Jack Foley (Clooney's character)tried to be a smart-wise and rob a bank without any guns, knives or any preparation, he just use his head and his charisma. You may find it pretty smart but you wouldn't believe he can just get away like that don't you? Well, 'Out of sight' regards us as intelligent enough so Jack gets caught. I started to like the movie and like it even more when Karen Sisco ( Lopez) comes on screen. The relationship between Sisco and Foley is very sexy although there's not much physical contact between them. The pace of the film, the music, the freeze-shots, all of them make this film to be very stylish. The screenplay is both funny and intelligent. I think the whole thing's been done thoughtfully. I give it two thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Criminal poetry from Elmore Leonard","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very stylistic approach to Leonard's pulpish fiction, Out of Sight. Scott Frank once again adapts, and this time he ups the ante (Get Shorty, for all its fun, was far too polished), and some of the novel's humor is conspicuously absent. An excellent character study, though, that gives us half a dozen well-developed characters. Clooney and Lopez are excellent in the leads, although it is difficult to buy Lopez's on the job fashion statements (I guess all U.S. Marshals dress like that). Don Cheadle, as a violent hood, and Steve Zahn, as a stoner car thief, provide the most enjoyable performances. Quite a redeeming role for Zahn, last seen overacting like an idiot in Tom Hanks' That Thing You Do. "}{"Title":"Soderbergh and Clooney Surprisingly Impressive","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight was the biggest surprise of 1998 for me. I went knowing that Clooney was a cool guy and that Lopez was fun to look at. What I DIDN'T expect was that Soderbergh (who's famous Sex, Lies, and Videotape was VERY disappointing) could take a Leonard novel and handle it better than the great Tarantino. The dialogue was smart and funny, and the events unpredictable and interesting. Some key cameos reminded the viewer of Tarantino's movies and that yes, Tarantino's style CAN be imitated and still be good and original. Besides the cameos and the out of sequence scenes, the ultra violence and sex was more controlled than Tarantino usually provides. The sex scene between Clooney and Lopez was most impressive in that it was sexual without showing the sex (sorry guys, Lopez does NOT get naked). Clooney is still the coolest newcomer to the movies, and it appears he has now made an effort to ACT as well. I hope this is a good sign for Soderbergh as well; perhaps he will avoid his experimental and unsuccessful filmmaking for now (Godard he ain't).   "},{"Title":" We're not amused","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just went this afternoon to the movie and we're suprised that we didn't like it at all, despite all the good critics. "},{"Title":"Could be Better","Date":"27 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you take out the annoying flash backs that messes up the continuity, this is just a criminal meets cop movie. I don't like the discontinuity in the story or the acting. Acting ? you might say.What annoyed me was George Clooney's acting. He disrupts the mood of the sequence by over acting. He's like a B list actor who thinks he's an A list and tries to take up more bandwidth than is called for in the story or the script.The movie tries to be artsy or cool by taking unusual steps in the story which is another thing that annoys me.Basically the story is pretty good, and if they didn't play with the script as much, and tried to deliver solid performance on the strength of the actors, and more focus on motives of the individual, the overall product could have been better.Jennifer Lopez gets it as she usually does on what needs to be done. Immature acting of George Clooney messes up the beat. "},{"Title":"Leaves you asking what if?","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Director, Steven Soderbergh; George Clooney, Jennifer Lopez, Don Cheadle, Albert Brooks, Steve Zahn and Ving Rhames.This cool submission of film noir is a love story on opposite sides of the law. A prison break brings together a successful but ultimately doomed bank robber with a federal marshal who lets nothing stand in the way of her job.Jack Foley has spent half of his life behind bars and this escape for freedom is the one that's going to count. He can be that crook who does one last job and goes on to lead the good life. That is, until, Karen Sisco, armed with a shotgun and badge, walks into his world.She is quickly disarmed and a hostage situation in the boot of a getaway car soon becomes a unique first date with the nervous chatter and charm of two people whose body language says this is the moment they've been waiting for.The role of Jack Foley allowed Clooney to deliver a performance of style and substance and prove he's a feature film actor. His cool flick of a zippo lighter symbolises a man who lives life on the edge, clearly struggling with the fact that the chance of that one big score is decreasing with age.Jennifer Lopez promised so much in this role as a woman whose dedication to the job has left her stuck in the dating game with hothead cops and FBI agents. She's a survivor in a man's world but when she finally finds that spark, her code of honour plays second fiddle to her search for real love.This performance was pre J-Lo and suggests that if the 37-year-old actress could have been prevented from chasing the mission of urban cool, she may have delivered other well-rounded performances and developed into a leading actress for the higher echelon of dramatic cinema.The characters' desire for one another and their respective professions make the pursuit for justice a thrilling and sexy series of brief interludes in a range of seasonal locations across America.Soderbergh excels in his direction, especially the 'Time Out' scene where he bends time and space to splice talky seduction and silent disrobing episodes together into something much more intimate than any mere sex scene.The style of Elmore Leonard is evident in the script as it flashes back to Foley's time in prison he becomes involved in a diamond heist on a dirty banker's home, which leads to the inevitable double cross by Don Cheadle's violent gangster, Snoop.The friendship of trust between Clooney and his accomplice Buddy, played by Ving Rhames, works on the understanding that through bad luck or conflicts of conscience they have wasted the best part of their lives in prison and this one last heist presents an opportunity, despite their cynicism, to get their hard earned ticket to happiness.A story of circumstance that asks if things were different, if we had followed a different path, how would things be? Foley can't face another prison stretch but can't change who he is and in a moment with Karen, he declares what meeting her has done to him It's like seeing someone for the first time, and you look at each other for a few seconds, and there's this kind of recognition like you both know something. Next moment the person's gone, and it's too late to do anything about it. The chance encounters and romantic rendezvous come to an end when Foley's conscience betrays him and by going back to the scene of the diamond heist, he saves a woman from Snoop's gang, but puts himself in Karen's gun sight. What if she wasn't a federal marshal? What if he wasn't a bank robber? What if? "},{"Title":"Clooney and Lopez strike sparks in Superior Hollywood Caper/Romance","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is as good a movie movie as has come out of Hollywood in the last ten years. The story is fresh and makes sense, the supporting cast (especially Don Cheadle and Albert Brooks) is exceptional, and the excellent dialog maintains Elmore Leonard's unmistakable 'pop'. Best of all, Clooney and Lopez have genuine sexual/romantic chemistry together.A minor box-office disappointment when it came out, this very underrated film was nevertheless the one that made Clooney a genuine movie star. Special mention should go out to screenwriter Scott Frank, who also did a masterful job of adapting Leonard's Get Shorty. (It only looks easy -- witness, for example, the execrable Be Cool.) Kudos also to director Steven Soderbergh, who showed a previously unsuspected knack for delivering a well-made star-driven commercial entertainment without condescending to the supposed stupidity of the mass audience. Soderbergh quickly went on to cement his reputation with a string of commercial and artistic hits Erin Brockovich (2000), Traffic (2000), and Ocean's Eleven (2001).This is the sort of movie that Howard Hawks or Michael Curtiz might have directed if they'd been born 50 years later. And I do mean that as high praise. "},{"Title":"Mrs. Lopez,yes","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are some surely amazing touches,the surprisingly erotic touches,and the ardent Eros is seen as from aside,and this makes it very touching.There is a famous line in Kane about the things referred here.I think about the ecstatic bed scene with Mrs. Lopez and the banal Clooney;and also of Richard Ripley's love for his blonde housekeeper.These knocks are surprising,as I already wrote,and fresh,and redolent,very efficient in an otherwise ironic movie about housebreakers, jail-birds,etc.,a grim and lowly thugs anecdote.The story is quite askew,strangely uninteresting,and it reminds of several Coen brothers movies, lacking,in fact,all intrepidity,but awaiting to be very admired for their pretended intelligence;the comic notes are average.Mrs. Lopez is as attractive and erotic as only a few actresses (Kim Novak,Mimi Rogers,Rhonda Fleming) are.Most of her scenes in Out of Sight (1998) are first class;so are,of course,her legs.In fact,I liked each frame Mrs. Lopez's legs were in.This sketch of a love movie makes Out of Sight (1998) worth watching;and there are also some notable funny things. The movie is not without qualities,but it lacks veracity, wit, verve, elegance,meaning.And yet,there are those few very powerful love scenes.This could have been a great love movie.It could have been also the film that Mrs. Lopez deserves.Without Mrs. Lopez,and without this sketched love story,it would be a meaningless,banal,conventional thriller;the script seems to be a quite boring one.But Mrs. Jennifer Lopez simply annuls these defects.The scene with the sedulous provincial seducers who try to pick up with Mrs. Jennifer Lopez in a bar,before the dull Clooney himself arrives,is plain,funny and well-made.Mrs. Lopez is a knockout presence. "},{"Title":"Clooney's alter-ego?","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just love this movie. I know I may lose credibility by saying Jennifer Lopez is a better actress than what she gets credit for, but ... there it is. This movie is only slightly erotic as Clooney's character fantasizes about JLo's character. This is a crime-comedy, one which I haven't seen the likes of in some time. By the way, did I tell just about everyone in Hollywood stops by to play a bit role in this film? Albert Brooks plays more than a cameo and is stellar. Don Cheadle is in a familiar bad boy role, and gives a 10 performance. Don't you just love Dennis Farina when he plays at least 50% the cynic? There are some very funny lines (especially one with Farina and Michael Keaton...I did say EVERYONE, didn't I?), and some very frightening lines as well, as the movie meanders the dark comedy line. Even Samuel L. Jackson drops in, but you'll have to wait a while...Ving Rhames is great as Clooney's sidekick, and the writers use a wonderful handicap device for Ving's character that just tickles you. Luis Guzman is hilarious. "},{"Title":"Flashy Adaptation Of Classic Elmore Leonard Pulp Crime Story","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jack Foley is a chronic bank-robber and two-time con looking for the mythical big score when he escapes from a Miami jail by stuffing himself in the trunk of a car with a pretty federal marshal named Karen Sisco. Jack and Karen hit it off big time, despite being on opposite sides of the law, but a bungled robbery at a rich man's house in Detroit pits them against each other. Will love overcome business differences ? A well-made, sassy, punchy crime-thriller based on one of Elmore Leonard's great pulp crime novels, this movie is a bit schizophrenic. Half of it is hard-as-nails bad-boy action, with Clooney as a latter-day Cagney, busting heads and trading quips. The other half is a smoochy romantic pot-boiler with him in his more familiar Cary Grant persona. It's good, but he's a bit sappy at times (unlike, say, Chili Palmer in Get Shorty, which was made by the same writer and producers), which dissipates the tension and pads it out a bit much for my liking. Lopez is good too, cool and remote, with too much attitude and lipstick, but she's not quite in the Lana Turner / Barbara Stanwyck league. Scott Frank's screenplay is full of quotable dialogue and the film does not want for style; there is particularly brilliant editing by Anne V. Coates, with plenty of aptly-placed fades and jump-stills. I'm not quite sure why I didn't like this movie more - it's got plenty of pedigree and all the performances are good, particularly Cheadle as the scary but dumb-as-a-box-of-rocks gangster. I think it's really just because I didn't know who to identify with; Jack and Karen are pretty slick but they're a bit too perfect and untouchable at the same time. Well worth a viewing though. Both Keaton and Jackson appear unbilled, with the former reprising his unlikeable character from Jackie Brown. Later developed by the producers into a good TV show called Karen Sisco. "},{"Title":"Incredibly fun to watch","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film starts off with Jack Foley (played by George Clooney), who as were told is a legend having held up over 200 banks. Jack is imprisoned in a hilarious and embarrassing manner; his get away car doesn't start and the cops catch him. Months later Jack manages to escape with the help of his partner in crime Buddy (Played by Ving Rhames). However, during the escape Jack and his buddy are surprised by a beautiful young Federal Marshall named Karen Sisco (played by Jennifer Lopez). Both cons capture her and hide her in the trunk of the car with Jack inside. There Karen and Jack have an interesting conversation which leaves both with a strong attraction towards each other. Hence the dilemma of the film, Karen is a cop she's supposed to return him to prison, but the new found appeal she has for him leaves her confused. Jack is in the same predicament he likes Karen and wants to get to know her more, but how can he if she's a cop? The film sets off on a cat and mouse game where Karen desperately searches for Jack and her doubts of what to do when she finally finds him. Between the chases we're introduced to a vast array of colorful characters. Among these characters is the notable psychopath Snoopy (played by Don Cheadle) he's quite deadly you wouldn't want to mess with him, and the blabbermouth stoner Glenn Michaels (played by Steve Zahn) who offers comic relief to the story as we watch his foolish antics.I thought the film was going to be all action and shootings, but it actually turned out to be more of a character study packed with a witty and enticing script. I never thought it would be this much fun to watch people having conversations. The best part of the film though was the magnetic chemistry and performances by the two leads Jennifer Lopez and George Clooney. You can't help but smile at their charming and smooth dialogue. The way they look at each other and how they talk to each other. They do a magnificent job of showing us how much they lust for one another. Jennifer Lopez is sexy and relaxed in her performance she doesn't over act and she delivers her lines naturally and convincingly, we can see she was born to play this role. George Clooney is also great his performance is oozing with charm and presence. Even though he's a criminal we can't help but like him and cheer for him; his charisma manages to win us over. "},{"Title":"Well made film with excellent acting","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie starts off with Jack Folley (Clooney) being thrown out of a building and then decides to rob a bank. He doesn't rob the bank with a gun but rather he tells the bank teller that his friend is talking to one of her co-workers and if she doesn't give him money he'll order her co-workers death. Clooney leaves with the money but soon the bank teller realizes that he was lying so the cops arrest Folley. Folley's character escapes from prison. From there on out the story goes from Folley's past to the present. From there we meet Lopez's character who is a sexy officer of the law. Clooney and Lopez fall in love and Lopez has trouble arresting Clooney even when he is in grasp. This movie is a extremely well made movie with excellent acting, and dialoug. I would give it a 8/10. "}{"Title":"I Still Love It 5 Years Later","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie more times than I can count, but it never loses its bite. George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez have great chemistry although they don't share the screen for most of the movie. This is the first role in which Clooney really shows how sexy he can be...not just charming. Jennifer Lopez also takes my breath away. The dialogue is funny, the supporting cast is great, the scores are awesome, and acting is cool and subperb. I recommend it.  "},{"Title":"OUT OF SIGHT (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An FBI-cop (Jennifer Lopez) who falls in love with a professional bankrobber (George Clooney) while he is making his way out of prison sounds pretty charming but once you see the movie you know it's just a lame excuse for director Soderbergh (Ocean's eleven) to film a romantic crimecomedy that must bring back memories to movies like Peckinpah's The getaway. It's not a movie that bores but from the moment starts you know in whose arms Lopez will end and before the arrival, the director thinks it's necessary to tell the viewer some complicated tales (the movie has so many flashbacks that a box of aspirines is better on the table) and as said you can easily skip some minutes of the movie, you wouldn't have a miss a thing... Clooney plays in his (boring) Richard Gere-imitation (the charming grey owl) while Jennifer Lopez is a better actress than most people think, but all by all just an useless romantic vehicle that you forget the moment you turn the telly out. "},{"Title":"one of my favorties","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  a very underrated movie.  best george clooney movie.  makes you believe in the possibility that JLo can act (or maybe it's just a great director). great style, one of the best movies of the 90s.  Steven Soderberg makes everything and everyone in his movies look so cool!  10/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had expected more of this film.I expected a great plot,charming characters and lotsa suspense and romance.Instead it turned out to be just a vehicle for Jennifer Lopez to show her acting skills and George Clooney to play a smartass charmer(hmm,isn't this familiar?).The story starts out well,but then it takes a 180 degree turn into a rather boring robber story.First flaw with the film is the character of Glenn.What is the point with this awful,annoying character?!?This is where the film first starts to show signs of typical Hollywood stupidity.There is no need for this guy and he doesn't do ANYTHING.He was a major pain in the ass to me and I found it hard to keep myself from changing the channel every time I saw him.Second flaw is that there is no point with all the flashbacks, the use of them was exaggerated by the cocky and over-ambitious Soderbergh.The background story with Jack Foley and his inmate friends really fails to make a meaningful connection to the rest of the plot.The pluses of this picture were Lopez and Catherine Keener,both good to look at and solid in their roles.Also Ving Rhames was quite good as the faithful pal Buddy.The showdown scene in the end where White Boy trips and shoots himself in the head was worth watching.Don Cheadle was OK,although not impressive.But George Clooney,although he didn't give a bad performance,failed to impress and really show himself as actor the way he did in From dusk till dawn,One fine day and O brother where art thou?,and also ER.Samuel L. makes a nice cameo at the end.So my conclusion is that this film tried to be too much somehow.It betted on one horse too many.I had liked it better if it was more focused on romance than all the robbery schemes and the dark past of its main male protagonist.For me,who had expected it to be a hidden gem of late 90's,it was a disappointment(although not major).What the heck,at least we got to see Clooney and JLO do it.;) "},{"Title":"Why no Oscar nods?","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  All right, I know if a movie doesn't win an Oscar, it doesn't mean it lacks quality, but good, well-done movies should always win Oscars.  There are so many great performances in Out of Sight, I am saddened that not one was noticed.The best performance, of course, would be from Don Cheadle, who plays a psychotic former boxer/robber.  He plays his part extremely well, and shines on screen.  I have to say, George Clooney did very well too.  Now, I know Clooney isn't the most terrific actor out there, but if there was a movie that he should be nominated for, then this is it.And to take it a step further (though you'll really hate me for this) Jennifer Lopez plays her part passionately and yes, I believe she should have been nominated too (it still being the only good role she's played.).Great movie, 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"Best movie ever!","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the best movie i have ever seen and it is worth watching. Out of sight has everything in it a person could want to seeaction, comedy, drama, romance, and, in some respects, horror. I believe this is also George Clooney's best proformance he has given to date.  "},{"Title":"WHAT MORE CAN I SAY, IT'S J'LO AT HER BEST!!!!!!!!","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie really proves it's meaning. It's really Out of Sight! George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez really heat up the screen as opposites attracts. Lopez as an lawwoman and Clooney as a con artist. This movie puts The Getaway to shame. What would be more precious that petty loot? A woman's heart that is. I think J'Lo has a VERY HOT BODY! My friends from college got very out of hand when they saw J'Lo getting out of her dress. But me, I kept my cool, and rewound that scene without getting any ideas! And most of all, The uncredited actors in this film have really done well in their short lines.  This movie is the BOMB!! It is OUT OF SIGHT!! Rating 4.5 out of 5 stars. And it's a 10! "},{"Title":"So underrated.","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For those of you who haven't seen this film - go out and rent it.  It's a fantastic movie. Stylish, funny, exciting.  At the time it came out, it was not a hit. That's the public's loss.  Maybe the ad campaign was screwey.  Whatever.  'Out of Sight' was sort of Steven Soderbergh's re-emergence.  Of course, ever since he's been at the top of the A-list, winning awards and such.  But this film is my personal favorite Soderbergh film.  The music is awesome.  Tons of fun to watch. "},{"Title":"This was a very cool movie.","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It had cool actors, a cool script, and some very cool music. George Clooney is one of my favorite actors, so needless to say, with him and Jennifer Lopez in the same movie, I was in for a good time. And I was not disappointed. While the movie did slow down a little half way through, the rest of it was a lot of fun to watch. Clooney stars as Jack Foley, a bank robber who has the distinction of robbing the most banks probably in history, without ever using a gun. His style is shown within the first two minutes of the movie, as he spots a bank from across the street, and just decides to go ahead and rob it. He would have gotten away with it had his car started. So he's off to prison, where he realizes he can't stay because he doesn't want to get old. He enlists his friend Buddy (Ving Rhames) to help him break out. But the escape is almost foiled when lovely Federal Officer Karen Sisco (Lopez) happens upon them. Buddy and Jack decide to take her with them, and Jack and Karen are thrown into the trunk of her car for the getaway. Well, they sort of fall for each other, a la `love at first sight,' while in the trunk, and the rest of the movie involves whether or not they can, or should, get together.  Oh yea, they also plan to do a home invasion of a man with millions of dollars of uncut diamonds. With a cast that includs Albert Brooks, Don Cheadle, Dennis Farina, and Steve Zahn, Out of Sight is a well acted, well written story. The movie doesn't go from point A to point B. Sort of like Pulp Fiction it starts at point A, goes back in time to show how we got to point A, veers off to follow another story, comes back to the main story, and continuously jumps back and forth to see what happened in the past, and what happened in previous scenes we never saw finish. But it's not as confusing as what I just wrote. It all makes perfect sense, and it's very interesting. Now, some people are going to say, how is it possible that a Federal Officer and a three time convicted bank robber would possible get together? Have you seen these two people? Besides, their characters are both hard driven people, and I don't really care how unlikely it is, the path they take to try and get together is fun to watch. Clooney's character is very smart; he just decides to use his brains to steal. But he has a heart as well. Lopez's character is also very smart, and all she wants to do is prove that she can make it in what is generally considered a man's job. This is really a different kind of movie. More low-key, better acted, no big explosions, and one very funny death scene on a stairwell. Definitely one to see.  "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had high hopes for this film, knowing the skill of the author of the book on which it is based. I found the film disjointed and difficult to follow. Further, I thought some of the dialogue was shallow.  You might want to give this movie a try, but don't get your hopes up too high. "}{"Title":"could be better","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Clooney is a career criminal and imprisoned convict with a reputation for having pulled off an unprecedented number of successful bank robberies. He escapes from prison but gets sidetracked and caught up in a cat and mouse game with federal marshal Lopez; despite being on opposite sides of the law they fall for each other which only creates more complications when he tries to pull off one last big score. Based on the novel by Elmore Leonard this crime caper is easy enough to take, well-cast, and occasionally laugh-out loud funny, but it doesn't have much momentum and could really benefit from some more edge. Features some amusing and recognizable cameos. ** "},{"Title":"Average movie - definitely no 'Pulp Fiction'","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is definitely not the 'Pulp Fiction of 1998' as some reviewers suggest. Not at all. This is just your non-memorable, non-remarkable, average movie.It's neither the trivial story nor the two leading actors (Clooney and Lopez), but rather some of the refreshingly odd secondary characters that may warrant watching this movie on video/DVD. "},{"Title":"Star Chemistry Carries the Film","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Steven Soderbergh did a good job in making a good adaptation of what was in my opinion Elmore Leonard's uninteresting and worst novel(its the only novel by the author that I had lost interest in and never bother reading it completely).  The acting and direction were pretty good but the story and writing drags the film to a average level.  George Clooney is charismatic as the thief, Jack Foley and Jennifer Lopez is absolutely stunning as Karen Sisco.  The scenes with the two together are very good and help make this film watchable.  The best scene is the sequence in the hotel.Ving Rhames is good as usual.  Out of Sight(1998) seems to follow the lead of other adaptations of Leonard novels such as Jackie Brown(1997) and Get Shorty(1995) with the emphasis on black humor.  This is a drastic contradiction from the seriousness of Mr. Majesktik(1975), 52 Pick Up(1986), and Cat Chaser(1988).  Michael Keaton plays the same character that he played in Jackie Brown(1997) in a cameo role as Karen's boyfriend.  Out of Sight(1998) is not as terrific as other Steven Soderbergh features...I.E., Sex, Lies, & Videotape(1989), The Limey(1999), or Erin Brockovich(2000). "},{"Title":"A slow and uninvolving film","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For a film that spans over two hours, and seems to spend most of that time trying to develop the characters, I was surprised how I wasn't drawn in, and was left uninvolved.The plot is uncomplicated enough, a bank robber breaks out of jail, taking a female hostage through necessity.  He plans to burgle a wealthy fellow inmate, now on the outside, who holds over five million dollars worth of uncut diamonds in his house.  However, he falls in love with the female hostage, who just happens to be an FBI agent.There's plenty of scope there for a brilliant film, and I'm sure Elmore Leonard's book is a great base.  But there seems to have been a breakdown in the transition from book to film.  The film is desperately slow, moving at a snail's pace.  This film could easily have been cut down from 123 minutes to 90-odd, without any significant sacrifices.  I was longing for it to end after about the first hour.The main characters lacked chemistry - I found the 'love' scenes cringeworthy and forced.  Also, having spent so long concentrating on character development, I found some of George Clooney's motivations baffling.  Why was he so dead against going back to jail?  He didn't seem to have too bad a time of it, we never see him getting picked on or beaten up, in fact he stands up to some of the hardest guys in the jail without so much as a flinch.The film does tend to flash backwards and forwards in time, and this is clumsily executed, especially when tied in with a dream sequence.  I was totally confused as to what was going on for a good ten minutes at one point, and I suspect this was due to poor direction and editing, also evidenced in the excessive length of the film.That's not to say that this film doesn't have points to recommend it - the cinematography was very good, as was much of the acting.  But at the end of the day, I was glad when the credits rolled. "},{"Title":"A solid piece of good filmmaking.","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"    I originally thought Out of Sight was going to be another flop because George Clooney had a leading role in it.  After watching the film, I may have been a bit harsh on Clooney.  The movie is based on an Elmore Leonard novel where a highly-skilled bank robber named Jack Foley (Clooney) breaks out of a Florida prison with the help of a friend, Buddy Bragg (Ving Rhames) and takes a woman who has a loaded shotgun hostage.  Foley and the woman are forced into the trunk of her car and he finds out that she's Karen Sisco (Jennifer Lopez), a beautiful federal agent.  The conversation that they have is quite interesting and it's very different from the one that Al Pacino and Robert De Niro have in Heat.   The supporting cast in this movie is terrific.  Clooney, Lopez, and Rhames give nice performances.  But I enjoyed Steve Zahn, who is wonderful as the ill-minded Glenn Michaels and Don Cheadle is superb as the mean ex-boxer Maurice Miller.  Dennis Farina, Albert Brooks, and Catherine Keener are included in the solid cast.  Michael Keaton and Samuel L. Jackson are unbilled.     The movie was directed by Steven Soderbergh, who's past directing credits include sex, lies, and videotape, The Limey, and Erin Brockovich.  Out of Sight should be included in that elite group.           "},{"Title":"cool","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *sorry for spelling misstakes* This movie is good.The screen play by Jennifer Lopez and George Clooney  is very good and the script is also very good. *WARNING a spolier* It is a little bit suprising when you see Samuel L Jackson come in to the van where George sits and is going to theprison in the end of the film. *end of spoiler* This is Georges clooneys best role. And Jennifer Lopez she is good but not as good as George. I give this movie 6/10. "},{"Title":"Sublime.","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perfect from start to finish.  Clooney and Lopez are amazing, the direction is inspired at times.  Clooney's best movie so far and a true Hollywood star in the making.  Elmore Leonard has alot to be happy about.  Jaw droppingly good, should have done better at cinema, but then a simple bubblegum movie this is not. "},{"Title":"Disappointingly boring","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good A list actors who were wasted in what turned out to be a boring movie.  George Clooney, Jennifer Lopez, Ving Rhames, and others could not save this grinding clunker of a movie.  Watching paint dry on a wall would be more interesting than this movie.  My score 1.0 out of 10(because Jennifer Lopez looks hot, this was the only positive). "},{"Title":"How beautiful is Jennifer Lopez?","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight might be described as a dark romantic comedy built around a heist story.  It's filled with wonderful touches, such as the scene in which Karen Sisco tries to describe Jack Foley to her dad, gets as far as, He looks like . . . and then has to stop because she realizes the next word would have to be you.  And Foley, played by George Clooney, does look a little like a slightly younger Dennis Farina, who plays Karen's father.  Jennifer Lopez delivers the line with such subtlety that you might miss it the first time around.  Lopez, who might have the most beautiful face in movies since Fay Dunaway was her age, turns in a terrific performance.  Clooney is his usual understated self, but it works to his advantage this time. The movie improves on reviewing, which is about the best thing you can say about any film. And I'd love to see a sequel, which is the *second*-best thing you can say. "},{"Title":"One of the best 40 movies of 1998","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can say with confidence, this was one of the best 40 movies of 1998, especially now that I've made it through the whole year and can look back.This movie is the closest any movie has come this year to truly exploiting the female body the way we used to see in grand style in the 70s and 80s. What do I mean?  I mean Jennifer Lopez is a hot chick trying hard to act convincing in a hackeneyed pair of stereotypes.  One An ambitious professional who feels lonely all the time, and two a good girl (in her case, a cop) who falls for the wrong kind of guy.Clooney is passable, but mostly he's just there to be sexy.  Lopez is sexy. The plot is utter drivel, so know if you rent this you're renting it to see the love scenes and some fairly amusing action sequences.Overall, a pathetic waste of two talented stars.  "}{"Title":"Assemble the Usual Suspects","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Danny Devito + Elmore Leonard equals fun and big box office, but everyone knows that (Get Shorty). Devito's company, Jersey Films has had a string of hits and only a miss (Feeling Minnesota) or two, that's a batting average far and away better than most of his competitors.And in the genre Pulp Fiction, and Get Shorty were both big hits, Why mess up a good thing? why not try for three in a row, alas, Out of Sight.Start with a Scott Frank (Get Shorty) adaptation of the Elmore Leonard novel, add to very bankable and attractive stars, George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez. Also new to the mix is director Steven Soderberg, but when you  add a little Ving Rhames, and some Dennis Farina, you gonna get a film that's familiar and fun.There's a refreshing style to the characters, in their actions, in their strange ways.. On one hand we see Jennifer Lopez as a dedicated career law enforcement officer, on the other we see her  ignore opportunities to capture Clooney (she's ga-ga over him). In other circumstances this might ring 'ludicrous' but in an Elmore Leonard tale it's merely quirky. We go right along with the absurdity of it all.Not over challenging from an intellectual sense.just good clean fun. "},{"Title":"A little disappointing","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Get real!  A Marshal who runs all around the US chasing a guy on her own nickel...a marshal who never has to go to work or report to a boss?? The whole thing was unbelievable........George Clooney however has incredible charisma....is incredibly sexy.....he could hold me hostage anytime )Steve Zahn who played bad boy wannabe Glenn gave the best performance of any of the cast in my opinion....Ving Rhames was excellent also.....All in all it was mindless entertainment "},{"Title":"Out of sight, Out of mind","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When this movie was released, I couldn't wait to see it. I mean, they took all the best parts (which there weren't many) and wove them into an eye catching tv commercial. But when you have to sit yourself down and watch the whole damn thing? I shouldda stood in bed. "},{"Title":"lots of talent producing minor results","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Many great performances do not equal a great film, as this one proves. Worth seeing for Don Cheadle, Ving Rhames, Albert Brooks and the redoubtable Jennifer Lopez.  Very long and at the end I asked myself what the point of it was. The cut scenes at the end of the video were better than most that they kept.  "},{"Title":"I don't get it.","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has serviceable dialogue, decent pacing, and a few laughs. Other than that there's really not much to enjoy here; I'm afraid I just don't understand why this movie is so hyped.  It wasn't painful to watch, but I'm mystified as to its appeal. And I thought the other Leonard adaptations were pretty good. "},{"Title":"More fun even than the book","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Generally when I've read the book first, it means I will hate the movie. Movies just seem cursory and stupid if I've read the book first.  But this one was faithful to both the spirit and the facts of the book in more places than any I've ever seen.  The inevitable departures from the book's plot actually made the movie more fun than the book was -- the ending softened the book, the way movie endings usually do, but didn't go overboard, the way movie endings usually do.  It was still faithful to the spirit of the book even as it allowed a little more hope than the book did.Loved it.  "},{"Title":"Hot Hot Hot!","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is definitely the sexiest movie I have ever seen. Clooney & Lopez are gorgeous, of course, but it's the chemistry betweeen them that makes it so unbelievable. Sparks are flowing every time they show on the screen. And the story is very cool, so it really fits the characters. Great movie, great actors and great aphrodisiac.  "},{"Title":"A (Major) Minor Masterpiece","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I only watch movies that I love more than once, and there are only about 15 in that category, including The Umbrellas of Cherbourgh, Ophree (1949), 12 Monkeys, Brigadon, Vertitgo, The Sound of Music and Out of Sight, which I have watched over and over and over probably twice as much as any other movie. I discover more to love about it with each viewing.I initially went to see the film because I was an Elmore Lenord fan, and had read the book. I was NOT a Clooney or a Lopez fan, but after the movie, I became one...of both. Steven Soderberghshines, shows just the right amount of restraint. Of the films I have seen of his, I love Out of Sight, Solaris and Traffic. I did not particularly like The Limey. Oceans Eleven was great for what it was and shame on me for going to Oceans Twelve. Have not seen any of his others.If you have not seen this film, don't be put off by the negative reviews, this is an incredible story of the human spirit put together perfectly. Just watched Out of Sight yet again, and am once more floored by what an perfect film this is. The cast, the score, the editing, the screenplay. It is almost scary how perfect this move is from the first scene to the last. And I know that I will watch again and again. Wow! "},{"Title":"Out of Sight","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember seeing this once a long while ago, and not remembering a lot about it, apart from a few clips and the two leads, I had to see it for a second time, from director Steven Soderbergh (Sex, Lies, and Videotape, Erin Brockovich, Ocean's Eleven). Basically career bank robber Jack Foley (Clooney) is caught and imprisoned, and we see some of his time in jail through some flashback style sequences talking to inmates about escape. Then he gets the opportunity to escape, and he manages it with the help of his accomplice Buddy Bragg (Pulp Fiction's Ving Rhames), but not without U.S. Marshal Karen Sisco (Jennifer Lopez) trying to stop them. She is put in the trunk of the car next to Jack, and they get to know each other reasonably well before they part ways, with the crooks planning to hit rich businessman Richard Ripley (Finding Nemo's Albert Brooks). While Karen is trying to catch up to Jack, for more than just crimes, criminal Maurice 'Snoopy' Miller (Don Cheadle) has also managed to get out of prison, and he also plans to hit on the Ripley mansion. There is a point when Karen is hanging out in the bar of the hotel she knows Jack is staying, and she is being chatted up by some other losers, before he comes along to offer a drink, which she accepts and they sleep together. Although they part ways, she knows the plan Jack has devised, and she goes to end the investigation and crimes herself, but of course her feelings for Jack will hold her back. Also starring Dennis Farina as Marshall Sisco, Luis Guzmn as Chino, Steve Zahn as Glenn Michaels, The 40 Year Old Virgin's Catherine Keener as Adele, Michael Keaton as Ray Nicolette (the same character he played in Jackie Brown), Samuel L. Jackson as Hejira Henry and Ghost Ship's Isaiah Washington as Kenneth. It is the most subtle moment of the film, but the best moment for me is after asking to buy Lopez a drink, the way Clooney says his fake name I'm Gary is just so cool. This is not the only good bit of dialogue, the whole film is full of it, and the all star cast all do their parts too, a good stylised romantic crime drama. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Film Editing and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium. George Clooney was number 72 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 7 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and the film was number 4 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments for Clooney and Lopez together in the car boot. Very good! "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie, its one of my favorites. I think it has a lot of style, good humor and a good cast. Normally I'm not that fond of Jennifer Lopez, but in this movie she's good. She plays a smart and tough police officer, that falls for the charms of a criminal (George Clooney). The soundtrack of the movie is also good. David Holmes made most of the music, he makes funky music. The music brings a lot of style and image to the movie.George Clooney is playing an intelligent crook. Hes a famous bank robber, he robbed loads of them. But he never uses guns. His character is kind of the same as the 'Daniel Ocean' he plays in Oceans 11 & 12. So if you love his character in Oceans 11 & 12, you'll love Out of sight.So for the comment above me that claims that this movie sucks, shut up! "}{"Title":"Hands down, one of the best films ever made.","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As funny as it is entertaining, Out of Sight is an example of beautifully crafted filmmaking. The script is ingenius and the casting amazing. Every actor ignites on the screen with true charisma seen so rarely in a film with an all-star cast, but the film goes beyond that. The music is perfect, the cinematography is perfect, the editing pulls the story together in an inventive way that keeps the audience guessing and, at the same time, so involved in the story. George Clooney, gleaming with charm, and Jennifer Lopez, in her best performance to date, are a perfect couple thrown into a unusual romantic connection. The movie is hilarious, tragic, touching, extremely romantic and full of surprising insight. I love every minute.  "},{"Title":"Scroll down and read my advice right now","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Listen, here, ladies and gentlemen. I am a young man whose love for film bears no boundaries.  My knowledge of film, also, is limitless.  Some of you might call that comment pretentious.  Blah, blah, blah, SHUT UP.I've decided to comment on only one movie in this entire database, 1998's Out of Sight, starring my man George and a great cast of supporting players, including Steve Zahn in an unforgettably hilarious performance.  I mean, just listen to him mumble What are we gonna do with a hatchet? as he nervously negotiates with fellow criminal Snoopy Miller, played to perfection by Don Cheadle.Well, it seems I'm getting off topic.What I came here to tell all of you people is this Out of Sight is the greatest piece of cinema I have ever had the privilege to see.  It holds the number one spot on my personal Top 100 list, and has done so for nearly five years at this point.  Since I've seen it.Though many of you seem to dismiss this film, after one or even a few viewings, simply as entertaining or watchable,  Out of Sight is, from top to bottom, faultless.  So, those of you who have seen it, but have not realized its greatness, I ask you to watch it again.  For those of you who have not seen it, stop wasting your time and go view this movie.  Stat.  And I mean now, because you might die soon.  Like tomorrow.Thanks for reading, you. "},{"Title":"One overrated movie","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This isn't half the movie that say Pulp Fiction or Get Shorty is.  It has a very boring plot.  There are no really good lines, and of course, they think that if they throw in a few F bombs that it will make a movie better. Pulp Fiction had great acting, a good script and better direction. "},{"Title":"An impressive character study that works on many levels!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight is unlike the average crime drama of recent years.  I guess it's because the characters in this movie are actually DEVELOPED, and prove to be more than chess pieces in the plot to be moved around when conflict is needed.  Each character possesses their own sense of uniqueness.  And the interplay between each character is very interesting. I've never read any Elmore Leonard novels, but judging by this movie and Jackie Brown Leonard has a good knack for creating vivid characters.  The actors did a terrific job at inhabiting their characters.  I can't say anyone stole the show.  The whole cast put their two cents into the film.  George Clooney seems like he was born to play the role of low-key bank robber Jack Foley.  It's similar to his criminal role in From Dusk Till Dawn--but with a lot more discipline and a lot less profanity.  Jennifer Lopez shows great charisma and dominance in her role as an FBI agent, who's committed to her job yet falls for Foley's (the criminal she's in hot pursuit of) charm.  This is one of her best roles up to date.  Ving Rhames is terrific as usual, as Foley's right hand man Buddy.  Of course, he plays his usual buffed-up bodyguard role, but I feel this one has more depth than his similar roles in Striptease and Entrapment.  Don Cheadle, who I still feel is one of our best underrated actors, is great as an ex-con seeking to rip-off a snobby Wall Street broker (Albert Brooks).  Steve Zahn again shows his comic talent at playing the slow-witted accomplice.  Also look for Michael Keaton in a reprise of his role as Ray Nicolette from Tarantino's Jackie Brown.  He has a hilarious scene where he interacts with Lopez's father (Dennis Farina, who gives another great, professional performance).  Finally, await a surprise cameo at the very end of the film.  I REALLY hope that fellow IMDB users have not mentioned the cameo (That's very rude).  I'm sure you will be amazed and amused to find out who the mystery man is.  The dialogue is great and the characters exchange their words in a very down to earth manner.  This is the kind of film you watch and think to yourself, This is REALLY how people talk!  Much like Soderbergh's debut sleeper sex, lies and videotape.  Soderbergh's direction is vivid and lively, and is best demonstrated in the witty interaction between Clooney and Lopez in the bar, in which he intercuts between them staring into each other's eyes and them in the hotel slowly undressing, while their voice-overs narrate their thoughts.  I loved the music, including great soul hits like It's Your Thing.  The flaws?  The film's episodic fashion gets meandering at points, and causes you to slightly lose interest.  In other words, it could've moved at a faster pace.  And maybe a few more minutes in the editing room. Out of Sight is identical to a Tarantino crime caper  vivid characterizations, vivid dialogue including moments of kooky small talk and hysterical comedy, use of great soul classics, etc.  Everything except the nonstop profanity.  Not to say that the language in this film is sanitized, but considering the standard R-rated flick, no one should be strongly offended.This is a smart, witty, funny, often engaging crime caper that is definitely worth a look.  And yes, the movie does prove to be OUT OF SIGHT!!!My score  7 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was so excited about this film, but after 2 hours, all that excitement didn't linger to the end because this film is disappointing. It's not terrible and features some superb work but the Jennifer Lopez character wasn't convincing, she's was too beautiful for the part. Clooney was very good in this, he's becoming a very good performer. Ving Rhames deserves to play a real meaty role and this wasn't it, it was still a good performance.Clooney and Lopez are provide sexual sparks, a plus point.The screenplay provides some terrific dialogue but didn't feel complete and the direction was a little tedious, I know Steve is a very good director but I was disappointed with this. The photography is PERFECT.I want to love this film, but the character played by Lopez was a huge disappointment.                                "},{"Title":"Good movie, surprisingly funny and witty","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Funny movie, I was very amused by it. George Clooney made a good movie, as did Jennifer Lopez, who I also really like. I especially liked it when she pulled out the club and said You wanted to tussle, we tussled. She was a tough federal marshal. George Clooney had a good role as well. Worth watching as it is entertaining and moves very well with the plot. "},{"Title":"Premise  Clooney and Lopez Are Pretty","Date":"5 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The premise of this movie seems to be that George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez are pretty, and that should be enough for the viewer. And for the characters in the movie. You don't get to look at two people that pretty and get a story that makes sense as well. And the Clooney/Lopez characters don't have to behave in a manner that makes sense either because once they meet they are in love. A bank robber in love will interrupt his prison break to think about how to hook up with someone as pretty as Jennifer Lopez. A federal marshal in love will allow a bank robber to walk because he is so pretty. I guess it's one of those movies you are supposed to watch with the sound off so that the 'story' doesn't confuse you and get in the way of looking at really pretty people. "},{"Title":"True","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Now this is what makes me a Clooney fan (sometimes). This Elmore Leonard classic of modern times packs an amazing punch, from the editing to the story. Clooney turns in a stellar performance on the caliber of Daniel Ocean, from 11'. I went and not wielding high hopes for this one. I was pleasantly surprised and truly felt that this had 'Jam' to it's game. Clooney brought the character into a beleivible place. He brought it into living color. The style and sharp spoken dialog, with his partner in crime, made this one a fun and especially tasty performance. Displaying that typical Clooney-charm that has made him a house hold name, and for good reason. George lacked nothing in my view. Along with Michael Keaton, Ving Rhames too, let us not forget, but most of all a lovely performance that made the romantic opposite grade, with Jennifer Lopez. When she was still wit diddy, Puffy. However the distraction of the front page of the Natiional Inquirer, this film, was a pace setting action dramedy, with enough clout to offer to making a sequel. Although sometimes, many times, it's good to just let a classic stand on it's own.My brother in law at the time tried to play 'movie-critic', with me about this one, saying it lacked a lot. He was an idiot anyhow. All who were involved, including the always awesome Dennis Farina, made this one stand out with other epic pictures, that will remain standing well into the future, when other movies have gone by the wayside.I really had a satisfying time with this one. I recommend it to action comedy drama fans without hesitation...(****) "},{"Title":"A blast to watch","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight is a brilliant little movie with big characters a nice plot to hold them, and though it's not a comedy, it has a couple jokes that are side-splitting.  Movies like this make me wish there was a broad acceptance of a little distinction of mine.  I think people should view films differently from movies.  If you are like me you watch them in two states of mind; films tend to be driven by a theme and are a little bit of work to watch, but worth it.  These are the really great works of cinema like Schindler's List and such.  Movies are the ones where you relax and have fun, like The Rock, or Rush Hour or Big or something.  Well, anyways I wish other people thought like this because then i could give this a four star rating (out of four)on the scale for movies only.  But there is none, so I can't give it a perfect rating because then it would be up there with Traffic and the like.  But when it's Friday night after a long week and you just want to watch something to take your mind off it you don't want The Bridge on The River Kwai, you want Out of Sight.  imdb rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think the key to the film is the sexual tension between Goerge Clooney and Jennifer Lopez. Add to that a brilliant cast, Don Cheadle, Steve Zahn, Ving Rhames and you've got a fine looking recipe for a film. The soundtrack sets the tone and mood, that packaged through the eyes of a brilliant and fantastic director means for a pretty fine movie going experience.In summary, great story, great dialogue, great acting, great directing, great music = Great movie and worthy of 10! Thanks and Enjoy! "}{"Title":"starts off good","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film starts off as a comedic crime caper, but then slowly becomes a dramatic love story. The cast is good and the cameos are fun to watch, but by the end it's hard to know what you've gotten out of it. Overall, a respectful adaptation of an Elmore Leonard novel. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Strange Cast, Colorful Film","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boy, this is a volatile cast and a diverse one, from pretty boy George Clooney to pretty girl Jennifer Lopez to burly Ving Rhames and little Don Cheadle to explosive Dennis Farina and low-key comedian (usually) Albert Brooks. Yes, this is a strange cast.The movie....well, it's okay but not as wild as the cast. At least it's entertaining, which is the name of the game. It won't win any awards, but you won't fall asleep watching it for the full two hours. Just be ready for lots of profanity. It's a colorful movie, and this time I don't mean the cast. I mean there are some brilliant colors in here, making it a good visual film. "},{"Title":"Good, but not great, crime romance","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" (54%) A clear Elmore Leonard based story with it's characters leaning both between crime and law enforcement, and sometimes even both. This has a little more than a connection with Jackie Brown, with Michael Keaton reprising his role which is something that doesn't happen very often in movies made by different people. This though isn't nowhere near as good as Jackie Brown, the characters aren't as well crafted, it doesn't have the depth, and the plot in general is not as good or well told. With that said it is an easier film to get into on the first watch, and it is likely to be Jennifer Lopez's best staring role of her acting career. This is worth a look, but it isn't a modern-day classic that many claim. "},{"Title":"Typical Clooney movie","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" You've seen'em once, you've seen'em all. No matter if he plays a bad guy, a good guy, a cop, a killer, a cripple, or a terrorist, George Clooney will always somehow use his charm and wit to seduce the people after him or pretty much anyone he meets, and gets out of a sticky situation. This time they ridicule the US Marshals by having us believe that a hot sexy young woman (Jennifer Lopez) is a US Marshal and totally falls for him. I'm sorry but I just couldn't swallow that no matter how hard I tried. Maybe if she was FBI or CIA, it'd be more passable, but please do not insult the integrity of the US Marshals Service. Samuel L Jackson is great as always but his role is a bit different here and unexpected. I'd like to see Tommy Lee Jones go after Clooney, because I know he won't fall for any tricks and take his ass down proper.The film has decent pace and editing that shows a bit of the present and the past blended together, but the storyline was far too clich and unacceptable. "},{"Title":"Good movie, wretched snow.","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although I did enjoy this movie, the gorgeous combo of Lopez-Clooney, and the realistic stumblebummery of the thieves, the phony snow was so bad. Since I live in true Upstate NY where we have 200 descriptors for snow, I have judged the snow in this movie to be totally unconvincing. Perhaps Out of Sight has lousy snow because it was filmed in Louisiana and Angola. But, even the 40s movie, It's a Wonderful Life, had better snow and it was filmed in Los Angeles. Lopez and Clooney may be at their most beautiful in this movie. It would be nice to see them together in another, ten years later. Many minor characters went on to greater fame. "},{"Title":"Give just one more chance.","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is better than the reviews panning it. Steven Soderbergh directs this crime flick that has hints of comedy and romance. Jack Foley(George Clooney)has robbed more banks than he can remember. Upon escaping a Florida prison with bud Buddy Bragg(Ving Rhames)he has an encounter with a beautiful US Marshall Karen Sisco(Jennifer Lopez), who will later join a manhunt trying to foil Foley's next 'last' job. Jack and Buddy will join up with a former prison-mate(Don Cheadle)with a planned heist of uncut diamonds owned by another former inmate( Albert Brooks). There is enough violence and strong language to garner an R rating. The charming and handsome Clooney with the luscious Lopez make for some smoldering scenes. Its the not being able to really convey the feelings they have for each other that gives the scenes they share that special something. Others in the cast Dennis Farina, Isaiah Washington and small roles for Nancy Allen, Michael Keaton and Samuel L. Jackson. For those Lopez bashers...this is one of her stronger performances. That girl is just too damn easy to look at. "},{"Title":"OUT OF SIGHT he looks like - different.....","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" U.S. deputy Marshall Karen Siscos relation with her Marshall-father is good. As it should, must and has to be. Unknown is of course and as usual, if her father is her real father, thinking of the question by a Shakespeare play, an actor saying who knows his father? We neither see or hear something of her mother, but her daughter is proof enough that there has been a pregnant woman, her mother. The relation father-daughter is as good as it can and should be. She is not only his little girl but also my tough babe!. Out of sight is a romantic crime-thrilling comedy, the frame of seeing individuals behind the recognizing stereotypes. Inside of this mirroring crime frame the mirror of the lady Marshall and the bank robber, the mirror of Karen and Jack, mirroring Garys and Celestes timeout. It is Karens luck but U.S. Marshall Karen Siscos bad luck, that she comes to the right place, but untimely too early, being involved against her will in the jail break, being suddenly Jack Foleys hostage, a career bank robber who prides himself on never having robbed a single bank with a gun. Leaving their own getaway car behind, Jacks partner-in-crime Buddy hides both in the trunk of her car. On their way to meet another partner-in-crime, Sisco and Foley talk, Karen and Jack stumbling into a love-trap. After her escape from Jack, she is his hostage &#150; and he hers, love chained to each other as the hunted hunter, hunting the hunter. From now on they seek each other. This is of course a conflict for the U.S. Marshall and the career bank robber! Out of Sights turning core are the six minutes of timeout as Gary and Celeste. While they talk we see as background, switching back and forth, their meeting as lovers. The six-minutes-scene is the frame in the frame, mirroring what they do as U.S. Marshall and bank robber, what they are as Karen and Jack and what they are during the moment of 'kairos', the right moment. Around these six minutes turns everything around as a merry-go-round. But life has to go on. After the diamonds are found in Ripleys house, Jack and Buddy leave. But why returns Jack, hollywoodsensing that Karen, the U. S Marshall Sisco is around? Karen as executing U.S. Marshal Sisco, chains Jack, the career bank robber at the stairs landing, facing the entering SWAT-team. Karen answers quickly the complaining Jack,I am sorry, I wish it would have been different. Karen Sisco, the U.S. Marshall, represents the executing part of Law, never forgot her duty, inside this frame as Karen Sisco, pleasured as Celeste the timeout. What she did as Karen and Celeste never was corruptious. And phone talking to her father, He knew what he was doing. Nobody &#133;. (in one of the back-flashes and freezed frames Ripley offers him the lousy payed Job of a security guard, which Jack angry turns down, Ripley answering You can only rob banks enrages him that he minutes after robs a branch of the SunTrust bank (the films introduction), gets caught, comes to Glades, is part of the jail break, host-aging Karen the story has started 'out of sight' before it started.) &#133; forced him to rob banks. She should have escorted the night before another prisoner to Glades but waits for Jack Foley. Giving him his lighter, she says that she must have it back before arriving at Glades. Much can happen between Detroit and Glades as, Foley says to the prisoner that it is a long ride to Florida. It is our own fantasy, deciding what happens beyond Out of Sight. In her phone talk with her father he seems to like her out-of-sight-romance much better, promising a more exiting future than with her silly, boring boyfriend Ray. Having in mind Maid in Manhattan, Enough and The Cell the red thread is J L. Cinderellas story changes into a abusing nightmare, needing Enough and The Cell to sort out things. The Cells Catherine, believing in the strength of the 'reversed feed' invites against her teams will the coma-patient Carl Rudolphe Staghner to her Unconscience, telling that in her world her rules has to be accepted (in Enough Slim hears from her abusing husband I make the money, so I make the rules.). The Out of Sight-kairos-situation with Celest and Gary goes further is &#150; different. Like Karens say, looking at the picture in the newspaper of Jack Foley, He looks like &#150; different. The Celeste-Gary-timeout looks like &#150; different. Both worlds rules are focused on. Such happens only once in a lifetime. We are born by a two-forces-conception, to be born as a person &#150; and as a personality, looking for the kairos-moment. U.S. Marshall Karen Sisco and the bank robber Jack Foley have as Karen and Jack met as Gary and Celeste in this 'silly' movie Out of Sight. Silly? Sometimes truth has to be disguised by silliness. "},{"Title":"Outta Sight (Outta Mind)","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like when I first began buying VHS movies, when I purchased my DVD player, I wanted to only own the old classics and excellent new, indie films. The first DVD I purchased was Steven Soderburg's Out of Sight. It had the indie cred I desired, plus it was by a director I admired. And I am the type of person to admire directors over actors, genres, and type. Plus it didn't do well at the box office so I could feel justified in my ability to overlook the big blockbusters and snuggle into something small and arty. I have since realized that trying to impress some film buff that will never show himself at my house is both immature and not very practical. After a few additional classics (2001, Taxi Driver, and Evil Dead II) I came to realize that there are some extremely popular DVDs that are must haves. It's hard to claim indy cred when you're picking up Jaws and Animal House. Plus my DVD player came with free copies of crap like Michael and Basic Instinct. Add that to the odd assortment of movies I keep picking up as gifts and swiping from my brother via Mom and you have a whole heap of DVDs not worth bragging about.All of this is simply to say I like Out of Sight a great deal. I have watched it every six months or so since I bought it 5 years ago and have never been disappointed. It is a crime story more interested in characters than crime. Though some of the plot points are on the implausible side, the film is so overwhelmingly enjoyable it is easy to forgive such faults.Soderburg is a talented artist, though as a director he is a bit of a mixed bag. He has created some truly brilliant films (Traffic, the Limey) but also a few bombs, artistically speaking (Full Frontal, Oceans 11). After starting the indie revolution with Sex, Lies, and Videotape he created the first of several experimental films, Kafka. Thus developing a theme for his films smart, original films followed by artistic experiments that mostly fail. With Out of Sight he began what I would call his attempt at being main stream. It is based on a Elmore Leonard novel, produced by Danny DeVito and Barry Sonnefeld, and stars a couple of up and commers looking for a hit. For those of you that scoffed at my labeling this movie indie do understand that this movie was pre Erin Brokovich, Traffic, or the Oceans series for Soderburg. George Clooney was a television star from ER, but had yet to have a successful movie. And Jennifer Lopez was still Jennifer Lopez rather than J.Lo, Jenny from the Block, or Bennifer. In 1992 it was, well, not exactly an indie movie, but it definitely was not a sure fired block buster. Point of fact, it rather bombed at the box office.Soderburg tends to be his own director of photography on his pictures. By his own admission, this is more because of his method of producing pictures quickly, than at his own expertise at this skill. Though he does do a good job at it. In fact, one of the first things I noticed about the picture, was its use of light. There are two prisons seen in the picture, and both are given a different enough look that you can easily tell them apart. During the scenes in Miami, the lighting is very bright and sunny. Soderburg intentionally over lighted the windows for interior shots to give the outside a particularly sunny look. Detroit is shot in a lot of blues that give an added feel of cold and separation.Each character is given a chance to shine. There are no flat characters designed to move the plot along. Rather they are fleshed out and appear real. Clooney and Lopez show real chemistry on screen and you begin to believe that a US Marshall could actually fall for an escaped bank robber. I have never seen an episode of ER and my buddies and I used to make fun of Clooney for his charming good looks and general star quality. This is the film that began to change my mind and understand him for the fine actor he has become. This film also made me believe that Jennifer Lopez was a fine actress and someone to look out for. But, of course, she quickly became a caricature of herself and has not done anything since then to make me a believer.I love this film. It is a crime drama that pays more attention to character than crime. It is romantic, without being schmaltzy. It is funny, without shooting for gags. It is a well made, competent movie that holds up on repeated viewings. I can still brag that it holds a place on my DVD shelf. "},{"Title":"Classy matinee","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sexy, stylish Elmore Leonard adaptation. I particularly like (second time around) the sequence where Clooney/Lopez get it on; it reminded me a bit of Nick Roeg's thoughtful Don't Look Now sex sequence, Soderburgh here intercutting the action with a foreplay conversation.Lopez is great, Clooney's very watchable... a little disappointed with Don Cheadle who starts out mean but then gets a bit, um, chatty. I read in a recent interview that Elmore Leonard writes plot first and that characters emerge from that narrative. Soderburgh directs in much the same way. The film trips along without any extraneous touches, but it's still got a certain elan so it's never prosaic (Ocean's Eleven closest comparison).Great soundtrack too. It's all you want from a matinee - see it with friends, with date... 7/10 "},{"Title":"A very entertaining movie","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I read the book so I knew to some extent what was going to happen.It's a great movie because Elmore Leonard is a great writer.I don't know why all the praise for Tarrentino . Elmore Leonard's story is what made the movie  good.You can read about the plot in other posts here.I just wanted to make a few comments that are probably also spoilersThat a millionaire living in a mansion the size of a hotel and not having security guards and other security alarms is highly unlikely...but WTF it's not a documentary, it's a movie.When Foley is shot how come he can get in the Marshals van so quickly?Some good acting by some minor actors . Esp. Suds or who ever the spaced out guy with sun glasses was called.Nice ending with most of the bad guys killed and Foley's partner hopefully going on to make a million and stop life as a criminal . Maybe Ripley's girl friend will tell the police how Foley saved her and that he shot in self defence.YOu can write your own ending or endings. "}{"Title":"I used to like this better","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight is the definitive George Clooney movie, and the one time I really liked something with Jenifer Lopez in it. I also have enjoyed the series Karen Sisco, spawned from this film. But to my surprise, reading the book made me hate things about this movie.When I read Get Shorty and watch the movie, I enjoy them both equally for their differences as well as their similarities. Not so with this movie. I have problems when a film decides, rather than to just change certain parts, altering how the characters get to where they're going, that they actually change the outcome of the story.Aside from character descriptions (in the book Foley was 47, Karen was blonde, and Buddy was white) it seems that they felt they had to Hollywood-ize the story. Most of the humor in the movie was absent in Elmore Leonard's novel. One thing I did enjoy, that was a stroke of original demented genius, is in the way that White Boy Bob is killed. But the drugged-up serial rapist character of Kenneth, and the sociopathic tendencies of Chino (Luis Guzman) are not so well drawn as in the book. Some scenes were just outright deleted, making the movie just a little more improbable.Don't get me wrong, I love the movie for what it offers. It's the things that are changed that make me feel like I was cheated. Through and through I'd give this a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Sexy, charming and stylish","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OUT OF SIGHT (1998) spoiler alert((( George Clooney, the ultimate hunk...and look at that woman, Jennifer Lopez. The movie is absolutely worth watching, alltough it maybe doesn't entertain that much, its very elegant and charming, typical to Clooney movies. It twists from action, comedy, drama, romance and thriller...these genres together mixes up crime / romance. Probably the most sexy woman alive Jennifer Lopez does actually a pretty good job in front off the camera in a leading role, I recommend it though it isn't too interesting. STARS *** 3/5  "},{"Title":"Textbook example of a fun movie.","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Among other things, this film reminded me what good actress Jennifer Lopez used to be before the dancing, the perfume & clothing lines and the god awful singing turned her into 'J.Lo Inc.'. Prior to willingly relinquishing her life to celebrity press becoming in the process the biggest media whore planet Earth has seen since Elizabeth Taylor's heyday, Lopez was simply an actress. And a damn good one, too - as this film aptly demonstrates!In what turned out to be one of her last worthy movies before crap like The Wedding Planner, Maid in Manhattan and Gigli took the center stage, she simply illuminates the screen.Also starring is George Clooney as jaunty serial bank robber and jail inmate Nick Foley. As the frames start to roll, he's for the umpteenth time shipped off to yet another correctional facility - this time in Florida, after an unsuccessful robbery of a Miami bank when his getaway car wouldn't start. Soon enough though, he manages to bust out (on Super Bowl Sunday no less), piggybacking on the escape plan of a few Cubans. Waiting for him, parked outside of the prison gates, is his trusty friend and partner Buddy (Ving Rhames). By pure chance, also hanging around is FBI marshall Karen Sisco (Lopez) - there to pick up an inmate who needs to be transferred. All of a sudden she's unexpectedly witnessing a prison break and quickly moves to alert the guards. In the ensuing chaos she is grabbed by Foley, shoved into the trunk of a car and is now fleeing the scene with a jail escapee and his driver-accomplice. And so the fun begins.......What follows is greatly developed pulpy story with a series of stylish vignettes involving excellent supporting characters like the brutal Snoopy Miller (Don Cheadle), spaced-out Glen (Steve Zahn), talkative millionaire crook Richard Ripley (Albert Brooks), Foley's ex-wife Adele (Catherine Keener), jail escapee Chino (Luis Guzmn), Karen's dad (Denis Farrina), etc.The look and the atmosphere of this thing are indescribably appealing. Really fun stuff. "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm a big Elmore Leonard fan and was eager to see this after Get Shorty.Lot's of people went on about the sizzling scenes between J-Lo and Clooney. Forget about that. The best thing in this movie is the dialogue and the story. And to go with that... the cast is awesome.This move is just too cool. Watch it!! "},{"Title":"Jennifer Lopez should keep doing movies with George Clooney.","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  She should also keep working with Steven Soderbergh.  The movies she currently puts out are mediocre at best.  I think she would be better off putting out more edgier movies.Realistic or not, she and Clooney were great in Out of Sight.  The on-screen chemistry between the two actors was wonderful.  I highly recommend this movie, but be forewarned, it has some humorous moments that are a bit dark.  (For those viewers who prefer lighter humor, go rent The Wedding Planner).  "},{"Title":"The Day that ER Died","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was Out of Sight that first endeared me to Clooney and Soderbergh. A well-crafted, art house film for the masses. It deserved the accolade received and should have won or, at the very least, been nominated for several Oscars. (I realize that Anne Coates was nominated for the editing, but it deserved Oscar's kudos in other categories as well.)The film takes risks in the way it is crafted. I think that is what moved me the most. It is a fun film, but it is a clever film too. It was not your average Hollywood fare.In this film, as well, Clooney emerges from tv stardom to feature film leading man. I enjoyed the entire cast. Yet, there was no way that Clooney's career could be saddled on the small screen anymore. The fact that George could hold his own and carry a film of such quality was evidence enough that it was time to leave ER. (And so he did.)Scott Frank's brilliantly crafted script was both funny and just too cool. Check out the colloquy between Viola Davis and Isaiah Washington. Now, that is how urban dialogue really sounds! I liked Tarrantino's Jackie Brown released that year. However, Frank's script was better. (Sorry Quentin!)And then there is Soderbergh... Oh, just see the film; enjoy the sound track too. A laid-back, edgy heist film that is so hip and delivers so much more. "},{"Title":"Very good crime drama","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best thing about this film is the chemistry between Clooney and Lopez. This was the first time that Clooney played the charismatic and cool criminal and it is his best role to date (he basically played the same type in Ocean's Eleven and while that film is good, this one is better). I think neither of these stars have since had as strong roles as Foley and Sisco, respectively. The casting was perfect. The supporting cast is also superb and all the characters have at least one scene in which to shine. It is unusual to have secondary characters that are so memorable. Soderbergh uses Pulp Fiction type non-linear storytelling and occasional brief freeze frames to great effect. I recommend watching this film again, so the viewer can appreciate how it was put together. Recommended, 8/10.   "},{"Title":"A jewel of a movie with some laugh-out-loud funny characters","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Come on...  Don Cheadle as Snoopy?  Isaiah Washington as Kenny?  What's there not to like about the movie?  These guys are straight up fools, and in a really, really good way.  George and Jennifer do their thing, too.  I always recommend this one to those in search of true entertainment. "},{"Title":"way underrated","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having read the previous comments on this movie, I thought I should put my view across. This is the best film like, EVER! Okay, so that might be a bit of an exaggeration, but it's still a great film. I cannot fault the script, the direction, or the acting. You can almost see the chemistry between George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez, it's that good. The use of colour is also good, from the cold blues of Detroit, to the warm reds and browns of Karen's hotel room. Plus, any film in which George Clooney strips to his underpants has got to be good! "},{"Title":"...Out Of Mind","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is instantly forgettable.  I bought the hype, but at least waited until it came onto VHS before I saw it. What A let down.  I must set the record straight here and now; there is no chemistry onscreen between J Lo and Georgy. None that I could see anyway. Ms Lopez goes through this flick with basically the same, or similar, expression.  Just like Madonna, as a dancer she's a woeful actress. She doesn't have the gravitas or screen presence to portray an FBI officer who falls for a criminal so much, that she's prepared to put her career on the line. Well, maybe she would, if they looked and dressed like fashion models. SPOILER!!! BEWARE!!!In one early scene, she's so easily disarmed of her weapon, it's laughable.  And she never seems to portray the vulnerability of a woman who really fancies a dangerous type of guy. As for Georgy, he just does his bad-criminal-with-a-heart-of-gold-who-never-hurts-anyone routine, which we've seen in From Dusk To Dawn. Come on Georgy. Take a risk, and play a totally awful dislikable character.  Stretch yourself man!!It's main flaw is the stars in love gig, which works in a film like The Getaway, because Steve Mcqueen and Ali Macgraw WERE in love.P.S. I've heard that Georgy couldn't stand J Lo, because of her diva ego trippin' ways. "}{"Title":"Burning chemistry!","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An absolutly cool and inspired movie. I love the story, I love the performances and I loved the hot chemistry between George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez. The story is about a charismatic and gentleman gangster (Clooney) who falls in love with a female cop (Lopez). The story is pretty easy and of course brings a lot of possibilities for intersting conflicts between both characters. What the movie makes so great is the style of the movie, defenetely Soderberghs best movie, in the movie are similar elements like in Traffic( cinematography) or Erin Brockovich ( editing) involved but this movie is much more interesting and entertaining then anything else Soderbergh did. He probably can thank his two leading actors for that. The chemistry between both is SO hot that you really think the screen is burning, and the movie is not imaginable with other performers. The way Soderberg tells the story is intersting too, he uses several flash backs and dream sequenzes, sometimes a bit confusing bit defenetely interesting. The cinematography, editing and soundtrack is very good too and make this movie a fest for all senses, never before a director combined thriller, romance and comedy on such a succsesful and greay way like Soderbergh did with this movie, so thumbs up. I must say it is still very underrated, I mean everybody praises the director for the movies he did later, but not one of them reachs the brilliantness, smartness and coolness of this one, defenetely the diamond in his filmography, as well as in the filmography of the actors, it would be so great if Jennifer Lopez would rather stick to those movies, then to the crap she lately did because here you can see her great potential. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Smooth, sexy, and oh-so cool","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  People look at me funny when I say that this is one of my all-time favorite films... I think it's the Jennifer Lopez factor. But once I force them to watch the film, they usually change their tune.Soderbergh takes a winning story by Elmore Leonard and turns it into something better by tweaking the timeline, using music and cinematography brilliantly to establish mood, and relying on an outstanding cast to do the rest. In addition to the chemistry between the two leads, Out of Sight has a supporting cast that is simply perfect, not a weak link to be found. It's hard to choose a favorite among Ving Rhames, Don Cheadle, and Steve Zahn, but even the smaller parts are played to perfection by the likes of Dennis Farina, Luis Guzman, and Catherine Keener. Without such a solid cast, a lesser film would have seemed too stylized, but instead it's an exercise in Cool.This film is a pleasure to watch from start to finish, and you'll find yourself going back for repeated viewings (catching subtle bits of humor each time -- like Steve Zahn and the weights).  "},{"Title":"Very dissapointing","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Soderbergh has made one good movie - Traffic - but for some reason I have never made it to the end of any of the others. This starts out OK but both times I've tried to watch it I've found myself doing something else after 20 minutes. This puts it ahead of Erin Brockovich (15) or The Limey(10). I guess this makes it his second best. "},{"Title":"Pure cinematic pleasure!","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What does it mean to 'get' a film? I ask because reading some of the comments on here, I can't believe that we've all watched the same film.To me, this film has it all terrific leads who generate REAL heat, unlike so many 'romantic' movies; a brilliant and diverse supporting cast; dialogue which can be both witty and poignant; music and camera-work which build up the atmosphere and an all-pervading sense of cool. It's simply a pleasure to watch from start to finish - I wouldn't change anything about it. This really is accomplished and intelligent film making. Soderbergh transformed Clooney in this film, from an uncertain wobbly-headed B-list lead into a genuine movie star. Of course, Lopez hasn't even approached these heights since and Soderbergh hasn't bettered it.I can understand that some people might find the direction and editing a bit too tricksy and it doesn't really have an emotional punch. But that's hardly the point. Leonard's world is full of ultra-cool criminals, with all the lines and bags of charm. It's not the real world but, to be honest, I don't always go to the cinema hoping to see the real world. Some films leave you with a spring in your step as you walk out of the cinema, realising just how cool life can be. This is definitely one of them. "},{"Title":"I just love this movie","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Quirky characters, smart dialogue, interesting editing, and a generally fun experience. George Clooney is his usual cute smart mouth self, and all of the surprises you come to expect from the Elmore Leonard series. "},{"Title":"good book, great movie","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is one of few instances that I liked the movie as much, if not more than the book.  There were some scenes from the book left out, but they weren't really missed in the movie, and the scenes that were written in for the movie, worked really well.  Also...I liked the movie's ending alot more than the book's (I wont tell you what either is, i don't want to spoil it).This movie has everything going for it.  Good director, good writing, good actors, great sound track, but by far, my favorite aspect of the movie is the editing.  This is one of the most well edited movies I have seen in some time.  There are lots of great Godard-style jump cuts, melding together of scenes that take place hours later, cutting back and forth between 10 years...it's great, and it all works, wonderfully.  You can tell in alot of this movie (especially the trunk scene) that Soderbergh just shot the scenes like a hundred times from different angles and then just handed it to the editor to figure out.  I don't know how long it took to edit this movie but i'm willing to bet it took a while.The acting in this movie is pretty good too.  George Clooney did a great job, and was one of the few characters that stayed true to the novel's characters (for instance, Ving Rhames's character was a white guy, and Jenifer Lopez's character was a blond white girl).  I also have to hand it to Don Cheadle.  I had never seen him in a role where he had to be intimidating.  Overall, i think it's a great movie, definatly worth at least renting. "},{"Title":"better than i expected","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i usually dont like romantic comedies, and after being dragged to see one fine day, and almost dying in the theatre, i didnt want to see another mushy george clooney film.  then i heard it was based on an elmore leonard book, who is a great writer, and it was directed by steven soderbergh, who did the limey.  what i found was a completely different film than the trailer had described.  absoulutely hysterical at times, and excruitiating to watch at others, i was blown away by a jam-packed 110 minutes.  the flashbacks were done decently, as they usually suck, and the soundtrack was top-notch.  kudos to soderbergh for getting big names to do cameos, and to steve zahn, as a loveable idiot. "},{"Title":"Creative movie","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie Out of Sight was about a Federal Marshall Karen Sisco (Jennifer Lopez) pursuing an escaped con Jack Foley (George Clooney). She has romantic daydreams of Foley, despite the fact that she is pursuing him to arrest him.  Foley escapes from Miami to Detroit, where Sisco is hot on his trail.   In conclusion I recommend this movie to anyone who likes romantic action dramas. "},{"Title":"Slyly hip comedy-actioner with marvelous supporting cast","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Steven Soderbergh must have had a marvelous time directing this breezy and unpretentious actioner.  Clooney - who looks fabulous -- is perfectly cast as the gun-shy and marvelously anachronistic gentleman bandit.  His chemistry is great with Ving Rhames and even more electric with Lopez (who is so good she makes you forget she's much too young for her character, and for Clooney), and perhaps best with Albert Brooks, never missing a beat in straddling buddy-action-patter, torrid romance, and ironic comedy.  I also loved Nancy Allen's bit as Brooks' friend.My favorite inside-joke was having Michael Keaton show up at Dennis Farina's house playing the same FBI agent (Ray Nicolette) in the same manner that he played in Jackie Brown.  Having Samuel L. Jackson show up in the final scene was simply classic.  The bit about Rhames and his sister was also just the right touch.  And Don Cheadle stole every seen he was in. And Catherine Keener's bit was also well executed.  The pacing could have been slightly crisper and Steve Zahn stood out as the only weak link in the cast, but overall an altogether enjoyable romp. "},{"Title":"In sight","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight is a dazzling movie filled with great performances by the leading cast and it is wonderfuly direction. Lopez and Clooney have such a great chemistry together it just makes Out of Sight so delightful. The movie is uniquly put together with pauses as transitions on to scenes. The dialouge is outsatnding, and even thought the plot was not an academy award winning one, is still a fantastic movie, one that is you should not keep out of your sight "}{"Title":"Outstanding! Soderburgh's best.","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's almost easy to forget how much happens in this film. The movie is told in a time-jumping format and takes place in a number of locations, including three prisons where the same characters meet and re-meet, while various supporting actors drift in and out of the resulting storyline. Just your average boy-criminal-meets-girl-cop tale then.Don't let any of that put you off though. Chances are you'll never notice. Just sit back and let it unfold in front of you and don't worry about stylistic intricacies. Oh yeah, did I mention the colour coding?Steven Soderburgh may have gone on to wider acclaim with the Oscar-winning Traffic and Ocean's Eleven, the film that proves remakes can be better, but personally, this is his best.Uniformly great performances throughout with honourable mentions to Clooney and Lopez, complete with sizzling on-screen chemistry. This was the movie that announced Clooney as a film star and Lopez showed that she's easily a better actress than singer, though you wouldn't know it these days.A great script coupled with a cracking Elmore Leonard story and a soundtrack that suits the mood of the film perfectly. And of course, direction that serves to tell the story in the best way possible (the shifting timescale wasn't written in  originally but was conceived by Soderburgh and screenwriter Scott Frank, after they felt the straightforward adaption didn't do the book justice). When you watch it again, then you'll realise the little flourishes here and there.No messing around then. Quite simply, this is not just one of the best crime/comedy/romance movies out there, but one of the best movies ever.**SPOILERS**(for those who've seen the movie only!)For those people who want to know all those little film factsMichael Keaton plays the same character in both this film and Jackie Brown, which is based on another Elmore Leonard novel (Rum Punch), though it's made by Tarantino of course, so the links end there.Yes that is Samuel L Jackson in the van at the end. "},{"Title":"Slick Entertainment","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must admit that I thought this movie would be quite bad. It had George Clooney in it, who has done some really bad movies (some good ones too), and Jennifer Lopez, who has ONLY done really bad movies (Anaconda, The Cell, the Wedding Planner), at least that's what I thought until I saw this movie.I must say, Jennifer is a lot more bearable in this movie than she normally is in her songs or in her other movies. She's kinda cute, actually. Strongest point in this movie however are the supporting roles the gang of stupid criminal losers like Snoopy and White Boy Bob really steal the show. George Clooney is OK too, the story is quite refreshing and sometimes even a little funny, and the direction is very slick and stylish.All in all, this movie was simply fun to watch. Nothing terribly special, not terribly funny, a little slow at times, but very watchable.**1/2 out of **** stars   "},{"Title":"Has Steven Soderburgh ever made a bad movie?","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** OK.  I had some time to kill this PM so I went on to IMDB just to surf around.  I began thinking about movies that I liked very much but had only seen once.  This title came to mind so I went in to read some comments from others.My first confession is that, when I saw this movie, I was not aware of who directed it. Someone in the comments filled in the gaps in my knowledge. I'm not sure why I was surprised that S.S. was the director.  I have (knowingly and unknowingly) loved every movie he has ever directed.  Loved The Limey and, after overcoming my hesitance to see yet another Julia Roberts movie, LOVED Erin Brockovich.My second confession is that I had to overcome my suspicions regarding a movie co-starring J-Lo.  I, like most males, think she is a very sexy woman, but was hesitant regarding a movie with her as one of the co-stars. I was pleasantly surprised and found Out of Sight to be a very entertaining movie.*** Possible spoiler alert ***Not to be morbid but I laughed out loud when the guy trips and shoots himself in the head going up the steps.  Pure, uncompromising black humor. I only wish this movie would be replayed on cable more often.  How many times have I scanned through the offerings in my expanded cable package only to find MI-2 playing for the umteenth time?  Geeeez!For those who haven't seen The Limey, do so.  Nicky Katt's dialogue alone is worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"It was ok..","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think the movie was alright. I've seen it three times, but not because I'd like it so much.. Even though Jennifer Lopez has unofficially been voted to be the worst actress ever, she did quite well this movie. George Clooney was the way he always is.. Whatever.. "},{"Title":"entertaining, oh so entertaining!","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" George Clooney certainly knows how to be a charming and still efficient villain and Jennifer Lopez knows how to be a beautiful but still tough cop - and the two of them as a couple is perfect! The chemistry between them was something you could almost touch and those sexy but secretively hidden (no nudity) moments are -I suppose- in most of the people's fantasies. I enjoyed so much watching them together, and that was the main thing holding the story together.I also loved the mixture of crime, comedy, romance and pulp fictionish gore. It feels a bit absurd to laugh when somebody mistakenly blows his own head off when tumbling in the stairs, but today's reality is so full of real violence that this kind of gore feels acceptable when you see it in the movies. And I can't help thinking of the Darwin awards in this particular case... )The story was clever, the actors were brilliant and worked so well together and the atmosphere was electric - and the ending was something I was not expecting and that all combined together in the ways of comedy and crime - so entertaining oh so entertaining! "},{"Title":"pretty darn yummy","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  No, this movie isn't CITIZEN KANE but it's pretty darn yummy.  It'sfun, it's fast paced, and the romance between Clooney and Lopezactually has something to it.  Steven Sorderberg knows how to make a movie fun to watch.  Heuses the right tricks.  And I love the freeze frame on George as hethrows off his tie in disgust.Also recommended--THE LIMEY.   "},{"Title":"Everything","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had everything in it.  Comedy, action, romance, thrills.  There was terrific acting in the movie, and it was directed very well. Honestly, the movie was clever, and blew me away.  I picked up the movie thinking it was going to just be a b movie, and I ended up loving it.  Very smooth plot, and excellent movie.  Clooney did an excellent job in the movie, and Ving Rhames matched him, and was perfect for the role.  Overall a 9/10 "},{"Title":"Love This One!","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (SPOILERS INCLUDED)Out of Sight represents, to me, the apex of the cool crime genre that Pulp Fiction really popularized.  I'm not usually the biggest George Clooney fan, but his one-note range is perfect here.  J-Lo won't win any Oscars in her life either, but she's great in this as well.  Most important is their chemistry together.  A great deal of the film's tension hinges on their relationship, so it's critical that they're credible as lovers, and they are.What I love about this film (and about Pulp Fiction, Get Shorty, etc.) is the smooth transition between humor and serious violence.  The climactic robbery scene veers from brutal violence to virtual slapstick.  The sight of Snoopy's idiot bodyguard stealing steaks from the freezer when there's $5 million in diamonds somewhere in the house is hilarious.  Then he turns menacing as he confronts Clooney.  Then he marches up the stairs, trips and blows his own head off!  Just as you're laughing at the absurdity and appropriateness of that (is there a better way for a complete moron to die?) you are yanked back to seriousness by the pool of blood graphically spilling from his head.  The death scene of Snoopy, who has a very funny scene dealing with the closet safe, is also quite brutal.The cast is uniformly good.  For me, the standout is Don Cheadle.  This man steals every film he's in.I've seen this film at least five times, and I'll probably watch it another ten before I'm through.  It's two hours of entertainment that whirs by. "},{"Title":"maybe i should be a cop! (please watch movie before reading my comment - in case they think this could be a spoiler)","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (If you haven't seen this movie yet, go and see it before you read my comment - i dont want to spoil any surprises) This movie was definitely one of my faves. I saw it and then thought 'wow, how can a movie like this be good?' but it really was.It actually made me think about wanting to be a cop. Then she had to shoot the guy. Now i think i will resign myself to just watching this sort of stuff.  "},{"Title":"over-rated, but not too bad....","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I missed Out of Sight when it hit the theatres in 1998, but I saw it when it came out on DVD, and I've got to say the film Academy ran out of movies to cite as Best Original Screenplay. There wasn't a lot of elements in this film that were original, except for how the story was composed (and even  that gave me deja-vus). Still, it was more enjoyable than some of the other crap that was out there, but the film was just way too over-rated. It was entertaining, yes- George Clooney reeks 'cool' wherever he goes- the characters were interesting (Don Cheadle, Albert Brooks, and Steve Zahn as the idiotic 'Glenn'.) I was slightly disappointed with Ving Rhames- one of my favorite actors and they barely gave him anything to do. It seemed like a token black-guy/sidekick type-role, and I'm surprised that Mr. Rhames (with the aptitude he has) didn't see that as well. It was probably the money- he's not a cheap actor. This was better than Erin Brockovich (over-rated as well) and Traffic (............). I don't think Steven Soderbergh is any more special than the Farrelly Brothers and IS NOT THE NEXT STEVEN SPIELBERG!   "}{"Title":"Although it saw a step down for Soderbergh, there is no accounting for the subtle brilliance of this film.","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Steven Soderbergh began the nineties hotly tipped as the next big thing, largely down to his debut film Sex, Lies & Videotape.  But Soderbergh decided that his films would not be mere Hollywood pap, that he would take that success and put his name to smaller, more personal projects.  Oh dear!  The result was two of the most underrated films of the last decade, Kafka, and King of the Hill.  Following those set backs, and the wildly different Schizopolis Soderbergh began to make his way back to the mainstream, and although some would hail his new Hollywood movies as remarkable, I would argue that they in-fact show a step down for the director.  And the first step was out of sight.Based on Elmore Leonard's novel, it's easy to see how drab the film would have been were it not for Soderbergh's unique story framing, and the chemistry between Clooney and Lopez.  But it's hard to watch the film and not pick up on the subtle points in which Soderbergh is trying too hard to be Tarantino.  Tarantino was of course the director that had made the most fuss on the independent circuit following Soderbergh with Reservoir Dogs, and he himself probably saw ripping of the Pulp Fiction helmer a safe bet for success.  Foreshadowing what would follow with the seventies homage The Limey, Julia Robert's Oscar vehicle Erin Brockovich, and useless issue flick Traffic, Out of Sight showed a new Soderbergh, a Soderbergh all to ready to become the one-trick pony, using the same flash-back structure and jump-cut rhythm in all his subsequent films and sacrificing his once great talent.Out of Sight however, is early enough in the scheme of things to still count as a great picture.  The script is sharp and fast, and Soderbergh's loose direction fits the theme of the film.  Jennifer Lopez had not yet become that annoying cardboard singer J-LO, whilst Clooney manages to get through the film without a squint from under his brow.  There's also fine support from Don Cheadle, Albert Brooks, Ving Rhames, Nancy Allen and the very funny Steve Zahn.  Add to that the excellent photography from Elliot Davis and you have a great romantic caper.  Sadly, at date of writing this is Soderbergh's last great film.  8/10   "},{"Title":"a bit disappointing","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It starts off as a slick crime caper, then slowly turns into an overly dramatic love story. The cast is great and give their best effort, the dialogue is funny enough, and the cameos are a real treat, but even with all this there still seems to be something missing. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Awful!!","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In an attempt to make `something different' the producers of this piece of junk produced some thing different. But it wasn't necessarily anything better.  Actually it was much worst.  Watching Clooney attain Gibsonish ideas of `hey, I am Soooooo handsome' and Janifer Lopez slither around like Gods gift to mankind was too much to take in.  I left the theatre before the end, something I had never done before.  Shame that two new and so called upcoming actors were the cause.  Avoid `Out of Sight'.  Save your sight for something better "},{"Title":"This movie is perfection","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is perfect in every way. The casting, the acting, the dialogue, the composition, the editing. They paid attention to every detail. The chemistry not only between lopez and clooney is terrific but between all actors. It's an all star cast even though most aren't big names yet. 2 scenes make this movie the trunk scene and bar scene. You will not soon forget them. It is a classic action romance of two who meet and are undeniably attracted to each other yet they are on opposite teams. The plot plays out well and is edited out of order in a way which really works. You don't get confused and you stay interested. The dialogue and situational humor are great. This film is a top ten in my collection. All the critics of lopez and clooney can sit down and shut up for this film. They knocked this one out of the park. "},{"Title":"Sorry but....","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everything looked OK on paper for this one. Decent cast. Decent director. Plot summary interesting. Good IMdB rating.Sorry but I got so bored with this movie I couldn't even get to the end! The plot never seemed plotted at all. There were some plot devices so preposterous that even if I suspended my disbelief from high tensile steel cables I still couldn't live with them.How this movie got so high a rating on the IMdB I will never know. The emperor's new clothes.BoC. "},{"Title":"do not touch this with a 10-foot pole","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How could this movie have gotten a 7.5 on IMDB? For the hype surrounding it, the respectable cast, and the excellent previews, this movie just bombed out.  I couldn't even finish watching it I was so bored by it.  The plot was nonexistent, the acting wasn't that great, and how the hell would a robber fall in love with a Federal marshall (jennifer Lopez? Maybe? ) ?  To be short, this movie is terribly boring, and should only be viewed if (a) your a diehard J-Lo fan or (b) you dont have to pay for it.  "},{"Title":"The beginning of Soderbergh's hot period","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I suppose I could tell you about the detailed plot, the clever dialogue or the well-drawn characters in Out of Sight, but do you really need somebody else to tell you why you should see this movie?  Suffice to say, if you haven't seen it yet, do.  And if you have seen it, but only pan-and-scan, get the letterboxed version.  This is definitely a film that rewards multiple viewings (although the first time is rewarding enough in its own right).The collector's edition DVD also has a revealing commentary track with director Steven Soderbergh and screenwriter Scott Frank.  Both obviously loved working on this film and they share the same self-deprecating sense of humour.  It's worth getting just for that. "},{"Title":"A Pretty Cool Movie","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was alright, nothing to shout about, but it was cool. Out of the two Elmore Leonard books to movies I like 'Jackie Brown' better, because in my opinion it had a better plot and better style. What really made this cool though was the fractured chemistry between Lopez and Clooney. They were a good on-screen duo. What made it good was the he was an escaped con, while she was a U.S. Marshall, I guess the forbidden relationship made it cool. The acting was good, I think George Clooney is a good actor, but I don't care for Jennifer Lopez movies, though she did a good job in this and Selena.There was also the way the cities were shot, how Lompoc was a yellow shade, Miami was a reddish shade, and Detroit was in blue, I thought that was cool, much like in Traffic. So in conclusion, the acting was good, the plot was o-kay, the setting was good, and the chemistry between the characters was excellent. A good movie to watch if you like this kind of story. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Most romantic film ever made","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is probably the movie that I have seen (and loved) the most in my entire life. Yes, this includes the likes of Fight Club and Star Wars. Out Of Sight combines (perfectly) crime, humor, love and romance. The chemistry between Clooney and Lopez is unequalled and is simply magic throughout the film. Clooney and Rhames just clik as bank-robbing buddies, they are great together. Don Cheadle, Albert Brooks and Steve Zahn give unbelievable performances. The music is what brings everything together so well. David Holmes' score is perfect for this film. What p****s me off is that the best song in the movie is NOT on the soundtrack (the scene where Clooney and Lopez meet at the bar then in Lopez's room). Steven Soderbergh's directing is phenomenal, especially the non-linear way he tells this story. I know this movie wasn't a hit at the box-office so if you haven't seen it please, do yourself a favor and see it now! "},{"Title":"How Jennifer Lopez tries to GET CLOONEY...","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jack Foley (George Clooney) is a successful bank robber. But this time he fails and gets into jail. When he breaks out, Karen Sisco, a federal marshal (Jennifer Lopez) crosses his way. He just kidnaps her with his pal Buddy (Ving Rhames). In the trunk of the getaway car  they get closer to each other. Last but not least she  can escape. She has to do her job and has to get him.  But they just cant forget each other...Out of sight is another adaptation of a novel by  Elmore Leonard, the author of Get Shorty. Its  not easy describe to which genre it belongs.  Action, drama, comedy - everybody says something different. In my eyes its a romantic thriller with  irony and decent action. Clooney and Lopez - wow!  I could really feel the sparks between them -  especially in the scene in the bar with the falling  snow in the background. Sigh... By the way, it was genius that Scott Frank, the author of the script, decided to tell some parts of the story in flashbacks. Its the best way to keep the audience  paying attention. Speaking of flashbacks - during the  whole movie, I had the feeling, that this film was made in the 70s and was buried out in 1998. Its the  mood, the music, the zooms of the camera that carries you back into another time. Thats amazing! Out of sight is another cult-flick from director  Steven Soderbergh. Smart, twisted and romantic! "}{"Title":"really romantic and fun","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie tries to look like comedy, drama, romantic. Someone can say that he doesnt know what kind of movie its exactly. I know. For me its one of the most romantic movies in the history. And also its fun. The scene when Clooney and Lopez meet each other in the bar and which continues in the hotel room is wonderful. Electrifying music and really good edit makes it very hot and romantic at the same time. I would like to see more such movies. "},{"Title":"Chemistry lesson anyone?","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An almost perfect film. On release this was a flop and I am at a complete loss as to why. The things that put this film miles above any other film in the genre are the performances. Every single person in this film is utterly fantastic. Ranging from Micheal Keaton who, although only on screen for a few minutes, lifts the whole film up a notch and practicaly makes one of the funniest scenes in the film. There are also perfect performances from Don Cheadle and Ving Rhames but it is the chemistry between Jennifer Lopez and George Clooney that leaves you gasping for breath at the end. They are, quite simply, electrifying. The ultra-cool music for this film helps a huge amount for the overall effect of the film and when put with the stunningly beautiful direction of Steven Soderbergh the mix equals one of the few truly cool films ever made.  "},{"Title":"The interesting story and the quality performances (mostly from George Clooney and Ving Rhames) save Out of Sight from being a run-of-the-mill action film.","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (SPOILERS) In an excellent opening sequence, George Clooney walks out of a large building, roughly yanks his tie off, and throws it to the ground with all his might in a way that only George can. This guy is one of the best actors working right now, and his characteristic performance in Out of Sight is clearly no exception. The unique bank robbery that follow the tie scene is both innovative and surprising, because you just don't expect George to get caught just because his crappy car won't start, especially after such a flawlessly executed robbery.The thing that sets Out of Sight apart from other action romance films is that it's got a sufficiently original love story that is propelled by a uniquely presented storyline. The way that time is twisted around in the presentation of the film makes it more interesting, because it gives the audience a way to go back and see what happens before that hilarious opening sequence. Jennifer Lopez provides the only downfall of the film, horribly miscast in her role but luckily the quality of the rest of the cast makes up for the terrible black mark that she causes. She's just too cutesy and too obviously put in the movie for no other reason than to have a good looking celebrity in her role in the film, despite the fact that she clearly doesn't belong. Casting her in this film parallels the absolute stupidity of casting Denise Richards as a nuclear physicist in The World Is Not Enough, the 19th Bond film which, sadly, was otherwise too weak to survive her laughable performance.Out of Sight not only presents excellent character development but also a very complex plot, which is one of the best parts of the film. The diamond heist that makes up the majority of the latter part of the film is particularly well done, even if the criminals were a little blown out of proportion. But at least the group of criminals presented is fairly diverse. You have a leader, a squirrelly know-it-all guy from whom the entire heist is nearly stolen, and they even threw in a clumsy fat guy who was more interested in the big steaks in the fridge of the house they had broken into than he was in stealing the diamonds. It was particularly amusing the way that that guy died, by shooting himself in the head after tripping on his way up the stairs to get George, who he had at gunpoint (which is weird, because I could have sworn that that scene was in Suicide Kings).At any rate, the thing that really made the romantic element of the film work (the tired theme of the law officer falling for the con) was that it was more realistically presented than they usually are. In general, you have the law officer pulling some strings or breaking the law in his or her own clever way to win the con's freedom, legally or not, but this was not the case in Out of Sight, and it's a good thing, too. Instead, in one of the best endings of any film in years, George is given a ride back to jail (after having been captured by Lopez after the botched diamond heist) in the back of a van with Samuel L. Jackson, who just happens to be a famous break out artist. It's not long before their brief conversation reveals to George the opportunity that Lopez put in front of him by pairing him up with Sam, and this sure as hell beats a riding-off-into-the-sunset ending. It leaves a huge hole for a sequel, but as much as I loved this film, I hope that they don't make a sequel. First of all, it would have to be DAMN good to do this movie justice, and second of all, a sequel just isn't necessary. Out of Sight leaves you with a smile on your face, because of what you can foresee about George's future as well as the cleverness of the entire film, and there's really no reason to go any further. Enjoy the film as it is, because quality cinema like this doesn't come along very often. "},{"Title":"more to this film than snappy banter and a hip soundtrack...","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's like seeing someone for the first time. You can bepassing on the street and you look at each other and for afew seconds there's this kind of recognition. Like you bothknow something, and the next moment the person's gone.And it's too late to do anything about it. And you alwaysremember it because it was there and you let it go. And youthink to yourself, what if I stopped? What if I said  something? What if?This bit of dialogue from Out of Sight perfectly capturesthe essence of the relationships between characters in thisfilm. Out of Sight is about what ifs and what could havebeens. What the characters do and more importantly whatthey don't do directly shapes their fate.As the film begins, Jack Foley (George Clooney), an agingcareer criminal, escapes from a Florida prison with thehelp of his loyal accomplice Buddy (Ving Rhames). In theheat of the moment, they kidnap a beautiful Federal  Marshall named Karen Sisco (Jennifer Lopez). She and  Jack are stuffed in the trunk of her car as the trio make ahasty retreat. Trapped in such a small, confined space, thetwo of them have nothing to do but engage in idle chitchat.Even though they are on completely opposite sides of thelaw there's a spark, an initial attraction that blossoms intosomething more as the film progresses and their paths  inevitably cross again.And so begins one of the finest Elmore Leonard  adaptations ever put to film. Where Get Shorty was a littletoo goofy and Jackie Brown was a little too Tarantino,director Steven Soderbergh and screenwriter Scott Frankachieve a perfect mix with Out of Sight. The film is fast andloose when it needs to be but knows when to slow it downand savour the moment as well. The result is a smart,  funny and stylish character-driven story.It doesn't hurt that the film features two very attractive leads.After a series of so-so films, George Clooney finally hitspaydirt with Out of Sight. His style of acting is perfect forthis role as he plays Foley with the perfect amount oflaid-back charm. This is typified by his character's  introduction -- the most pleasant, non-violent bank robberyever committed to film. Clooney has such a likable screenpresence that you just want to see his character succeed.Conversely, Jennifer Lopez is his perfect foil as a smart,tough law enforcement officer who can't help but fall in lovewith this charismatic criminal. She is a very attractivewoman but not above wielding a shotgun to apprehend a  fugitive.There is a genuine chemistry between the two actors thatmakes their romance work. And it is this relationship thatgives Out of Sight its depth. There is more to this film thansnappy banter and a hip soundtrack. It's a film about  making choices and taking chances despite the  sometimes inevitable, painful consequences. It is also anentertaining look at a collection of colourful characters andthe exciting world they inhabit. "},{"Title":"Stylish, sexy and intelligent, and that goes for the film too!","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very stylish film from beginning to end, and intelligent enough not to take the viewer for a typical hollywood ride.Lopez is surprisingly good, I did have my doubts beforehand, and Clooney drops the Doctor's nameplate as easily as the women who drop at his feet! Big shout to Ving Rhames - what a dude this guy is, perfect film for him.Superbly edited, just as I started to wonder what was going on, and where everything was leading it was revealed, and I really do mean bang on the point where I thought What's going on?, there it was.Surprising casting, giving a good on screen chemistry. Almost too much style to confuse the audience, but it just recovers before you'll get too annoyed with it. "},{"Title":"Superbly crafted--Soderbergh creates an intelligible film","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stephen Soderbergh (of sex, lies and videotape, Gray's Anatomy, Schizopolis) has finally made a movie that makes sense. This isn't to say that his earlier works weren't good, but it's nice to see that he can do plot, too. His style in Out of Sight is overwhelming--nearly avery scene is awash with colored props and light, and the music, unusual editing and tone fit together seamlessly. The acting, too, is fantastic; Clooney is uncharacteristically good, Lopez proves her talents (she should stick to acting, IMO) and the support from Farina, Cheadle, Rhames, Brooks, and the bit parts (Samuel L. Jackson, Michael Keaton, others) are all superbly chosen. The best adaptation yet of an Elmore Leonard novel--and after Get Shorty, that's saying something. "},{"Title":"Out of Sight is a very enjoyable film","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight stars George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez (my favorite actress). These two electrify the screen and make the movie one of my favorite movies of all time.  The cast is loaded with people who do a great job in this movie.  Great story, good cast, and Jennifer Lopez all come together to create a nice package.  Yes, I admit having Jennifer in it was a plus for me, but this movie is truly really good.  Out of Sight is a very well made and entertaining movie that will leave you feeling good after watching this movie.  Out of Sight will keep you glued to the television screen with its good storyline and quality acting. "},{"Title":"WOW!!!","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez - what can I say - WOW!!! Excellent movie! I love the fact that it's suggested that there's a romance building between the two actors, but the sex seen doesn't stand out like in most movies like it's the most important thing, because it isn't! "},{"Title":"Unsatisfying","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite excellent supporting performances by Don Cheadle, Steve Zahn, and Ving Rhames, as well as welcome walk-ons by the likes of Nancy Allen and Michael Keaton, OUT OF SIGHT just doesn't deliver. The dialogue follows the now cliche PULP FICTION canon, the story barely plods along, and chemistry between leads Clooney and Lopez just isn't there.For Lopez's Federal marshall character to fall for Clooney's charming rake stretches believability to the breaking point, notwithstanding the cheap contrivance of having Lopez being involved with a married man at the beginning of the film. About the best excuse the script can come up with is, Hey, smart women make dumb choices in their romantic lives, OK? It's true perhaps, but it does little to build sympathy for the character.  "},{"Title":"Did I Miss Something?","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Umm, I guess I missed something because I watched this movie on video tonight and I cannot for the life of me figure out what everyone is raving about.  Why, for instance, is it called Out of Sight?  And I just don't buy a federal marshall acting like she does.  Maybe I don't know how the marshall service works, but wouldn't she have to report to someone somewhere at some time?  And after all that happened, would they really let her be the one to drive him back to Florida?  Would they really send him back to Florida--I would think they would send him to a different prison since he already escaped from that one?  I hate to nitpick, but these kinds of details are important, I think, and when we are asked to ignore them, it gets in the way for me.  "}{"Title":"Do you need it spelled out?","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You know, I've been hearing a lot of questions being asked about this movie on why it didn't do better at the box office b/c it was so good.  The answer is two words.  GEORGE CLOONEY.  Do you need it spelled out?  G-E-O-R-G-E C-L-O-O-N-E-Y!!!  He embodies cheesy consumerism and everything that is wrong with the world today.  A close second is his annoying co-star Jennifer Lopez and her huge butt.  You know, I was working in my kitchen the other day and this hair commercial came on.  From only being able to hear the tv I thought that it was that annoying actress Rosie Perez (here's my impersonation of her, OOOH  Billlllleeeeee!!!).  But when I looked at the tv I saw Jennifer.  We need to embrace witty and heartwarming films like Life is Beautiful by Roberto Begnini, as opposed to 2 hours commercials for Nouveau Bad Boyism... "},{"Title":"One of the year's best","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the year's best film with incredible performances by George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez.  This is the second best adaptation of Elmore Leonard. First is Jackie Brown, then Out Of Sight, then Get Shorty and Touch.  This is their best performances of their careers.  George Clooney really redeemed himself after the absolutely terrible Batman And Robin. "},{"Title":"Great, even for Clooney!","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not going to go on about what a talented director can do for average actors, but this movie is all Soderbergh.  He does something fairly original, here, with surprisingly good results.Out of Sight is a Film Noir for the 90's.  It tries to take all the great elements of the genre, and make them work in a modern-day context---and it succeeds!  Example the femme fatale figure is not very politically correct in the 90's; it's not acceptable to blame all the evils of the world on a woman, is it?  Soderbergh twists this by making Lopez the antagonist, but as the law enforcer this time, not the law breaker.  This sensibility holds throughout the film, as we feel like we're watching a Film Noir, but without having to remind ourselves of what year we're in.The sight and sound in the film are top-drawer, including a fantastic, funky soundtrack.  Get ready for some Noir tension, an intriguing romance, and some serious Soderbergh style! "},{"Title":"Cheadle and Clooney and Lopez -- oh, my","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Probably my favorite movie of the year (so far). Sure, there may be more style than substance, but there's also genuine heat between Clooney and Lopez and a tight script beneath the style. And what style! Every scene is an explosion of over-saturated primary colors. The soundtrack is funky and moody. And Don Cheadle is fantastic -- a funny, menacing loose cannon. Along with the underrated JACKIE BROWN, the best Leonard adaptation yet. "},{"Title":"Simply great","Date":"24 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Movies based on Elmore Leonard books continue to provide the best characters on the big screen.  His best novel movie to date is still Get Shorty, but Out of Sight still presents some of the best characterizations of criminals in movies.   "},{"Title":"Very Light Entertaining Film","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" After viewing this film, I would not call it a masterpiece. However, you need professional acting talent in order to perform on the Silver Screen and I know that I myself would never be able to entertain the public like Jennifer Lopez or George Clooney accomplished. George Clooney(Jack Foley),Three Kings,'99, gave an outstanding performance at being a bank robber who goes bananas and winds up in prison and meets up with a very rich dude inside the Big House who has uncut diamonds worth a fortune. The picture changes pace when Jennifer Lopez (Karen Sisco), Jersey GIrl,04, a Federal Marshall winds up inside the trunk of a car with Jack Foley. This film is full of laughs and great entertainment which will be very much appreciated by people who are light hearted, joyful and realize the great talents of Clooney & Lopez. I could never fill their shoes trying to play their roles on the Hollywood Screen. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"good movie although not a must see.","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Soderbergh goes Tarantino style. Out of Sight has a Quentin Tarantino like story, similar to a movie like Pulp Fiction. In a way it is good but it just misses the brilliance that Tarantino knows to put in his movies. Out of Sight is a good movie but it doesn't really add anything, also the story could have been handled in a better way.George Clooney is always at his best in roles like this. The chemistry he has with Jennifer Lopez is surprising good and all of their sequences together are like fireworks, the trunk sequence is a classic in my opinion. The cast is filled with some more great stars such Ving Rhames, Dennis Farina, Don Cheadle, Albert Brooks and some small roles and cameo's by Nancy Allen, Luis Guzmn, Michael Keaton and the always cool BMF Samuel L. Jackson.Sodenbergh sure knows how to make a movie fun. The movie is more fun than violent or anything really, so if a movie like Pulp fiction is a bit too heavy for you, this might be the perfect alternative for you to watch.The story is most at the times only so, so. At times it comes close of being clever and brilliant but it never really gets to it.Yet the movie is perfectly watchable mainly because of the characters and the fun feeling the movie has. Sodenbergh delivered yet another fun and watchable movie, even though it's not a real must see.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"I expected more from this movie.","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Perhaps I'm one of the few people who thinks so, but if you ask me this movie is a little bit overrated. Don't get me wrong, I did like most of the movie, but it isn't as good as I expected it to be. The movie started very promising but than it lost most of my attention until the last 20 minutes or so. I liked the idea behind the gentleman - bank robber who doesn't need a gun or a fast car to rob a bank. Clooney did an excellent job portraying this thief and I loved to see him play this role. I even liked Jennifer Lopez' role in this movie, even though she wasn't really exceptional if you ask me. She was too much the stereotypical female cop that has to prove she can do anything her male partners can, but than even better... ending up in bed and falling in love with the man she is supposed to throw in jail.It's probably not easy to make an original movie with this concept, but I expected more from Soderbergh. I give this movie a 6/10. "},{"Title":"A Major Crime.  The movie, not the robbery","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie recently, after having watched Jackie Brown, the Quentin Tarantino movie based on Elmore Leonard's book Rum Justice. Since I had recently read Leonard's book Out of Sight, I decided to watch the movie, despite the fact that Jennifer Lopez and George Clooney were in it. -- Alas, my first instincts were correct.  The entire story hinges on the chemistry between the two main characters; but neither their performances nor the script were able to even come close to making that plot point believable.  The dialogue was almost word for word from Leonard's book, but without his narrative flow, the scenes are disjointed, and the characters' actions and reactions make you say, Huh? -- I did something with this movie that I almost never do...I turned off the VCR and didn't finish it. If I missed the good parts later on, so be it.  It wasn't worth wading through the rest of it to get there.  Jennifer Lopez is the kiss of death to a movie; and except for Oh, Brother, Where Art Thou?, Three Kings, and From Dusk to Dawn, so is George Clooney.  I seriously hate this, too -- I WANT to like his movies.  But he said it himself I single handedly killed the Batman franchise.  -- If you like Elmore Leonard, rent Get Shorty or Jackie Brown.  Don't waste your money on this one. "},{"Title":"What a waste","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The most over-rated director on hollywood shows the world how to butcher a half-decent script in this film. Clooney and Lopez are excellent, the script (with the exception of the last 20 minutes/detriot segment) is really superb - but Holloywoods most over-rated director shows the world that he simply has no idea what he's doing when asked to deal with something that can't be shot around a few swanky pans/zooms/cuts/tracking shots etc.After reading the script (with the aforementioned awful last 20 minutes), i have to admit I was expecting a masterpeice or at least a tour de force. What i got was ......well, a let down. Shot selection is dubious, direction pitiful, outside of clooney and lopez casting is truly lousy, i could go on - but why bother? I can't tell you how good the script for this movie is, almost fool-proof,.....almost. Alas, the director saw fit to proceed shooting with no real understanding of the characters or the script or the book, an awful secondary cast (albert brooks? The hispanic lead? Ving rhames?....purrrrrrrleaseeeeeeeeeee!) and a bag of half-baked, seen it all before tricks. In the hands of even a run of the mill a-list hollywood director this movie would have escaped intact and highly, highly watchable, what a shame, what a waste. "}{"Title":"Uh... huh?","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't think I got this movie.I don't know.  I'd kept hearing about how good it is.  I just didn't see it, really.  I found it pretty overrated.Well, that and the fact that I couldn't tell what the heck was going on half the time. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those films that just doesn't really go anywhere.  The acting is first rate with Clooney again stealing the show with his cheeky, lovable rogue character.  The chemistry between  him and Lopez works very well and the character development is pretty good.Unfortunately, nothing really happens.  Yeh, Lopez finds herself in various moral dilemmas, but so what.  The film ended before it had even got going. "},{"Title":"Best role for Jennifer Lopez","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Certainly the best role of Ms. Lopez' life. She obviously needs a strong director and strong actors surrounding her to pull the best performance out of her. She should consider another ensemble endeavor. It was after this movie that her career both took off and actually began to back-slide. She immediately began seeking starring roles and apparently her agent didn't have the guts (or wasn't listened to) because she just didn't have the maturity to pull it off. Unfortunately it is always tougher for any actress to put the asses in the seats to begin with. But she obviously began to believe her own PR and that's what's caused the problem.I think she was stunning in Out of Sight. I wish she would reprise such roles. I think if she did - again as part of a strong ensemble cast - she would regain a lot of her lost popularity. "},{"Title":"Fun movie, if you suspend belief and don't take it too seriously.","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Clooney and Lopez are terrific together. And the whole movie is fun to watch, as light entertainment. But the main premise, that a strict cop would fall for a charming crook is pretty difficult to accept. Still, there are plenty of surprises along the way, some clever dialog, some good action. But no lasting impression the next day. If you're not a big fan of George Clooney's constant smiling acting style, you probably ought to skip this movie. Update 2011 Twelve years ago I stated no lasting impression, and I had the opportunity to see it again now on MoMAX movies. Although I knew I had seen the movie (the best thing writing IMDb comments are for) I did not recall any of it. As I was watching it, nothing seemed familiar. Since this movie came out, Clooney has gone on to star in a number of other, better movies. And Jennifer Lopez has become a rock star as a judge on American Idol. So all is well in the universe, watch this movie as a guilty pleasure, nothing more. "},{"Title":"Clever","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not too often does a cool and clever thriller/comedy come around like this.  But what do you expect from author Elmore Leonard and director Steven Soderbergh.  And the cast is great as well, with George Clooney in great shape as a bank robber who falls for a FBI agent (Jennifer Lopez) while locked in a trunk with her.  A swerving plot, which may remind some of Pulp Fiction, but this time it is a little different (where else are you going to see Albert Brooks with a safe full of wigs).  Still, a blast to watch, with cameos from Samuel L. Jackson and Michael Keaton.  One of the better films of 1998.  A+ "},{"Title":"The Chemistry Is Not Quite There","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Steven Soderbergh and writer Scott Frank mix up the sequencing of the usually straightforward-to-a-fault novelist Elmore Leonard but that's about the only thing that sets it apart from other films taken from Leonard works. I have not read the novel on which the film is based but Frank's script hews closely to the Leonard oeuvre in its utter predictability in character, plotting and the sophisticated banter between criminals and cops that lacks any real world credibility. George Clooney plays an escaped bank robber who develops a relationship with the federal marshal (Jennifer Lopez) on his trail. (Typical of Leonard's cool cucumbers, the word love is never mentioned.) Soderbergh seems to be seeking the same kind of off-kilter, casual chemistry between his leads that Stanley Donen was able to find with Cary Grant and Audrey Hepburn in Charade but Clooney and Lopez don't seem to jell--they seem to be nervous around each other. When they meet-cute in the trunk of a getaway car, it should be a tense and electric moment the film can expand from but instead comes off as awkward and strained with Lopez in particular unsure of how to react. The rest of their interactions are spent trying to recover from that failed moment. As usual, Soderbergh knows how to entertain his viewers with visual flair; he gets great support from Anne V. Coates' fluid editing and while Elliot Davis' camera-work is not as eloquent as Soderbergh's own, it does have its flashes, particularly in the night scenes. Lopez and Clooney are surrounded by a powerhouse cast that includes Don Cheadle, Ving Rhames, Dennis Farina, Albert Brooks, Steve Zahn, Luis Guzman, a wasted Michael Keaton, an uncredited Samuel L. Jackson and a young Viola Davis (heck, even Nancy Allen is in there) and the film has its game moments, but the sum of its' parts are better than the whole. "},{"Title":"Soderbergh's Sights Set.","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Out of Sight (1998) Dir Steven Soderbergh / Cast George Clooney, Jennifer Lopez, Dennis Farina, Ving Rhames, Don Cheadle Potential clever caper given great writing and detail until it starts to resemble Ocean's Eleven. Title isn't exactly focused unless it refers to a getaway plans that never work for the criminal in question. He flicks his lighter rapidly anticipating his options. A plan forms and he calmly holds up a bank teller. His methods payoff until he is arrested shortly thereafter. He spends much of his life in prison but another plan forms where he breaks out. Assisted by his partner the plan works until he finds himself in the trunk of a car with a female cop. Clever writing with a surprise ending involving sacrifice. Stylish directing by Steven Soderbergh who previously made Sex, Lies and Videotape. George Clooney brings charm to a clumsy criminal. Jennifer Lopez is superb as a cop torn between profession and romance but ultimately witnesses the ultimate sacrifice. Other roles are rendered to formula to typical capers. Dennis Farina plays Lopez's father who presents her with a gun on her birthday. Ving Rhames plays Clooney's loyal partner who will play through to the end. Don Cheadle plays another criminal planning to hit the same target. While there is potential for greatness here, the end result is an undemanding screenplay that is out of sight. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"Heat","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jack Foley (George Clooney) is a lifelong smooth operator bank robber. He escapes from prison with the help of Buddy Bragg (Ving Rhames) and grabs US Marshall Karen Sisco (Jennifer Lopez) on the way out. She talks her way out by convincing weak minded Glenn Michaels (Steve Zahn). Foley is after some diamonds, and Sisco is put on their case. Only she might be falling for him.Director Steven Soderbergh has narrow the focus. This is simply one hot sexual innuendo after another between Clooney and Lopez. It does get slow and J Lo does get too cool at times. But it's a slow cool burn that heats up the whole movie. Clooney is a perfect sly fox. The game play between the two leads absolutely sings. "},{"Title":"Wittty Cop and Crook Romance","Date":"30 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well this film is frankly all about what a smooth dude George Clooney is. Even if you are not inclined by nature to take to him, you can't help it. He is just so watchable. And the female lead is Jennifer Lopez, that Puerto Rican glamour gal that everybody is always raving about, and whom I struggle to appreciate. (She doesn't look very Hispanic to me, though I know she is 100%. Maybe this all goes to show that Puerto Ricans are so much less Hispanic than, say Mexicans. I wonder if her parents danced around singing 'I Like to Be in America' when they arrived in New York. Wouldn't it be nice if they had?) The story is based on one of those endless novels written by the prolific Elmore Leonard, always good solid stuff. This time 'Jay Lo' is the cop and Clooney is the crook. Guess what? She can't resist him. So she is chasing him and sleeping with him at the same time. No physicist can provide an equation for such a combination of rest and motion at the same point in space-time, but the movies can do it effortlessly. There are some really witty lines in this film. It's just good fun, nothing heavy, even though it breaks all physical laws and permits 'charm' to be assigned to both bosons and leptons whilst in frenetic interaction, both the products of The Hollywood Collider. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of summer 1998","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Sight was one of the best movies released in the summer of 1998. Steven Soderbough is one of the best directors in Hollywood now and in this film he showed he could handle a lit star talent. The film has  a great leading performance by George Clooney and a great lead by J-Lo. The highlight of the film is the shot of J-Lo' ass.  "}{"Title":"Out of sight...Out of mind","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out Of sight is a one of those movies that you can't really say to much bad about it and you can't really say to much good. The forgettable Story ambles along without much happening , while the camera work is its most interesting aspect. The acting is good , but it's only what you would expect from people like Vic Ryhmes and George Clooney. Look out for the cameo parts from Michael Keaton and Samual L Jackson. A Watchable film but thats the best i can say about it. 7 out 10  "},{"Title":"Great film.","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out Of Sight is a great film. The screenplay is awesome, I mean Scott Frank must be the second biggest fan of Elmore Leonard novels next to Tarantino. The acting in this film is very good. George Clooney is terrific and Ving Rhames is cool as his partner. I liked the cameos from Sam Jackson and Michael Keaton, it had that Quentin Tarantino feel. You won't be disappointed if you like your films character driven and not all out action.  "},{"Title":"What the...","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is probably the most boring action comedy that I have ever seen. I mean... Well, come on... Not that I mind when a director decides to be visionary or to turn the pop-corn screenplay he is given into a high art movie but... Well, let me say it like that. This movie could have been a great action comedy. It had the right screenplay and the right actors for that. But... Here is the problem - Steven Soderbergh did not have a clue how to make it entertaining. You know, that is what an action comedy is supposed to be - entertaining. But 'Out of Sight' is far from being an entertaining movie. There are visual experiments. There are long pseudo-meaningful scenes which do not add anything to the story. This movie is pretentious. But! There is just one problem but it is HUGE! The screenplay of the movie is not meant to be turned into a high art. There are some buddy-cop jokes for Christ's sake! Had this movie been directed by Richard Donner or some director like him it would be a lighthearted action movie. But no, Soderbergh wanted to be Serious. But the seriousness of his direction just doesn't go well with the jokes. This movie had to be fast paced. Instead it's pacing is incredibly slow. This movie had to be entertaining. Instead it is boring. This movie had to be funny. But it is not.I don't know why it is rated so high. I guess many people gave it good ratings because the were afraid they would look stupid if they didn't. There is no other explanation. "},{"Title":"Superb Leonard adaptation truly pays off; stellar cast & direction","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OUT OF SIGHT (1998) ***1/2 George Clooney, Jennifer Lopez, Ving Rhames, Don Cheadle, Steve Zahn, Dennis Farina, Catherine Keener, Isaiah Washington, Albert Brooks.  (Unbilled cameos Nancy Allen, Michael Keaton, Samuel L. Jackson).  Chemistry fueled adaptation of Elmore Leonard's book about bank robber Clooney escaping prison and falling in love with federal agent Lopez with high comic style and some excellent ensemble work make an entertaining heist flick turned-inside-out in a unique perspective thanks to Scott Frank's smartly written screenplay, snazzy cinematography by Elliot Davis and loose, fresh direction by the unlikely Steven Soderbergh.  Payoff indeed. "},{"Title":"wow.  just. so. bad.","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" When a movie like this gets so many great reviews, I realize why it is so hard to hire anyone with any approximation of a brain. So a United States Federal Marshal is locked in a trunk (with a gun) and the bad guys are going to open the trunk not knowing the Marshal has said gun, so the Marshal just starts stupidly firing through the trunk lid making sure the bad guys are duly warned (before opening the trunk at which time the Marshal could have simply shot each bad guy deader than dirt). People, this was about the most believable bit in this movie. and, of course, just as in every movie ever made with any law enforcement character, this one was completely devoid of any backup weapon, the movie had to rely on the device of the gun being in the trunk completely unrelated to the Marshal character being a Marshal. Note to criminals if you disarm any law enforcement member and fail to also find and remove the small-frame pistol from their ankle holster, you will be immediately shot. Do not go by every-movie-ever-made as to the behavior of real life cops. "},{"Title":"Way over-rated","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought the movie was okay at best.  I've heard all these great things about this, but it was no big deal in my opinion. Doesn't come close to Get Shorty.  Clooney & Lopez could use an acting lesson or two - thank God Ving Rhames & Steve Zahn were around to make this at least tolerable.  "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jack Foley is a career crook.  Frustrated by his attempts to get a regular job and go straight he walks out of a meeting and robs the nearest bank.  Unfortunately he is caught and sent down.  His last time in jail he and his friends met Dick Ripley, a businessman who claimed to have a fortune in diamonds hidden in his house.  Foley escapes from jail seeking revenge on Ripley but during the breakout he and his accomplices are forced to take a US Marshall hostage.  Locked in the car both he and she (Karen) develop a bond that continues &#150; even when Karen is put on the case to catch Foley and return him to jail.There was a time when Elmore Leonard adaptations were all the rage and everyone wanted one.  With Pulp Fiction making snappy dialogue cool again the studios wanted something that would work for them too.  Step up Get Shorty and Out of Sight to fill that need.  The plot here is potentially complex, with flashbacks telling two parts of the same story at the same time.  Happily it works and isn't confusing &#150; Sonenberg giving a different feel to times past as opposed to the heavier fuller colour of the present story.  The two stories drive each other and make the film feel very entertaining and carries it easily across a running time that had concerned me at first (something about that 120 mark isn't there?).The film is pretty violent and tough at times but remains cool and breezy throughout.  The dialogue is all good and the film takes it's time over things rather than feeling like it's in a rush to get somewhere.Clooney is effortlessly cool in the lead and is probably the perfect choice for laid back cool roles (see Ocean's 11).  His character may not get a full examination but then that's not really whats on offer here.  I hate Lopez with a passion but this is one of her best films and she is very good in it.  She isn't a diva here and gives a winning performance (being really sexy here helps too!).  Rhames is solid in support and Cheadle is very enjoyable.  It's interesting to se Brooks in a role that isn't a sub-Woody Allen role and likewise to see Farina play anything but a mobster.  Allen has a tiny role and Washington, Zahn and Guzmn are all good value in supporting roles.Overall this is better than some of the genre because it does feel like it has more substance than the films where style is everything.  However style is important here and the film has lots of it &#150; very cool and very smooth.  It may be too smooth for some who demand a bit more meat but there should be enough here to keep both camps happy. "}]