[{"Title":"Nice Variation on Old Legend","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I caught this film on video because the trailer wasn't too good. But it did have Eric Idle voicing Devon so I gave it a chance. I loved it. The dragon stole most of the scenes, but the other characters weren't bad either. Kayley & Garrett made a good couple and it was refreshing to see a romance that wasn't based on looks or riches. I wanted them to be together. Bladebeak was amusing and Aydon (voiced by the excellent Frank Welker) was good to watch. Rubere was deliciously villainous. The weakest characters were Arthur & Merlin but the film wasn't really about them so it didn't matter. The best scenes were set in the Forbidden Forest where we witness all kinds of weird and wonderful flora and fauna. There are good songs (I Stand Alone, Through Your Eyes & On My Father's Wings especially.) I also cried at several points. Ignore the bad press. Watch it. 9/10  "},{"Title":"An underrated good quality cartoon film.","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Genre Cartoon, Camelot, Adventure with female knight in training.Main characters Kayley, Garret, Devon and Cornwall.Actors Lots of famous ones here! There is Cary Elwes (Garret), Eric Idle (Devon), Gary Oldman (Ruber), Jane Seymour (Juliana), Don Rickles (Cornwall), Pierce Brosnan (King Arthur), John Gielgud (Merlin).What happens Kayley is the daughter of Sir Lionel, one of the knights at the Round Table. The young girl dreams of following in her father's footsteps as a knight. Then, disaster strikes. Lionel is killed -( and Kayley as well as others mourn for him. Kayley dreams on of becoming a knight...My thoughts This film had good potential. It had good animation, good, heartwarming songs, good characters and lots of good actors. They released it and (on IMDb especially) it sort of flopped like a deflated balloon. What happened?Well, I don't know personally. I suppose a lot of people don't like this film for a number of reasons. Yes, the film isn't perfect, but it's CERTAINLY enjoyable and good to watch! It's also good for the children, they are likely to enjoy at least one aspect of the film and want to watch on (just like me when I was younger). They may enjoy the songs, they may enjoy the actors, they may enjoy the characters or the excitement, or they may enjoy the humour. They are most likely NOT to be disappointed.Adults are most likely to like the actors. Monty Python fans will hopefully not be disappointed by the performance of Eric Idle. Also here is Jane Seymour (but not Henry the Eighth's wife OBVIOUSLY! -) ) Why this film has gone down so badly is a mystery to me. I hope those of you who have never watched it before will enjoy it as much as I do.Recommended to Families who like cartoon films, people who like any of the actors I mentioned earlier and people who just like the sound of the film in general - enjoy! -) "},{"Title":"A very,VERY good Arthurian movie","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"23 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was shocked,surprised and flabbergasted by the negative reviews I would see on the web, I thought that this film a very,VERY good Arthurian movie along with Walt Disney's classic The Sword in The Stone; the MGM live-action classic Knights of the Round Table with Robert Taylor & Ava Gardner; the musical Camelot starring Richard Harris & Vanessa Redgrave.This film has everything a very good story, excellent music, and that's one thing I love in a movie is a very good soundtrack; and an excellent voice casting too. I love Kayley, and her desire to carry on the tradition of her father in the excellent song On My Father's Wings was a great scene in the film. I also love song The Prayer too. The song became popular among artists like the Celtic Woman - I don't understand why a popular song would come from a film that people thought it's awful. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Well, I finally saw it. And boy, it was nothing to sneeze at.(**Spoilers**) Now, I tried to give it a chance, I really did. Being a big fan of animated musicals, I tend to enjoy films of this genre. But sadly, the effort was wasted in this misshapen heap of a story. Now, for the positive side, I must say I thought the two-headed dragon was hilarious... Eric Idle and Don Rickles were simply perfect picks for their voices. However, the main characters were bland, and lacked a proper chemistry. Kayley was drastically out of place with the story. Her whole, I wanna be a warrior rant reminded me of Taran from The Black Cauldron. Ladies were not knights, and did not sit with the men at the Round Table. And NO woman dressed like she did at that time. Garrett was the most boring, angsty piece of wood, it hurt. And, to top it all off, the two main characters fell in love in less than a day. (I'm sorry, but even for an animated film, that was way too rushed, considering how they got along in the first place. Ruber, the villain, was a lame, inept villain, who lacked a good motive. It was lame.The singing voices for the characters (not counting Devon and Cornwall (the two-headed dragon), and Ruber (the villain), who did their own singing) were all obviously different. And the songs came out of nowhere. I mean, one minute we have Kayley's dad telling her about Camelot, the next, the knights are parading and singing to Aurthur's castle. Yeah, that *TOTALLY* happens in real life. I know animated musicals have songs, but they're usually better done, and fit in with the storyline. The animation smelled... and I often saw re-used clips about three times over. And the colors were so washed out, it hurt.And the plot... hoo boy! Did these people even try and base it on the book it supposedly originated from? Now, I never read the book, but I read its summary, and the characters are barely anything like this. The plot is weak, watered down, and lame. I know the book was adult, but they could've made a kid-safe version of it. And Arthur and Merlin are in this for all of ten minutes, max.The only *really* catchy song in the film was If I Didn't Have You, and the only really beautiful song was The Prayer. This is sad because there were other songs scattered throughout the film. So yeah, this film tried so hard to be a Disney-clone, yet it couldn't hold the candle to other really good non-Disney films, like The Swan Princess, Thumbelina, Anastasia, Balto, and Prince of Egypt.Case in point, don't waste your time. It's quite forgettable. "},{"Title":"Heart is in the right place, but flawed...","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am going to agree with the majority of the other posters here. There is a lot of good elements in this movie, but it is all put together as much more of a cliche then it had to be.It seemed like there were too many singing scenes and they were too abrupt and not integrated into everything. Every time one started, I couldn't wait for it to be over so we could get back to the story. And as others mentioned, the singing voices were too different from that of the characters themselves. Imagine if they had used the time during the songs to actually give more plot and character development.Everyone seemed too two-dimensional. As someone else pointed out, how did the bad guy even get to the round table in the first place? He was charming in his own way, but too cookie-cutter.As others mentioned, the animation is very hit-or-miss. The backgrounds and overall mood are very well done, but a lot of the characters were just not animated well, the hawk was frequently deformed, etc. It stood out badly due to the quality of everything around it. Take a look at something like Princess Mononoke to see characters animated on a limited budget that meshes much better with everything else, with a lot more visual style.It seems like it would have a feminist bent, but then she is still rescued most of the time, and the dress scene at the end seems especially absurd in the context of everything else.Some of the comedy elements were cute, but I did dislike all of the movie references and everything. Since everything else seems centered in the world, it seems out of place.Like the Black Cauldron, this was an OK movie that could have been a lot better. But at least BC didn't have all that singing. Sword in the Stone also worked a lot better while being in a similar vein.If you want an American animated movie that is really consistent with its own world, animated well, has good characters, etc. check out the Secret of Nimh. You can get it really cheap on DVD now. Seeing Quest for Camelot the day after Nimh, there really is no comparison... "},{"Title":"On second thought, let's not go to Camelot. It is a silly place.","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I watched this when I was little and I found it mildly amusing. When I watched it again when I got older, I saw that there was simply no good plot or interesting characters in it. Kayley longs to be a knight like her late father, and is well on her way to becoming the adventurous fighting female warrior that she always wanted. Unfortunately in the end, she is kidnapped and becomes the stereotypical damsel in distress who longs for her knight in shining armor, Garrett, the blind hero, to come in and save her. Why can't it ever be the other way around? Ruber, the villain, has no depth, no personality other than the fact that he is evil and selfish, and has no complexity, meaning or explanation as to why he does the things he does. The only grudge he has for the king is that that he just simply wouldn't give him all the land. Despite being voiced by Gary Oldman, and having a few witty lines he just becomes silly and not very threatening. As for the two headed dragon, they have absolutely no business being in the movie other than comic relief, which is a very weak aspect of storytelling.One a positive note, the music and the songs are very good. Andrea Corr plays Kayley's singing part and Celine Dion play's Juliana's. But other than that, it really is nothing special.4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I've seen acting at the Tournament of Kings Restaurant at Las Vegas better than this!","Date":"25 July 2012","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There were many movies that told the legend of King Arthur of England. The Sword in the Stone was probably one of the best examples for this legend. And there was another one called Quest for Camelot- Wait a minute! Quest for Camelot?!! This movie wasn't great, this movie sucked! Why am I saying this? Oh, you're going to find out in a moment...1) Songs, songs, and more songs. Oh, I'm sorry, this is a musical adventure. None of the songs made any sense at all. They would make Tom and Jerry the Movie look like the Music Man or The Titanic Animated Trilogy look like Singin' in the Rain! 2) Rip-offs by the dozen. I spy with my eye the main character who looks like Belle from Disney's Beauty and the Beast. There is no escaping the rip-offs! 3) Abysmal dialog. Read this following quote You've got to ask yourself 'Do I feel Clucky?' Well, do you punk? Stupid. Absolutely stupid, movie! You're ripping off one of Clint Eastwood's best lines and then you inserted Clucky instead of Lucky. If Clint Eastwood were to hear that, he would've said Boy, do I feel unlucky today. One minute, I was the star of Dirty Harry and that next thing I know, my line gets stolen by an ax-chicken with the voice of Sonic the Hedgehog from that horrible TV series The Adventures of Sonic the Hedgehog. Ungrateful punks. This movie is so unbelievably bad that it left the Nostalgia Critic making two nuclear explosions and go on a shooting spree involving Disney characters(Note for the record, that was played for laughs and no beloved Disney characters were harmed during the making of the Nostalgia Critic episode reviewing this movie)! If I were one of those people working at Warner Bros Studios, I would've stopped the numb-nuts from making this fire-breathing monstrosity that is Quest for Camelot. "},{"Title":"The style and the quality is low and out-of-date even in the norms of 1998, but still worth watching for fun","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Back in the days when there is no such Oscar category as The Best Animated Feature of the Year , animations were for family use only. It's obvious that by 2001, adult themed animations began running off readily. Looking at the year 1998, alongside of Antz, Mulan, and Toy Story 2 ; Quest for Camelot was another successful blockbuster hit in the animation genre. It's an adaptation to Vera Chapman's novel The King's Damosel, the writer of which is the founder of the J.R.R. Tolkien Society of Great Britain. Though, most fun and joyful parts of the novel are missing in this film. The basic formula of creating a Swashbuckler Adventure out of a heroic journey story has been applied again just like The Mummy, Robin Hood, Indiana Jones, Conan the Barbarian and so on. What's so good and staying within living memory? 1/First of all, it's very entertaining for everyone who like Swashbucklers. Must be rated E. 2/A sense of Tim Burton style singing dialogues. 3/All the cruel and bloodthirsty fantasy world creatures are pleasant looking Dragons, Drakels, Ogres, and the very special Two-Headed Dragon. 4/The Dark Jungle with Necromancer Trees. 5/The lost sword of Excalibur. 6/The legend of the Three Circles. 7/The story is centring on a girl who wants to be a knight! Praise for Hayao Miyazaki 8/The first time when Garrett and Kayley meet the two-headed dragon -GarrettWhat are you? -DragonWe're the reason cousins shouldn't marry. 9/The back story of a blind farmer, and his success story becoming a knight 10/The blind farmer's silver winged falcon, and all the scenes that it's fighting with either dragons or ogres. What's not to like and to forget? 1/The overall animation quality is only as good as a computer game except the music. 2/Some scenes and sequences are giving homage to Star Wars, Indiana Jones and even the Taxi Driver; and those homages are stomach aching. 3/King Arthur is very weak, he is half the size of Merlin and shorter than Kayley 4/Merlin is not the Merlin as we know him, he's afraid to cast spells, and not able to protect Arthur's castle 5/The moment when King Arthur grabs the Excalibur from the stone, he seems like a 4-year-old kid pretending that he's He-Man and the people around him are the Masters of Universe 6/The fact that King Arthur is Pierce Brosnan's worst voice acting ever 7/Character development and back stories of the characters are very weak except Garrett's character 8/Visual Effects are awful 9/Over 350 animators have worked to create this animation, but it's still not animating what needs to be animated, 'cause the action sequences and the human movements/reflexes are dreadful 10/Sound Effects are not synchronized properly Give it a shot, this is at least worth watching, catch it on Youtube. "},{"Title":"will make you smile and laugh...along with great music","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I first saw Quest For Camelot when I was ten years old (I saw it in theaters) and it was one of my favorite movies. I'm seventeen now, and yesterday, I watched this movie with my little brother. Of course, it was a lot more immature than it was when I was ten, but I haven't laughed so hard in a long time. This is truly a fun, wholesome movie.The story centers on Kayley, a young girl who wants to become a knight in Camelot. When King Arthur's sword Excalibur is stolen by the evil Sir Ruber, and then lost in the Forbidden Forest, Kayley sets off to recover the sword and save Camelot. Her quest is also crucial because Ruber had killed her father ten years before, and has now taken her mother hostage. In the Forbidden Forest, Kayley is joined by Garrett, a blind hermit who doesn't welcome her company at first, and his falcon Ayden. They are also joined by Devon and Cornwall, an odd and bickering two headed dragon, while being followed by Ruber and his metal minions.This a movie that is a cute relief to many Disney movies, and I love the music in it much more than most Disney sing-along songs. While some songs are simply silly and fun, like If I Didn't Have You sung by Devon and Cornwall (which I laughed all the way through due to its nudges at 20th century pop culture), many of the songs express morals and feelings that the audience can take to heart. United We Stand is sung by the knights of the round table, saying that no one shall be greater than all, something that the villain Ruber doesn't like very much. I Stand Alone tells how Garret does not trust the world around him, having been shunned for his blindness, yet at the same time, he is opening his world to Kayley. And my very favorite song is Looking Through Your Eyes, the love song between Kayley and Garrett, which is honest due to the fact that neither let Garrett's blindness stand in their way.The emotions in Quest For Camelot are also real because although there are plenty of funny moments, these are balanced by dark and serious moments. These include Kayley's father's death scene, his funeral, and Ruber's witchcraft scene. Ruber's song is creepy and dark, and seriously scared me when I was younger. And one scene that really jerks the tears for me is when Kayley and her friends reach the end of the forest, with Excalibur in hand. Garrett tells Kayley to go on without him, because he does not belong in that world, and thinks that he doesn't deserve to love Kayley. After he leaves, Kayley says but you belong in mine before going on. It's really pure of heart, and made me sad. Or maybe I'm just a sap. Oh well.All in all, I think that everyone should give this movie a try, even teenagers. Heck, I'm a teen and I love this movie. I won't pretend to be too old for a cartoon sing-along movie. (In fact, I love these songs so much that they stay in my head forever and drive me crazy) Quest For Camelot may not be the best made movie, and yes, it does have plenty of flaws, but if you look past that, you're guaranteed to laugh and smile, and it leaves you with a good feeling at the end. "},{"Title":"Quest for a Better Film.","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Quest for Camelot (1998) Dir Frederik Du Chau / Voices Pierce Brosnan, Gary Oldman, Jane Seymour, John Gielgud, Cary Elwes Artless animation about adventure lacking detail with a predictable story just to add insult to injury. Characters fail to come to life with voice talents struggling with half wit dialogue. Children will likely approach this disappointment anticipating adventure but for a funnier and better animated substitute, I recommend Mulan. Story regards the stolen sword Excalibur by the knight Ruber. Bent on following in her father's footsteps Kayley sets for Camelot to rescue her mother. In the Forbidden Forrest she is joined by a hermit named Garrett and a two-headed dragon that cannot agree on anything. Hopefully they will both agree that this is a pathetic excuse for an animation. Director Frederik Du Chau does his best with what little he has to work with. Voice talents who attempt to breathe life into these lifeless characters include Pierce Brosnan, Gary Oldman, Jane Seymour, and John Gielgud. Even Cary Elwes gets in on this to remind us that he was in a superior adventure called The Princess Bride. They have all done better films and will likely recover from this. Easily one of the worst animations to be released in a long while. It doesn't exist for any message other than that fifty cents could produce a superior film. It is plainly an animated failure rushed for release too soon. Score 2 / 10 "}{"Title":"Underestimate an empire's path to success and you're digging your own potential one an early grave","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In the 1990's, large, industry conglomerates, in an attempt to dethrone Walt Disney as the ringleader in animation, were creating divisions of their company dedicated to releasing animated films that would optimistically create lucrative hits for the studio as a whole. I cite this specific reason as to why, whether it seems I'm actively searching or not, I constantly find a great deal of little-known, animated relics from that time period that were either financial failures or simply films that have aged with no pop culture footprint to show whatsoever. Quest for Camelot is an intriguing little footnote for this time period, as it pretty much bears all the reasons Walt Disney's impacting animated films were frequently imitated but never duplicated or matched, at least during that time, in terms of quality.The film feels like it was written from a template for animated films that revolves around the same basic hero and villain structure, boasting everything from cheap side characters offering comic relief, relatively unremarkable animation, and unmemorable songs. We focus on Kayley (voiced by Jessalyn Gilsig), who ventures out as a young girl to Camelot to meet King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table. While there, she is acquainted with the greedy knight Baron Ruber (Gary Oldman), who attempts to assume all the powers brought forth by a sword by the name of Excalibur. Fast-forward ten years later, Excalibur has been stolen, and Kayley teams up with Garrett (Cary Elwes), a blind knight and Devon and Cornwall (Eric Idle and Don Rickles), a two-headed dragon that reminds one of Zak and Wheezie from Dragon Tales (I can't believe I'm making that kind of reference) to recover the stolen sword.Quest for Camelot has all the clichés and predictabilities one can think of in an animated film. Spliced infrequently amongst the zippy action of the film are indeed musical numbers that are just drenched with worn messages and uninspired lyricism, hopelessly showcasing how not only thrown together this project was from the get-go, but written without heart and wit to accompany them. One of the reason Disney succeeds so overwhelmingly with their animated films is they throw in thoughtful themes, great characters, and engaging stories, and, most importantly, are written, directed, and animated by people who clearly love animation and care about making a great product. Testimonials from Quest's crew have stated how working to create the film was more like an exercise granted by people who foolishly assumed creating an animated film was a fool's errand that could be done by anyone. With that, what was created was one of the most perfunctory animated films I can think of, not only robbed of any creativity, but any kind of soul to speak of whatsoever.The animation, even for traditional, hand-drawn standards, looks very mediocre. To think Toy Story, one of the most revolutionary animated films ever made, was three years old when this film came out is an astounding thought, and even as Quest for Camelot tries to blend old animated styles with newer, glossier ones, it simply fires back in the film's face, looking even more ugly. It was the awkward period between the old and the new, meaning bigger players were free to make bigger moves thanks to their more impressive technology (Disney, Pixar in this case) and those with cheaper, older animation were forced to make due with what they had from a technology standpoint. While some companies and projects worked to do what they could with what they had, Quest for Camelot's mediocre animation perfectly compliments a tired story.Finally, there's the problem that lies with the characters. Besides Kayley and Garrett being two of the most unremarkable animated heroes, Ruber has a seriously stunted, nonexistent personality, even for a villain. A large chunk of the film sees him absent, completely ridding the film of any kind of suspense from an antagonistic side, leaving an already soulless, empty film even more gutted of any emotional connection.Quest for Camelot is a shockingly cold film, and given how much happens in seventy-seven minutes, it's all the more shocking to note how boring most of the film is. The entire film is a curious failure of underestimating the success of an empire and thinking their success is simply luck and a few computers.Voiced by Jessalyn Gilsig, Cary Elwes, Jane Seymour, Pierce Brosnan, Gary Oldman, Eric Idle, Don Rickles, Bronson Pinchot, Jaleel White, Gabriel Byrne, and John Gielgud. Directed by Frederik Du Chau. "},{"Title":"A long-forgotten gem from my youth","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I first saw this film with my sister when I was 11 and she was 7 on a ferry home from France and after having forgotten about it for several years, I re-discovered it upon learning that the Nostalgia Critic had done a review on it. His review wasn't particularly favourable but it was enjoyable nonetheless.Anyway back to the film. The first time I watched it my favourite characters were Devon and Cornwall, who added some comedic value to the film, although I've taken a liking towards Kayley as well for being a brave and original heroine since not all heroines of fantasy films want to be knights. The film has some memorable moments such as the beginning where Kayley is a little girl and saddened at the loss of her father as well as her transition from a child to an adult as she looks at her reflection in the water. I could also remember Devon and Cornwall impersonating Elvis, which was somewhat anachronistic for the film's setting. In spite of this, I liked their song 'If I Didn't Have You' as well as Kayley's 'On My Father's Wings' and Juliana's 'The Prayer.' Garrett's solo number was okay, but his singing voice didn't match his speaking voice. I liked his duet with Kayleigh better. The background music was quite pleasant as well, especially the Irish jig-type music. There are some worthy special effects as well such as the lens flare on the sword, the cold breath coming from Kayley's mouth in the snow and the green lighting during Ruber's song and when he takes Juliana hostage. Some of the effects were a tad CGI-ish, such as the ogre made of rock, but it is funny when Ruber says, The ogre's butt. It was also funny when Devon and Cornwall said they'd barbecue a bully before breathing fire at the griffin as well as the ending where Kayley and Garrett ride away on a horse with a 'Just Knighted' sign across its bottom. As for the animation, it was consistent for the most part but slow during the back-story of the sword at the beginning.All in all, this is an exciting film worth seeing again after several years. 8/10. "},{"Title":"A lot more watchable than Richard Rich's King and I","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I too enjoyed this movie. It isn't flawless, but few movies are. The animation is good, if a little bland in the musical numbers, with exception of the splendid witchcraft scene. As for the songs, they aren't actually that bad. My favourites were The Prayer, Looking Through Your Eyes, and If I didn't have you. The other songs were not as good, but not mind numbingly awful. The biggest problem was the singing voices, they didn't match the voice acting. Celine Dion is a very good singer, but her voice is too powerful for Julianna, but it's good they didn't ask someone like Barbara Streisand, another excellent singer with a too-big voice for the character. Same with Andrea Corr. Another problem was the script, which had its ups and downs. The reasons why some children didn't laugh at the two-headed dragon, which was the best character, is because they wouldn't in a million years have understood the pop culture references, though they were funny. As for the voice talents they were a mixed bag. Jessalyn Gilsig and Cary Elwes started off a little bland, and Gary Oldman relishes his role as the villain, if a little over the top at times. On a positive note, Eric idle and Don Rickles were hilarious, and Jane Seymour made a sincere Julianna. Pierce Brosnan was also an interesting choice, but if I were a director, I wouldn't have picked John Gielgud to voice Merlin, although he would have been good if it was live-action. In conclusion, an above average movie, with a story that started off well, but ran out of steam too early. If I wanted to see it again, I would. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"I really wanted to like this...","Date":"22 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember seeing the trailer for the movie and thought it looked good - I enjoyed movies like that back then, and who wouldn't want to see an animated story about Arthurian legend? The plot seemed interesting, the animation looked decent, and the songs sounded good (a few characters had very few spoken syllables in the preview and for those that did, when the songs meant for a certain character played with an American vocalist, you couldn't see their lips moving so never suspected a mismatch). I did see a few negative review s for it before I watched it, but I reasoned those people might not be into animated children's musicals. When I did see it, I was horrified. I'm sure my complaints will have been voiced before, but there are 2 things I enjoyed about this the beginning 5 minutes, and the soundtrack. The film starts out making it seem like it'll be OK the animation is decent and we meet the main character who seems like a strong heroine actually as old as the founding of CAmelot (it's the 10th anniversary) who wants to become one of King Arthur's defenders like her father. He goes off to Camelot with some delightful music of drums, upbeat flute, and a foreign-chanting choir and a short but good song plays which does move things along when Arthur joins in. Sadly, from the second the all-too-obvious (ugly, more angularly-drawn, ever-scowling) antagonist breaks in and actually says Enough with the sing-a-long, I winced at the fact that the writers chose to make it a musical when the characters mocked the singing of a song that actually had a point. It quickly went downhill from there Arthur speaks and his British accent does not match his American singing one, the threat from the villain met by defense from the heroine's father seems somehow abrupt so forced, and, after several years have passed and the present story begins, the same problem is noted for every character when his or her singing voice precedes or follows dialog, only to contrast it sharply. Any thoughts that Kayley will make a decent heroine go out the window when she proclaims she wishes not to work on her family's farm and eventually marry but become a knight rescuing damsels in distress...but does not know what a damsel is. The villain Ruber, who killed Kayley's father all those years ago, manages to send a griffin to steal Excalibur but it's lost in flight, and barges into her family's home ordering the family of Arthur's late friend escort him to Camelot, threatening Kayley as a hostage. He has a potion which turns living beings into machine-appendage-bearing evil versions of themselves (including the chicken who never spoke but was obviously a misfit among his kind before this), which is just foolish; it's always stupid when the villain proclaims they're evil. Kayley manages to escape the monsters into an enchanted forest so she can warn Arthur, but is unfamiliar with the dangers so is rescued by a blind man named Garrett who lives there so knows how to deal with them. I was legally blind so was pleased to see both a heroine and a blind hero. There's just one problem...they're both unlikable. Garrett, who has unknowingly fallen in with Merlin's pet falcon who can further help him sense things, is introduced as a rude, cold, self-pitying man, while Kayley continues to be a foolish, sometimes even complaining person who is of no help, rescuing Garrett once - after her whining to him results in his being unable to hear enemies' approach in time to prevent his getting shot. Garrett does grow on me since he proves capable, justifiably frustrated by her and the annoying two-headed, misfit, peaceful dragon they encounter along the way. I really though I'd enjoy these characters - even the dragon seemed humorous in ads, but after seeing the movie I felt sure the actors had wasted their talents, especially the big names (Don Rickles and Eric Idle as the dragon). The only characters that have any dignity are, thankfully, Arthur and Merlin...but, sadly, they have next to no screen-time. There are a few good scenes here, but they're all so brief that they aren't worth seeing the movie for Garrett revealing he knew Kayley's father and the relationship they had that gave him hope after he tragically lost his sight, Merlin encouraging an injured Arthur to have faith in his people in the mission he couldn't go out, the otherwise pointless and annoying talking chicken tentatively asking whether dragon a la king is better than a famous recipe similar to that, the humorous wild ride of Garrett being forced to drive a carriage. Other than these, I would recommend this movie to no one. Though the songs do seem to have purposes, they're undermined by characters pointing out afterward they wish to have no more singing, and except for the actors who do their own singing, the voices are grossly unmatched. The scene ending the climax was baffling, particularly how one person did not get required help as everyone else seemed to, and I rolled my eyes when one person got a reward for a job NOT well done. I was surprised when I learned what book they based it off of, and realize it must have been difficultfor them to take ideas for such a dark plot and turn them into a kids' movie. But they certainly succeeded in taking its bare bones of a heroine and a blind hero in Arthurian times and making an animated movie out of it...if only it made sense or was funny instead of never taking itself seriously. My advice just listen to the soundtrack where the songs are quite good on their own without contradictions by the writers or the singing characters' actors, and watch the first 5 minutes then imagine the film will proceed as you'd expect and wish. "},{"Title":"Kayley and Garrett go on a quest to retrieve the sword Excalibur and bring it back to King Arthur.","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I know I gave this movie a higher rating then it probably deserves. Well lets just say this movie is a bit of a guilty pleasure for me. I actually really like it. I see its faults and still don't care. I think I was seven when this came out but I really don't think I seen it till a bit later in life. I enjoyed the characters, for the most part the songs,the plot, and the world that was created. I eventually plan to buy this movie but it's one that can wait. Which shows that I don't love it, just find it to be one of the better kids movies. Or put it this way. An old kids movie that wasn't made by Disney that I consider to be good. ) "},{"Title":"A lot of things wrong with this movie, although its not all bad...","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was really disappointed with this movie. Unlike allot of animated movies, I'd never seen it as a kid, but the story sounded really interesting, so I thought I'd give it a watch.The movie started off really well, they did a really good job of setting the story off, its when the real plot starts that the movie starts to become&#133; well, boring and pointless. Everything happens WAY to fast, things happen without reason. For example, the relationship between Kayley and Garrett - where did that come from? One second they hate each other, then after spending, what - a couple of days together? their in love. They only fell in love because in a movie like this the main male and female characters typically fall in love, there's no development to their relationship, it only happens because its expected. Why does Ruber want to take over Camelot? Little motive towards the main villains actions make for a really poor villain, kids movie or not. Why is he even a knight of the round table anyway? By the looks of it, he only ever cared for himself, so how did he ever manage to get to that position - you don't need to be a great judge of character to see that's a bad guy. Devon and Cornwall were incredibly useless, I mean, I know all kids movies have the annoying sidekicks - I hated sidekicks when I was a kid - but they didn't do anything. They saved Garrett a ten minute run to Camelot because they miraculously learned to fly. Don't get me started on the hammer chicken thing&#133; I still don't get what that was about. Plus, was I the only one who thought that Lionel died a bit to easily? I had to go back and see what killed him, only to find that he gets thrown across the table. He's supposed to be Arthur's most trusted knight, is he really that weak?Now, the characters. I've already gone into the Ruber, Devon and Cornwall. Kayley was a terrible main character. She didn't really do anything productive. I was expecting her to be a really great lead character, but in the end all she did was get captured and needed rescuing by Garrett and those useless dragons. Garrett was a great character though, as was Juliana, Arthur and Lionel. Most of the songs were great, especially The Prayer, On my Father's wings and I stand alone. Its ashamed that the characters voices don't fit with the singing voices. The animation was average. The voice acting was pretty good to. I know its just a kids movie, but there's still no excuse to some of the things I brought up. It seems that Warner Brothers just wanted to create a Disney-like movie, but missed a lot of the key things that makes Disney movies great. I'd give it 5/10. "},{"Title":"Well... at least they tried","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was a uge disappointment and I even had to change the channel sometimes from the pain. Sad, but true. The plot has a little potential, but in my opinion, this is nothing more than another Disney wannabee. The characters were not the well developed at all and the singing voice actor for the hero of the story didn't fit him well... at all. The movie lacked that feel good feeling that you feel after even some of the worst animated movies. The songs are not memorable at all and most of them weren't very good. The romantic relationship between the two main characters was a bit dull and nor lively or witty. The only good thing about this movie was the comic relief at times and for that, I'll give it a 2/ 10. "},{"Title":"Not excellent but very good anyway","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I for one was eager to see Warner Brothers' first fully animated feature when it was released in the theaters. I didn't expect to see a Disney quality movie, but I was happy to find out that QfC came pretty close. And now it can be enjoyed on home video, which is a good thing.Some animation in the movie wasn't as hot as I had hoped, but the songs... These are all really excellent. They are a joy to hear again and again. Special tribute must go to the animation of Ruber (the villain) who is really awesome to see. Ruber, to me, is the one that really makes this movie.Even though some of the other characters may appear a bit bland, the overall art and animation is pretty good. With a little more work, Warner Brothers should be able to produce a movie that will perhaps match a Disney feature one day. The potential is there, I'm sure.Quest for Camelot is a great first animated feature for WB. It isn't perfect, but it certainly has its charms. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but flawed Arthurian Adventure","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a film that I have watched several times now with the kids and find myself enjoying it more each time. Previous comments have compared it unfavourably to Disney but this seems unfair - it is clearly a separate product, darker and more cynical than the works of that other company. The song by dragons Devon and Cornwall -  'Without You'- stands in stark contrast to, say, the sentiments of 'You and Me Together' in Disney's Oliver and Company. Neither could I imagine Ruber, with his particular vein of sarcastic villainy, appearing in the products of that more family centred studio.The weakest individual moment, for me at least, is anachronistic. Devon and Cornwall sing about their mutual hostility, and their song is animated with some twentieth century props and in-jokes. This is a jarring note in a film which otherwise tries to maintain some sort of historical integrity. It is funny but creates a disruption that is hard to forget. (More acceptable is the 'Do you feel clucky?' line later on)There has been some criticism of the animation quality, and it does seem to vary. Some of the movements of animals, in particular, seem jumpy at a distance. However balancing out these weaknesses are such scenes as the evocation of a cold morning, when Kayley hears of her father's death, and Ruber's splendid witchcraft scene.Overall the film suffers from being underwritten - one wishes more time was taken in filling out character and incident before the final attack on Camelot. Cayley and Garrett fall in love too  easily, while Devon and Cornwall (delightfully witty and charming creations) have too little to do. And what happens to Merlin? He's reduced to flying a bird. It's a shame as other supporting characters, like the Gryphon and the axe chicken are very well judged, and completely memorable. More unforgivable is the character of King Arthur, who is just bland.On the plus side, this is still a good film, utterly free of pretension. Ruber's magical creation of his henchman is a highlight, a demoniac sequence that is quite thrilling, a brilliant musical set piece that moves the plot forward, sparking huge suspense. His creations are delightfully original in themselves, frightening and intriguing in equal measure. Watching it again I was reminded of how little of this quality of real wonder appears in another non-Disney animation, Prince of Egypt - a much more favourably received work, and far more earnest in tone.This Arthurian adventure can be quite revealing in comparison when taken this as an unofficial sequel to The Sword in The Stone, throwing stereotypical Disney values and methods into greater relief. In its own right it is very enjoyable in any case, although it could have been even better with some extended work on the script.  "},{"Title":"a great, funny, wholesome movie for everyone!!!","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I practically wanted to see this movie mainly because The Corrs were in it, I mean The Corrs are featured on its soundtrack, but after seeing it, I really enjoyed it. it's a really great movie I recommend for everybody to watch. Not only that it provides great music and entertainment, it teaches us lessons as well. It also feautures Camelot as a very wonderful place, outlining the story in the original Camelot story but excellently rearranging some things and placing additional characters and somehow revamping the plot but is very enjoyable and amusing, I must say, especially the part when If I Didn't Have You was sung by the two very amusing dinosaurs.Also the excellent songs feautured in the soundtrack which really suited the movie very well. An excellent movie for the family, a story with lessons to learn and very enjoyable indeed both for the children, the family, and also for young at hearts as well. "}{"Title":"A really good flick","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I, personally, really enjoy Quest for Camelot.  I think it has a very good plot, I love the music, the animation is pretty good, and the characters are likeable.  Admittedly, it does have its flaws, and it's no Sleeping Beauty, but then again, what is?I think many people don't give this and similar movies a chance because they're not Disney.  But heck, Pocahontas was by Disney, and it sucked! So, don't judge a movie by its studio.  You really should give this movie a try. "},{"Title":"Quest","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Nostalgia Critic send me.It's 1998 and animation had a rough time.Including lesser known animated movies like Antz and this.This is an animated fantasy movie about the girl Kayley and her friends that must save the stolen sword Camelot.The villain will use Camelot to evolve into a super villain, but he gets defeated at the end so Camelot is in safe hands.Here is something for all.Loads of movie spoofs, unforgettable songs, fun and action.The characters ranks from silly sidekicks, and lots of monsters.Lauren Faust did some of the animation.The all star cast includes Andrea Corr, Eric Idle, Jaleel White and so much more.10/10 "},{"Title":"Good Children's Movie","Date":"27 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm a little biased to this movie as I grew up watching it in the 00's; I still watch it! The music is fun and the story is cute. No the animation isn't Disney great, but it's Warner brothers. They have a different way of animating things! One of my favorite movies, but that's probably because I grew up on it. Watch it for a good, heartwarming, cute story! Lots of good actors voicing the characters too. Fun little movie to sit down and watch with your kids, keeps you entertained. Watch it. Now. There isn't anything about this movie that would make me tell you not to see it. The dragons add a cute element and the out come of the story just makes you happy. "},{"Title":"totally underrated absolutely charming animated film","Date":"5 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" the f***? why does this only have a 6/10 rating? this movie is AMAZING it is one of the best animated films i've ever seen. why? well1. it isn't perfect but the narrative, characters, soundtrack, and theme make up for its few little flops. 2. the beginning of this movie is hell-a sad and i cry every damn time. 3. three words CELINE DION SQUAD. 5. Cornwall and Devon are one of the best things about this movie. They are incredibly hilarious and witty. 6. i LOVE Kayley's character; one of the reasons you can't find an animated film as good as this is because this one contains somewhat feminist undertones. i love the girl power vibes. probably my favorite scene is the conversation Kayley has with her mother toward the beginning Kayley But mother, Excalibur is missing, I must go after it! Juliana That's a job for Knights, not for a young girl! Kayley But I want to be a knight--go on grand adventures, fighting evil, rescuing Damsels in distress... what is a Damsel, anyway? Juliana Now Kayley, stand still and try on your new dress! Kayley Mother, I don't want a new dress! I want to save Camelot! If you just let me I know I could find Excalibur all on my own! Juliana The Knights will find the sword and they'll do it by working together. Kayley While I'm stuck working here, doing the chores, fetching the eggs, taking care of the house? Boring! Where's the glory in that?!7. it is so cute. Garrett especially. you will fall in love with his character immediately he just warms my hearti'd say it's probably my favorite animated movie but what would have made it REALLY awesome is if they went with the whole Kayley rescuing damsels in distress thing. that would have been really cool.anyways basically it's just good go watch it if you haven't yet and even if u have go watch it again it never gets old "},{"Title":"A rather bland animated movie","Date":"20 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The animation isn't top notch and it's quite obvious in many places. It doesn't mean that the movie looks ugly &#x96; it looks OK. I think the movie has too many songs in it. The quality of those songs is uneven &#x96; some are good , some are very forgettable. One of the songs was nominated for Oscar.The direction could be better. The movie is too mushy , too sentimental for my taste. Characters like Merlin and King Arthur are wasted by the screenplay. The love story between Kayley and Garrett happens too fast and isn't convincing. The humor isn't impressive , despite interesting supporting characters (two headed dragon Devon and Cornwall , the chicken , the griffin). Ruber makes for a good villain. The voice acting is solid.The movie is set in times of King Arthur and the knights of the round table and it's too bad that it isn't a really good movie. This universe had so much potential. I give it 4/10. "},{"Title":"Quest from Camelot should've stayed in the Dark Ages and die in the plague.","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The 1990s came and went and it was the best decade to live in, if you were born in that time. In the wake of the mammoth success of The Lion King in 1994, film studios decided to jump onto the band wagon and competed Disney at their game at making and producing quality animated films, by ripping off practically everything featured in a Disney animated film. Only a few would be as worthwhile as the Disney films, while a significant number of others failed or failed very hard. When I was very little, I used to go crazy over Quest for Camelot and I loved it so much. Times have changed and after when I finished watching the film a year ago, I saw that this film was really terrible and stupid, lacking in anything worthwhile to make this any better.I'll go into further depths about why this is an all-time worst. Kayley, who clearly rips off both Ariel and Belle, wants to become a warrior and a Knight of the Round Table, but when she gets to the forest, she becomes another damsel-in-distress who wants her a man to help her, who happens to be Garret. Bad screen writing. The obvious relationship between Kayley and Garret is not great and has little depth. That two-headed dragon, Devon and Cornwall, are absolutely and gut-wrenchingly annoying in every scene they are in and have no purpose to be in the film to begin with, except to delight the children audience, for the time being. Ruber makes for a really bad villain, character-wise. It doesn't even help that Ruber has no personality, a bland song, and some awful dialogue. Gary Oldman is a terrific character actor and this is what he had or wanted to do? He couldn't save the character or the film, when he's got a horrible script and even horrible director to work with. I want to point that chicken in the film named Bladebeak (played by Jaleel White) is the most unnecessary and worst character in the film. That chicken serves no purpose in the film (except for when he untied Kayley in Ruber's wagon and that's it) and to the moral essence of the story. To make matters worse, he would sometimes quote lines from Dirty Harry and Taxi Driver, whom he ruins the two films for me and probably everyone else. There was this scene where he takes out one of Ruber's guards and while Lady Julianna notices it, she watches the big, fat female chicken next to her that Baldebeak is her man. Honestly, Lady Julianna is meant to be a strong-willed and wise person, yet the best she could do is to watch that and not help out by fighting off Ruber's goons and protecting the people in Camelot from Ruber's ambush attack? Shameful.I cannot believe that I actually liked this movie in the first place. Quest for Camelot is a really terrible film and an awful piece of garbage that will make your head ache worse, at least when the film is in its second act. This film clearly suffers from irresponsible direction by Frederick Du Chau (Racing Stripes and Underdog, which should come as no surprise to many), unimaginative and underdeveloped screenplay, mediocre animation along with some of the most ugliest computer animation I've ever seen in a film, mostly forgettable and inane songs, childish and uninspired use of Disney-related formulas, and the most misaligned and terrible cast ever assembled in an animated feature film. Would you ever imagine people like Jessalyn Gilsig (Glee, Vikings, Nip/Tuck), Cary Elwes (The Princess Bride, Glory, Robin Hood Men in Tights), Gary Oldman (The Dark Knight trilogy, Harry Potter trilogy, Dawn of the Planet of the Apes), Eric Idle (Monty Python), Jaleel White (Family Matters), Don Rickles (Toy Story trilogy), Jane Seymour (Wedding Crashers, Heroes), Pierce Brosnan (James Bond, Mrs. Doubtfire, Dante's Peak), Gabriel Byrne (The Usual Suspects), and Sir John Gielgud (Gandhi, The Elephant Man) to be in an animated film, featuring the respective voices of characters that do not have good character development and lacking in strong chemistry with other characters. NO!!!!! Well, that's what happened and it made matters worse. The voice acting wasn't all that spectacular anyway.As a musical, I don't like that the characters constantly burst out into song like the entire sequence is devoted to a song and not treat a sequence with respect that it's still part of the story and that a right song can bring more depth and gravitas to the character and story, you know? The songs, for the most part, are inane and forgettable. Kayley's theme On My Father's Wings does not hit the high notes and is nothing like Part of Your World. United We Stand and I Stand Alone was meh, If I Didn't Have You is too silly and childish, and Ruber's song has no merit. There are only two good songs from film, which are also the one thing that I will tolerate of the film Celine Dion and Andrea Bocelli's incredible The Prayer and both the film and LeAnn Raimes version of Looking Through Your Eyes. I like the film version of the song, only when I picture the song not from the film and not within the context of the story.In conclusion, there is absolutely nothing special or extraordinary about Quest for Camelot. The script and directing are so invested in ripping off Disney, that they took the easy way in crafting the film's story, characters, and direction by filling in Disney-type character and story moments, without taking right and risky decisions that would have made the film a lot different with substantial dramatic improvement in character and story, that probably would have made the film more better and mature. Instead, this what we get a really terrible film void of originality and surprise and an awful piece of garbage. It's arguably one of the worst animated films I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Good for young children but have much room for improvement","Date":"14 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film is about the daughter of a round table knight, who sets out on a quest to protect Camelot from an evil rouge round table knight.Watching this animation reminds me of how quickly the quality of animations have improved in just over ten years. Back in the late nineties, the animations were still drawn with black lines around everything. Fast forward to present day, the animations are in 3D with stunning realism. Anyway, Quest for Camelot has a straightforward plot for children to understand. It is squeaky clean, and not too scary for young children. However, there is not much for adults to enjoy. The character designs are not so attractive, and the quality of the animation is really not good even when taken the year of production into account. Quest for Camelot have much room for improvement. "},{"Title":"Nice cast, good animation, but bad animated film","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Quest for Camelot, is one of those animated films that try to be just like Disney. But it end's up becoming a Disney-wannabe.The story and the plot aren't that great. It's just about a girl, a blind man, a two-headed Dragon, and a Owl trying to find the ancient sword, Excalibur, from falling into the clutches of the evil night, Ruber. The story is really simple.Most of the character's were really weak including the villain, Ruber. Because he's one-dimensional and his singing is horrible. He is also voiced by Gary Oldman and even though he's a good actor, he can't sing.Also, the song's were pretty bad. The song's I liked were, The Prayer and If I didn't have you. The rest were mostly forgettable.But I do like the animation and the voice acting was good.Quest for Camelot is a bad animated film that's good for kids, but other's won't bother watching it. "},{"Title":"Its An Adventure Instead of a Quest","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I first saw it as a little kid I saw this movie and it was perfect to me, but later on when I saw it in this century this movie didn't have the same exciting anymore.It was a bit more different,right now I would have to say not to see this movie anymore and to others.This was a waste of time and money,now I understand why he hated because this was a kiddy,boring,unfansty world.It is not great anymore,just because it has an Oscar dos-en't mean it is all that great.Now we look up to other movies than that worthless movie,it went from so-so to worse.They have to stop showing this movie,it is not funny anymore,take my advise if you've seen it the first time don't waste your money on this again,get something better than that crap. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was one of my favorites when I was a kid and still is. I love the music, the story, and the animation. It's very entertaining and cute! Don't know why people give it such bad reviews. It may be a little corny, but it's a kids movie and they all are to a degree. The cast is amazing, and the music is very catchy (I still have the songs on my iPod). The forest is very creatively depicted, and the funny parts are cute. It's not a movie that you're supposed to take seriously. It's very sweet! I bought it on DVD and my friends and I watch it together and reminisce about our childhoods. I highly recommend it! It's got the whole adventure element without being super romantic like most other cartoons, which is refreshing and part of the reason why I like it so much. It's great to show to kids, and I think it's a very cute little movie. "}{"Title":"I really enjoyed Quest for Camelot","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The movie is good primarily due to the music. A Mother's Prayer is probably the best song I have ever heard in an animated feature or in any movie. It's one of the most beautiful songs Celine Dion has ever sung. It was nominated for an Oscar but lost to a song you never hear anymore from that Moses animated movie. Steve Perry and Bryan White are also excellent in their songs. The characters of Garrett and Kallie both fiercely independent, are also enjoyable. The two-headed dragon is also great comic relief in the midst of what seems like impending doom for the main characters. Plus I love Gary Oldman as the villain. As a mother I strongly recommend this as a family movie. Plus the CD is excellent. "},{"Title":"lacklustre story,too many songs","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" this animated movie was OK,i guess,but nothing special.the most annoying thing about it,to me,was that there were too many musical numbers,and not enough story.plus,the musical numbers themselves were kinda mundane,in my opinion.and they slowed the whole movie down,ruining any flow it might have had.the animation didn't really stand out,either.this is not a movie for young children.there are a few moments which would be a bit scary for them.there were a few funny moments,but not enough to elevate the movie. i also felt the voice actors didn't always suit the characters.finally,the movie just wasn't fun.overall,a disappointing effort.4/10 "},{"Title":"Not for Adults","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Quest for Camelot, Warner Brothers recent foray into feature-length animation, falls flat. The filmmakers either forgot, or don't know how to reach an audience older than 10. For an adult the plot is simplistic, almost painful.  The characters are one-dimensional, and the artwork and music not nearly up to Disney standards. Whereas adults will flock without children to see the Little Mermaid, and the Lion King, only those with little kids in tow (or with them in the living room) will want to waste their time on this piece of saccharine. "},{"Title":"Flawed","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Animated films are becoming a dime a dozen nowadays, with newcomers like this film.  Unfortunately, it comes nowhere close to the spectacular magic that Disney brings to the screen.Firstly, the plot is questionable in parts -- some bits of the story are just glossed over.  For instance, when Garrett is terribly wounded, it all heals in a matter of seconds so that the two lovebirds can get on with their song.The characters themselves are quite annoying -- Kayley and her silly voice (by Jessalyn Gilsig) really get on one's nerves.The animation in Quest For Camelot is sadly disappointing, with not enough detail and intricacy.  Perhaps the makers of the film were too caught up in the ogre -- a gem of a computer generated image but terribly out of place.  The character of Ruber looks terribly similar to Hades from Hercules, while Garrett simply lacks life.  In fact, the characters in general are rather lifeless.  It would really help if they looked like they were singing rather than opening their mouths vaguely.The songs and music are quite remarkable, though, which is not surprising given that they were composed by songmaster David Foster.  This was only let down by the incredibly bad casting of voices -- Andrea Corr's lovely voice did not at all sound like Jessalyn Gilsig, Bryan White was too American-pop-star for Cary Elwes and the film in general, Celine Dion too powerful for the gentle Lady Juliana.  Even the singing Gary Oldman didn't sound like the talking Gary Oldman. The songs were also introduced a little abruptly, and there were too many parts where singing was in the background but the characters were actually doing something else -- a little absurd, don't you think?Okay. I know that from all my complaints, it sounds like I hated the film.  In actual fact, it was quite watchable but boy, am I glad I watched it on video rather than at the cinemas!  The kids will probably love it -- but it really does have many flaws which need to be worked on. Without the melodious soundtrack, I'd have given it 2/10 -- with the soundtrack, 4/10. "},{"Title":"I won't be taking this quest again","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'Quest For Camolot' is an animated children's film about two children who are on a mission to save Camolot. This film is set in the days of King Arthur. Generally, this is a poor attempt at an adventure animation film. There is nothing special about this film at all. The animation, music, and story do little to engage the audience and do little to impress. I found the whole film particularly dull and a chore to sit through. Dull story, dull characters, dull songs, and there was also nothing special about the animation. Although it is not a great film either, 'The Sword in the Stone' was fun, and I did enjoy this as a child - though not so much as an adult. I certainly will not be taking this quest again. "},{"Title":"Just shows why Disney still rules the animated world","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was one of the least satisfying movie-length cartoons I ever saw. Admittedly I am 21, but even as a kid I wouldn't have liked it. The animation is just on the edge of average(at least for this day and age) and the voice talents just went to waste. Cary Elwes never looked and sounded duller or more emotionless. It' was as of his voice was quieter than the others and he just didn't get into his role at all. But the worst thing was his singing voice; from the uninspiring Garret to a show-off singing voice with a distinguishable American accent was simply too much. Or Celine Dion singing for Jane Seymour for that matter. The songs were terrible (and I don't want to sound like the worst anti-modernist, but some of them didn't even rhyme)and some of them were completely misplaced in the movie. You just have to see it to believe it. At on point Kayley is running for her life, trying to escape the baddies while her mother is singing how she has to be strong and not let them capture her. The only person who really put an effort into his character was Gary Oldman(no real surprise there), but his character was as typical as villains get, letting no room for an over the top performance that could have maybe softened the fall of this pathetically unfunny and lifeless movie. Oh yeah, as it had already been mentioned; I was also wondering why his character was a member of the knights of the round table to begin with. The director went with the established Disney formula, which was already getting old over at their studios as it was, so the end result here need not be explained.  Don't see it if you're an adult, don't let your kids watch it, stay away and rent The Iron Giant instead.3/10  "},{"Title":"Uh... great cast, no plot.","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I will not waste many words describing this film.  With a cast including such silver-screen greats as Jane Seymour, John Gielgud, Cary Elwes, Pierce Brosnan, et al., one would expect this film to have been worth watching.It isn't.It's not as bad as, say, The Swan Princess or Thumbelina, but there are better ways you could use your time. "},{"Title":"Uneven","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Warner Brothers has since proved that it can create a good full-length animated picture, but the issue was in serious doubt with Quest For Camelot. The animation style ranged from horses that didn't quite track right to beautiful CG that pointed up how truly awful the rest of it was. Likewise, the script never settled on where it wanted to go.  It was structured too much like an animated short (which is just fine for a short piece, but wrong for full-length) and the mood was shattered by anachronistic one-liners. The only good part of the movie was the duet of the two-headed dragon.  If the rest of the film had displayed that amount of ingenuity and fun, it would have been a worthwhile film. "},{"Title":"It's like a Disney classic... but it isn't","Date":"10 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This was just like an ordinary Disney classic... only difference was of course, it wasn't, per say. It was a tale based on the things we know and love. A princess, sort of. Something they need to save. A boy, who's blind, and ends up helping them. Dragons and an evil guy and it's all a classic.The only thing that bugged me was the songs that they sang every five minutes it seemed. As much as I enjoy a song or two, I just found it annoying that every conversation seemed to be turned into a song.However, despite all of that, there were many impressive scenes, lots of good 3d that was put to the test. Some excellent 3d in some of the action packed scenes.But all in all, it was okay. Not absolutely awesome, but okay.Rated 6/10. "},{"Title":"Mediocre movie, though good at times.","Date":"18 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I was growing up, this was my all time favourite animated movie. I just had a love for Cornwall and Devon, and all of the songs. Today, this movie doesn't hold up as well. I still am fond of the songs, and the overall message they are trying to convey to kids, but this movie is just so bland at times. The characters are your average cut and paste variety, with a few twists. Kayley (Jessalyn Gilsig) is the main character, who is your average spunky heroine who wants to be a knight. Garrett (Cary Elwes) is an angsty blind hermit, Cornwall and Devon (Eric Idle and Don Rickles) Are actually pretty funny, but sometimes are mildly annoying. Ruber (Gary Oldman) is an over the top, diabolical villain. See a lot of big names? Yes, because this film had so much potential with it's star cast which is full of talent. It just didn't work out though. The problem with the movie is that it's just plain bland. Nothing is fresh with this movie, nothing is innovative, nothing raises the bar for other movies. It's one of those movies that you see a commercial of, but no one talks about. The story is basic, but at times doesn't make sense. Warner Brother needed to realize that they weren't creating their own mythos, they needing to work with what they had, which was the setting of Camelot and the knights of the round table. They added in a bunch of things that were never in the book at all. It becomes so saturated with these kinds of things that it is barely recognizable to the book at all. The songs, in my opinion are fantastic. The talent of the singing cast really shows, with the voices of Celine Dion, Bryan White, Steve Perry, and Sarah Freeman, you can't go wrong. Sometimes the lyrics of the songs can get a little too syrupy or cheesy, but this film is intended for children. The problem arises when the songs serve no purpose. They just sing and the movie goes on like nothing occurred. It gets to a point where the songs are just in there to copy Disney's style, which I believe is what they were going for. In the end, Quest For Camelot is a decent movie. The problem is, that's all it will ever be. It tries too hard to be a Disney classic like Aladdin, but falls on it's face. I tried really hard to like this movie as I did when I was younger, but I just couldn't. It isn't torturous to watch this movie, but it isn't too fun either. "}{"Title":"Relax, It's just a cartoon!","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" While reading certain comments for this movie, I've come across a similar theme as with other animated films. It gets picked apart for lack of character depth and so-so animation,etc,etc. However they all come to the same conclusion that kids will probably like it. OK...is that not the point with 90% of ALL animated films whether they be hand drawn or CGI, let's get down to it- they're cartoons!! They ARE for kids. As for this movie , I have yet to meet a child under 12 who didn't like it. As a parent I thought it was pretty good. Not quite up to speed with most Disney movies, but it didn't drive me from the room or make me want to force my kids to turn it off. For a cartoon I'd give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"I love it!","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i loved this movie when it came out when i was 8 or 9. it was my favorite. i had the movie unwatched in my closet for at least 7 years, and i was cracking up at the corny jokes and predictable plot lines but its a great movie to watch with younger-ish kids around. i was surprised at the cast of people in the movie. when i first saw the movie i had written the names and the characters down in a notebook. i don't know why. but i was looking through the notebook recently and was like omg, Garrett is Westley ! from the princess bride. so i thought that was pretty cool. a knowable cast for adults, and a good humorous movie in general for the family. "},{"Title":"We are the reason why cousins should never marry.","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Plot in a nutshell - Baron Ruber (voice of Gary Oldman) wants all the power & wealth in the land, is thus expelled from the Round Table for it, and vows revenge on King Arthur (voice of Bond star Pierce Brosnan) and all who inhabit his realm. Years later, Ruber steals the sword Excalibur and plunges Camelot into chaos. The only hope is Kayley (voice of Jessalyn Gilsig), the plucky, super cute farm girl tomboy teen-aged daughter of a Round Table knight Ruber killed years ago, who manages to rope a blind forester/former stable boy named Garrett (voice of Cary Elwes) and a two-headed dinosaur/dragon mutant (voiced by Don Rickles and Eric Idle) into helping her retrieve Excalibur. Comedy, chaos and mayhem ensues. Maybe not the best animated feature ever made, but still enjoyable in its old fashioned Disney kind of way. Combination of traditional hand-drawn animation set against CGI backgrounds makes for a beautifully uneven visual feast. Characters are fairly likable and good-natured enough not to annoy anyone. Based on the book The King's Dam0sel by the late Vera Chapman. "},{"Title":"A decent family animation feature","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have DVD's of both 'Sword in the Stone' and 'Quest for Camelot'. They are different films by different producers. Both are decent family films in my opinion.My 6-six old watched it once it a while and enjoyed it every time. I got to watch glimpses of it over time but finally watched it from start to finish, once. Despite its shortcomings, I find it to be an enjoyable animation film. You either like the sound track or you don't. But the animation is watchable and there are moments of tenderness, sadness, humour and hope.Ignore the fact it does not come from Disney. Put aside your bias from negative reviews. The 1.5 hours will go pretty fast. "},{"Title":"Interesting little movie","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I finished watching this cute little title not 10 minutes ago, and I jumped on here to read what others had to say about it. Yeah it was formulaic, yeah you could see the ending coming miles away like every other happy-ending movie out there, but a few things I read struck me as odd. And yes, Feuer und Flamme (Devon and Cornwall in English) were great as an Abbott and Costello-type team. But that's what you get when cousins marry, they said. I was about to laugh my arse off...Now back to earlier posts. Take the voices, for example. Someone posted that the voices didn't quite match in speaking/singing roles. In the version I saw, it would greatly depend on the language you're viewing it in. The German version had almost identical voices for Kayley speaking (Nana Spier) and singing (Nena). I had to listen twice to see if it actually WAS Nena, because I know her voice the instant I hear it. Sure enough, it was. Garrett's voices weren't too far off the mark either, with Hartmut Engler singing.what was weird was reading the English script as subtitles while listening in German. I'll try the other way round tomorrow or just stick with straight English for the next viewing. Perhaps then I could judge better the said inaccuracy of the voice match-ups. I still don't think Andrea Corr could do the song justice. Nena sounds so much better. "},{"Title":"my thoughts","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I totally L-O-V-E this movie....actually I like the songs more then i like the movie itself...but well i don't guess that that signifies...going thought the entire movie itself...i think i pretty much like the hermit...he pretty darn cute! the king is okay too...i love that dress she wears for her wedding...actually through this whole comment the only thing i wanted to say was what i said in the first to parts...that i like the movie but i L-O-V-E the songs!! especially On My Father's Wings by the Corrs....or something like that...well right now i'm watching the movie and Excalibur was just stolen...shes talking about how boring it is to pick up eggs...its kinda funny. here comes a song! lol...i'm excited...wait...wait for it... the chickens just got beat by the wife chicken...lol...okay i think it might be coming now...i'm not sure...okay the bad guys just burst into her home...Rupert!! lol...he says he was in the neighborhood and he decided to invade...its kind of funny.... "},{"Title":"Enjoyable enough, but not anything special either ...","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In Arthurian times, a little girl named Kayley idolizes her father and wants to be a knight like him. But tragedy strikes and a rebellious knight, Ruber, attacks Arthur. Kayley's father sacrifices himself to save the king. Years later, a gryphon, on Ruber's orders, steals Excalibur, but Merlin's falcon (it's a merlin! Didn't see that coming ...) attacks him, and the sword falls into the Forbidden Forest. Ruber captures Kayley's mother, Kayley escapes, knowing that she must find Excalibur before Ruber, who, after retrieving the sword, will invade and destroy Arthur and Camelot. Along the way, she meets a blind warrior in the forest, Garret, as well as a two-headed dragon.QUEST FOR CAMELOT is not a painful watch -- far from it. It could've been a lot better, though. The songs are dull, all I wanted to do was get them over with, all except for the wonderfully animated, hilarious dragon sequence If I Didn't Have You. Besides the comic relief of dragon heads Devon and Cornwall, Ruber is the only other good character. The sequence in which he creates his grotesque army is a great visual experience, but the song doesn't rhyme at all, although the background music is good enough. They should have left out the singing. The story is all right, but Kayley and Garret fall in love too quickly, and the songs come out of nowhere, and there's just no suitable place in the film for them. I would have liked it a lot more if I hadn't seen Disney's classic THE SWORD IN THE STONE. Worth a watch anyway, it won't be all bad. "},{"Title":"Great aspirations, poor reality.","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Quest For Camelot is one of those movies that looks good on paper, but when is completed, it just kinda falls short. Sure, it's a good movie... don't get me wrong. But think of it as tarnished gold.My main problem with this movie is the characters' singing voices. I love the cast... Jane Seymour, Pierce Brosnon, Bronson Pinchot, Jaleel White... but they SING WRONG. Sure, Celine Dion is a great singer, but her singing voice doesn't match Jane Seymour's talking voice for Lady Julianna. Same with the talking/singing voices of Kayley and Garrett (forget the actors' names... sorry). Either one sounds great... but they just don't go together.The other thing that irks me about this movie is the enchanted forest. Yeah, its cool, what with all the walking plants and magical waterfalls... but where are all the ANIMALS? Half this movie takes place in the forest, with all the dancing flowers and walking trees... but is there a single sign of a unicorn, a faun, a fairy, or even a bunny rabbit or squirrel? It's an unbalanced eco-system for sure, and it takes away from the reality of the story.Well, I guess that's about it... Nitpicky things, sure, but things that take the reality level waaaay down. Other than those two problems, tho, Quest For Camelot is a good movie with great characters (I love Julianna and the Dragon/s), nice music, and a fun story.  "},{"Title":"Good action, mixed animation","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Quest for Camelot is the first attempt to a full animated feature by Warner Bros, and it shows.This story of a young girl that dreams to become a knight and ends up saving the kingdom is a mixed dish of great and poor animation.Oddly, the two main characters Kayley and his blind friend Garret are the worst their animation is unnatural and the character design is unappealing. But the rest of the cast more than make up for them. Ruber, the evil knight and especially his gryphon Griffin are awesome, scary and funny at the same time. Bladebeak, a chicken transformed in a killing machine is hilarious.But the best of the bunch is the odd couple Devon and Cornwall, a two headed dragon that looks straight out of Warner's Looney Tunes. This wacky character literary steals the scene the movie really starts flying when we first meet him and keeps getting better.The plot is original and fast paced, packed with wonderful action sequences and (luckily) few songs, all pretty decent.The CG is sometime effective and sometimes poorly integrated, (the stone ogre is the worst example).I heard a lot of bad things about this movie, but I was pleasantly surprised to discover that is not half as bad as they say. Pity that it did poorly at the box office, it deserved much more.I'm looking forward to the next movie from Warner, if they can fix some of the problem they had with this one, Disney may find another competitor. "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie,even though it was a movie for little children.It was very touching,especially Garett and Kayley.It proves that a relationship doesn't need to be based on looks or popularity.The songs are absolutely great,by the way.Devon & Cornwall made me laugh out loud.They are really hilarious!I loved this movie so much that me and my friends are even making a play about it.This movie contains love,trust,courage and friendship,the most important things in life.I really don't get why this is a movie for little children.It contains important lessons for everyone.I hope many of you will follow my example and love this movie. "}{"Title":"an excellent animated film","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is an exceptionally well-done animated film for its relative obscurity. Most people I ask have never seen it; though the majority has heard at least one song from it whether they know it or not. Although the animation itself may not be on par with Dinsney's classics (most likely due to budget) the excellent characters and beautiful, catchy music more than make up for it. The plot is not even all that bad. I have thoroughly enjoyed this film over the years (including as an adult) and will continue to recommend it to any animated-film aficionado. Beautiful music (Oscar nominee and Golden Globe winner), fun characters, entertaining plot, great cast what more could you ask for?! "},{"Title":"Just plain rank.","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First of all, I realize this wasn't exactly a word for word re-telling of the Arthurian legend, but for what it's worth, Excalibur was NOT the sword supposed to have been pulled out of the stone AND anvil.That said, this still stunk. I can count the good parts more easily than the bad, possibly on only one hand. I liked the dragons. Their loathing of each other matched how I was feeling about the movie by the time they showed up. The music was manipulative, emotional, typical of its kind... common. The hero's speaking voice indeed did not match his singing voice, but all I really wanted was to smack the hair out of his eyes. The girl was annoying too, what with being the typical man wanna-be and lucky her, she gets to be a knight. Good ol' medieval King Arthur breaks out of his archaic mold and says girls can fight as well as men. In other words, it's all just so perfect in the end, isn't it? Yes, it's for kids, and it should be happy and dreams should come true... but I've seen all this accomplished much more successfully, and in movies whose makers had the sense to not try for so many kinds of happy endings all in one flick. In short, it seemed like it was written by a 12 year old. Of course, since I have a 4 year old daughter, it's clear that there's a place for movies written by 'tweeners.  "},{"Title":"Brief Rundown of Disney Formula","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Here's the rundown of the Disney Formula, which Disney has not been using lately, Thank Heavens. This movie steals the formula which takes place in a world where everyone has a great singing voice. Also, The hero or heroine has either 1 or no parents and they have some strange quest that they have to go on. Then, there's the hero's aid who helps them in there quest (If this is a boy/girl team, they MUST fall in love). Throw in a villian who would scare little kids and the villian's evil sidekick who also scares little kids. Then, halfway into the movie, the comic relief comes in the form of a small talking animal who's voice is supplied by a famous or has-been comedian and the other one is an annoying slapstick non-talking animal who falls downa a lot. Then, put in songs that pop up for no reason, some action sequence, a famous singer to sing the love theme from the film and you've got your movie. In short, Quest for Camelot sucks. Go see Mulan if you must see the Disney formula. "},{"Title":"Quest for <insert generic mythological device>","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Certainly a strange one, this. The animation on the whole just isn't up to scratch, and this is painfully obvious right from the start when you get the feeling you're watching some dodgy 70s cartoon rather than a multi-million dollar late 90s cinema production. However, now and again you'll find yourself shocked by sudden moments of animated brilliance (Excalibur catapulting Ruber back from his attack on Arthur, Garrett leaping across an acid lake with dragonfire exploding behind him) and wonder why the whole film couldn't live up to this promise.But visual flair isn't everything, I know, and it'd be easier to forgive the film its shortcomings in this department if the characters, storyline or soundtrack were more interesting... but they're not. The characters are bland, heroes and villains all equally one-dimensional (and very few of the voice actors recognisable until you see the end credits and go Oh, was that him?), while the thorough butchering given to the Arthurian legend makes First Knight with its smart-talkin' streetwise Noo Yoik Lancelot seem authentic. Yeah, I know it's only a cartoon, but why bother with the whole Camelot thing at all if just about the only parts you're going to leave intact are Arthur and Excalibur? As for the songs, well, people seem split over their quality, but it's easy enough to judge as far as I'm concerned if you find yourself cringing in embarrassment when a song begins, take it as a bad sign, and here I was cringing hard enough to fall off my seat.But in spite of all that, you can't help feeling that its heart's in the right place, and as such it's a decent enough way to pass an hour and a half. The kids will probably enjoy it (as long as you fast-forward the songs - they won't thank you for it otherwise), while the rest of us should find the occasional flashes of inspiration worth waiting for.One other thing, though why do we Brits get lumbered with a title twice as long as everyone else's? I mean, come on - The Magic Sword Quest For Camelot? Two halfhearted titles for the price of one, fantastic...  "},{"Title":"My favorite cartoon flick!!","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Quest for Camelot is one of the best Non-Disney animated movies I have EVER seen. The animation is superior, the plot is great, and the characters are really worth knowing. It is my favorite and I recommend it to EVERYONE to see!! "},{"Title":"Not Disney, to be sure, but not bad, either!","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Frankly, I enjoyed this film -- despite the ineffective animation (at times), the feminist spin on the Arthurian legend, the rampant anachronisms, and the occasional intrusion of rather bland musical numbers. The story kept my attention, and I particularly liked the contributions of Cary Elwes, Pierce Brosnan, Jane Seymour, and, as that quirky two-headed dragon, Eric Idle and Don Rickles (an inspired pairing, if there ever was one!). It's no Beauty and the Beast, but I can think of worse ways to spend an hour or so... "},{"Title":"For the same budget, we could have The Little Mermaid","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The skinny Magic Sword Quest for Camelot is Warner Bros.' first attempt at a musical animated feature?  The story is about as the title already suggests is the search for the magic sword, Excalibur.  An evil knight has stolen King Arthur's famous sword but somehow loses it in a strange forest populated by a weird assortment of creatures (as if designed from the Lucasfilm department).  Kaylie, whose father was killed by the same evil knight, by circumstance is on the quest for the search for Excalibur.  She meets a blind young man and a two-headed dragon (designed for comic relief).The good Cary Elwes as the blind forest hermit, Garret.  After several roles where he plays the bad guy or a jerk at least, it's refreshing to see him as a hero.  The two-headed dragon is a satisfactory foil for the two main characters who are basically going through the motion.The bad This is obviously made to attract the audience already familiar (who isn't?) with the Disney animated features, since it's basically made in the same vein.  The animation is so-so and doesn't even compare non-Disney animations like Don Bluth's works.  Consider that the studio that made this movie were the ones that came up with the excellent SPACEJAM.  The songs while very good somehow doesn't cut it.  The actor's voice and the singing voice are so distinct such that for example Kaylie's mother singing, you're not thinking of Kaylie's mother, you're thinking of Celine Dion. As for the villain, does anyone wonder why he's in the Knights of the Round Table in the first place?  Near as I can tell he's openly rotten to the core, why he's accepted to this order in the first place is beyond me.The verdict 2 of 5 stars.  Anyone who's watched Disney's animated feature movies since The Little Mermaid can point out what went wrong with this movie.  "},{"Title":"Blech.","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  `Quest for Camelot' ranks among the worst animated movies I have ever seen. The plot is formulaic claptrap - a predictable story does not always a bad movie make, but it certainly does here, especially when played out with one dimensional, clichéd characters (take note - creating a creature with two heads that argue is no longer original or funny, thank you very much). If that wasn't bad enough, it is compounded by atrociously bad pacing of the story, a ridiculously forced love story subplot, some of the worst song placement that I can recall in a movie, feeble integration of CGI animation, dreadful attempts at lightening the mood with humour from characters other than the dragon that feels horrendously out of place (the stone creature's needless bout of flatulence is immediately brought to mind), and a moronic, baffling ending with absolutely zero explanation, that is made even worse by the fact that it is incredibly rushed.The acting is horribly over-the-top and painful to listen to (the stupid voice given to the gryphon is a particularly good example), with the normally excellent Gary Oldman giving a dreadful performance as the villain of the piece who can't sing well or decide what kind of regional English accent he's supposed to have. The casting of the characters is not for suitability, but for star power - in addition to Oldman, this film sees Pierce Brosnan, Jane Seymour, Gabriel Byrne, Celine Dion, Andrea Corr, Sir John Gielgud, Don Rickles and Eric Idle tarnish their resumes with appearances. The only real *voice artist* in the whole thing is the excellent Frank Welker, who is wasted by only getting to provide birdcalls.That is all.Oh, the animation is sort of nice.Sort of.  "},{"Title":"Arthurian Waste of Time and Talent","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The wonderful, classic legend of King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table has never been properly handled as a feature film. Even Excalibur seemed forced, and perhaps the only truly enjoyable features have been gentle comedies like Disney's The Sword in the Stone and of course Monty Python and the Holy Grail which throw the technical mythology out the window and try to make what's left fun. Eric Idle starred in that latter entry, and he stars here, as one-half of a fairly well-animated, somewhat badly-designed, talking dragon. With Don Rickles' help he becomes a comic sidekick, but the script doesn't let either of them be all that funny, and the animation mixes the beautiful and awful with a disturbing shot-to-shot tickertape rhythm. About 1/4th of the animators here don't seem to know how to animate convincingly, and those who do have to struggle not to let the movie fall down around them. But the animation is still the best part of this woefully misconceived hybrid of randomly-scattered Camelot legend and F-grade science fiction. The science-fiction takes over, sadly. Consider the red-armored, action figure of a villain (played by Gary Oldman, in yet another bad career move). I can't decide if he's Riffraff from Rocky Horror, or Ade Edmonson from the Young Ones. It matters little. Caring not for the great legend sitting right under their feet, the umpteen writers turn out sub-Disney drivel about robots, walking trees, a laughable CGI version of the rock monster from the Never-Ending Story, and a talking chicken with a hatchet for a beak. Lovely. I'm sure Sir Thomas Malory wanted to put these elements in his Morte D'Arthur, he simply wasn't clever enough to think of them, right? Who needs Lancelot and Galahad when you've got Lionel and Bladebeak? And does anyone really want Celine Dion Eurovision Song Contest-esque material sprinkled in every few minutes? Supposedly sung by the characters of what story there is, but they rarely move their lips to it, so the work is not particularly convincing. An all-star cast is wasted (Sir John Gielgud, for chrissake!), as is the time of anyone watching this confused Black Cauldron-esque collage of scenes from other movies. The design looks like Don Bluth traced by Wang, and the entire enterprise made me slightly ill. What a waste of talent. I want to hurt this movie.  "},{"Title":"Just second rate Disney","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is like The Sword in the Stone's awkward, ugly little brother. Despite a pretty impressive cast, it lacks charm.  The animation is sloppy, the humourous characters irritating, and the others just dull.  It is filled with dire songs with meaningless lyrics, and the dialogue is just silly.  I don't think Disney has much to fear from this mediocre (at best) offering.The other small detail I had a problem with is the heroine's name; I find it hard to believe there were many Kayleys in Arthurian England.  "}{"Title":"Not bad, but...","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I could start this comment by comparing this movie to a Disney movie, but I won't. I think that to critizise or to complement a movie you shouldn't compare it to others, it has to stand on its ownLet me start by saying that I never saw this in theatres, I saw it for the first time last night on DVD. I was a bit disappointed. I was expecting something better.Let me start to comment on the story. It's not bad, but, honestly it was not that great either. The concept was really good, but it all happens too fast. I believe that it should have been more develloped and show us more about certain characters. Also, they shouldn't have atempted so much humour moments, because most of them failed. It would have been better to make the story a bit more deep and dramatic and not attempt to make humour.As for the voices of the characters. I really have nothing to say. The voices suit the characters just fine.The soundtrack is quite good. The celtic feeling put into it really  gives the movie a certain feeling. I specially like the song My father's wings, sang by The Corrs.Well, to sum up it had everything to be a great movie, but it can only be reasonbly good. But it's worth seeing anyway, and worth having in your DVD collection. "},{"Title":"Great for kids","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a great movie for kids and adults. If you're not into musical cartoons then yes you should probably pass. Anyway, the plot is a tad predictable and the animation is fairly good (way above straight to vid) The songs were the high point having lots of good vocal talent. The only thing i did not like was the hatchet chicken. He seems to be put there to dumb down the high concept plot in case it shoots over the kids heads. No i don't understand either. Anyway, the kids liked it and I did not want to hide it after the first viewing. Also this is the first time my kids used the words evil minion.  "},{"Title":"nice idea, cute little details, but alas ... that music!","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's the love for details, that makes this film worth seeing all those little creatures, hairy eyes, scary claws of plants and things, that create a fairy world. I would have really enjoyed the atmosphere, if the constant musical intermezzos wouldn't have spoiled a good deal of it. (Though I laughed out loud when the two headed dragon turned Sonny and Cher -)  "},{"Title":"Great if you are not a sci-fi fantasy weirdo","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A very welcome relief from the Disney wizard and doom flicks.Even the historical license can't drag down this super swords, dragons and quests flick for kids. The songs are really good and my little one wanted Cornwal and Dover fives times over. The film itself has a great tempo and is full of ideas - the forbidden forest is a reel of imagination. It doesn't get very dark so suitable for three years up and plenty of good stuff (Gary Oldman, Eric Idle) for adults who want to be entertained.To address the high priests of fantasy animation criticism I would say * the quality is fine * Don't pay full price * It is a film to enjoy not to deconstruct * This is much more fun in this than in the Black cauldron, Sword in the stone and Fantasia all together * Collectors stay away, get a life. "},{"Title":"The Magic Sword Quest For Camelot","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was taken by my primary school to see this at the cinema, something to do with the King Arthur subject I guess, and as I didn't remember any of it, I decided to see it again. Basically the legendary sword Excalibar, belonging to King Arthur (Pierce Brosnan) has been stolen by a griffin, sent by traitor knight of the round table, Baron Ruber (Gary Oldman). But it has been dropped into the Forbidden Forest, the place of untold danger, and when she hears of this, and her family are captured, Kayley (Jessalyn Gilsig, Andrea Corr singing) is the only hope all have to restore peace to the kingdom. Entering the dangerous forest, she meets the man who has learnt how to travel and handle himself in this place, even being a blind hermit, Garrett (Cary Elwes, Bryan White singing), and his falcon Ayden. Also joining them in their quest to find the sword, passing through Dragon Country, are comic relief characters, the two-headed dragon Devon (Eric Idle) and Cornwall (Toy Story's Don Rickles). They manage to find Excalibur, they just have to get out the forest and back to Camelot without Ruber and his army of nasty nitwits catching them. Also starring Jane Seymour as Lady Juliana, and Celine Dion as her singing voice, Sir John Gielgud as Merlin and Gabriel Byrne as Sir Lionel. The voice casting is quite good, the animation looks a little copy-catting Disney, but it is quite a watchable family period adventure film. What was really surprising was that I liked these songs featured, I Stand All Alone, If I Didn't Have You and Looking Through Your Eyes. It was nominated the Oscar and Golden Globe for Best Song for The Prayer. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Vile film promotes hatred of men","Date":"21 October 2010","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a disgusting film filled with offensive feminist propaganda from front to back. Show this to children you hate; children whose minds you wish polluted and whose growth you wish stunted. It is basically hate.It is astonishing that this drivel isn't banned outright.I have to re-evaluate the work of Don Rickles, Pierce Brosnan and Gary Oldman in light of their revolting contributions to this vile film.Cheap animation, cheap music, production values and creative content about the same as Felix the Cat. Sounds so much like a Felix the Cat film that I suspect common creative talent--but don't care enough to actually find out. "}]